@@432447

 | The bishop of Rome is disappointed , the patriarchs of Moscow and Constantinople are concerned and the archbishop of Canterbury is looking the other way . What vexes the most prominent prelates in Christendom is the consecration this weekend of the Rev. Barbara Harris as the first female bishop in the worldwide Anglican Communion . Harris 's title is modest enough : she becomes suffragan ( assistant ) bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts . And yet , because Anglicans ? like Roman Catholics and Orthodox Christians ? regard each bishop as a sacramentally appointed successor to Jesus ' original 12 apostles , her elevation to the episcopate threatens a split in her own denomination and in the movement to heal Christianity 's oldest divisions . That Harris is black , divorced and only eight years a priest is beside the ecumenical point ( box , page 60 ) . What matters is her gender . To the pope in Rome , the patriarchs of the Orthodox churches and a majority of the churches in the Anglican Com- munion , the fact that Jesus chose only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intended women to become bishops . Oddly enough , Christian feminists are also divided over the advent of Anglicanism 's first female bishop . Many feminists see Harris 's consecration as a major breakthrough . Some , however , dismiss the historic event as one great leap for a woman but one small step for womankind . The issue is no longer equality , says Margaret McManus of the Center for Women and Religion at the Graduate Theological Union , Berkeley , Calif . " The issue is transformation of our religious institutions . " Indeed , according to the feminist movement 's most influential theologians and scholars , the office of bishop ? like all forms of hierarchy ? is part of the male model of church authority which Christian women are called to overcome . " Feminist theology would challenge the ethics of a woman bishop if she exercised power like male bishops have , through domination , " says Episcopal priest Carter Heyward , a theologian at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge , Mass . Mutuality , feminist Christians argue , is what Jesus taught and what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the church . Thus . for feminist theologians , patriarchy is the Original Sin and root of all other social evils : sexism , racism , clericalism , ageism , classism , homophobia , hatred of the body . parental subjugation of children and mankind 's technological rape of Mother Earth . God as male : And at the heart of patriarchal religion , feminist theologians insist , is the heretical identification of God as a male , the worship of God as " Father " and the androcentric bias of the Bible 's male authors . The effect of this masculine tradition , they argue , has been to deify male experience and concepts and deprecate the role and experience of women . " If God is male , then male is God , " says theologian Mary Daly of Boston College , who has abandoned the Roman Catholicism of her youth to embrace a " post-Christian " feminist religion . Not surprisingly , the feminist call for radical change finds its most eager audience in seminaries , where God-talk is pervasive and causes can percolate without disturbing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executives , both male and female , who regard @#  | redress of sexism as a major Christian mission . On the local level it has spawned countless caucuses and small , interdenominational prayer groups . It has even leavened the language of worship in thousands of mainline Protestant congregations . But it has also alienated more moderate Christian feminists who regard the Scriptures , however androcentric , as the authoritative word of God . And it has triggered stiff resistance among the majority of Christians who see no reason to revise the traditional language and symbols by which they have come to know and praise the Lord . Feminist theology might never have developed without the dramatic increase in female seminarians since 1970 . Women now comprise at least a third of the student population at the leading interdenominational divinity schools ; at Yale and Harvard , they 're more than half . In the process the seminary language and culture have been radically changed . Generic nouns like " mankind " become " humankind . " God " the Father " is acceptable only if twinned with God " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parent " will do . Traditional hymns like " Faith of Our Fathers " go unsung if women seminarians object , and martial anthems such as " Onward Christian Soldiers " are rejected for their warrior imagery ; new ones are being written instead . " You either come here because you are a feminist or you leave as one , " says Sandee Yarlott , codirector of the Center for Women and Religion at GTU . " You ca n't escape it . " Many women studying for the ministry are a decade older than their male colleagues . Usually they are seeking second , more fulfilling careers , and a fair number , seminary deans report , are divorced . At the same time , the sort of young men who used to look on the ministry as a prestige career are now going into other professions . " If we had to depend on the number of men coming to the seminary , " says David Ramage , president of Chicago 's McCormick Theological Seminary , " we 'd be in a bad way . " Should this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ghetto . " Pay scales go down , prestige goes down and the men get out , " says Diane Spence , the director of development at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge . ' Feminized ' churches : As some feminist historians readily concede , America 's Protestant churches were " feminized " long before the advent of the women 's liberation movement . Since the Colonial era , women have outnumbered men at Sabbath services . For more than a century , churches have relied chiefly on women to teach Sunday schools and direct parish organizations and , in more recent times , to staff the large denominational agencies . The pulpit and the seminary , in fact , have been the last bastions of male presence in mainline Protestantism ? and in the black churches , at least , the women intend to keep it that way . " The well-organized black church is an organization of subgroups in which women predominate and wield their own power , " says C. Eric Lincoln , a specialist in black religion at Duke Divinity School . Women raise the money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is their wives who effectively determine how it is spent . In black Baptist churches in particular , power belongs to " the Mothers , " a group of older women who have been in their congregations for decades and constitute the heart and soul of the church . On Sundays the Mothers dress distinctively in white and preside from a special section at the front of the church ? opposite the " amen corner , " where the male trustees sit . " The minister who has the Mothers on his side is virtually unassailable , " says Lincoln , " and woe be it to the minister who does n't . " Because of this power , and because of the importance of the patriarchal Old Testament in black religion , Lincoln concludes , @#  | the Mothers oppose female preachers . Feminist theologians are not interested in wielding power through men . They believe that they can convert Christianity into the gender-free faith which they are certain Jesus intended . As part of their strategy , leading feminist theologians such as Elizabeth Schussler Fiorenza of Harvard Divinity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " women-church "  - -  a movement of " self-identified women and women-identified men " from all denominations whose common goal is to reinterpret the Gospel from the perspective of women 's liberation . Led by theologian Rosemary Ruether of Garrett-Evangelical Theological Seminary , in Evanston , Ill. , women have created their own life-cycle ceremonies . They include rituals to mark the start of menopause , the union of a lesbian couple , mourning for a stillbirth and recovery from an abortion . As in Jesus ' parable of the sower , the seeds of the feminist Gospel do not always fall on fertile soil . Leaders of the Southern Baptist Convention , the nation 's largest Protestant denomination , disapprove of women pastors ? they believe the Bible forbids them ? but still there are some 400 churches with women ministers . Among Roman Catholics it is the pope ? as " holy father " ? who has forbidden ordination of women . Nonetheless , women are allowed to distribute communion , and some nuns administer priestless parishes . Indeed , Roman Catholic nuns , who have long comprised an incipient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theology . Any priest who dares to use exclusively masculine pronouns for God during a mass for nuns is not likely to be invited back ; at many college chapels , including The Catholic University of America , women have established an unwritten rule against " concelebrated " masses which require more than one priest at the altar . Putting more women in the pulpit , however , is no longer the prime goal of Christian feminists . Rather , their aim is a thorough and comprehensive transformation of the language , symbols and sacred texts of the Christian faith ? and therefore of the faith itself . " There is nothing more personal or profound than the way a religious person addresses God in prayer , " observes Ronald Thiemann , dean of Harvard Divinity School . " To call into question the fatherhood of God or the language of the Lord 's Prayer is to raise truly profound issues . " The main issues : God . One of the strengths of feminist theology is that it stimulates questions concerning the appropriate metaphors and images of the Deity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ metaphors are no less appropriate than male . In her influential books , Ruether consistently uses the term " God/ ess " to underscore her belief that divine reality is best understood as an empowering " Primal Matrix , " thegreat womb " in whom we live and move and have our being . " Trinity . For " Father , Son and Holy Spirit , " some feminists substitute " Creator . Redeemer and Comforter " and avoid masculine nomenclature . In " Models of God : Theology for an Ecological , Nuclear Age , " theologian Sallie McFague of Vanderbilt Divinity School urges a trinity of " Mother , Lover and Friend " to indicate the ways in which God bonds her creatures to herself , to others and to the earth . Jesus . For feminists like hospital chaplain Christine Reimers , who recently graduated from The School of Theology at Claremont , in California , the central problem is not the gender of God but the sex of Jesus . " Can a woman be saved by a male um '  | Savior ? " she asks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answers . Although Jesus was a man , they argue , he did n't behave in a patriarchal manner . On the contrary , says Sandra Schneiders , a Catholic nun and scholar at GTU , " The Gospel portrays Jesus as nonaggressive , noncompetitive , meek and humble of heart , a nurturer of the weak and a friend of the outcast " ? all feminine traits . Moreover , Schneiders argues , by taking on flesh as a male , rather than as a female , Jesus assumed the sin of " belonging to the oppressor class " which he then subverted . " Today , " she concludes , " we would call Jesus a feminist , that is , a person who believes in the full personhood and equality of women and who acts to bring that belief to the realization of society and church . " Though he may have been an early feminist , Jesus is still the Son of the Father ? a phrase that bedevils some women when they gather to pray . Feminist scholars have determined that the New Testament frequently presents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which in Hebrew and Greek is rendered by words of feminine gender ? hokmah and Sophia . Therefore , Jesus may be legitimately invoked as " the Child of Sophia " or simply " Wisdom 's Child . " What 's more , since Jesus ' human sexuality is not part of his divinity as the Christ , many feminists feel free to adorn their women-church liturgies with replicas of " Christa , " a crucifix with a nude female body sculpted in 1975 by Edwina Sandys . Scripture . The area in which feminist scholars have had their greatest impact is Biblical studies . Since the Bible is written from a male viewpoint , Schussler Fiorenza argues , feminists must employ a " hermeneutics of suspicion " ? that is , they must systematically assume that the Bible 's male authors and interpreters deliberately covered up the role of women in early Christianity . Thus , in her groundbreaking study , " In Memory of Her , " she argues that it was Mary Magdalene and other of Jesus ' women disciples , not the men , who stayed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory over death . Similarly , she marshals considerable evidence to show that women shared authority with men in the " house-churches " of early Christianity . The wider implication of the Schiissler Fiorenza work is that the Biblical texts can not be authoritative Scriptures for women until they are critically reinterpreted from women 's experiences of oppression . And what is true for the Bible holds for every other dimension of the Christian religion . Criticism from male scholars is usually discounted and seldom proffered . One exception is Father James Burtchaell , a theologian at Notre Dame , who questions " the methodology of feminists whose central insights come from their own sense of injustice and then go to Scripture to find what they need . " Some women scholars run the risk of being denounced as not true feminists when they criticize what has become , in effect , an assault on everything in Christianity but Jesus and his initial movement . One who dares to differ is Biblical scholar Elizabeth Achtemeier of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond , Va . Achtemeier agrees that churchmen have long discriminated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new religion . " In particular , Achtemeier criticizes mother metaphors for God because they resurrect the Near Eastern fertility goddesses whom the authors of the Hebrew Bible rejected in proclaiming a Creator who is qualitatively different from his creation . Ultimately , these issues will not be settled in the seminaries but in the pews . Thus far the ordinary faithful have shown a distinct preference for hailing God as Father , even though mainline church officials have urged the use of inclusive-language Bible texts for Sunday worship . Bishops and other forms of hierarchical authority show no signs of disappearing . At the same time , women are slowly being accepted in pulpits , where the most sensitive of them prove to be effective ministers to men and women alike . In the process , they and their congregants have been reminded that sin ? like suffering and salvation ? is remarkably gender-free.                     