@@321308

Rios Montt ponders a promise <P> The actors , the props , even the scenario were familiar . Apparently sniffing out plans for at least the seventh coup since he seized power one year ago , Guatemala 's President Efrain Ros Montt last week declared an official " state of alarm " to muzzle his critics . Under the new orders , privately owned firearms are to be confiscated , political meetings are forbidden and nothing may be published or broadcast that might " disturb the peace of Guatemala . " The government also reserved the right to search homes at will and to arrest anyone suspected of Marxist-Leninist activities . For the moment , at least , the general had survived . <P> But Ros Montt 's support was disintegrating . The Catholic Church has been alienated by the continuing influence of the military , not to mention the born-again general 's penchant for Pentecostal proselytizing . The business community has been angered by his mishandling of the economy . Meanwhile , civilian political parties were outraged by his refusal to set an early date for promised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ television appearances of right-wing Politician Leonel Sisniega Otero and of Ros Montt 's former junta mate Colonel Francisco Gordillo Martnez . Maintaining that Ros Montt had reneged on his promises as soon as he came to power , Sisniega declared that he could not call the President " a dictator , because he is n't good enough for that . He is a tyrant . " Gordillo , whom Ros Montt muscled out last year , accused the general of having tried to pay him to resign quietly . Gordillo then threatened to stage a coup , warning that " the government intends to keep power for many , many years . " <P> Their broadcast and the brief public demonstrations that followed underscored the precariousness of Ros Montt 's authority . Acknowledging that frailty , the government swore in an electoral tribunal to prepare for constitutional assembly elections , probably to be held in July 1984.                     