@@432324

 | Racial tensions were at a fever pitch in New York City ? and police were bracing for trouble . Just nine days after a young black man was struck and killed by a car after being chased onto a highway in the predominantly white Howard Beach section of Queens , a local judge dropped murder charges last week against three white teenagers allegedly involved in the racially motivated attack . The decision further outraged the city 's already irate black population ? and by New Year 's Eve emotions were running so high that the New York Police Department dispatched 700 extra cops to guard against violence during the annual festivities in Times Square . In the end there were only a few scattered incidents across the city . But the Howard Beach confrontation heightened the atmosphere of racial antagonism in many parts of New York ? and raised questions about whether city officials could get the situation under control . John Santucci , the Queens prosecutor , had hoped to make a case against the whites by getting testimony from two other blacks who were attacked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Griffith . According to police , the trio strayed into Howard Beach after their car broke down on a nearby roadway . They went into a local pizza parlor and as they left a gang of white teenagers started after them . Griffith crawled through a fence and onto a sixlane parkway , where he was hit by a car . For several days the other two blacks , Cedric Sandiford ( Griffith 's stepfather ) and Timothy Grimes , assisted the police with their investigation . But then their attorneys persuaded them not to cooperate with Santucci , whom the lawyers accused of conducting a sloppy , " bad faith " inquiry aimed more at clearing the driver of the car that hit Griffith than seeking a murder indictment . The two black lawyers , Alton H. Maddox Jr . and C. Vernon Mason , also appeared to have other motives for counseling their clients against testifying . They may have wanted a special prosecutor to enter the case ? a development that would give the proceedings a higher profile . Santucci said he would consider that possibility this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implied that Maddox might be planning to bring a potentially lucrative civil suit for wrongful death ; other black leaders immediately attacked Ward for his statements . The lawyers also seemed intent on gaining a broader platI form to address what Maddox called a " pattern of racially motivated violence " across the city and a municipal justice system " ill equipped to deal with it . " Provocative tactics : In an interview with NEWSWEEK , New York Mayor Edward I. Koch insisted that the racial climate is improving in New York . He said that incidents of discrimination and violence against blacks and other minorities are down over the past year and maintained that Chicago , which has a black mayor , is more segregated . Koch , who deplored Griffith 's death and visited Howard Beach after his killing , was widely praised for his handling of the crisis ? even by such black leaders as Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel of New York and the Rev. Jesse Jackson . New York 's black leaders are divided about how to handle the Howard Beach aftermath . Some applaud the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the district attorney . But almost all agree that racial strains are more of a problem than Koch suggests . They cite a run of incidents that have heightened fear and anger among city blacks over the past few years : the police shooting of an elderly black woman during an eviction ; the death in police custody of a young black arrested for writing subway graffiti , and the subway shooting of four black youths by vigilante gunman Bernhard Goetz . As Harriet Michel , the president of the New York Urban League , put it : Howard Beach was an " inevitable eruption of feelings and conditions that have been boiling for a long time . " Now the question is whether black and white leaders can cool the city down .                     