@@490845

THE TALK OF THE TOWN Notes and Comment NOW that the American hostages are home from Iran , the newly inaugurated Reagan Administration has been left with the confusing task of framing American policies toward Iran and toward any future episodes of kidnapping . It is the work of statecraft to harmonize divergent interests , but rarely have policies been beset by such a bewildering array of pressures , many of them represented by vociferous spokesmen in this country . Initially , one strong pressure , born of the emotion of the moment , was for punishment of Iran . It was maintained that Iran had simply done something had and deserved to be chastised . Less impulsive reasoning , however , argued for restraint . First , there was the mundane matter of oil to be considered . If we punished Iran , then our supply of oil from the Middle East might be jeopardized , with familiar painful consequences . Second , there was the Soviet Union to bear in mind . Punishment might drive Iran into an alliance with the Soviets , the containment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's foreign policy . For the advocates of a " tough " American foreign policy , the conflict was plain : toughness toward Iran might prove to be weakness toward the very power whom our toughness was ultimately meant to deter . According to this line of thought , although emotion might counsel punishment , cold strategic calculation counselled patience . However , the advocates of punishment had a cold strategic argument to make , too . It has long been a basic tenet of those who advocate the tough line in foreign policy that force , if it is to be respected , must be unleashed from time to time , and especially whenever any " humiliation " of our country might be perceived . Punishment of Iran , therefore , although it might harm the im mediate interests of the United States , would teach the whole world a salutary " lesson " about our will , and increase our power and prestige in the long run . The counter-argument , of course , was that in carrying out these pedagogical responsibilities before the global classroom we would gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it seeped away from us in the Middle East . Still , none of these arguments had any relevance unless some fitting punishment could be devised , so the question was raised of whether or not the Reagan Administration should honor the agreement for the release of the hostages which had been signed by the Carter Administration . For a day or two , there were rumors that it would not respect the agreement , but they were laid to rest in a television appearance on " The MacNeil/Lehrer Report " by James Baker , the White House Chief of Staff , and Edwin Meese , counsellor to the President , both of whom said that the agreement would definitely be respected but that certain provisions would be " reviewed , " to make sure they were legal . This subtle qualification was hardly likely to satisfy such critics as Jesse Helms , Republican Senator from North Carolina , who wanted the whole agreement thrown out , because , he said , it was reached under duress with " a bunch of bums . " The day after the Administration had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan confusingly seized the occasion of the reception of the hostages on the South Lawn of the White House to declare that American policy in the event of any future kidnapping would be " swift and effective retrihution " ? a vow that seemed to give new life to the punishment idea but at the same time seemed to have been undercut , even before it was announced , by the Administration 's own moderate statements in the case at hand . Moreover , it was a policy that seemed to run counter to the spirit of the occasion at which the announcement was made , for if " retribution " should be carried out while a kidnapping was in progress it would very likely get hostages killed , and then there would be no welcoming ceremonies on the White House lawn . If , on the other hand , retribution should he carried out after hostages were released , it might he far from " swift , " and , in fact , would almost certainly be in violation of an agreement very like the one that the Reagan Administration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at his first news conference as President , Reagan seemed to add to the arguments against such punishment by stating that " revenge " against Iran would not be worthy of our country . One was left to wonder why , if it was unworthy now , it would be worthy on some future occasion . Such were the vexations encountered by the hard-line strategists of the new Administration . The reactions among the hostages themselves and between the hostages and the public were far simpler , and , for the most part , in an entirely different vein . The homecoming had an overwhelmingly affectionate , peaceful , civilian character  --  military overtones were notably lacking . The word that kept coming up was not " punishment " or " retribution " but " love . " One hostage called the public 's welcome " a bath of love ; " at the White House reception , a few moments after President Reagan spoke of retribution Bruce Laingen , the hostage who became a spokesman for the others , described their " love affair " with the American people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vicinity of West Point which had said " And the World Will Be Better for This . " One of the public 's most often expressed sentiments was " We love you . " Michael Metrinko , a hostage who was held in solitary confinement for nine months , told an interviewer , " The time for bitterness is past . It 's never worthwhile to get revenge . " And Moorhead Kennedy , whose wife , Louisa Kennedy , had won the admiration of the country as a spokesman for the families of the hostages , now won the admiration of the country himself in a wise and moving interview with Barbara Walters on ABC , in which he denied that the United States had been humiliated by the kidnapping , and said that , on the contrary , the country had been the winner in its strange contest with Iran . By showing restraint , he observed , " we became the moderates and they became the villains , and they lost any chance , forever  --  thank God  --  of becoming the leadership of the uncommitted part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seemed to be saying , has no need to take revenge . ? ? Inauguration OUR Special Inauguration Correspondent , having taken a few days to separate the various strands of what he saw and felt in Washing ton , has filed the following report : Funny thing , but when everything happens at once nothing seems to be happening . Curious historical slow motion sets in , which in this case transformed installation of a new President , release of hostages , fireworks , throngs , parades , receptions , and national currents and hopes into an apparently predestined tableau  --  one that might have been rehearsed for many months . Washington itself was notably subdued during weekend before the ceremonies . Spent quiet evening with old friends in Georgetown , and their minds drifted back to other times and other Presidents . Host said , " I can recall when President Truman asked Dean Acheson to become his Secretary of State . Acheson demurred . He told the President that he did n't feel qualified for the job . Truman gave him a long look . ' There may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do as good a job as you , but I do n't know their names , ' said Truman . As for being President , I do n't feel qualified , either , but P.ze got the job . ' " Spent a morning in a high-ceilinged , ornate room in the Senate Building picking up credentials for the swearing in . Important part of an Inauguration , since credentials are carefully screened , and Secret Service must grant clearance . Encountered exceptional courtesy and good humor on everybody 's part . Was handed elegant invitation , seating pass , admission card FEBRUARY 9 , 1981 to the Capitol Building on Inauguration Day , and two handsome photographs  --  of Ronald Reagan and George Bush . Thanked a lovely lady and a hard-eyed Secret Service man , and wandered through the Capitol corridors . Found myself in room that served as the Senate Chamber from 1810 to 1859 , now elegantly restored . Thomas Jefferson inaugurated in this room on March 4 , 1801 . Very quiet , very distinguished chamber , carpeted in red with gold stars ; has numerous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desk bears a small nameplate , a white quill pen , a silver-topped inkwell , and a bottle of blotting sand . Passed through the old Supreme Court Chamber , with a robe hook for each Justice , one marked with a white knob reading " The Chief Justice . " Washington fever beginning to hit me . Almost hung my hat and coat on the hooks . Nearly three o'clock on Saturday now . Walked over to Corcoran Gal-lery for opening of Leonardo da Vinci exhibit  --  the Codex Leicester , bought in London last December for five mil-lion eight hundred thousand dollars by Dr. Armand llammer . Sedate crowd at Corcoran . Spotted Dr. Hammer , a spry octogenarian ; a very beautiful Kay Halle ; and Paul Volcker , chair-man of Federal Reserve . Murmur of excitement as Mrs. Reagan was intro-duced , to warm applause . She was in bottle green , and looked stunning . " I am honored to open this Leonardo exhibit , " she said . " My husband and I were in the arts our-selves until we found another line of work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A sumptuous buf-fet followed . Biggest shrimps I have ever seen . Biggest shrimp dip I have ever seen . Smoked salmon being sliced with Renais-sance delicacy . Every-where , a multitude of erudite 's , all being discreetly gobbled up , to accompaniment of discreet music from string orchestra at bot-tom of grand staircase . Codex , in Leonardo 's own hand , consists of seventy-two sheets , in-geniously displayed THE NEW YORKER separately , so that one can see both sides of the manuscript , written backward in brown ink in Renaissance Italian . My knowledge of Renaissance Italian skimpy , and I had no mirror , so took everything on faith . Leonardo , I learned from printed legends beside the manuscript pages , dwelt in spare yet eloquent detail on water currents , astronomy , geology , and other matters . He wrote that he gathered ideas and observations as they occurred to him . He explained that " air must have darkness beyond it , and hence it appears blue , " and went on to say that " the Reader will not wonder if I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At six o'clock , fireworks , at Lincoln Memorial . Have rarely been so cold . Feet and hands had no discernible connection with other parts of body . Memorial floodlit in the crisp evening air . Huge throng walking briskly toward monument . In roadways , almost total gridlock . Crawled over miles and miles of television cable and took up post in front of monument at moment Mr. and Mrs. Reagan started slowly down the broad marble steps . Could see Old Abe in his marble chair behind them , inside monument . Abe hatless . Reagan hatless but wearing heavy dark overcoat and striking white gloves . Mrs. Reagan looked as cold as everybody else . Both Reagans took places at foot of steps , and blankets were placed over their knees . Reagan extremely alert to everything  --  especially to playing of " The Battle Hymn of the Republic . " Fireworks beyond one 's childhood dreams : the whole night filled with bombs bursting in air , rockets , shooting stars . Hundreds of big bangs . Seemed as though entire city were under attack . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the explosions all around were peaceful demonstrations . People standing near me had small transistor sets : no word on hostages yet . Reagan left without speaking but with a broad wave of the hand . Next day , traffic at absolute standstill . Tried to take cab down near White House but abandoned it blocks away and walked past Blair House and White House . Huge crowds standing outside watching limousines come and go . Very orderly air , no tension . Police very calm . Walked down to Corcoran again , this time to see the exquisite Nigerian terra-cotta heads from the fifteenth century , and was surprised to find huge crowd , mostly black parents with their children , many of the children perched on parents ' shoulders . A quiet , intense experience , and the look of pride on the faces of the onlookers something not to be forgotten . Monday afternoon , and events began to pile up . The Vice-President 's Reception at the Museum of American History was expected to receive fifteen thousand visitors . Most of them , it seemed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at all along Fourteenth Street and down Constitution Avenue in order to reach long , tunnel-like yellow canopies leading up to the museum itself . Figured these people might be there for hours , even days . Thanks to credentials , was able to take up post looking into the well of the Foucault Pendulum  --  showing the earth 's rotation  --  a floor below me . Red-coated color guard on a platform , with silver pikes . One redcoat carried a huge , old-fashioned painted drum . Military everywhere in dress uniforms . Again , a great throng , as Bush was to make several appearances during afternoon and people were being admitted in shifts . " I try to take in as many historic events as possible , " said lady standing beside me with two small children . " I take the children everywhere when there is a historic event . At the Dallas Fair , I lost my little boy in the crush . Tom thought I had him , and I thought Tom had him , and it was a mess . " There was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Mrs. Bush . Great applause . Bush boyish , exuberant , said he had been observing Mr. Reagan closely the last few days . Said he was in a position to do so , and he wanted each and every one of us to know that Mr. Reagan was anxious to get on with the job , to perform the work for which he had been elected . " And you all know what I mean by that , " he said , to tumultuous cheers . I glanced down at pendulum below me and noticed a sign on railing which read , " Although the pendulum seems to be rotating slowly , actually it is you and the museum that are rotating . " Tuesday  --  Inauguration Day . Down to swearing in by subway . Profound courtesy in Washington from the subway set toward strangers . People patiently explain intricacies of how to obtain fare cards , make change , and insert cards , and tell you what station to step off at . Smooth , lovely subway . Transistor radios in great profusion now . Hostages still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no shoving or other rudeness . Damn hard to believe . Washington subways are deep under the earth , and the escalators at one of main exit stations for the ceremony  --  Capitol South  --  were not running , so thousands trudged up many steep stairs clasping their portable radios . Walked with throng toward the West Front of the Capitol . Had choice seat beneath platform , next to spirited California woman who was wearing large button depicting Ronald Reagan in a cowboy hat . " You would make me extremely happy if you would wear a Reagan button , " she said to me , producing a small gold-plated pin reading simply " Ronald Reagan . " I accepted pin . " This whole thing , " she said , with a broad sweep of her hands , " is a tribute to what the country now thinks of California . Bringing in people like Sinatra , Carson , and Hope . That 's what California can do . Those are the most important people in the country , and they are California-based . " She said she had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she was wearing short brown boots and a cloth coat trimmed with fur . All around us , however , were ladies wearing mink and sable and occasionally ermine . Small children scattered everywhere displayed large quantities of photographic equipment cameras and telescopic lenses . Solemn ceremonies got under way with the Marine Band playing everything from Sousa to Gershwin . " Some of those people up there behind the dignitaries , " said the lady beside me , " are Eagles . " " Eagles ? " I asked . " Eagles , " she said . " Eagles give ten thousand dollars per annum to the Republican Party . " " Per annum ? " I asked . " Per annum , " she said . I turned around in my seat to catch a glimpse of the huge mass of people stretching out behind me toward the Mall . Both Houses of Congress arrived . The Supreme Court arrived . " Leonine , " muttered a man next to me , referring to the Chief Justice . The diplomatic corps arrived . " They 're not out yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but not quite . " Mrs. Reagan and Mrs. Carter took their seats . Jimmy Carter entered , and " Hail to the Chief " was played for the last time in his Presidency . Reagan was delayed coming through the rotunda of the Capitol to the platform . Then he arrived , to the accompaniment of a mighty trumpet flourish . Carter looked composed , and had a warm smile on his Face . Reagan was solemn and dignified , and took the oath of office with deep emphasis on every word , every syllable . " 1 do solemnly swear that I will faithfully ... " A peaceful transfer of power , and half a world away another transfer of power was within grasp . When Reagan finished his speech , it was his turn to be greeted with " Hail to the Chief . " The thousands slowly filed from their seats toward the broad avenues of the city . It seemed that everybody now had a small radio . " I think they are airborne ! " shouted someone in the crowd . " I do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called out another . I had a brief lunch in the Senate Refectory ( the traditional Navy bean soup ) and walked onto the East Front to watch the President join the parade . " They are really on their way home now , " said a guard on the Capitol steps . He was clearly moved . The President emerged briskly from the Capitol , in his morning coat , and entered the open rear seat of his limousine . The First Lady , in a red twill cavalry coat , stood beside him . He looked years younger than when he had delivered his Inaugural speech , only an hour or so before . The huge plaza outside the Capitol was cleared of everybody but dignitaries and police and motorcycles and Secret Service and special guests . The cavalcade started down Capitol Hill onto Pennsylvania Avenue , and headed toward the White House . As for me , I walked and walked . In the evening , in a crowded , silent bar on Pennsylvania Avenue , I watched the hostages emerge from their plane at Algiers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ellipse and stood awhile in front of the now fully lighted Christmas tree behind the South Lawn . The words " And crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea " kept running through my head . We could do worse than hold on to the thought . Shalala THE last time we ran into Dr. Donna Shalala , she was an associate professor of politics and education at Teachers College of Columbia University and was working in the 1973 campaign of Robert F. Wagner , Jr. , who had just won the Democratic nomination for Manhattan councilman-at-large . Since then , she has gone from one demanding job to another . In 1975 , she was appointed a director and treasurer of New York 's Municipal Assistance Corporation . In 1977 , she left that post to become Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research in the Department of Housing and Urban Development , in Washington . In December , 1979 ? after a long search by the board of trustees of the City University of New York ? . she was named president of Hunter College , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent Friday , she was the guest speaker at the weekly luncheon meeting of the City Club of New York , which is an association of about five hundred professional people , business people , and civic officials whose aim is to act as a sort of gadfly in the city 's political and economic life . The subject of Dr. Shalala 's speech was " Washington Afterthoughts  --  About American Cities , " and we stopped by to hear what she had to say . The luncheon " Come on in , Dolores. ill got in twenty-five cords of firewood . I froze and canned a winter 's supply of food . rind now were just putting the finishing touches on six month ? worth of money . " chopped sirloin , brown rice , and succotash , and as they started on mixed-fruit pie Dr. Shalala stood up to speak . A small , dark , vivacious-looking woman of thirty-eight , she was wearing a black knit suit with a blackand-white polka-dot shirt . She began by saying , " 1 thought that what I might do today is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my return from Washington , and what I thought I had learned in that city . I really have been gone for almost four years , and , as I indicated to my luncheon hosts , I did not come up very often to New York . So I 've been down in Washington and across the country and around the world since I last saw many of you . " She went on to discuss things like federal aid to urban areas ( it is difficult to get any consensus these days on what sort of aid is appropriate ) , problems in housing ( the federal government 's choices about whether to stimulate the construction industry or to give direct help to needy people can result in very different patterns of aid , with the contrast especially strong between the older cities of the Northeast and the boom towns of the Southwest ) , and the way things really work in Washington ( urban policy is less likely to be influenced by people in H.U.D. than by people in the Council of Economic Advisers and in the Treasury , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her speech , she said , " While I would like to have done some things differently in Washington , I am convinced that we are in a transitional phase in American life . I happen to have had a terrific time in Washington , even though we did n't deal with many of the issues that I had hoped a Democratic Administration would deal with . And I recommend that beautiful , tough city , with the extraordinarily able men and women who work there . But I see no light at the end of the tunnel after coming back from Washington . Nor any light at the end of the tunnel in the eighties , because we will surely continue to struggle with many of the problems that I 've outlined here . As a colleague of mine said , ' anyone who sees a light at the end of the tunnel in this business is probably going in the wrong direction . ' " There were questions . One man asked Dr. Shalala what she thought of President Reagan 's plan to merge the Department of Education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Welfare . She answered that she thinks the plan is a mistake , because a Cabinet-level agency gets more attention and a higher order of treatment than a lower-level agency , and , besides , a Cabinet-level agency is more accountable to the President . Another man asked what role she foresaw for Hunter College during- her tenure . She replied , " I told the chancellor and the board of trustees that I was not interested in heading a college that was going to be a trade school or a vocational institution . I 'm committed to a first-class liberal-arts education , because I do not believe that we know a better way of preparing people for the future . " As the luncheon meeting broke up , we had a chance to ask Dr. Shalala how she liked her new job . " Well , I 've been at Hunter only                     