@@494311

THE ZEITGEIST CHECKLIST BY CHARLES PAUL FREUND This Last Weeks Budgetry . Success in governance in Washington is being redefined as the absence of total failure . The silver lining in the budget compromise is that although nobody in the financial community thinks it amounts to much , they had long abandoned hope that it would . Thus it avoids doing actual harm . This is the likely mode for the remainder of Reagan 's term . Glasnost . The sense that the West understands more or less what 's going on in the Soviet Union is slipping away . The Stalinoid Yeltsin case is discomfiting , as is Pravda 's coverage . Current wisdom has Gorbachev moving politically to survive , but no view holds all the disparate pieces . Given the positions of the two superpower leaders , this will indeed be a historic summit . Marielitos . Hey , that 's not Lincoln 's ghost in the White House , it 's Carter 's . First Reagan loses his bearings over Iran , then the Marielito situation ? the same one ? turns into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steam valve , then what we 've got is a perpetual immigration machine . Robertson . Pat Robertson has emerged as a GOP factor ; he may take votes from his rivals . In fact , Robertson looks just like a third party ; his core support remains those he 's brought to the process . Third parties are always absorbed , plank by selective plank , by a major party , but the GOP does n't have that luxury . It politicized the Christian subculture and now must address its rising expectations . Iranamok . The odd thing about the media handling of the final Iran-amok report was not the headline overkill . It 's that many of the same papers that ran banners about an involved , activist Reagan on page one actually subscribe , on the editorial page , to the distracted , uninvolved Reagan of the Tower Report . Anyway , the real Iranamok news is cultural : Stevie Wonder and Earth , Wind and Fire have released songs about it . " Item resurfaces in the Zeitgeist after at least one week 's absence . El @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a direct result of the White House loss of control in Nicaragua . Coverage of Nicaragua bore no relation to reader interest ; it was geared to Reagan 's rhetoric . That rhetoric is now meaningless , and reporters who now know Central America are filling a vacuum . It 's the mechanics of news , the specific gravity of coverage . Black students . Do blacks have a different " learning style " ? Are they inferential rather than deductive ? Educators wrestling with low achievement among black students are coming up with all kinds of theories , including anti-learning peer pressure and Black English . Some of this is dangerous ; it posits blacks as intrinsically different . The cultural approach makes sense . It explains not only black academic failure , but success as well . Donald Trump . A century ago , Donald Trump would have built a mansion on Washington 's Massachusetts Avenue and spent his way into D.C. 's winter society . Today , he 's on the newsweekly covers , runs opinion ads in the papers , goes to New Hampshire in primary season @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difference ? Except that Trump seems to believe what he reads about himself , not much . Environment . The environment is expanding as an issue , but the growth is horizontal . New England is worried about ozone , the Northwest about reforestation , New York about electromagnetic radiation , San Francisco about Hetch Hetchy , etc . Alpine forests are dying , the oceans rising , the deserts expanding . So which U.S. candidate has associated himself with the issue , and why not ? Leaf blowers . Rakes are going the way of hand mowers . Leaf blowers have reached a critical mass in many cities ; the American autumn has been mechanized . Turning leaves no longer mean bonfires , leaves scratching dryly in the wind , kicking through leaf piles , or chilly Sundays clearing the lawn . Turning leaves means days of whining noise and the instant disposal of the season . Fall and decline .                     