@@295230

DIED . Harold Patrick ( " Pete " ) Reiser , 62 , former mesmerizing Brooklyn Dodger whose bid for superstardom was dashed by repeated injuries , most of which occurred when he crashed into outfield walls while chasing flyballs ; of a respiratory illness ; in Palm Springs , Calif . In 1941 , his first full season , Reiser at 22 led the National League in batting ( .343 ) , slugging ( .558 ) , runs scored ( 117 ) , total bases ( 299 ) and triples ( 17 ) . The next year , " Pistol Pete " was smoking along at a .380 clip when he crashed into a centerfield wall while running after a line drive . He knocked himself unconscious , and by the end of the season his batting average dropped to .310 . In 1947 he again crashed into an outfield wall , with such force that a Roman Catholic priest administered last rites as Reiser sprawled unconscious in his team 's clubhouse . Though he recovered , headaches and dizzy spells from eleven collisions drove him from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Head , eightyish , Hollywood costume designer who once described her job as " a cross between camouflage and reconstruction " and who won a record eight Academy Awards ( for The Heiress , All About Eve , Samson and Delilah , A Place in the Sun , Roman Holiday , Sabrina , The Facts of Life and The Sting ) ; in Los Angeles . Her first job for a studio was draping garlands over elephants in a Cecil B. De-Mille circus film . She notched her first Oscar for dressing Olivia de Havilland as a spinster in The Heiress in 1949 . Prim and priggish-looking in her bangs and tortoise-shell glasses , Head costumed actors for more than 1,000 movies and created some fashion trends , including a minor 1930s craze after she wrapped Dorothy Lamour in a sarong for Jungle Princess . <P> DIED . Ariel Durant , 83 , Russian immigrant who as a 15-year-old student in 1913 married her American high school teacher , Will Durant , later collaborating with him on the eleven-volume magnum opus The Story of Civilization , and sharing with him the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , No. 10 in their series ; in Hollywood , Calif . Durant worked unofficially as a researcher and collaborator on the first six volumes of the series , but her name appeared as a coauthor on the last five , as well as on their jointly written A Dual Autobiography . <P> DIED . Waiter Hinton , 92 , co-pilot and last survivor of the six-man crew that flew the first plane across the Atlantic Ocean in 1919 , eight years before Charles A. Lindbergh made the first solo flight ; in Pompano Beach , Fla . Hinton was a Navy lieutenant on the NC4 ( Navy-Curtiss ) flying boat that crossed the Atlantic from Rockaway , N. Y. , to Plymouth , England . As a civilian , Hinton later made the first flight between New York City and Rio de Janeiro.                     