@@328462

Eduard Amvroseyevich Shevardnadze begins his work day the moment he climbs into his black ZIL limousine for the 15-minute ride from his suburban dacha to downtown Moscow . Speeding along the boulevards of the Soviet capital , he telephones the Foreign Ministry for a summary of international news . By the time he arrives at the pinnacled Stalinist skyscraper in Smolensky Square just before 9 a.m. , he has been briefed on events and can plunge immediately into the pile of diplomatic cables and documents awaiting him in his seventh-floor office . <P> Every minute counts these days for Shevardnadze , 61 , who combines the duties of Foreign Minister with full voting membership on the Communist Party 's ruling Politburo . This week Shevardnadze confers with U.S. Secretary of State James Baker in Moscow , then flies to Bonn to meet with Chancellor Helmut Kohl . Early next week he heads to Beijing for the long-awaited summit between Gorbachev and Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping . The swift pace of change during Shevardnadze 's almost four-year tenure at Smolensky Square has left foreign diplomats , to say nothing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . <P> If Gorbachev is the architect of " new thinking " in international affairs , Shevardnadze is his master builder . Like the General Secretary , the amiable , white-haired diplomat has a smile that can melt ice . And like Gorbachev , Shevardnadze sometimes shows a glint of iron teeth . Thanks , in part , to Shevardnadze 's diplomatic labors , Soviet tanks and troops have been withdrawn from Afghanistan and are being partially withdrawn from Eastern Europe . A whole class of nuclear weapons has been marked for destruction under the INF treaty signed in 1987 . As the Soviets and their allies disentangle themselves from conflicts in Namibia and Cambodia , they are making diplomatic inroads in the Middle East and China . " Shevardnadze has mastered the foreign policy agenda , " says Robert Legvold , director of Columbia University 's W. Averell Harriman Institute of Soviet Affairs . " He is of a similar creative mind as Gorbachev , not simply his tool . " <P> Shevardnadze has proved to be an equally trusted Gorbachev lieutenant on the domestic front . He confers with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ topics that might range from the country 's ethnic unrest to land leasing and family farms . Foreign Ministry staffers , with their boss 's encouragement , have lobbied other branches of the bureaucracy to improve the country 's human rights image . Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov , 59 , has smoothly refined the notion of glasnost in government at daily press briefings , packaging information with slivers of barbed wit . When clashes between troops and nationalist demonstrators in Shevardnadze 's native republic of Georgia claimed the lives of 20 people last month , the Foreign Minister canceled a visit to East and West Germany and flew to Tbilisi . He has called the peacekeeping mission " my toughest challenge " so far . The result : a purge of the party and government leadership .                     