@@491817

When I grow up , I want to go to Indonesia or Malaya . That 's in my future . " To an American traveler in Australia , the truth of what father and son had to say about their country soon becomes apparent . Aussie hospitality to visiting Americans is real enough . " Why do you want to stay in a hotel in Sydney ? " an Australian businessman asks an American tourist as they sit next to one another on a flight from Adelaide to Sydney . " Why not stay with me ? Come home and meet the wife and kids . " He means it , and he only is satisfied when the American at least promises to come to his home for dinner . Characteristically , too , when somebody scrawled " Yanks Go Home " on a Sydney storefront , somebody else added " By Qantas . " Australia 's future is bound up with Asia because it is inescapably a South Pacific treasure house of resources close to the Orient . Perth , the flourishing capital of Western Australia , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sydney or Melbourne , a fact which also suggests the sheer size of the threemillion-square-mile Down Under country , which is either the world 's largest island or the world 's smallest continent . That Australia has a British heritage is evident everywhere , even though the new emigrants from the European continent who have reached the country over the last several decades have made their mark , particularly in improving the variety and quality of restaurant cuisine . It is nowhere more evident than in a park in Melbourne where Captain Cook 's boyhood cottage , which was transplanted from England , rests among " English " trees  --  that is , trees whose ancestors came from England to live among the characteristic eucalyptus trees of the new country . Cook explored Australian coasts for the British king and took possession of the eastern part of the continent in the king 's name on August 22 , 1770 . There is an obelisk on Possession Island in Torres Strait to show where he stood on the historic occasion . Australians take their kids to see Captain Cook 's cottage in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view Independence Hall . Jacketed and hatted in their school clothes , the Aussie boys and girls , perhaps the healthiest looking and politest school children in the world , flock into the cottage with its original Cook furnishings . They listen wide-eyed to how young Jim Cook and his two brothers slept in a small unheated upstairs room and how , when they got out of bed in the morning , they snatched up their clothes and raced downstairs to the big room to dress before the fire . The Aussie kids give an ancestral shiver for the 18th-century Cook boys in wintry England . In January 1788 , Captain Arthur Phillip and a boatload of convicts from Britain came ashore at Farm Cove on Botany Bay to found the colony of New South Wales , and today Sydney people still point out buildings constructed by convict labor much as Americans point out structures built by slaves . Phillip landed in the Rocks section , and many of the early buildings have recently been renovated as homes , shops and pubs . The oldest buildings of Victoria Barracks were erected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ erected with money convicts paid for their tots of rum . Travelers from North America who make the long jet flight down the Pacific on either Qantas or Pan American land first at Sydney . Their first glimpse of the city 's red-tiled roofs climbing the steep hills beside the labyrinthine waters of one of the world 's most superb harbors is magnificent after so many hours in the air . The famed convex neo-Gothic arches of the Sydney Opera House appear on the tip of Benelong Point like a shark 's fins . Even from the air a traveler can understand how the actor Robert Morley could remark that the building " looked like something that has crept up out of the sea and is up to no good . " Sydneysiders call the opera house " Jaws . " The Sydney Harbour Bridge appears beneath the plane . If the 1,650-foot center span were only 51 feet longer it would surpass the New River Gorge Bridge in Fayetteville , West Virginia , and be the world 's longest . The bridge is to Sydney what the Golden Gate Bridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australians from calling it the " Coat Hanger , " which it patently resembles . Since it was built during Depression days , the bridge provided jobs for 1,400 workers and kept a lot of families breathing . Hence , Australians also call it the " Iron Lung , " a tribute both to its massive iron superstructure and its life-giving role . Once on the ground , a traveler discovers that Sydneysiders have applied appropriate monikers to Cother landmarks of their city as well . Ships from all over the world pass beneath the Harbour Bridge and dock at berths . The circular control tower rises on high legs above the busy scene . Since it is capsule-shaped and controls the berths , it is named the " Pill . " Sydney 's skyline grows higher with every year . Among the man-made peaks beside Botany Bay is Australia Square , which is not square but round as a barrel . Close by stands the new Government Building , a black shaft of glass and steel . To an Australian , " The Black Stump " is a mythical landmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When a building is not only big and black but houses government offices , it simply must be called " The Black Stump . " Sydney Harbour is a glory . Ferries and hydrofoils furrow the waters from the Circular Quay beside the downtown district and take commuters to far-flung suburbs . Each boat is worth a trip . One of the most colorful journeys is to Manly , a beach suburb so-called because the aborigines seen on it by early explorers were so " manly . " Ships poke beneath the Harbour Bridge 's proud arch . There is the deep hollow whoomp of a marine whistle , and gulls sweep about the stern of the ferry boat . To the left is " The Rocks , " where there once were 50 pubs waiting for sailors who , after being at sea for weeks or months , often ended up on the rocks in more ways than one . From the docks at Manly a visitor walks up a street something like the main street in England 's Brighton . There are engaging shops , cafes and pubs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a " cross between an abattoir and a Turkish bath . " The pubs are tiled so that they can easily be swabbed down after a night 's plain and fancy excitement . In an Australian pub , an American soon learns that Aussie beer is a heady brew and that it comes in either a midi , which is a small glass , a schooner , which is a 15-ounce glass , or a frigate , which is a 20-ounce glass . It is extremely important not to confuse frigates or schooners with midis . At the far end of Manly 's street is the beach lined with Norfolk pines , brought originally from Norfolk Island . Surfers ride ashore on the driving waves , and swimmers frolic about within the shark guards which keep the big-toothed fish from them . A boy fishes for mullet with bread crumbs as bait . Australia is endowed with magnificent beaches all along its spectacular coast , and each city and town is handy to water sports . Visitors who have no desire to meet a shark in the sea can take a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Australian fish at the Marineland at Manly . Sydney is perhaps the most cosmopolitan of Down Under cities and certainly is among the most beautiful sea ports in the world . It invariably charms visitors from North America . To some it means splendid rock oysters at dinner , but to others it is the excellent opera or theater , the fine Art Gallery of New South Wales , the Australian Museum with its aboriginal artifacts , or the night life at King 's Cross . Victorian Paddington buildings are decorated with iron lace brought from England as ballast . The old buildings of the Eastern Command in Victoria Barracks also are reminiscent of the mother country , and when on Tuesday at the Bar- Now is a great time to visit Australia , with the new low air fares across the Pacific . Qantas , Pan Am , Continental Airlines , Air New Zealand and U.T.A . French Airlines all have services to Australia . Check with them or your travel agent for the latest fare schedule . Passports and Visas : American citizens need a passport and visitor 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Australian government offices in New York , Chicago , San Francisco , Los Angeles , Washington , D.C. , Honolulu , Ottawa and Toronto . Money Matters : If you are planning to use traveler 's checks , it is best to get them in Australian dollars . The commonly accepted international credit cards are American Express , Diners Club and Carte Blanche . The major domestic airlines now accept VISA and Master Charge , but you may encounter difficulties using them elsewhere . Tipping : No service charges are added to accounts by hotels and restaurants in Australia , and tipping of staff is not obligatory . However , it is usual to tip hotel porters 20 cents and waiters and waitresses at more exclusive hotels and restaurants 10 percent of the charge for good service . Taxi drivers and porters at shipping terminals and railway stations have set scales of charges . Climate : Australia 's seasons are the reverse of North America 's . When it is winter here , it is summer in Australia . Generally Australia has an equable climate without extremes in temperatures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the tropics . To the south , the major cities are in the , temperate zone , where winters are mild with some rain but lots of sunny periods . Summer is warm to hot everywhere . Shopping : Best buys are opals , woolen goods , sheep skins , aboriginal art , paintings and handcrafts . Shopping hours are generally 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. weekdays , 9 a.m. to noon Saturdays . racks the guard is changed , the pomp and circumstance would be a credit to the Black Watch in London . Melbourne rivals Sydney in the affections of both Australians and visitors . It does not have Sydney 's magnificent vistas , but it is an equally handsome city . Since Melbourne has kept its streetcars running , it is possible to take a tram ride , transferring from one line to another as the spirit moves . The National Gallery on St. Kilda Road is not only Australia 's largest art museum , but when it comes to architecture and display techniques it is among the leading museums in the world . The Royal Botanic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament House and Como , a colonial mansion which dates from the 1860s , are all part of the city . Melbourne is also home to Aussie Rules football and possesses the largest cricket ground in the world , where 120,000 people have been known to turn out for a Test Match . Fitzroy and Treasury Gardens , with noble trees and ferns , are among the world 's most engaging city parks . Visitors to Melbourne discover that the city 's suburbs reach into the Dandenongs , hills of rare pastoral beauty . The Mornington Peninsula is also a short drive out of Melbourne . Many Melbourne people have weekerA homes on the peninsula to take advantage of the beaches , the surf and the fine seafood restaurants . Each Mornington village has its own basis for local fame so that Torquay may be noted for its surfing and Portsea for Knocker 's restaurant and its steaks or apples stuffed with salmon . Regular weekenders and visitors alike go to the McRae Homestead , one of the earliest homes built by the pioneer families who settled Australia . They examine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ McRaes stashed their sovereigns against thievery , the digging sticks for digging yams and the thumb prints in the homemade bricks of the old walk , which are a human reminder of how the still-soft bricks were lifted out of the molds . Sooner or later visitors to the peninsula ascend Franklin Point on the incline and look down on the vista of sea and land from where Sir John Franklin stood in 1802 on his epochal voyage of discovery . Australia 's capital city , Canberra , also proves to be an engaging city , planned by an American , Walter Burley Griffin , to be a city of government , education and the sciences . Perth , with its beaches and sunshine and ' burgeoning skyscrapers , Adelaide , the festival city because of its biennial Festival of the Arts ( which recently took place in March 1980 ) , Brisbane , with its open-toed , subtropical way of life , and Hobart , capital of Tasmania , which sometimes seems more English than England , can all be part of a visit to Australia . Australia is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a man to swim in the Pacific Ocean in the morning , ski in the Great Snowies after lunch , catch a trout in a mountain stream and cook it for dinner . It is only a short jet hop from the tropical islands of the Great Barrier Reef , where sport diving is incomparable , to the sun-baked hard pan desert around Ayers Rock in the Outback . The wine-making district north of Adelaide on the Murray River is easy to reach , and so are the colorful gold-mining towns of Victoria . It takes a little less than four hours to fly from Sydney on the Pacific east coast to Perth on the Indian Ocean west coast . The flight is much like any other four-hour flight . An adventurous traveler can instead span Australia on the Indian Pacific Railway , third longest rail line in the world , which takes a little less than three days to cross the nation . The meals and service on the train are outstanding , and a traveler gets a first-hand look at the Outback and its wildlife , which ranges from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about or the omnipresent dingo , the Australian wild dog . The vast Outback , as inhospitable and fierce a land as there is on the planet , lies at the heart of Australia . The Australian novelist , George Johnston , remarked that this land " was never really intended as a place for people . " With remarkable tenacity , the Australians have lived a hardscrabble existence in the Outback and created such towns as Alice Springs , an oasis of civilization , and such cattle or sheep ranches as the Killarney Station in the Northern Territory , which is so huge that cattle are rounded up by helicopter . Across the Outback runs the Track , a 2,500-mile road of adventure , which is blacktopped only part of the way . Through its foot-deep bull dust roar great truck trains loaded with supplies for isolated mining towns and stations . Coober Pedy , where most of the world 's opals are dug , is such a town , and there more than half of the miners live underground in dugouts to avoid the fearful summer heat . Life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much a frontier country . It also is a good place to bargain for opals in the rough or to go noodling among the mounds of rubble in search of opals that have been overlooked by the miners . A visitor to Australia who has time to go to Goober Pedy or to Alice Springs should do so . It is only a short hop by light plane from Alice to Ayers Rock , the world 's largest monolith , where aborigine caves prove intriguing . Hale and hearty visitors climb the rock to the wind-swept summit from which they can look out across a landscape as mysterious as any on earth . At night , people who stay at the small inn at the base of the rock walk out onto the desert to view the stony hump by moonlight and listen to the dingos ' wild and plaintive song . Their music seems the very essence of the primitive Australian Outback . From Canberra it is easy to take an excursion into the bush for a visit to a sheep station . Watching the shearers demonstrating the clicking scissors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the herds with amazing gentleness and intelligence , a visitor gets the feel of country life in a nation which , despite its cosmopolitan cities on the coast , is intensely rural . A sheepherder wraps baked potatoes in foil instead of the leaves and mud that he used a generation ago as he prepares a bush barbecue for his visitors . He makes his tea in a billy can , which is nothing but a big tin can carried by roving herdsmen . " The secret of a good billy can is never to wash the damned thing , " he explains . He pares sausage , potatoes and slices of lemon into a succulent kangaroo tail soup . When ashes from the wood fire float into the soup , he remarks , " Ashes give it the right flavor . " As thick steaks broil over wood coals , his wife mixes up a salad of asparagus , beets , peas , onions , tomatoes , lettuce , bananas and dates with an orange slice on top . The dampened brush bread bakes in the fire . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bottom ; if it is too thick , it 's all mush inside . You got to keep brushing it with water , " says the herder . At last the herder drops a sprig of eucalyptus into the billy can to give the tea extra zest . He pulls the can off the fire by its hoop and swings it around his head to settle the leaves by centrifugal force . Then everyone sits down to the juicy steak and the hearty bread . A Willy Wagtail perches on a fence nearby and sings , myriad small flies buzz about , and it almost seems as if the jolly swagman of Australian song and story will sit down at the visitor 's side and start telling his tales . Australia , which was reached by aborigines about 10,000 years ago , is the most recent continent settled by mankind , but , geologically speaking , it is the oldest continent . Away from the coast it is a nearly empty country where each man 's worth is very real and evident . Australians have to count on one another to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and even in their cities they show a firm friendship for one another and for visitors , too . When an Australian calls another man " mate , " he is acknowledging the impress of the frontier on his life and expressing feelings that run deep and can be understood only in the light of the Australian national experience . To a traveler from abroad , Australia reveals man-made and natural wonders , but it is the people with their warm friendliness and independence of mind who reveal the most about the Australian nation . A                     