@@494441

John Kenneth Galbraith 's very first book , American Capitalism , was subtitled The Concept of Countervailing Power . The term immediately caught on , virtually becoming " conventional wisdom " as a description of American society , to use a phrase of later Galbraithian coinage that has been even more successful . Now after many years Galbraith has chosen to address himself to the nature of power itself and its vicissitudes in the rise of modern capitalist democracies . Galbraith identifies three " instruments for the exercise of power " : the infliction of punishments ; the offering of rewards ; and the shaping of beliefs through persuasion , education , and Nothing in this new biography equals Mingus 's self-analysis , certainly not the astrological speculations . " Any moral exhortation . He calls these " condign , " " compensatory , " and " conditioned " power , respectively . In addition to his three instruments of power , Galbraith distinguishes three sources of power : personality , property , and organization . This conceptual apparatus is serviceable enough in a rough-and-ready way , although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One regrets , for example , that so little attention is paid to skill or knowledge as a partially independent source of power . The spectacle of Galbraith confronting Foucault might have been an interesting one ? the notion of " technocratic " power was at least implicit in some of Galbraith 's earlier books . I have some problems with Galbraith 's use of both the concept of conditioned power and of personality as a source of power . My discomfort is doubtless fairly typical of the sorts of objections sociologists often raise against the formulations of economists , even economists like Galbraith who are seen as mavericks by their colleagues . Galbraith writes of Karl Marx 's " use of conditioned power . " The pen may well be mightier than the sword , but Marx 's ideas , not the man himself , were powerful , and they achieved their maximum power long after his death . Marx the man was dependent during his early years in London on the largesse of Engels for the support of his family ; he was unable to dissuade his daughters from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into active politics he failed to prevent the First International from falling under the control of his enemy Bakunin . Marx 's ideas eventually helped mobilize large numbers of people and were used to justify powerful organizations claiming to uphold them , including states , but all this hardly amounted to an exercise of power by Marx himself . Indeed , if power is " the possibility of imposing one 's will upon the behavior of other persons " ? Max Weber 's definition , which Galbraith accepts ? it does Marx an injustice to suggest that he would have approved of all , or even of much , that has been done in his name . Nor , as Galbraith also implies at one point , was Marx 's personality in any sense the source of the postmortem influence won by his doctrines . I hesitate to invoke the sociologist 's old bugaboo of the " great man theory of history , " but Galbraith sometimes seems to conflate personality as a source of power with just about any and all situations in which individual personalities achieve high visibility in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the " important tendency in all modern political comment to exaggerate the role of personality in the exercise of power , " but he equates this exaggeration with the self-serving flattery of subordinates and public-relations efforts to glorify people in important positions . Even in cases where the judgments and preferences of individuals make a real difference , however , it is incorrect to regard personality as the source of their power . The unstructured and indeterminate nature of the situation itself , as in Gal braith 's own example of the labor conflicts of the 1930s , may place a premium on the decisions of individuals who have had power suddenly thrust upon them . In another of Galbraith 's examples , Churchill in 1940 was certainly the right man in the right place , the personal embodiment of Britain 's will to resist . But could his magnificent gifts of determination and inspiration have brought about a British surrender to Hitler ? The question answers itself . Galbraith often contrasts personality as a putative source of power in the past with the " faceless organization men " who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a real one , but it does n't follow that past leaders , or nonbureaucratic leaders today , have owed their power primarily to their personal qualities . Hereditary absolute monarchs were highly visible , and even their sexual tastes ? for example , their choice of mistresses ? deserved scrutiny as clues to their political decisions , but personality was obviously not the source of their power . Galbraith needs a distinction , such as that drawn by Sidney Hook in The Hero in History , between " eventful " and " event-making " persons , the latter alone referring to individuals " whose actions , " in Hook 's words , " are the consequences of outstanding capacities of intelligence , will , and character , rather than of accidents of position . " Despite his ambiguities on the subject of personality as a source of power , Galbraith has a firm grasp of the fact that power in the modern world is preeminently collective . This means that a group 's ability to exercise power externally depends on its prior capacity to control reliably its own members . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rightly observes that it is " one of its most frequently overlooked features . " He also notes a further symmetry between " the sources of power and the countervailing response " expressed in such aphorisms as fighting fire with fire and those who live by the sword shall perish by the sword ; he remarks on the deviation from this rule of symmetry in the successful use of nonviolent resistance by Gandhi and Martin Luther King . This discussion , though tantalizingly brief , makes an original contribution to the understanding of organizations as power structures . The second half of The Anatomy of Power presents a short history of the different institutional centers of power from precapitalist times to the present . The power of the church in the Middle Ages , the rise of merchant and then industrial capitalism , the transition to " high " capitalism dominated by giant corporations , the countervailing responses of trade unionism and state regulation , the contemporary power of the military establishment , religion , and the press ? all are given chapter-length treatment . The general trend for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( or " condign " ) power toward compensatory and conditioned power , with organization increasingly supplanting both personality and property ab the major source of power . Galbraith thinks that " there is more danger of overestimating than of underestimating the power of the modern media , " a conclusion that may surprise readers familiar with his past insistence on advertising as the creator of wants and his criticism of the nearly total neglect of it by traditional economics . Yet he is surely mistaken when he claims that schoolchildren in the United States hear " in similar fashion of the virtues of free enterprise " as children in communist countries hear " relentlessly of the virtues of socialism . " Of the virtues of democracy , or of the American Constitution , yes . Of " free enterprise , " no . Galbraith himself received his early education in Canada ; perhaps he has spent so much of his life arguing with economics professors who are true believers in free enterprise that he assumes such a deeply held faith must have been acquired in grade school and not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed against the enemy in war , rests on both property ( public property derived from Congressional appropriations ) and organization . Galbraith 's chapter on " the military power , " unfortunately , is little more than an unrelieved complaint that it is excessive in contemporary America , ending with a standard plea for the nuclear freeze movement which , he argues altogether unconvincingly , " encourages the possibility of a similar movement in the Soviet Union . " Along the way , he advances the thoroughly questionable claim that " the Vietnam War produced in the United States one of the most comprehensive efforts in social conditioning in modern times . Nothing was spared in the attempt to make the war seem necessary and acceptable to the American public . " Actually , both Johnson and Nixon tried to win the war on the sly and on the cheap , refusing to raise taxes or to demand any material sacrifices from the public . Johnson declined to abandon his program of domestic reform ; Nixon kept trying to win the war while pretending to be winding it down , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One can only guess what the results might have been had the government , as in previous wars , made an all-out effort to arouse the patriotic fervor of the public in support of the war , though it was ultimately a difficult , if not impossible , task to make a plausible case for it . Under the circumstances , it is scarcely surprising that the halfhearted and ambiguous defense of the war emanating from Washington should have encouraged rather than deterred the antiwar movement . G ALBRAITH has for years been arguing that large corporations are independently powerful , against his neoclassical colleagues in economics who continue to stress the primary importance of individual entrepreneurship and the determination of prices and production by market forces rather than by corporate decision-making . This argument cuts in another direction as well , against the insistence of Marxists that classes based on the ownership or nonownership of property are the major collective actors under capitalism . Recent Marxist theorists have acknowledged the " relative autonomy " of the state , but they are less ready to concede that private organizations may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a minor and peripheral role in modern societies . Galbraith 's claims for the primacy of organization , reiterated in the present book but developed much more fully in earlier works , constitute , in my view , his most valuable achievement in enlightening us about the social and economic world in which we live .                     