@@295333

An interview with White House Kremlinologist Richard Pipes <P> One of the hardest of hard-liners in the Reagan Administration has been keeping one of the lowest of profiles . He is Richard Pipes , 58 , a Polish-born historian on leave from Harvard University , who has served since the Inauguration as the chief expert on Soviet affairs for the National Security Council staff . Before joining the Government , he was an outspoken , highly controversial critic of dtente and a leader of the Committee on the Present Danger , a private lobbying group that campaigned against SALT II and in favor of larger defense budgets . Partly because of his reputation for vociferous anti-Sovietism , and partly because the NSC has been trying to avoid publicity , Pipes until now was under orders to keep his strong views out of the press . Following the recent shake-up of the NSC , the new National Security Adviser , William Clark , not only asked Pipes to stay on as the White House 's resident Kremlinologist but also allowed him to grant his first interview . Talking with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Soviet Communism and the possibility of nuclear war . Excerpts : <P> <P> On Kremlin succession : The Soviet Union is in deep crisis . Its economy is in serious trouble . Soviet power is overextended globally , and there is mounting disaffection among diverse social and ethnic groups . When President Leonid Brezhnev goes , his successors will face two choices . They can keep making outlandish appropriations for defense and engaging in global adventures , or they can face up to their internal problems , turning away from military expansionism toward reform of the domestic system . Russia has experienced throughout its history periods when the government had to turn inward to cope with its problems . The idea that the greatness of the country was achieved not on foreign battlefields but by building the society from within has fresh proponents today . But if Brezhnev 's successors let the impetus of expansionism carry them forward rather than take the path of internal reform , that may risk war . <P> On U.S. influence on the Soviet succession : Many American liberals are wrong in thinking that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that if we are not accommodating to them , we will strengthen the dreadful hawks waiting in the wings . I believe the contrary . The current leadership is dominated by parochial old Stalinists . What can be worse than that ? The next generation will certainly be less parochial , and it will be post-Stalinist . The people who now run the Soviet Union are really very hawkish , and the alternative to them is not a still more hawkish group , but rather a group that is more reform-minded . These are dedicated , intelligent Russian nationalists who believe that a policy of hostility to the U.S. and confrontation abroad may have become counterproductive : they worry whether the Soviet economy can support such egregious imperialism . I think it is worth a gamble to support those latter elements , because every meaningful reform entails a certain degree of democratization , which would be good for the Soviet people as well as the rest of the world .                     