@@494954

of his sympathy with the left and with socialism , " it is impossible to assign him a " conservative posture . " If Stevens ignores the sufferings of the world to contemplate the beautifully bound volume of his Esthetique du Mal , it is not a sign of moral indifference ; it is better seen as " one of those occasions when he was so moved by the horror of what he observed that he once more turned his attention to something that could give soA COMPANY Your self ? Her self ? Him self ? All those other them selves ? Jostled among that crowd , how make your way ? Night coming on , do they not clamor for pieces of your dreams ? You glance into the mirror . There she is , her self smiling out at you , but shadowed by a sterner look , by strident aunts , milky uncles , great-grandparents , reeling back to a runty , scruffy ancient , his rages hopping up and down . Amazed , you greet them , words ? his , theirs ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And throwing your arms around her , you don a sweater she crocheted , her gnarled fingers soft in it , cross-stitched by his concern . This body of yours a gobetween , the heart a highway many-laned , you take them out to the garden , basking in the sun . The maple she had bought substantial now , its young leaves ? an easy breath among them ? sway together as they , joining her and him , the others , encompass you with murmurings . Together you host the morning , host this early spring , gossiping the same old , new-as-ever news : " Did you see and did you hear .. . poor Harry with his . . . wild Ida at her . . . crazy Mary 0 so scary . . . ? " " I never , not in a hundred years ! " With squawky triplets and a husband tenant in our guesthouse flowerpot , a wren ( is it the one we welcomed years ago ? ) in a rage of song bobbles on a brandnew twig . R. AND @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whitewash , pure whitewash , sloppily , indecently applied . S TEVENS WAS a great poet . Why bother pretending that he was a good man ? He had no political " posture " ; he had political spasms , sometimes on the left side of his body , sometimes on the right . He was a mixed , imperfect , clayey human being . Richardson reports that when his older brother , Garrett Jr. , became seriously ill , Stevens and his younger brother gave monthly support up to the time of Garrett 's demise , " well over a year later . " Stevens then continued to send money , " usually in the form of holiday gifts , " to his widowed sister-in-law , remaining " consistently generous and gracious , " despite the emotional ambiguities of his relationship with his brother . And from this episode of incontestable ( though not unprecedented ) human kindness , Richardson passes to the conclusion that " in this situation , as in all others , Stevens acted in the model fashion that we would want everyone to act , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Passages like these are as uncanny as they are unconvincing . Conscientious devourer of facts that she is , Richardson herself has recorded some highly distressing incidents that jeopardize the moral panegyric : Stevens 's rather brutal public suppressions of his wife , for example , or his cold insistence that his daughter , Holly , attend Vassar College , though she bitterly opposed the plan and soon frustrated it by dropping out . Stevens was capable of kindness and ruthlessness , of magnanimity and cruelty , of generosity and egotism . He was no poet/saint ; he was one of us . Except when he was writing : then he was one of them , the dancing geniuses . It is the urge to place artistic genius in the service of common life that lies behind a broad phenomenon to which this biography is a recent addition . The appetite for the lives of the artists , especially the lives of the moderns , is great and apparently growing . Why ? A beginning of an answer is that the integrity of the work so moves us that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ integrity in the life . If human beings could be as good as some of the things that human beings have made , then what an image of the good life we would have . Literary critics talk of a biographical fallacy , of the crude assumption that when we have identified its source in life , we have solved the puzzle of a work . Butthere is an opposite , unnamed error , that we might call the oeuvre fallacy : the assumption that perfection in the art implies perfection in the life . Stevens is especially seductive in this regard , first because his poetry was grand , and second because the life outside the poetry was not grand at all . Few of us , I suppose , can muster a passable fantasy of what it would have been to lead the life of Picasso , or Pound , or Proust . But so much of Stevens 's life is so near to us that we scarcely need the imagination . He struggles with his marriage , worries about his daughter , complains about taxes , goes to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a life can be seen as possessing the dignity of Stevens 's poetry , then we are all much better than we suspected . B UT IT CAN NOT , and we are not . Stevens kept his genius for his art ; the leading of his life is something that he did without any special grace . The jealous guarding of intimacy , the uneasiness with so many fellow workers , the rudeness ( real and imagined ) , the coldness toward those closest to him ? all this gives sharp point to his aphorism " Life is an affair of people not of places . But for me life is an affair of places and that is the trouble . " He evidently enjoyed his grandson ; with his wife he shared a taste for gardening . But his greatest pleasures were characteristically private . " I am not a good talker , " he confessed , " and do n't particularly enjoy exchanging ideas with people in talk . " And elsewhere : " Personally , I nourish myself on books , nature , this and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men and women ... " I see no reason to reverse Richardson 's judgment and find a hulking ogre where she finds a moral exemplar . The point is rather to accept the life outside the poetry as psychologically unresolved , morally unsettled , politically indeterminate . Stevens 's daily life did not catch the radiance of his poetry . Indeed , what is disturbing , but also perhaps illuminating , is the extent to which the brightness of the art seems to have accompanied , and even required , faintness in the rest of the life . Consider two analogies between the work and the life . Among the most familiar aspects of Stevens 's poetry is its sudden turn toward nonsense . In the context of taut argument or high rhetoric , there is a quick descent into " the poet 's gibberish , " as for example at the beginning of " Mozart 1935 " :                     