@@432100

 | At a recent Hawaiian cultural show on Maui , 350 brown-skinned locals whooped approvingly as a singer protested the overdevelopment of Waikiki in a mournful song lamenting " too many people , too much hotel . God , it looks like hell . " To many " native " Hawaiians of Polynesian ancestry , life in paradise has looked that way for a long time ? ever since the advent of Capt . James Cook in 1778 . After the arrival of the Westerners , their numbers were all but decimated by pandemics of syphilis , measles and even the common cold . In a matter of decades they had also lost their land . But in the last few years many Hawaiians have grown angry at what they see as the suppression of their rights and culture , and now a native resurgence is under way . @# Not so long ago the phrase He Hawaii au ? I am a Hawaiian ? was uttered in half-embarrassed whispers , reflecting the despair of a conquered and dispossessed race . Today the 175,000 Hawaiians and part-Hawaiians who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ancestry with new pride and assertiveness , resulting in a new appreciation for the native language , culture , crafts , values ? and their potential political clout . But the Hawaiians still have a long way to go before they can gain significant power in a state where no ethnic group is a majority . For one thing , their movement lacks lokahi ? unity . And while many Hawaiians concede that their resurgence depends primarily on education and economic training , the movement 's prime focus remains the most limited and fought-over resource in the island state ? the land , and particularly hundreds of thousands of acres that a federal commission may turn over to the Hawaiians as restitution for the American-led 1893 overthrow of the island monarchy . Independence : A final resolution of the complicated restitution question is probably years away . But it represents a breathtaking possibility for a people who steadily have lost their population to disease and despair and their jobs to hordes of imported workers , including the Samoans and Tongans who are beginning to take away even their Waikiki nightclub @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also lost their independence ? and much of their culture . Speaking Hawaiian in the schools was forbidden ? " a subtle way of genocide , " says entertainer Don Ho ? and their traditions were exploited and " plasticized " for the benefit of mainland tourists . The social toll has been staggering : among all state ethnic groups , Hawaiians today have the  | lowest income , the poorest housing ? and the highest rates in welfare , male suicide and school dropouts . " It 's much like the American Indian , " says state Senate candidate Adelaide ( Frenchy ) De Soto . " When everything around you tells you you 're no good and you need to be taken care of , the cycle of dependency is perpetuated . " Shame kept the Hawaiians quiet , and those who questioned the injustice were told by elders to kuli-kuli ? shut up . But their silence was broken in the 1970s , beginning with the famous pig-farmer protests in which police tried to oust a squatter living on a site cleared for a housing complex . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the Hawaiians later joined environmentalists and slow-growth-minded Japanese-Americans in demonstrations and legal battles over tourist developments and ancient access rights , fights sometimes won Squatters ' shacks being burned in 1975 , prof on First Amendment religious grounds . They also formed a private welfare group and a native Hawaiian legal corporation . Eventually , it all began to translate into political muscle ? and a resurgence of the Hawaiian identity . Their greatest triumph came in 1978 . At a state constitutional convention , Hawaiian was made the co-official state language and the teaching of native history , language and culture was made mandatory in public schools . But most important , the Hawaiians won 20 percent of state revenues from the disputed crown lands to operate the Office of Hawaiian Affairs ( OHA ) . The unique body , which has its own voter roll and conducts separate Hawaiian-only elections for nine trustees who coordinate and consult on most state affairs involving the natives , " is the closest we can come to sovereignty , " says state Rep. John Waihee . But others have even higher hopes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lands for use as a Hawaiian economic base . " We could build our own nation within a nation , just like American Indians have , " argues Huanani-Kay Trask , 32 , a teacher of radical courses in American studies at the University of Hawaii . Backlash : Still , the Hawaiian " renaissance " ? a word some Hawaiians hate , insisting that the culture never died to begin with ? is richer in possibilities than in unity . Goals differ widely , ranging from sovereignty for an independent nation to more jobs for Hawaiian truck drivers . And the Hawaiians have yet to reconcile their new ethnic awareness with the reality of making it in a state economy where natives own only 2 percent of business . " There is this notion that if you are a businessman you 're going to lose this thing called your Hawaiianness ' , " sighs Georgiana Padeken , director of the state Department of Hawaiian Home Lands . Indeed , efforts to involve more Hawaiians in business have been undermined by a backto-the-land movement that has captivated the culture-minded young . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I can go to work in the taro patch ' , " says Hawaiian cable-TV operator Kenneth Brown . There are also signs of a backlash against the Hawaiian movement , a feeling " that things should not just be handed over to them on a silver platter , " says George Chu , president of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce . If native Hawaiians ever do win the handsome land and money reparations many of their leaders want , the backlash can be expected to increase ? something the movement can ill afford since Hawaiians make up only 15 percent of the state 's registered voters ( up from 10 percent two years ago ) . " The majority of people in the community have great concern for Hawaiians , " says A. A. Smyser , editorial-page editor for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin . " But if there 's an overreaching there 's going to be a reaction ? and there 's no question where the votes lie . " It is , concedes state Rep. Kina'u Kamali'i , " a trying time for everybody . " Old resentments die hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their land , language and culture . But there are signs of progress , including a growing sense that the Hawaiian movement can survive only if it lifts itself out of ethnocentrism into a concern for all parts of island life ? and all of its people . Walter Ritte , 38 , a trustee of the OHA who periodically joins his wife and three other families in living like their Polynesian ancestors , talks of persuading the world that " island values " must replace " continental values " for planetary survival . Ideally , Hawaiians instilled with a sense of ancient values someday will be able to function biculturally ? to make it in a non-Hawaiian , Western world while still retaining the true aloha spirit .                     