@@432114

 | Ronald Reagan 's reorganization of his foreign-policy team in early January promises to alter both the conduct and the character of U.S. diplomacy . The most significant consequence could be a measurable shift by the administration toward pragmatism ? and away from ideological rigidity ? on an array of issues ranging from relations with U.S. allies to arms sales to Taiwan . That change is expected to flow out of the reshuffling of White House power that occurred January 4 when the President edged out Richard Allen as his national-security adviser and replaced him with William C1 , deputy to Secretary of State Alexander Haig . The shake-up , first of the Reagan Presidency Raises the star of Secretary Haig , Allen 's principal antagonist , giving both him and State Department professionals a stronger hold over the nation 's foreign policy . Offers the best prospect yet for an end , or at least a sharp decline , in the bickering between White House and cabinet officials that has plagued the administration 's foreign policy from the start . Diminishes the influence of Reagan 's Big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edwin Meese , in the field of foreign affairs . Clark , an old friend of the President 's , was granted enhanced powers and direct access to the Oval Office . While no one expects the switch in advisers to cause a reversal in the direction of Reagan 's conservative policies , the administration already is adopting a less confrontational approach in international affairs . As one top White House official put it : " There will be less of a tendency to lash out at a Helmut Schmidt or a Menachem Begin when we are annoyed with them . " Allen 's departure is the chief reason for this change . A staunch conservative , he consistently advocated a tough U.S. response to developments around the world . Haig , in contrast , shares the view of most American professional diplomats that bullying by the U.S. seldom leads to improved relations with other nations . The administration is adopting this more conciliatory stance at a crucial juncture in Reagan 's Presidency . As he enters his second year in office , the Chief Executive faces several major foreign-policy challenges @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear-disarmament talks with the Soviet Union and new tension in the Middle East . Changed tone . The impact on U.S. a warm tone masked Reagan 's deep frustration with refusal of the Bonn government to support economic sanctions that the U.S. imposed on the Soviet Union in the wake of martial law in Poland . The emphasis was on preserving alliance unity rather than arm-twisting to force Schmidt to toe the Reagan line . The shake-up puts Haig in a better position to argue against Taiwan 's request to buy sophisticated warplanes from the United States . The Secretary has long contended that such a sale would damage American relations with Peking . Like many of Reagan 's conservative supporters who have strong sentimental ties to Taiwan , Allen was in favor of the sale . Support for arms-control negotiations with Russia , which Allen and some in Caspar Weinberger 's Pentagon questioned , is expected to increase . This will reinforce the position taken by Haig that Washington must demonstrate genuine interest in disarmament even though the prospects for early success are dim . In the Middle East , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ champions in the administration , which may foreshadow a tilt toward greater sympathy for the Palestinian case . When it comes to U.S.-Soviet relations , the President 's new national-security team is expected to press hard for a summit meeting between Reagan and Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev , even though the administration  | page deleted  | never got anything done , " says one top official . Allen 's effectiveness was already seriously crippled before November 13 , when it was disclosed that he was under investigation by the Justice Department for receiving $1,000 from a Japanese magazine after helping arrange an interview with Nancy Reagan . Although the Attorney General eventually cleared Allen of wrongdoing , Reagan 's top aides concluded that the publicity had caused the administration too much embarrassment . Reagan then asked for the national-security adviser 's resignation . Unlike Allen , who submitted written reports , Clark will brief the President orally every morning at 9:30 on developments around the world . He is also expected to replace some members of the National Security Council staff . which was largely recruited by Allen . Insiders say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been in previous administrations . " The staff was not being utilized , " said a top official . The hawks remain . The NSC staff continues to be dominated for now by anti-Soviet hard-liners such as Richard Pipes , who stunned Washington soon after he was appointed by publicly discussing the prospect of war with the Soviet Union . Also on the staff are Roger W. Fontaine , who came to the White House via several conservative think tanks , and Geoffrey Kemp , a founding member of the hawkish Committee for the Present Danger . Over the years , Presidents who have played a strong personal role in foreign policy have allowed their national-security staffs to grow into something of a mini-State Department . Under Richard Nixon , the NSC staff exceeded 200 persons ? about twice the present strength . Even though Reagan 's reorganization plan was hailed as an improvement by most observers , some critics say that Clark suffers a major shortcoming : The lack of a mastery of complex international issues . Analysts also acknowledge the possibility that the warm relations between Clark and Haig @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Clark admitted as much on the day he was appointed . " The conflict is inherent in the system , " he said , adding , " It 's healthy . " But hope within the administration 's inner sanctum ran high . The optimistic outlook from inside the White House : The shake-up of early January set the stage for a more consistent and more coherent U.S. stance in an increasingly dangerous world .                     