@@337749

The first official reports spoke of " rampage and violence " caused by " hooligans . " As sensational rumors reverberated around the country , a Soviet government spokesman admitted to " certain injuries " and even " several " deaths in the southwestern city of Sumgait . The full extent of the carnage was only revealed at week 's end , when an anchorman of the national television newscast Vremya read a four-paragraph TASS dispatch in a somber voice . " Criminal elements committed violent actions and engaged in robberies , " he reported . " They killed 31 people , among them members of various nationalities , old men and women . " <P> The rioting in Sumgait , an industrial center in the Soviet republic of Azerbaijan , was one of the worst known cases of ethnic disorder in Soviet history . Coming after two weeks of nationalist unrest in two southern republics , it confronted Communist Party Leader Mikhail Gorbachev with a problem that is not likely to go away and could blossom into the most serious political crisis of his three years in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine days of demonstrations in neighboring Armenia . By promising to examine local grievances , Gorbachev had managed to calm protests involving hundreds of thousands of marchers in the Armenian capital of Yerevan . But marches were reportedly continuing in Nagorno-Karabakh , an autonomous district that is mainly populated by Armenians but lies within the borders of the Azerbaijan republic . Protests demanding the enclave 's annexation by the Armenian republic led to violent clashes between Armenians and Azerbaijanis and , finally , to last week 's bloody upheaval in Sumgait . <P> The explosive complexity of those southern disturbances highlighted the difficulties of controlling a vast empire comprising more than 100 distinct nationalities and ethnic groups living in 15 republics . Russia 's rulers have been dealing with restive nationalities since the days of the Czars , but rarely has the problem assumed such urgency . At least two people died 15 months ago , when riots broke out in Alma-Ata , capital of Kazakhstan , to protest the naming of a Russian to head the local Communist Party . A band of Crimean Tatars demonstrated in Red Square last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Black Sea ; a smaller group briefly pressed the same demand near Moscow 's Lenin Library last week until they were hustled away by plainclothes police . In August and again last month , demonstrators in the Baltic republics commemorated their brief independence between the two world wars . Faced with this surge in nationalist sentiment , Gorbachev has called for a special Central Committee session to deal with the issue . <P> The roots of the latest disturbances go back to 1923 , when the mountainous Nagorno-Karabakh region , 75% of whose population is ethnic Armenian , was included in the Soviet republic of Azerbaijan . Since then , the enclave 's mostly Christian Armenians , complaining of discrimination by the Muslim majority in Azerbaijan , have sought a union with the Armenian republic . Last month officials of the Armenian republic petitioned Moscow to allow it to annex the territory . Moscow 's refusal touched off protests in Nagorno-Karabakh that spread to Yerevan .                     