@@487734

As the plot thickens in Washington , the fight intensifies for the right to describe its limits and define the issues . The crisis managers are set against the crusaders , the pragmatic establishment against the moral military . The radical opposition , at this point , is hardly heard . That may change as the connections between the malefactors in the several scandals come so close to the surface that even the media will be obliged to join the final dots . But for now the principal debate is between those who think the system has survived a bad bungle and those who never thought it bungled in the first place . Patrick Buchanan , the party ideologue of Reaganism and its most perfervid promoter , is leading the fight for the right . , " Make no mistake , " Buchanan shouted to some 3,000 Cuban-Americans rallying for Reagan in Miami last week , the " furor in Washington .. is not about whether some techniCal laws were broken but whether we would stop communism in Central America . " - The blame , he continued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the freedom fighters in Central America . " Everyone knows , Buchanan said , that actions taken to prevent " communistic expansion " . are privileged , and not subject to legal prohibition . 4God bless Colonel North , " Buchanan said , to rhythmic chants of " Rea-gan , Rea-gan , Rea-gan " from the crowd , described by a reporter for The Miami Herald as " frenzied . " On the same clay , Buchanan popped up on the Op-Ed page of The Washington-Post with a hilarious defense of Lieut . Col. Oliver North , comparing him to patriots and radicals who ran slaves along the Underground Railroad and ran , guns to Jews in British-occupied Palestine . " 011ie North is an American hero , " Buchanan wrote , who " was buying time for his own distracted and indifferent countrymen , " and holding " ' the fort alone , till those who are half blind are half ready . ' " The White House officially chided Buchanan , but it must be at least half pleased that someone is cheerleading for its side . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The New York Times , to cite two identical examples  --  have been damaging . The great newspaper gave to The New Republic 's literary editor , Leon Wieseltier , the task of making its first major statement on the Iran-contra affair . In one of the best-written pieces of extended double-talk the Sunday magazine has run in years , Wieseltier decided that the Reagan Administration has come to grief because of its " exercises in exaggerated humanitarianism " in trying to free the hostages in Lebanon , and its obsessive compassion for Nicholas Daniloff4 , Those unfortunate aberrations should not detract from the urgent business of supporting the contras in their war against Nicaragua and fending off hostile forces generally . Just call things by their , rightful names , Wieseltier advised . Let 's admit that the Afghani mujahedeen are not fighting for democracy , that the remnants of Pol Pot ' , s butcher brigade are not Sunday school students . Reagan 's problem is that he is too " idealistic . " If U.S. foreign policy " is to recover from the moral and intellectual intoxications of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the , article concluded . The debate between the " idealists " and the " realists " has been going on for years . It was the framework for all discussions of foreign policy in the 1950s , before Vietnam and the rise of a radical critique of interventionism . If the debate this time follows its historic course , the " realists " should win , and the heated rhetoric , spewing from the Buchanan shop will be replaced by more measured language from Senator Sam Nunn 's office , or wherever . , But the realities of America 's imperial project will not likely be discarded along with the florid language . Both sides agree on the essential elements of policy , which is based , on the demands of an endless cold , war and the need for strategic hegemony in America 's ever-widening spheres of influence . Walter Isaacson , a Time senior editor and co- , author of a book about the " Wise Men ' - ' who created , cold war policy , has suggested that Reagan assemble a similar brain trust @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , most of the original Wise Men are dead or retired , but replacements taken from the foreign policy establishment would only repackage the same postwar system . Nowhere in the Wise Man blueprint is there a method for avoiding its contradictions : the striving for political and economic independence in outposts of empire , the demands for redistribution of wealth and power from the poorest pawns and clients of America , the inability of domestic indusfry to develop rationally in the face of an inequitable international division of labor and consumption . Crusaders like Buchanan offer an easy escape from the failures of " realism " to the crowds that cheer them on . The first radio reports from the Dade County Auditorium where the rally was held evoked ' the static-scarred sounds of Europe fifty years ago . There is a certain consistency to images of the right , ancithe left , down through the decades . Nicaragua looks a little like Spain . Oliver North seems to step out of a Leni Riefenstahl movie , by way of Norman Rockwell . Even the center  --  vital , hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again . Surely it 's time for a new wave of analysis and the action it can produce . Beirut Rag ' w 4 4 hat is driving me up the wall , " Ronald Reagan told Time on November 26 , " is that this was n't a failure until the press got a tip from that rag in'Beirut . " Although several reports of U.S. arms shipments to Iran cropped up over the past year , Reagan is correct in crediting Al Shiraa , a weekly magazine published in Moslem West Beirut , with breaking the story . Al Shiraa 's unique contribution was to present the scoop in a context that provoked the Iranians into confirming that former national security adviser Robert McFarlane had visited Teheran . , . , Al Shiraa is not so obscure in Beirut as in the West . The . , o , circulation of 25,000 claimed by its editor and publisher , Hassan Sabra , makes , it a medium-size publication by Lebanese standards . In an interview with the Associated Press , Sabra , a 38-year-old Shiite Moslem from southern Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sources , however , claim that the magazine was first financed by Lybians . Recently Al Shiraa has shown a keen interest in the affairs of the Lebanese Shiite community , and it tends to reflect the political perspective of Syria and the Amal movement . The magazine caught the attention of Western specialists on Lebanon last March , when it published an ex ' tensive analysis of the Iranian-backed Hezbollah ( Party God ) , which is challenging Amal for leadership of the Lebanese Shiites. - Sabra insists that his information on the U.S.-Iran relationship came not from Syria , as charged by Washington and the Western press , but from representatives of Ayatollah Hussein Ali Moptazeri , Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini 's designated successor . The text of the ' celebrated article , published November 1 , supports his claim . It is mainly concerned with the power struggle in Iran between pragmatists such as Hojatolislam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani , speaker of the Iranian Parliament , and radicals associated with Montazeri , who has long been the leading advocate of backing Islamic revolutionaries abroad . Sabra does not reveal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the piece ; when he cites McFarlane 's visit to Teheran as evidence for the radicals ' contention that the Iranian regime has deviated from the revolutionary path . - According to Al Shiraa , the leak came in retaliation for the Iranian authorities ' arrest of Mehdi Hashemi , an official under Montazeri 's wing , after he became too disruptive of the government 's efforts to rally international support for its war with Iraq . In the fall Hashemi reportedly ordered the abduction of the charg ? d'affaires of Syria , Iran 's only ally in the war , and a year earlier had placed weapons in a plane carrying Iranian pilgrims to Saudi Arabia . On December 10 , Iran announced he had confessed to defying Khomeini , hoarding weapons , murder and other crimes . Hashemi , whose brother is Montazeri 's son-in-law , until recently ran the World Islamic Liberation Movement , which channels funds to Lebanese Shiite groups and other revolutionaries abroad . Montazeri has acted as a spiritual guide to the organization . So it is quite plausible that after Hashemi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Sabra in order to discredit Rafsanjani and his allies . STANLEY REED Stanley Reed is a writer who specializes on the Middle East . May in December T t 's not May in December . The ten days that shook the Chirac government are not a repetition of the great rising of students and workers that precipitated the fall of Gen. Charles de Gaulle . The difference can be put simply . " In 1968 students wanted to smash the university in order to change society ; they were looking to the workers as allies and were openly political . This time the students wanted to get on with their studies , and they insisted , particularly at the beginning , on the nonpolitical nature of their movement . It all depends on your definition of the political . The movement of French youth for the preservation of an egalitarian school system breaks with what everyone assumed to be the new pattern of French political life . After the Socialist government had proved itself to be ideologically bankrupt , the model was expected to be American , with Reagan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is over , " the left weekly Nouvel Observateur declared recently , " that of Bernard Tapie has begun " ? Tapie , a self-made tycoon , being a sort of French Lee Iacocca . The students were thus seen to be self-centered go-getters , keen on careers and incapable of collective action . They surprised Paris and the world by suddenly rising en masse to refuse an American future . The proposed legislative reform was only the thin edge of the wedge . The idea behind it was to break the French system of universities equal in principle and to start moving toward the American system . The new law would have allowed universities to become more selective in their admissions process , to raise fees , and to issue their own diplomas rather than national certificates , making some diplomas more prestigious than others . The students vetoed those three main proposals . Each high-school graduate , they insisted , must be able to enter any university . Tuition fees and , diplomas must be the same in universities all over France . The moral nature of this spontaneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blunders of clever politicians . After the students announced that - they would hold a demonstration , Rene Monory , the Minister of Higher Education , stated that the fate of the law would depend largely on their-performance . They thereupon staged , on Thursday , December 4 , the biggest youth demonstration France had ever seen . They were about half a million just in the streets of Paris  --  joyful , exuberant , triumphantly convinced that the bill was now ground forever under their-numbers . But that night the response of the government was a Non , echoed by-tear gas grenades . The next day , sensing that the sympathy of the population was with the students , Monory promised to remove the three most contested provisions from the bill . That might have been enough to convince party politicians to bargain , but at this stage the students dismisstd the very idea of compromise as if it were an indecent proposal . That night the ruthlessness of motorized police- cowboys  --  who beat Malik Ousselcine , a 22-year-old student , to death  --  put an end to any hesitation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was Prime Minister Jacques Chirac and his closest associates who were remembering 1968 . Reviving the old Gaullist methods for turning public opinion against the students , they encouraged the police to allow hooligans to loot stores and burn cars at the end of peaceful ' student demonstrations . The collusion between ? the police and the troublemakers was flagrant ; French television , for instance , showed helmeted fascist thugs crossing a police cordon with the inspector 's approval . Faced with such tactics student leaders were driven to follow the example of their predecessors and to ask labor unions to join them in the fight . Thus , on Sunday everything seemed set for a confrontation . By Monday afternoon it was all over . Squeezed between the unyielding students and President Francois Mitterrand , capable of intervening at any moment in the name of national unity , and with his own side badly split , Chirac decided to withdraw the legislation . Had he done so four days earlier he would have spared one life and scores of wounded . But confronted with a genuine movement , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this does not enhance the presidential prospects of Jacques Chirac and is bOund to increase the- strains and stresses on his coalition . Yet such political calculations are historically unimportant when set against the awakening of France 's youth this new generation which began its apprenticeship in the antiracist struggle of the past few years and wore the badge " Hands off my pal . " Admittedly , the youngsters still have some illusions : There can be no equal universities in an unequal society . France has its own elite colleges , the Grandes Ecoles , and a strong ediicational bias in favor of the upper classes . The students still have a lot to learn . But the government has just given them an accelerated , if bitter , course in political education . With the weather on the side of the students , perhaps it was spring in Decembe-r after all - DANIEL SINGER Daniel Singer is The Nation 's correspondent in Europe .                     