@@487894

In the aftermath of the assassination of Anwar el-Sadat , there has been much speculation about where the next political crisis will strike . U.S. State Department denials to the contrary , the likelihood is that the Sudan will be the place . The largest country in Africa and Egypt 's closest ally , the Sudan is seething with political discontent , and the death of Sadat can only make matters worse . Although the government blames the Sudan 's problems on Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya , their roots are to be found in the familiar Middle Eastern compost of political factionalism , ethnic and religious rivalry , economic dislocation and popular dissatisfaction with the pro-Western policies of the incumbent military regime of President Gaafar al-Nimeiry . The Sudan , described last spring by Secretary of State Alexander Haig as " an island of stability in a sea of turmoil , " is receiving one of the largest shipments of U.S. arms ever made on the African continent other than to Egypt . Most of these arms , which include sophisticated tanks , artillery , jet fighters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sudan 's western border with Chad , where a Sudanese-Egyptian arms buildup has been underway since the beginning of this year . Libya has repeatedly charged that Sudanese weapons have been shipped to guerrilla forces opposing the Libyan-backed regime of Goukouni Oueddei in Chad and that Sudanese troops have been involved in the fighting there . Many people in the Sudan believed that the buildup was in preparation for an assault against Qaddafi . Senior U.S. diplomats interviewed last spring in Khartoum , the Sudanese capital , spoke openly of the " need to teach Qaddafi a good lesson . " And since Sadat 's death , his willingness to attack Libya has been acknowledged . Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger said recently that the Carter Administration had deterred Sadat from such a move . Now the Reagan Administration shows signs that it may revive the invasion idea , and the steady stream of anti-Libya propaganda emanating from Washington seems to confirm this . The recent U.S.-Libyan aerial battle above the Gulf of Sidra could have been an attempt to create a Tonkin Gulf-style pretext for U.S. retaliation against Qaddafi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Libyan leader into halting oil shipments to the West , a move that would isolate Libya and , given the current world oil glut , cause it economic distress . In any event , there is little sympathy in the United States for Qaddafi , and it is unlikely that military action against him would generate much protest here . The problem for the United States , Egypt and the Sudan is more the danger of a regional response from Libya 's allies that could touch off a major war that the Sudan and Egypt could lose . Their strongest antagonist would be Ethiopia , and recent developments in that quarter are instructive . Ethiopia has long threatened to stir up dissident elements in the Sudan 's restive southern region because of Khartoum 's support for Eritrean nationalists fighting to establish an independent state in the former Italian colony . But in August , the Sudanese government closed the offices in Khartoum of the Eritrean and other Ethiopian nationalist movements , and there are unconfirmed reports that the guerrillas ' access to supplies across the Sudanese border has since been shut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a reconciliation with the government in Addis Ababa , leaving the Sudan free to deal with Libya . Shortly before Sadat was killed , Nimeiry ordered a roundup of " unemployed " Sudanese nationals and political exiles from Ethiopia and Eritrea . Hours before the assassination , he dissolved the country 's two regional parliaments . In the days that followed , the crackdown in Khartoum picked up speed , and there were rumors that suspected opposition leaders had been arrested . At the same time , the war of words between Nimeiry and Qaddafi heated up . Each country vowed support for guerrillas bent on toppling the other 's government . Spokesmen in Khartoum also renewed charges of Libyan air attacks on Sudanese towns along the border with Chad . A shooting war between the Sudan and Libya began to seem more likely . While there can be little doubt that Qaddafi has been stirring up trouble in the Sudan , there is increasing evidence that Washington is making him a scapegoat as part of a strategy to provoke a confrontation . But a war between Libya and the Sudan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultimately involve the United States and Russia . The Sudan and Egypt confront Libya and Soviet-aligned Ethiopia and South Yemen . Somalia , on Ethiopia 's eastern flank , is friendly to Egypt and a U.S. ally , while Syria is linked to Libya ( in 1979 , the two countries concluded an agreement to merge ) . There are U.S.-backed regimes in Oman , North Yemen and , of course , Saudi Arabia , but they are likely to enter the fray only if it is prolonged and widespread . Keenly aware of this , Reagan strategists appear to favor a carefully limited war against Qaddafi . The battlefield of choice is Chad . The staging area is western Sudan . But whether or not this scenario is carried through depends on a number of unpredictable factors , above all the stability of the Nimeiry regime . That is why emergency military aid is now being rushed to the Sudan , and why more is promised . Maj. Gen. Gaafar al-Nimeiry came to power in the Sudan in 1969 as the leader of a military coup against a corrupt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Union , Nimeiry broke with the Sudanese Communist Party after less than two years . The Carter Administration discovered Nimeiry in 1977 after the Soviet Union had provided Ethiopia , a former U.S. ally , with large amounts of military aid . By then , Nimeiry had narrowly survived a series of attempted coups , at least two of which originated among Islamic fundamentalist groups supported by Ethiopia and Libya . By no small coincidence , it was at about this time that Chevron and a consortium of other major oil companies announced the discovery of vast petroleum reserves in the southern region of the Sudan that were said to rival those of Saudi Arabia . This find , along with the Sudan 's location  --  it borders on Uganda , Kenya , Zaire , the Central African Republic , Egypt , Ethiopia and Libya  --  gave it a new importance in U.S. eyes . Nimeiry 's later support for the Camp David accords only heightened this importance , since the Sudan was the only Arab nation to side with Egypt . But with the oil years away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plagued by fuel shortages . Flashy agricultural development projects have been mismanaged , and there is constant bureaucratic chaos . These conditions have been exacerbated by an almost continuous outflow of skilled and educated Sudanese to the nearby oil-producing countries of the Persian Gulf . Adding to these problems is the deep-rooted division between the Moslem north , which has long dominated the economy and national politics , and the Christian and animist south . A seventeen-year civil war between the two regions was ended by Nimeiry early in his tenure , but the conflict still simmers . Every year , famine sweeps through the south , which the government 's neglect has consigned to a state of perpetual poverty . Earlier this year , northern politicians redrew the country 's regional boundaries so that the oil in the south would be under the north 's control . The Khartoum government also decided to locate a new Chevron refinery in the northern city of Kosti . These actions outraged many southerners who had hoped that the oil would benefit them , rather than flow toward the seat of power in Khartoum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a historical rivalry between the Ansar sect and the smaller Khatmiya sect , and the rise of the Islamic fundamentalist Moslem Brotherhood . The Ansar , under the leadership of Sadiq el-Mandi , great-grandson of the Sudanese nationalist , align themselves with Libya and Ethiopia while maintaining a long-standing antagonism toward Egypt . The Moslem Brotherhood has links with underground movements throughout the Arab world . The rise of the Ansar and the Moslem Brotherhood did not pose a threat to the Nimeiry regime until the signing of the Camp David accords . Nimeiry 's alliance with the West signified a departure from Islamic culture and a defeat for Arab unity . Though the Ansar and the Moslem Brotherhood have refrained from public protest , both have consolidated their support at home and strengthened their ties abroad . These internal developments coincided with a rash of crises in neighboring countries , which have spilled over into Sudanese politics . First , there was the defeat of Idi Amin 's forces in Uganda , which brought thousands of Ugandan refugees and modern weapons into the south . Then , in December 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the long civil war in Chad , and a Sudanese decision to back the rebel forces of Hissen Habre . This led to heightened tension with Libya . On the Sudan 's lengthy eastern border with Ethiopia and Eritrea , four simultaneous wars have generated a continuous influx of refugees , many of whom have acquired arms . And so the situation is volatile , and Nimeiry 's hold on power tenuous . Indeed , his country may become the first test of the Reagan Administration 's promise to keep friendly governments in power . ? MI THE I.B.P . MERGER Oxy Takes aVery Big Bite JAMES ROWEN While the bidding war for Conoco , the nation 's ninth largest oil company , dominated the business news this summer , another equally momentous merger went virtually unsung . The takeover of Iowa Beef Processors ( I.B.P. ) , the number-one beef packer in the United States , by the Occidental Petroleum Corporation , number twelve in the Big Oil profit parade , was a portent that food could become the petroleum of the 1990s . For Oxy 's acquisition gave Armand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chemicals as well as oil , coal , phosphates and other resources , a controlling interest in America 's favorite meat . I.B.P. , which was founded twenty-one years ago in Nebraska , quickly became the dominant company in the meat-processing industry . Its strong suit was its highly automated slaughterhouses , which revolutionized an industry that had not changed much since Upton Sinclair wrote The Jungle in 1906 . The company built its slaughterhouses in small Midwestern towns near the feed lots where cattle were fattened before being shipped to the stockyards in Chicago and other cities . By eliminating shipping costs and automating highly-paid union meat cutters out of their jobs , I.B.P . was able to compete with such aging giants as Cudahy , Hormel , Armour and Oscar Mayer , and it acquired a commanding 17 percent share of the market . Last year , its profits were $53 million , up 24 percent from 1979 , and its total sales were more than $4.5 billion , a figure that places it eighty-first among the Fortune 500 companies . While I.B.P . remains almost unknown to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names as Borden , General Mills , United Brands and Kellogg . During the 1970s , I.B.P. , with its ten high-speed abatoirs that could dispatch nearly 17,000 cattle per day , was also slaughtering its competition . The number of meat-packing companies declined by 27 percent , according to the Department of Agriculture , and within the past year , many more packers closed their doors . Feeling the heat , conglomerates that had acquired smaller packing companies during the go-go years of the late 1960s are now rushing to shed them . LTV Corporation ( formerly Ling-Temco-Vought ) has disposed of Wilson &; Company ; Esmark ( formerly Swift &; Company ) recently spun off its meat-packing operation as                     