@@494141

( McGraw-Hill , 873 pp. , $22.95 ) Hormephobia , the fear of surprise , became the contagious dread of the American military after December 7 , 1941 . Forty years later , haunting visions of a " bolt from the blue , " unexpected blips on a radar screen , remain etched into our national consciousness . Thus , continuing interest in Pearl Harbor reflects more than morbid fascination , for the Japanese attack was a turning point in American history . Its immediate effects were devastating : 18 ships destroyed , 188 planes lost , 2,403 Americans killed and over 1,000 wounded . It proved , as Franklin Roosevelt told the public on December 9 , " that we can not measure our safety in terms of miles on any map any more . " The Pearl Harbor tragedy may not have ended America 's periodic flirtation with excessive moralism in foreign affairs , but by their attack the Japanese turned " isolationism , " like " appeasement , " into a word of perpetual discomfort . Gordon W. Prange , the late University of Maryland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Pacific War . From his five-year stint as a military historian with MacArthur 's occupation forces until his death in May 1980 , Prange devoted his life to exploring the Pearl Harbor mystery , interviewing hundreds of soldiers and eventually befriending many of the Japanese officers involved in planning the attack . But Prange never published his 3,500 page multivolume opus . Two of his former students have now edited Prange 's scholarship into a single massive book . The result is the most complete and readable account of the Pearl Harbor tragedy available . By the very nature of his task , the historian is like the mystery fan who reads the last chapter first . As C. V. Wedgewood once noted , " History is lived forwards but it is written in retrospect . We know the end before we consider the beginning and we can never wholly recapture what it was to know the beginning only . " There are two specific perils of hindsight which must beavoided in any analysis of Pearl Harbor . First , in the murky world of military intelligence , hindsight allows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misleading " noise " with an ease that is utterly foreign to genuine intelligence agencies . Second , knowing what decisions were eventually made can distort our view of the agony of choice faced by statesmen deciding to go to war . Prange avoids the first pitfall with skill . When on September 6 , 1941 , a Boston Globe reporter wrote , " A Japanese attack on Hawaii is regarded as the most unlikely thing in the world , with one chance in a million of being successful , " the estimate was not so wild an exaggeration . This book provides the best analysis available in English of the numerous difficulties which Admiral Yamamoto surmounted before , first , having the dangerous plan approved by the Navy General Staff in early November 1941 , and , second , achieving deadly surprise on the dawn of December 7 in Hawaii . On the tactical side , the Japanese Navy simply had no aerial torpedoes which , if dropped from airplanes into the shallow waters of Pearl Harbor , would not harmlessly sink into the mud below . " Virtually impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " unless a technical miracle can be achieved in torpedo bombing , this type of attack would be altogether impractical . " But , through a long process of creating a new finned torpedo and practicing low altitude bombing maneuvers , Yamamoto 's navy found its " technical miracle . " The tactical problems , however , were simple compared to the larger operational difficulties : the Navy General Staff objected to " Operation Hawaii " because genuine surprise would be impossible to ensure , refueling techniques for the necessary ships were not perfected , the clear weather required for the air attack was a huge imponderable , and , in any case , Yamamoto 's aircraft carriers were needed for the projected campaign against the British , Dutch , and possibly the Americans in Southeast Asia . But Yamamoto argued that all war consists of risk and , although personally opposed to a decision to go to war , he believed that Japan would be " favored by God 's blessing " only if officers were " firmly determined to devote themselves to their task even at the sacrifice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commander of the combined fleet , and his entire staff threatened to resign immediately , Admiral Nagano , the navy Chief of Staff , reluctantly gave his approval to the Pearl Harbor plan . Prange 's focus on the Japanese Navy is enlightening , but does produce some flaws in his analysis . War planning is sometimes confused with decision-making , and Prange consistently underestimates the importance of the Liaison Conference , the joint meetings of Cabinet officials and military commanders , in which the final decision to go to war with the United States was made . This oversight is crucial for it allows Prange to ignore the significance of two enduring problems in military affairs . First , the history of the Pearl Harbor plan illuminates the persistent tension between the short-range operational thinking of military officers , whose business is to win wars , and the longer-range strategic thinking of governments , whose job is to decide whether the war should be waged , This tension is especially pronounced , in this case , with respect to Japanese perceptions of American morale and willingness to accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incorrectly believed that , after the Pearl Harbor attack , " the morale of the U.S. Navy and her people " would " sink to the extent that it could not be recovered , " and that the American government would sue for a compromise peace . Others , in the Cabinet and even the military , believed the opposite : if Japan confined her attack to the southern regions , even the Philippines , the Americans might remain open to possible negotiations , but the U.S. would " go insanely mad " ( as one officer put it ) at a surprise attack , thereby eliminating Japan 's only long-range hope . Even today scholars are not certain which members of the Liaison Conference knew about the Pearl Harbor attack ; " Operation Hawaii " was never even mentioned during the meetings . What is clear in the documents is that the civilian and military leaders in Tokyo together never fully discussed the political implications of the Pearl Harbor attack . A strategic tension existed which was never acknowledged , much less resolved , in Tokyo . Second , Prange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story : that the United States had cracked the Japanese diplomatic code and was reading all the Foreign Ministry 's telegrams was of great help to us , but may have also misled our leaders . In the fog of diplomacy , even accurate intelligence about what the enemy says may not reflect what the enemy thinks or is capable of negotiating . In the summer of 1941 , the United States froze Japanese assets and cut off Tokyo 's oil supply in response to the Japanese move into southern Indochina . Often through out the Pacific crisis that summer , Washington 's diplomatic position stiffened partly because we " heard " the belligerent messages Tokyo sent to her embassies . A more flexible American negotiating position may not have averted the war , but the fact that we will never know what would have happened if , for example , President Roosevelt had met with Premier Konoye , as the Japanese proposed , is an ambiguous testimony to the efficacy of our Magic codebreakers . Prange 's analysis does , however , underline how eminently sensible Washington was to believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not take place at Pearl Harbor . It made more " sense " for the Japanese to push south , attacking Thailand , the British and Dutch possessions , and , perhaps , the Philippines , than to attack Hawaii . The degree to which American officials were fixated on this idea is best seen by Secretary Knox 's reaction to the urgent dispatch saying Oahu was under attack . " My God , " he blurted out , " this ca n't be true , this must mean the Philippines . " To which Admiral Stark simply replied , " No sir ; this is Pearl . " Prange did not seek scapegoats for the complex and tragic failure of American policy in December 1947 . There were many " contributions " to the disaster and no single source of " responsibility . " He has a special vehemence for the revisionist 's thesis that Roosevelt had advance warning of the Pearl Harbor attack and sacrificed the fleet and its men to get a reluctant America involved in World War II . After Pearl Harbor such theories were abundant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not only that Roosevelt knew about the attack , but that the pilots flying the deadly Zeros were British and American with a few Japanese aboard solely to take photographs . T HE POPULARITY of the revisionist thesis among U.S. isolationists is readily understood . The surprise attack was difficult to explain within the world view of those who believed that German and Japanese expansion posed no threat to American security . For isolationists , an intellectual consistency , undisturbed by the events of December 1941 , demanded that the blame be placed on their bite noire , Roosevelt . The continued popularity of the " FDR knew " myth is more difficult to explain . In part , one can point to some famous , but unfortunately misleading evidence : Roosevelt 's reported comment , " This means war " upon receiving the decoded , but incomplete , Japanese message on the night of December 6 , meant he believed war was soon to break out somewhere in the Pacific , not that he knew Pearl Harbor would be the target . Secretary Stimson 's later admission that " it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones to do this fire the first shot so that there should remain no doubt in anyone 's mind as to who were the aggressors , " correctly suggests only that the United States did not want to attack Japanese forces first , not that anyone in Washington desired the Pearl Harbor tragedy . p ART OF THE myth 's popularity is 1 due to the same causes as most conspiracy theories : a preference for the simple answer over the exceedingly complex reality . It is always easier for many people to see evil intentions than to believe in massive incompetence or a series of complicated mistakes . Perhaps some will think the psychologist 's answer is relevant . People more readily believe in other 's evil intentions , being able to see their own ; but being oblivious to their own stupidity , they ca n't see it in others . I would emphasize a more political form of a psychological argument . In Prange 's concluding chapter , " The Verdict of History , " he lays some of the blame for the surprise on Admiral Husband E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Army commanders on Oahu . Kimmel 's most grievous fault was his failure to conduct long-range air reconnaissance around Oahu . Although the Japanese forces were prepared , if discovered , to fight their way through to Pearl Harbor , American losses would have been reduced with even a short period of warning . A fixation on possible sabotage by local Japanese residents was General Short 's tragic flaw : believing that sabotage , not direct attack , was the most probable threat to Hawaii , Short had anti-aircraft ammunition stored away from the guns , for " safe keeping . " The result was silence from the anti-aircraft batteries when the Japanese attacked . Kimmel , who was slightly grazed by a spent bullet during the attack , devoted much of the rest of his life to justifying himself in front of the American public , and in a touching portrait Prange explains why this was so : HThe human psyche has its own self-sealing properties . For Kimmel to acknowledge even to himself that he shared to the slightest measure in the guilt of Pearl Harbor would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory . He experienced his moment of truth on December 7 , 1941 , when he held a spent bullet in his fingers and murmured , ' It would have been merciful had it killed me . ' Then the fire doors slammed shut . The fault must lie elsewhere . For the American people , a brief moment of truth occurred in the shock of December 7 , 1941 . But the enormous success we had in waging the war When the history of modern Iran is written , the decade 1970-1980 will doubtless be recorded as the American neocolonial period . The United States had been involved with the Shah throughout his reign , especially through the CIA 's role in bringing him back to the throne in 1953 ; but it was the decision of the Nixon Administration to make the Shah the principal protector of American strategic interests in the Persian Gulf that gave the United States an against the Axis helped us forget our portion of responsibility for causing it . Harry Truman put it best : " The country as a whole is basically responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for defense until it was too late to repair the consequences of their failure to do so . " This verdict is difficult to accept and its lessons should be applied with caution ; it is , nonetheless , the essential truth .                     