@@480186

IT SHOULD BE OBVIOUS that the United States has done nothing to solve its energy problems since 1973 . In fact , the passage of the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act ( in 1973 ) , the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act ( in 1974 ) , the Energy Policy and Conservation Act ( in 1975 ) , the Energy Conservation and Production Act ( in 1976 ) , the Emergency Natural Gas Act in 1977 ) , the National Energy Conservation Act ( in 1978 ) , the Powerplant and Industrial Fuel Use Act of 1978 , the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 , the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 , and the Energy Tax Act of 1978 made the situation worse . The prospects for improvement remain bleak in spite of the deluge of legislation pending in Congress . At least this is the grim conclusion that can be drawn from three studies on the energy problem published in 1979. * The three hooks argue . not surprisingly , that the United States should consume less ( conserve ) and produce more fuels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest . however , that current laws and regulations preclude a solution . Since none of the legislation pending in Congress addresses the problems built in by present regulations , the reader of the latest spate of energy tracts comes away with the hope that somehow the energy requirements of the nation can be met * The studies are : Energy Future , done under the auspices of the Harvard Business School by Robert Stobaugh and Daniel Yergin ( published by Random House , 288 pages , $12.95 ) ; Energy in America 's Future , done at Resources for the Future under the direction of Sam Schurr ( published by Johns Hopkins University Press , 576 pages , $30 ; paper , $10.95 ) ; and Energy : The Next Twenty Years , undertaken by nineteen academics , chaired by Hans Landberg , and sponsored by the Ford Foundation ( published by Ballinger , 656 pages , $25 ; paper , $9.95 ) . by the recycled by-product of the Federal Register . Two of the books , Energy : The Next Twenty Years ( the Ford study ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overhaul of existing U.S. laws and regulations to promote production and reduce consumption . Stobaugh and Yergin in Energy Future argue that the existing legislative , regulatory , and political situation makes adoption of the proposed reforms hopeless . Therefore they urge one more massive federal program to adjust American energy-use patterns ? an adjustment that is currently discouraged not by greed or technology , but by legally mandated inefficiencies . All agree , however , that the impediments to a rational solution of the energy problems are , first , the price controls on all forms of energy that discourage conservation ; second , the pernicious environmental regulations ; third , the concealed costs of relying on foreign oil ; fourth , the difficult and emotional questions that attend the use of nuclear energy ; and fifth , the federal government 's ineffectual role in supporting new elixirs like synthetic fuels . T HE UNITED STATES has done little to encourage conservation in spite of repeated legislative attempts , but it is doubtful that any effort will succeed until the United States adopts marginal , or incremental , cost pricing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means charging the consumer the cost of producing the last unit of output for all units of consumption . ) Present pricing regulations for oil , gas , and electricity do not do this . Instead , the customer of , for example , an electric utility pays an average , or rolled-in , price . This means that during the afternoon on a hot summer day , the consumer of electricity in New York City is probably paying a price 50-75 percent below the marginal cost , while on a cool autumn afternoon the price is probably 50 percent too high . Excessive consumption is encouraged , and utilities are encouraged to add expensive sources of supply to their systems . The adoption of marginal cost pricing is a problem of herculean proportions ? possibly on the magnitude of a country 's deciding to switch from driving on the left to driving on the right . The transition must be made abruptly and completely , and imposes substantial burdens on everyone . The change must apply to : all fuels ? otherwise consumers will rush to switch to those fuels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prevent unjustified moves to new regions ; and all users , to achieve the maximum reduction in consumption . The change would also create a serious financial burden for consumers while giving energy suppliers ( utilities , producers , et cetera ) dreaded windfall profits . The authors of the Ford study acknowledge the problem and suggest , " If we consider that massive income transfer unfair and that utilities should be limited to their traditional rate of return on investments as a measure of profit , then some method must be found to dispose of the newly acquired excess revenue . " They suggest a refund scheme like President Carter 's windfall-profits tax . The Schurr study would leave the money with the utilities and producers : If windfalls are allowed to rest where they fall , some people seem to be enriched at the expense of others . On the other hand , when efforts are made to remove windfalls ( through taxation or price controls , for example ) , wasteful distortions are imposed on the economy . Unfortunately , it has been the size Philip K. Verleger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yale School of Organization and Management . of the potential windfalls that has made resolution of the energy problem so difficult . Stobaugh and Yergin note that these difficulties will probably continue . They recommend federal subsidies , in the form of tax credits and loan guarantees , to offset the failure to price energy fairly . Instead of the present 10 percent credit authorized in the Energy Tax Act of 1978 , they recommend tax credits of 40 percent for industry and 50 percent for residences . Tax credits , however , are expensive to the taxpayer . The Senate and House conferees estimated that the 10 percent tax credits in the Energy Tax Act of 1978 would cost the Treasury $1 billion a year until 1985 . Stobaugh and Yergin , nevertheless , would impose a much greater levy , probably in excess of $10 billion per year , because 40-50 percent tax credits would make conservation expenditures free for many wealthy homeowners and corporations . Further , the federal expenditures would be beyond the President 's control , thus adding difficulty to the already lopsided budget . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distortions that can not be overcome by tax credits , because present prices encourage consumers , both individuals and businesses , to choose fuels as they would shoes ? that is , at best price ? rather than to please energy theorists , and pay more than necessary . For instance , consumers with access to natural-gas pipelines in the Northeast have recently rushed to obtain connections in order to avoid paying high oil prices . Such connections became possible after Congress passed the National Gas Policy Act of 1978 , which increased the supply of natural gas in the Northeast while guaranteeing that residential consumers would have to pay only a low , average price for natural gas and not the higher marginal . cost . Thus , the individual homeowner who has successfully plugged into a low-cost gas pipeline can gluttonously consume natural gas and put off insulation and the like because , given below-cost gas , such expenditures do not make sense even with 50 percent tax credits . On the other hand , the consumer using oil and paying the true marginal cost for heat will hasten @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every tax credit and incentive offered . If marginal cost pricing were practiced , both homeowners would insulate , both would be cold , and the United States would import less oil . Even if the United States does manage to hurdle the legislative harriers and move to marginal cost pricing , we will not cut consumption to the level of the Europeans and the Japanese , who use 30-40 percent less energy per capita ( after adjustment for differences in income ) , despite the dreams of proponents of the conservation ethic , such as Stobaugh and Yergin . The reason is simple . The United States is different geographically and sociologically from Europe . Distances between places in the U.S. are greater . the population is more dispersed , and there are more houses . Given these differences , the United States will always be a more energy-intensive society . T HE SECOND obstacle to rational resolution of the U.S. energy problem is the Clean Air Act of 1970 and its more recent amendments . This act , according to the Ford authors , makes it difficult to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the present form of U.S. legislation is far more restrictive than is necessary to achieve the nation 's environmental goals . They point out that congressional deadlines for bringing " nonattainment regions " into compliance with the law , stringent requirements for new sources of pollution in nonattainment regions , stringent new-source performance standards , which can not be met using low-sulphur coal ( an amendment to the law by Ohio and Kentucky lawmakers to force midwestern utilities to use midwestern rather than Rocky Mountain coal ) , and the " prevention of significant deterioration " in areas already complying with the law make it almost impossible to build a coal-burning plant anywhere in the country . A utility reckless enough to try to burn coal must literally gamble on an untried or unproved pollution-abatement technology in the hope that it will satisfy , or can be modified to satisfy , the chimney sweeps employed by the Environmental Protection Agency . An alternative endorsed by the Ford authors ( as well as by Schurr ) is to let the market work in place of regulation . While this may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notes , " Air pollution control is probably the only area of public policy that uses brute force regulation to try and solve a resource allocation problem of such magnitude and complexity . " The arguments advanced by the Ford authors are that present regulations : have not worked well ; permit existing sources to pollute at excessive rates while newer , potentially cleaner facilities can not be constructed ; and discourage research and development for better control technology , especially for existing sources . The Ford authors do endorse the New Sources Performance standards : In light of the uncertainties and complexities in determining the ultimate impact of pollution , emissions should be reduced whenever and however it is relatively cheap and easy to do so , such as in the design and construction of new facilities . They argue , however , that : Market devices allow the process of government to concentrate on " external " matters that only they can handle ? such as determining where emissions come from , where they go , what harm they do , and how much it is worth to society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the opportunity to evaluate and respond to the " internal " technological and economic details that each can best deal with individually . Until such changes are made , increases in the use of coal will be slow . 0 IL IMPORTS , even at today 's outrageous prices , do not fully cover their true cost , because with the consumption of imported oil comes the danger that exporting countries can cut off supplies . In addition , such is the market power of the United States and the industrial world that any increases in the demand for oil can cause an increase in the world price . As Stobaugh and Yergin note : Even world market prices in the U.S. would still be much too low to reflect the real risks caused by oil imports . These risks include such things as higher oil prices , slower economic growth , and international political tension . Many economists endorse a tax on oil use to offset these effects . Stobaugh and Yergin suggest that for the United States , the fee would need to be quite large , perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Resources for the Future study offers a rebuttal to this thesis : The full cost of additional imports - taking into account effects of oil prices on economic and political stability-is probably somewhat higher than the price that is charged . While uncertainties exist , the evidence points to distortions that are not large . Whichever view one accepts , one must agree that the present U.S. fee on imported oil of only 21 cents per barrel is laughably small . U.S. price controls on domestic crude oil together with a bizarre and bureaucratic entitlements program actually cause the average price of imported crude oil to be below the world price , and actually subsidize the consumption of oil , President Carter 's program to decontrol domestic crude prices will at least end this subsidy by October , 1981 ( if the program survives the intervening months in Congress ) . But the clear message emerging from all three books is that the subsidy should have been terminated in 1977 . T HE FUTURE PROSPECTS of nuclear energy in the United States were altered in 1979 by the incident at Three Mile @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus it would be unfair to expect any of the studies to offer recommendations that would be accept . able in the changed atmosphere that followed the incident . However , the Ford and the Resources for the Future books make a number of suggestions that appear to have been prepared after the Three Mile Island incident and are certainly germane to the current debate . In summary , the authors suggest : continued research on the breeder reactor because of its potential ; adoption of a recoverable nuclear waste program ; remote siting of all nuclear power plants ; and stiffening of penalties for violating nuclear safety regulations . The Ford and Resources for the Future studies agree that the United States should continue research into advanced nuclear reactors . There is , however , disagreement on the approach to be taken . The Ford authors believe that the United States does not now and will not need to , demonstrate a commercial-scale breeder reactor before the year 2000 . They recommend a research program into alternative breeder reactors ( currently the U.S. nuclear establishment has focused its attention exclusively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authors at Resources for the Future , on the other hand , suggest , but do not recommend , a program to develop the LMFBR to determine early the problems associated with it , in case the breeder is ever needed . Thus , the United States could abandon the breeder option well before it was forced to accept it , regardless of the risk . There is a strong difference in these views . One group says go quickly or do n't go at all . The other says hold back since it is not needed yet . Neither study gives the reader enough information to make an informed choice . The authors of both books also suggest that nuclear plants should be located well away from populated areas , and Schurr even suggests shutting down some plants too close to populated areas i with compensation to the utilities involved ) . There is also agreement that nuclear wastes pose a problem that should be resolved by federal development of recoverable storage paid for by the utilities . From my point of view , these are the least satisfactory parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the views of Stobaugh and Yergin , who suggest that " the nuclear option offers no solution to America 's growing dependence for the rest of the century , " I am unconvinced by the suggestions in the Schurr and Ford studies as well . This dissatisfaction is a result of the publication of the Kemeny report on the Three Mile Island incident , which was not available to the authors of any of the books when they went to press . The findings of the Kemeny report indicate that there were severe deficiencies in management at both the utility company that owned Three Mile Island and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission . As a result , I wonder whether electric utilities have the competence to run nuclear reactors or the NRC the capacity to oversee nuclear reactor operation . The deafening silence from the Administration on these issues at this critical time complicates the problem and may , in the future , result in further nuclear retrenchment and increased dependence on imported oil . T HE ONLY MAJOR initiative proposed by President Carter in 1979 to increase U.S. energy supplies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funding of $88 billion to increase domestic production of oil and gas from coal , shale oil , and other sources . These increased supplies would , according to the White House Fact Sheet issued after Carter 's July 15 speech , reduce U.S. 1990 oil imports by 2.5 million barrels a day . According to the President 's proposal , " The corporation will be authorized to invest in or develop directly , production capacity from coal liquids , coal gases , peat , biomass , shale oil , and unconventional natural gas . " The corporation is specifically prohibited from engaging in research and development activities . Since the President submitted his proposal , Congress has drastically reduced the size of the corporation . This may be fortunate , as the authors of all three studies argue that such programs are precisely what government should avoid . The Ford study makes this point most clearly : We believe that the commitment to government-sponsored demonstration or deployment projects should be the exception , not the rule . The rule should be to price energy properly , to encourage environmentally sound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to expect the private sector to read the signals and take the risks . Exceptions to this rule should be selected and managed with great care . Economists oppose federal intervention in the development of synthetic fuels because the government chooses technologies in the haphazard way it allots pork-barrel projects and because the President 's plan , not surprisingly , eliminates any incentives to control costs . Those who make U.S. energy policy have not and are not accepting the advice of specialists in grappling with what is a political as well as an energy crisis . Marginal cost pricing has been soundly defeated . Fees are not being imposed on imports of oil . The strategic petroleum reserve languishes . Environmental policy imposes rigid standards , deadlines , and specific technological requirements . Nuclear policy is sinking deeper into a morass , and President Carter proposes to spend $88 billion on a synthetic-fuels program of dubious merit . Hence 1 find little reason to be optimistic about energy prospects in the 1980s . Stobaugh and Yergin suggest that this mess can be overcome only if we increase the bureaucratic dole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's attempt to fight the wars in Vietnam and Harlem without a tax increase can be pardoned for expressing skepticism toward such an approach . The authors of the Ford Foundation study , Energy : The Next Twenty Years , and the Schurr study , Energy in America 's Future , argue that the United States will founder until it addresses the fundamental problems . The evidence from the past six years makes theirs a compelling argument . 