@@336147

Given the task , a legion of angels would have helped . The shopping list was gargantuan : for San Antonio , 10,000 volunteer ushers ; for Columbia , S.C. , ten miles of crowd-control rope ; for Miami , a call-up of 2,400 National Guardsmen ; for Phoenix , 150,000 silver-hued crucifixes for distribution before and during Mass ; for New Orleans , 1,500 potted mums for the altar and 1,700 portable toilets carted in from all over the South . Scores of committees have been working for two years and more planning the Pope 's nine-city tour , and still not everything could be anticipated . Sounding bemused , Monsignor Roger Morin , chief planner for John Paul 's 35-hour stop in New Orleans , sighed , " It 's like having a dozen national conventions back to back on the same day . " <P> The worries range from natural calamities to man-made disasters . Fretting over the possibility of bad weather in Miami , organizers scheduled the Pope 's outdoor Mass there during the morning , when showers are least likely . City officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holy Father 's being trapped in his Popemobile in the city 's snail-like traffic , ordered up a helicopter . " Even God ca n't negotiate the freeways , " acknowledged Robert Spann , coordinator of the papal visit for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops . In San Antonio , heat is a big concern ; after planners of the outdoor Mass allotted only 6 sq . ft. of standing room for each of 500,000 expected worshipers , the Metropolitan Health director , Dr. Katharine Rathbun , quit . " It 's too dangerous , " she warned , " and for the love of God , do n't bring your children . " Church officials insisted there was no cause for alarm ; but just in case , a 600-bed field hospital has been arranged . <P> Comparatively speaking , there were fewer fears about protesters . " We are aware that America is a very open and outspoken society , " says Vatican Spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls calmly . John Paul 's personal party of 15 includes only four security men . But an undisclosed number of U.S. Secret @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ along with , naturally , the police forces in each city . The Pope is sure to be confronted by demonstrators angry about papal positions . Indeed , some started early . Last week Eleanor Smeal , ex-president of NOW , was among those arrested protesting the status of women in the church at the Vatican embassy in Washington . The gay Catholic group Dignity plans a vigil in Detroit to pray for the Pope 's enlightenment on lesbian and gay rights issues . In Los Angeles , feminist , homosexual and atheist groups have formed an ad hoc alliance to stage a vigil outside the parish house of St. Vibiana 's Cathedral , where the Pope will be staying , in hopes that their chanting will keep him awake all night .                     