@@485878

wE reprint below the report of William C. Bullitt on his special , mission to Russia during the last week of February , 1919 ; also the reports of Captain W. W. Pettit , his assistant , and of Lincoln Steffens who accompanied them . These reports were first made public in Mr. Bullitt 's statement before the Senate COmmittee on Foreign Relations , September 12 , 1919 . Typographical errors and inconsistencies are due to our strict following of the Gov- ' ernment Printing Office typography : I. Report of William C. Bullitt ECONOMIC SITUATION Russia today is in a condition of acute economic distress . The blockade by land and sea is the cause of this distress and lack of the essentials of transportation is its gravest symptom . Only one-fourth of the locomotives which ran on Russian lines before the war are now available for use . Furthermore , Soviet Russia is cut off- entirely from all supplies of coal and gasoline . In consequence , transportation by all steam and electric vehicles is greatly hampered ; and transportation by automobile and by the fleet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As a result of these hindrances to transportation it is possible to bring from the grain centers to Moscow only twenty-five carloads of food a day , instead of the one hundred carloads which are essential , and to Petrograd only fifteen carloads , instead of the essential fifty . In consequence , every man , woman , and child in Moscow and Petrograd is suffering from slow starvation . Mortality is particularly high among new-born children whose mothers can not suckle them , among newly-delivered mothers , and among the aged . The entire population , in addition , is exceptionally susceptible to disease ; and a slight illness is apt to result fatally because of the total lack of medicines . Typhoid , typhus , and smallpox are epidemic in both Petrograd and Moscow . Industry , except the production of munitions of war , is largely at a standstill . Nearly all means of transport which are not employed in carrying food are used to supply the army , and there is scarcely any surplus transport to carry materials essential to normal industry . Furthermore , the army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nation . In addition , Soviet Russia is cut off from most of its sources of iron and of cotton . Only the flax , hemp , wood , and lumber industries have an adequate supply of raw material . On the other hand , such essentials of economic life as are available are being utilized to the utmost by the Soviet Government . Such trains as there are , run on time . The distribution of food is well controlled . Many industrial experts of the old regime are again managing their plants and , sabotage by such managers has ceased . Loafing by the workmen during work hours has been overcome . SOCIAL CONDITIONS The destructive phase of the revolution is over and all the to energy of the Goveinment is turned to constructive work . The terror has ceased . All power of judgment has been taken away from the extraordinary commission for suppression of the counter-revolution , which now ' merely accuses suspeCted counter-revolutionaries , whc ; are tried by the regular , established , legal tribunals . Executions are extremely rare . Good order has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ceased . There are few robberies . Prostitution has disappeared . from - sight . Family life has been unchanged by the revolution , the canard in regard to " nationalization of women " notwithstanding . The theatres , opera , and ballet are performing as in peace . Thousands of new schools have been opened in all parts of Russia , and the Soviet Government seems to have done more for the education of the Russian people in a year and a half than czardom did in fifty years . POLITICAL SITUATION The Soviet form of government is firmly established . Perhaps the most striking fact in Russia today is the general support which is given the government by the people in spite of their starvation . Indeed , the people lay the blame for their distress wholly on the blockade and on the governments which maintain it . The Soviet form of gover'nnient seems to have " become to the Russian people the symbol Of their revolution . Unquestionably it is a form of government which lends itself to gross abuse and tyranny , but it meets the demand of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great a hold on the imaginatiOn of the common people that ' the women are ready to starve and the young men to die for it . The position of the communist party ( formerly Bolsheviki ) is also very strong . Blockade and intervention have caused the chief opposition parties , the right social revolutionaries and the menshiviki , to give temporary supp-ort to the communists . These opposition parties have both made formal statements against the blockade , intervention , and the support of Antisoviet governments by the allied and associated governments . Their leaders , Volsky and Martov , are most vigorous in their demands for the immediate raising of the blockade and peace . Indeed , the only ponderable opposition to the communists today comes from more radical parties  --  the left social revolutionaries and the anarchists . These parties , in published statements , call the communists , and particularly Lenin and Tchitcherin , " the paid bourgeois gendarmes of the Entente . " They attack the communists because the communists have encouraged scientists , engineers , and industrial experts of the bourgeois class to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They rage against the employment of bourgeois officers in the army and against the efforts of the communists to obtain peace . They demand the immediate massacre of all the bourgeoisie and an immediate declaration of war on all non-revolutionary governments . They argue that the Entente Governments should be forced to intervene more deeply in Russia , asserting that such action would surely provoke the proletariat of all European countries to immediate revolution . Within the communist party itself there is a distinct division of opinion in regard to foreign policy , but this disagreement has not developed personal hostility or open breach in the ranks of the party . Trotski , the generals , and many theorists believe the red army should go forward everywhere until more vigorous intervention by the Entente is provoked , which they , too , count upon to bring revolution in France and England . Their attitude is not a little colored by pride in the spirited young army . Lenin , Tchitcherin , and the bulk of the communist party , on the other hand , insist that the essential problem at present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the proletariat of Europe , in general , from starvation , and assert that it will benefit the revolution but little to conquer all Europe if the Government of the United States replies by starving all Europe . They advocate , therefore , the conciliation of the United States even at the cost of compromising with many of the principles they hold most dear . And Lenin 's prestige in Russia at present is so overwhelming that the Trotski group is forced reluctantly to follow him . Lenin , indeed , as a practical matter , stands well to the right in the existing political life of Russia . He recognizes the undesirability , from the Socialist viewpoint , of the compromises he feels compelled to make ; but he is ready to make the compromises . Among the more notable concessions he has already made are : The abandonment of his plan to nationalize the land and the adoption of the policy of dividing it among the peasants , the establishment of savings banks paying 3 per cent . interest , the decision to pay all foreign debts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove to be necessary to obtain credit abroad . In a word , Lenin feels compelled to retreat from his theoretical position all along the line . He is ready to meet the western Governments half way . PEACE PROPOSALS Lenin seized upon the opportunity presented by my trip of investigation to make a definite statement of the position of the Soviet Government . He was opposed by Trotski and the generals , but without much difficulty got the support of the majority of the executive council , and the statement of the position of the soviet government which was handed to me was finally adopted unanimously . My discussion of this proposal with the leaders of the Soviet Government was so detailed that I feel sure of my ground in saying that it does not represent the minimum terms of the soviet government , and that I can point out in detail wherein it may be modified without making it unacceptable to the soviet government . For example , the clause under article 5 ? " and to their own nationals who have been or may be prosecuted for giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vital importance . And the clause under article 4 , in regard to admission of citizens of the soviet republics of Russia into the allied and associated countries , may certainly be changed in such a way as to reserve all necessary rights to control such immigration to the allied andassociated countries , and to confine it to persons who come on legitimate and necessary business , and to exclude definitely all possibility of an influx of propagandists . CONCLUSIONS The following conclusions are respectfully submitted : 1 . No government save a socialist government can be set up in Russia today except by foreign bayonets , and any governments so set up will fall the moment such support is withdrawn . The Lenin wing of the communist party is today as moderate as any socialist government which can control Russia . 2 . No real peace can be established in Europe or the world until peace is made with , the revolution . This proposal of the Soviet ' Government presents an opportunity to make peace with the revolution on a just and reasonable basis  --  perhaps a unique opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin to be delivered regularly to soviet Russia , a more powerful hold over the Russian people will be established than that given by the blockade itself ? the hold given by fear that this delivery of supplies may be stopped . Furthermore , the parties which oppose the communists in principle-but are supporting them at present will be able to begin to fight against them . 4 . It is , therefore , respectfully recommended that a proposal following the general lines of the suggestion of the Soviet Government should be made at the earliest possible moment , such changes being made , particularly in article 4 and article 5 , as will make the proposal acceptable to conservative opinion in the allied and associated countries . Very respectfully submitted , WILLIAM C. BULLITT APPENDIX TRANSPORT Locomotives. ? Before the war Russia had 22,000 locomotives . Destruction by war and ordinary wear and tear have reduced the number of locomotives in good order to 5,500 . Russia is entirely cut off from supplies of spare parts and materials for repair , facilities for the manufacture of which do not exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the greatest difficulty to keep in running order the few locomotives at its disposal . Coal. ? aSoviet Russia is entirely cut off from supplies of coal . Kolchak holds the Perm mining district , although Soviet troops are now on the edge of it . Denikin still holds the larger part of the Dbnetz coal district and has destroyed the mines in the portion of the district which he has evacuated . As a result of this , locomotives , electrical power plants , etc. , must be fed with wood , which is enormously expensive and laborious and comparatively ineffectual . Gasoline. ? There is a total lack of gasoline , due to the British occupation of Baku . The few automobiles in the cities which are kept running for vital Government business are fed with substitute mixtures , which causes them to break down with great frequency and to miss continually . Almost the entire fleet on the great inland waterway system of Russia was propelled by gasoline . As a result the Volga and the canals , which are so vital a part of Russia 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hungry in Moscow and Petrograd , including the people 's commissaries themselves . The daily ration of Lenin and the other commissaries is the same as that of a soldier in the army or of a workman at hard labor . In the hotel which is reserved for Government officials the menu is the following : Breakfast ? A quarter to half a pound of black bread , which must last all day , and tea without sugar . Dinner ? A good soup , a small piece of fish , for which occasionally a diminutive piece of meat is substituted , a vegetable , either a potato or a bit of cabbage , more tea without sugar . Supper ? What remains of the morning ration of bread and more tea without sugar . Occasionally sugar , butter , and chickens slip through from the Ukraine and are sold secretly at atrocious prices  --  butter , for example , at 140 roubles a pound . Whenever the Government is able to get its hands on any such " luxuries " it turns them over to the schools , where an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every day . The food situation has been slightly improved by the rejoining of Ukraine to Great Russia , for food is relatively plentiful in the south ; but no great improvement in the situation is possible because of the lack of transport . MANAGEMENT Such supplies as are available in Soviet Russia are being utilized with considerable skill . For example , in spite of the necessity of firing with wood , the Moscow-Petrograd express keeps up to its schedule , and on both occasions when I made the trip it took but thirteen hours , compared to the twelve hours of prewar days . The food control works well , so that there is no abundance alongside of famine . Powerful and weak alike endure about the same degree of starvation . The Soviet government has made great efforts to persuade industrial managers and technical experts of the old regime to enter its service . Many very prominent men have done so . And the Soviet Government pays them as high as $45,000 a year for their services , although Lenin gets but $1,800 a year . This very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must adhere to the scale of wages established by the government , but if the government considers it necessary to have the assistance of any anticommunist , it is permitted to pay him as much as he demands . All meetings of workmen during work hours have been prohibited , with the result that the loafing which was so fatal during the Kerensky regime has been overcome and discipline has been restored in the factories as in the army . SOCIAL CONDITIONS Terror. ? The red terror is over . During the period of its power the extraordinary commission for the suppression of the counter revolution , which was the instrument of the terror , executed , about 1,500 persons in Petrograd , 500 in Moscow , and 3,000 in the remainder of the country-5,000 in all Russia . These figures agree with those which were brought back from Russia by Major Wardwell , and inasmuch as I have checked them from Soviet , anti-Soviet , and neutral sources , I believe them to be approximately correct . It is worthy of note in this connection that in the white terror @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ General Mannerheim executed without trial 12,000 working men and women . Order. ? One feels as safe in the streets of Petrograd and Moscow as in the streets of Paris or New York . On the other hand , the streets of these cities are dismal , because of the closing of retail shops whose functions are now concentrated in a few large nationalized " department stores . " Petrograd , furthermore , has been deserted by half its population ; but Moscow teems with twice the number of inhabitants it contained before the war . The only noticeable difference in the theatres , opera , and ballet is that they are now run under the direction of the department of education , which prefers classics and sees- to it that working men and women and children are given an opportunity to attend the performances and that they are instructed beforehand in the significance and beauties of the productions . Morals. ? Prostitutes have disappeared from sight , the economic reasons for their career having ceased to exist . Family life has been absolutely unchanged by the revolution . I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lenin , Tchitcherin , and Litvinov that much of the world believedthat women had been " nationalized . " This lie is so wildly fantastic that they will not even take the trouble to deny it . Respect for womanhood was never greater than in Russia today . Indeed , the day I reached Petrograd was a holiday in honor of wives and mothers . Education. ? The achievements of the department of education under Lunacharsky have been very great . Not only have all the Russian classics been reprinted in editions of three and five million copies and sold at a low price to the people , but thousands of new schools for men , women , and children have been opened in all parts of Russia . Furthermore , workingmen 's and soldiers ' clubs have been organized in many of the palaces of yesteryear , where the people are instructed by means of moving pictures and lectures . In the art galleries one meets classes of working men and women being instructed in the beauties of the pictures . The children 's schools have been entirely reorganized , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good dinner at school every day . Furthermore , very remarkable schools have been opened for defective and overnervous children . On the theory that genius and insanity are closely allied , these children are taught from the first to compose music , paint pictures , sculpt and write poetry , and it is asserted that some very valuable results have been achieved , not only in the way of productions but also in the way of restoring the nervous systems of the children . MORALE The belief of the convinced communists in their cause is almost religious . Never ' in any religious service have I seen higher emotional unity than prevailed at the meeting of the Petrograd Soviet in celebration of the foundation of the Third Socialist Internationale . The remark of one young man to me when I questioned him in regard to his starved appearance is characteristic . He replied very simply : " I am ready to give another year of starvation to our revolution . " STATEMENTS OF TRADERS OF OPPOSITION PARTIES The following statement was made to me by Volsky , leader-of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Intervention of any kind will prolong the regime of the Bolsheviki by compelling us , like all honorable Russians , to drop opposition and rally round the soviet government in defense of the revolution . With regard to help to individual groups or governments fighting against soviet Russia , we see no difference between such intervention and the sending of troops . If the allies come to an agreement with the soviet government , sooner or later the peasant masses will make their will felt and they are alike against the bourgeoisie and the Bolsheviki . " If by any chance Kolchak and Denikin were to win , they would have to kill in tens of thousands where the Bolsheviki have had to kill in hundreds and the result would be the complete ruin and collapse of Russia into anarchy . Has not the Ukraine been enough to teach the allies that occupation by non-Bolshivik troops merely turns into Bolsheviki those of the population who were not Bolsheviki before ? It is clear to us that the Bolsheviki are really fighting against bourgeois dictatorship . We are , therefore , prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ekaterina Constantinovna Breshkovskaya has no sort of authority , either from the assembly of members of the all Russian constituent assembly or from the party of social revolutionaries . Her utterances in America , if she is preaching intervention , represent her personal opinions which are categorically repudiated by the party of social revolutionaries , which has decisively expressed itself against the permissibility of intervention , direct or indirect . " Volsky signed this latter statement : " V. Volsky , late president of the assembly of members of the all Russian constituent assembly . " Martov , leader of the Menshiviki , stated : " The Menshiviki are against every form of intervention , direct or indirect , because by providing the incentive to militarization it is bound to emphasize the least desirable qualities of the revolution . Further , the needs of the army overwhelm all efforts at meeting the needs of social and economic reconstruction . Agreement with ' the soviet government would lessen theltenion ordefence and would unmuzzle the opposition , who , while the soviet government ' is attacked , are prepared to help in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alter the Bolshevik regime . " The fOrces that would support intei-Vention must be dominated by those of extreme reaction becanse all but the reactionaries are prepared temporarily to sink their differences with the Bolsheviki in order to defend the revolution as a whole . " Martov finally expressed himself as convinced that , peace , life itself and the needs of the country will bring the changes he desires . ARMY The soviet army now numbers between 1,000,000 and 1,200,000 troops of the line . Nearly all these soldiers are young men between the ages of 17 and 27 . The morale of regiments varies greatly . The convinced communists , who compose the bulk of the army , fight with crusading enthusiasm . Other regiments , composed of patriots but noncommunists , are less spirited ; other regiments , composed of men who have entered the army for the slightly higher bread ration are distinctly untrustworthy . Great numbers of officers of the old army are occupying important executive posts in the administration of the new army , but are under control of convinced communist supervisers . Nearly all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have displayed courage in the ranks and have been trained in special officer schools . Discipline has been restored , and on the whole the spirit of the army appears to be -% ery high , particularly since its recent successes . The soldiers no longer have the beaten dog-like look which distinguished them under the Czar , but carry themselves like freemen , and curiously like Americans . They are popular with the people . I witnessed a review of 15,000 troops in Petrograd . The men marched well and their equipment of shoes , uniforms , rifles , and machine guns and light artillery was excellent . On the other hand , they had no big guns , no aeroplanes , no gas shells , no liquid fire , nor indeed , any of the more refined instruments of destruction . The testimony was universal that recruiting for the army is easiest in the districts which having once lived under the soviet were overrun by anti-soviet forces and then reoccupied by the Red Army . Trotsky is enormously proud of the army he has created , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at once if peace can be obtained in order that all the brains and energy it contains may be turned to restoring the normal life of the country . LENIN 'S PRESTIGE The hold which Lenin has gained on the imagination of the Russian People makes his position almost that of a dictator . There is already a Lenin legend . He is regarded as almost a prophet . His picture , usually accompanied ' by that of ' Karl Marx , hangs everywhere . In Russia one never ' hears Lenin and Trotski spoken of in the same breath as is usual in the western world . Lenin is regarded ' as in ' aclass by himself . Trotski is but one of the loWer order of mortals . When I called on Lenin at the Kremlin I had to wait a few minutes until a delegation of peasants leit his room . They had heard in their Village ' that Comrade Lenin was hungry . And they had come hundreds of miles carrying 800 poods of bread as the gift of the village to ' Lenin JUst before them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come that Com- , ? ? rade Lenin ' was working in an unheated room . They came bearing a stove and enough firewood to heat it for three months . Lenin is the only leader who receives such gifts . And he Aims them into the common fund . Face to face Lenin is a very striking man  --  straightforward and direct , but also genial and with a large humor and serenity . CONCESSIONS The soviet government recognizes very clearly the undesirability of granting concessions to foreigners and is ready to do so only because of necessity . The members of the Government realize that the lifting of the blockade will be illusory unless the soviet government is able to establish credits in foreign countries , particularly the United States and England , so that goods may be bought in those countries . For Russia today is in a position to export only a little gold , a little platinum , a little hemp , flax , and wood . These exports will be utterly inadequate to pay for the vast quantity of imports which Russia needs . Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The members of the soviet government realize fully that as a ' preliminary step to the obtaining of credit the payment of foreign debts must be resumed and , therefore , are ready to pay such debts . But even though these debts are paid the members of the soviet government believe that they will not be able to borrow money in foreign countries on any mere promise to pay . They believe , therefore , that they will have to grant concessions in Russia to foreigners in order to obtain immediate credit . They desire to avoid this expedient if in any way it shall be possible , but if absolutely necessary they are ready to adopt it in order to begin the restoration of the normal life of the country . 2 . Report of Capt . W. W. Pettit I left Petrograd on March 31 . During the past three weeks I have crossed the Finnish border six times and have been approximately two weeks in Petrograd . I have met Tchitcherin , Litvinov , and most of the important personages in the communist government of Petrograd ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Briefly , my opinion of the Russian situation is as follows : In Petrograd I presume the present communist government has a majority of the workingmen behind it , but probably less than half of the total population are members of the communist party . However , my conclusions are based on conversations with not only communists , but also many opponents of the communist government , members of the aristocracy , business men , and foreigners , and I am persuaded that a large majority of the population of Petrograd if given a choice between the present government and the two alternatives , revolution or foreign intervention , would without hesitation take the present government . Foreign intervention would unite the population in opposition and would tend to greatly emphasize the present nationalist spirit . Revolution would result in chaos . ( There'is nowhere a group of Russians in whom the people I have talked with have confidence . Kolchak , Denikin , Yudenvitch , TrePov ; the despicable hordes of Russian emigrees who haunt the Grand Hotel , Stockholm ; the Socithans House , Helsingfors ; the offices of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves as to how the Russian situation shall be solved ; all equally fail to find many supporters in Petrograd . ) Those with whom I have talked recognize that revolution , did it succeed in developing a strong government , would result in a white terror comparable with that of Finland . In Finland our consul has a record of 12,500 executions in some fifty districts , out of something like 500 districts , by the White Guard . In Petrograd I have been repeatedly assured that the total Red executions in Petrograd and Moscow and other cities was at a maximum 3,200 . It may seem somewhat inconsistent for the Russian bourgeoisie to oppose allied intervention and at the same time fail to give whole-hearted support to the present government . They justify this attitude on ' ' the grounds that when the two great problems ? I I of food and peace are solved the whole population can turn itself , 1                     