@@487895

While the bidding war for Conoco , the nation 's ninth largest oil company , dominated the business news this summer , another equally momentous merger went virtually unsung . The takeover of Iowa Beef Processors ( I.B.P. ) , the number-one beef packer in the United States , by the Occidental Petroleum Corporation , number twelve in the Big Oil profit parade , was a portent that food could become the petroleum of the 1990s . For Oxy 's acquisition gave Armand Hammer 's giant multinational , with its collateral holdings in chemicals as well as oil , coal , phosphates and other resources , a controlling interest in America 's favorite meat . I.B.P. , which was founded twenty-one years ago in Nebraska , quickly became the dominant company in the meat-processing industry . Its strong suit was its highly automated slaughterhouses , which revolutionized an industry that had not changed much since Upton Sinclair wrote The Jungle in 1906 . The company built its slaughterhouses in small Midwestern towns near the feed lots where cattle were fattened before being shipped to the stockyards in Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly-paid union meat cutters out of their jobs , I.B.P . was able to compete with such aging giants as Cudahy , Hormel , Armour and Oscar Mayer , and it acquired a commanding 17 percent share of the market . Last year , its profits were $53 million , up 24 percent from 1979 , and its total sales were more than $4.5 billion , a figure that places it eighty-first among the Fortune 500 companies . While I.B.P . remains almost unknown to the general public , its revenues exceed those of such household names as Borden , General Mills , United Brands and Kellogg . During the 1970s , I.B.P. , with its ten high-speed abatoirs that could dispatch nearly 17,000 cattle per day , was also slaughtering its competition . The number of meat-packing companies declined by 27 percent , according to the Department of Agriculture , and within the past year , many more packers closed their doors . Feeling the heat , conglomerates that had acquired smaller packing companies during the go-go years of the late 1960s are now rushing to shed them . LTV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Company ; Esmark ( formerly Swift &; Company ) recently spun off its meat-packing operation as were not charged . The government later renounced the pact , and Armada , who had portrayed himself as a mediator , was arrested for complicity in the plot . When the thirty-two soldiers and one civilian who were eventually indicted in the 23-F attempt go on trial , the presiding judge will be Jos ? de Diego Lopez , a venerable franquista who was the police chief of Barcelona during a period of severe repression directed against democratic groups . " The government interrogates the right , and the judges free them , " claimed Jos ? Maria Maravall of the Socialists ' national executive committee . Interior Minister RosOn responded : " The judges have their criteria . We are respectful of the principle of division of powers . " Some of the officers implicated in the failed coup received only minimal punishments  --  transfers to undesirable posts and the like . But at least the government 's actions against the 23-F plotters appear to have made the military more circumspect . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ministry bar , they were toasting Tejero a month after February 23 . They were n't afraid to say it . Now , when you enter a room , they become quiet . " The Socialists charge that rightist civilians have been allowed to slip through the prosecutorial net . " It 's hard to believe all the effort of February 23 was not related to civilians , but they arrested only one , " said Javier Solana , a Socialist deputy from Madrid . " Who paid for the buses that took the civil guards to Parliament ? " asked Nicolas Redondo , head of the Socialist Labor Federation . To which RosOn replied : " There are more civilians seeking destabilization , but for these to be prosecuted , we need proof . " The left acknowledges that the government has begun to act against the violent right . " They had gone about with impunity , taking over streets and bothering people , " said Guillermo Galiote , press secretary of the P.S.O.E . national executive committee . " Now there is a special police brigade to deal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inefficient . In one incident , youths who had been putting up posters for Fuerza Nueva 's July 18 rally threw rocks and a Molotov cocktail at three buses carrying Basque children on a Socialist-sponsored outing . No one was arrested . " I have the absolute conviction that those who were putting up posters in the street are known , " said Gonzalez . " It is possible to detain , judge and sentence them , but I 'm very afraid there will be no detention . " Charging that the government did not act with the same vigor against rightist violence as against the leftist variety , he added , " Even when the president has the political will to do it , the apparatus he has at his disposal does n't function with efficacy when it fights the extreme right . " The government is concerned about the lack of professionalism of its security forces , which handicaps the fight against Basque terrorists as well as against the far right . Four security officials visited Israel in July for briefings on antiterrorist techniques , even though Spain does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials cling to the repressive ways that flourished under Franco . Several police officers and civil guards were jailed recently for torturing alleged Basque terrorists to death . An absurd example of persisting franquista attitudes was the arrest in June of feminists who were painting a wall with slogans that protested the trial of eleven women for obtaining abortions . They were charged with painting slogans in defense of a crime . Much more serious were the rightist attacks last May in which a general and six soldiers were killed and the leader of the King 's military escort wounded . Soldiers were ordered to their barracks , and military leaders contemplated declaring a state of emergency . Foreign Minister Jose Pedro PerezLlorca told editor Ramirez that the situation was as grave as it had ever been during the post-Franco transition : " I have the feeling that this thing is not working , that they are more angry than ever , " P ? rez-Llorca said . No one doubts that in a future crisis , the army would intervene . Current social conditions fuel popular unrest . The economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , inflation at 15 percent and an increasingly onerous burden of foreign debt . Lower-middle-class and working-class people at the Fuerza Nueva rally told me again and again that under Franco , at least there were jobs . The fascists have been successful in recruiting unemployed youths by promising them work . Ironically , some high-ranking army officers did not support the attempted coup because they knew they would not be able to deal with the economic mess if they gained power . The prevailing attitude was , " We are in favor of a coup , but what are we going to do the following day ? " The four major parties ? U.C.D. , P.S.O.E. , Communist and Popular Alliance  --  spent half the summer negotiating the details of an agreement that divides Spain into sixteen federated states and provides for elections in 1983 The plan will not please the Basque separatists , but if the government makes any concessions to them the army will react unfavorably . Socialist Enrique Mfigica Herzog , vice president of Parliament 's defense committee and an expert on the military , said , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ultras will use their corpses to push the conservatives in the army to a coup . " The trial of Tejero and the other 23-F prisoners , for which the date has still not been set , will be handled with kid gloves so that the right can not use it as a pretext for a takeover attempt Rightists are already spreading rumors in the army that the King at first sided with the insurgents but later backed down All these difficulties must be confronted by a weak minority government that is rent by jockeying for power among franquistas , Christian Democrats , liberals and Social Democrats . There is a joke going around that the U.C.D . encompasses the entire political spectrum of West Germany . The P.S.O.E. , which received the support of 42 percent of those questioned in a spring Gallup poll , could easily bring down the government and force new elections . But even after the U.C.D . rejected a proposal for a grand coalition , the Socialists continued to mute their opposition . They feared the collapse of the beleaguered government , which would create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job is to insure that the executive power  --  although it is not ours  --  is strong enough to defend itself from the attacks of democracy 's enemies , " Gonzalez told me . The Socialists expect to win the elections to be held in 1983 , but until then they want the present government to survive . For this reason , they backed a two-year pact between the government and the unions that bans strikes and holds pay raises to a maximum of 11 percent . In return , the government promised to create 350,000 jobs and provide nine months of benefits to all unemployed heads of families , who now get none . The Socialists have also sought to assure businessmen that if they win power , they would move slowly on nationalization . They consider their first priorities to be reforming the civil service , consolidating democracy and halting terrorism . The " revolution " will come later Indeed , the P.S.O.E . bears a close resemblance ideologically to West Germany 's Social Democrats . Some Socialists fear the army would step in if the P.S.O.E . won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because there was a government of the right , " said Carlota Bustelo , a former deputy , " but if Felipe Gonzalez is prime minister , 1 think there is a risk . " Gonzalez replied , " I do n't believe it . " Washington 's chief concern about a Socialist victory is the effect it might have on Spain 's entry into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . The Socialists and the Communists favor renegotiation of the treaty permitting American bases in Spain , and both are against joining NATO . " We are worried about a change in the status quo at a time of international tension , " explained Gonzalez . Curiously , even the army has kept a low profile on the issue . Colonel MonzOn called Spain 's entry " not very important , " though he said itwould be good to end Spain 's isolation . And Solana acknowledged , " It 's hard to know if the army wants to be in NATO . " A recent poll showed that 81 percent of the Spanish people believe in democracy  --  more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of course , a coup does n't need majority support , but politicians on all sides say that another such attempt is highly unlikely . In February , Tejero and his collaborators sought to convince the army that the King supported them ; a future strike would have to be against the King , something that would be " practically impossible for the army , " said Solana . Still , for now , the watchword for Spanish democracy is prbdence . LI Iron Triangle ( Continued From Front Cover ) spending has etched a steadily rising trajectory . There are various explanations for this phenomenon . One . theory , advanced by economists and journalists like Seymour Melman , Richard Kaufman , J. Ronald Fox , A. Ernest Fitzgerald and James Fallows , focuses on the workings of the defense bureaucracy ; it posits rival fiefdoms vying for status and power and driven to spend ever larger sums on ever more complex and costly ( and often unworkable ) weaponry . From different theoretical vantage points , both Keynesians and neo-Marxists reach the conclusion that defense spending serves as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including a substantial portion of the national security establishment , argue that the defense budget is simply responding to the imperatives of foreign policy and national security . There is some truth in all of these explanations , but they all omit a crucial factor  --  the inner workings of the defense policy apparatus , the " Iron Triangle " of the Pentagon , the defense industry and the armed services and military appropriations committees in Congress . This small , incestuous , mutually supportive group decides what weapons will be made , before they are even on the drawing boards in research and development labs . The Iron Triangle sets the priorities that are ultimately reflected in the defense budget . One side of the Iron Triangle consists of the defense contractors . Through lobbying and sophisticated " government relations , " they influence policy and procurement decisions . The defense industry exists in a state of economic dependence on the Federal government , its main customer . The second side , the Defense Department , in ' turn relies on private industry to supply most of its weapons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funding . Money , influence and information are the essential ingredients of power within the Iron Triangle . The defense contractors , for example , seek access to the bureaucracy and Gordon Adams , a senior research associate with the Council on Economic Priorities , is the author of The Iron Triangle ( C.E.P. ) , from which this article is adapted .                     