@@334955

" What are you afraid of ? " asked Mikhail Gorbachev . Doubtless the Soviet leader knew perfectly well why his visitor , Secretary of State George Shultz , could not immediately reply to his newest arms-control bombshell : having unnerved NATO allies when Ronald Reagan traded blue-sky proposals with Gorbachev at the Reykjavik summit , the U.S. was determined this time to answer the Soviets only after fully consulting with the West Europeans . But Gorbachev and his subordinates could not resist taunting Shultz for seeming diffident about an offer that , on its face , not only met but topped American terms for a pact to take nuclear missiles out of Europe and open the way for another summit this fall in Washington . After Shultz 's three-day mission to Moscow had ended last week , Foreign Ministry Spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov stuck the needle in deeper . If U.S. negotiators want an agreement , said he , " they must be prepared to meet their own proposals . " <P> Actually , the needling might have been more accurately directed at America 's European allies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are most uneasy at the turn of events . After years of publicly decrying the proliferation of nuclear weapons on their soil , some Europeans may be reminded of Oscar Wilde 's dictum : " When the gods wish to punish us , they answer our prayers . " To the West 's discomfort , Gorbachev is zestfully playing a role no previous Soviet leader has essayed : the man who keeps saying yes . The General Secretary first astonished NATO last month by accepting Reagan 's zero-option proposal to scrap all intermediate-range Soviet and American nuclear missiles in Europe , and then by agreeing , at least in principle , to on-site inspection to make sure the missiles are gone . When the Western nations pointed out that this would still leave the Soviets with a distinct advantage in shorter-range missiles , Gorbachev outmaneuvered them with yet another concession . Before Shultz 's trip to Moscow , Washington 's insistence on strict verification looked like a potential stumbling block to a treaty . Until Gorbachev , the Soviets had never been willing to seriously consider the idea of foreigners poking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how far the new leader would go . But Gorbachev not only indicated approval of American ideas , he tried last week to make them sound as if they were his own . According to the Soviet news agency TASS , he told Shultz , " We shall be demanding verification and inspection everywhere : on the sites of missiles ' dismantling , on the sites of their elimination , at ranges and military bases , including third countries , at depots and plants . " <P> Shultz went to Moscow last week to argue that an agreement on intermediate- range ( 600 miles to 3,400 miles ) missiles must do something to redress the disparity in shorter-range launchers , those with a range of 300 miles to 600 miles . The U.S. proposal : freeze the number of Soviet missiles and let the U.S. install an equal amount in Europe .                     