@@331358

As the cataclysmic game drew near , subjects of investigation ranged from the acupuncture marks in Quarterback Jim McMahon 's bare backfield to the ghostly timbre of the Bears ' Baskerville bark . Regarding that old rallying call , Otis Wilson was asked soberly , " Is it more like an arf or a woof ? " The Chicago linebacker deliberated and replied , " More like a woof . " On the Patriots ' side , Runner Tony Collins was awash in sociological queries about his 15 siblings . Under pressure , he managed to name all eight brothers and six of seven sisters . Several of the Super Bowl 's 2,500 journalists strayed off to plumb local angles . Guido Dagatta of Milan 's Italia Uno TV network had an interest in New England Assistant Coach Dante Scarnecchia . " Milan ? " mused Scarnecchia congenially . " Is that the capital of Italy ? " Smoke began to come off Dagatta . " No , the capital is Rome . Maybe you have heard of it ? " <P> Finally the Super Bowl was played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the season , won by Chicago , 46-10 . Retreating practically from the opening whistle , the Patriots fled the first half with negative yardage both in the air and on the ground . Starting Quarterback Tony Eason left the fray uninjured in the second quarter following no completions . By the finish , Collins led all New England rushers with 4 yds . Craig James , who had overrun the Miami Dolphins for the conference championship , gained 3 ft . On a goalline galumph , rotund Rookie William ( " Refrigerator " ) Perry beat the bookies ' 12- to-1 odds by scoring a Bear touchdown ; against all expectations , Walter ( " Sweetness " ) Payton was shut out . For stripping two fumbles , Chicago Defensive End Richard Dent added to his ongoing salary fight the negotiable distinction of Most Valuable Player . <P> . Then , almost the instant the game was over , real news began to break on all sides . The Patriots went public with a drug problem that the Boston Globe had been privy to for weeks but had withheld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably also to some extent Patriotism . Confronted with rumors before the Dolphin play-off game , Coach Raymond Berry agreed to cooperate if the Globe would sit on the story until the season 's end . " There are at least five players we know who have a serious problem , " Berry confirmed , " and five to seven more whom we suspect very strongly . " At a team meeting in New Orleans the morning after the Super Bowl , the players read resignation into Berry 's threat that he would " not go through another year " of the cocaine miseries that had vexed him all season . Overwhelmingly they voted to accept testing . " The worst possible scenario would be losing Raymond , " said Guard Ron Wooten , one of the Patriots ' union leaders . But when names , including that of troubled Receiver Irving Fryar , started tumbling out , the compact appeared to be in doubt .                     