@@492191

ADVENTURES OF THE MIND Healing and Belief By NORMAN COUSINS ver the years , medical science has identified the primary systems of the human body  --  circula-tory system , digestive system , endocrine sys-tem , autonomic nervous system , parasympathetic nervous system and the immune system . But two oth-er systems that are central in the proper functioning of a human being need to be emphasized : the healing system and the belief system . The two work together . The healing system is the way the body mobilizes all its resources to combat disease . The belief system is often activator of the healing system . The belief sys-tem represents the unique element in human beings that makes it possible for the human mind to affect the workings of the body . How one responds  --  intel-lectually , emotionally or spiritually  --  to one 's prob-lems has a great deal to do with the way the human body functions . One 's confidence , or lack of it , in the prospects of recovery from serious illness , affects the chemistry of the body . The belief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live into plus factors in any contest of forces involving disease . The belief system is no substitute for competent medical attention in serious illness or vice versa . Both are essential . The belief system is a prime physiological reality . The greatest force in the human body is the natural drive of the body to heal itself  --  but that force is not independent of the belief system , which can translate expectations into physiological change . Nothing is more wondrous about the 15 billion neurons in the human brain than their ability to convert thoughts , hopes , ideas and attitudes into chemical substances . Everything begins , therefore , with belief . What we believe is the most powerful option of all . Science and common sense converge in the ultimate mission of human intelligence  --  the full potentiation of the individual . This process is not confined to the development of human abilities . It involves in equal measure the way human beings ward off breakdown and cope with it when it occurs . It has to do with the will to live and the physiological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proper value to hope , faith , laughter and confidence in the life force . The human healing system has been beautifully honed by three million years of evolution in coping not just with its disorders but with detours , deflections and errors . One of the main functions of the doctor is to engage to the fullest the patient 's own ability to mobilize the forces of mind and body in turning back disease . The Annals of Internal Medicine for November 1938 reviewed the importance of the patient 's faith in the physician as a significant factor in overcoming disease . The main point that emerged from this paper was that the patient 's belief in the healing power of the physician is often more important than the treatment itself in reversing the course of an illness . Dr. A. K. Shapiro has documented in his various studies ( " A Contribution to a History of the Placebo Effect , " Behavioral Sciences , 1960 , and " Attitudes Toward the Use of Placebos in Treatment , " The Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases , 1960 ) the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result of a relationship with a physician can be as potent in touching off biochemical processes as any medication  --  or any placebo , for that matter . Patients tend to move in the direction of their hopes or fears . If they have strong confidence in themselves and their physicians , they tend to have a better outcome than if they are morose and defeatist . A paper in Lancet by S. Greer , T. Morris and K. W. Pettingale ( October 13 , 1979 ) reported that a study of 69 breast-cancer cases showed that the psychological response of the patients was a significant factor in the course of the disease . Those patients who " had a fighting spirit " and who would n't accept a negative verdict were far more likely to improve than those who responded with " stoic acceptance of feelings of helplessness and hopelessness . " It makes no sense to believe that only the negative emotions have an effect on the body 's chemistry . Every emotion , negative or positive , makes its registrations on the body 's systems . The human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hope . That is why the patient 's hopes are the physician 's secret weapon . They are the hidden ingredient in any prescription . The physician will do everything he can , therefore , to bolster attitudes , nourish the outlook on life and encourage confidence in the patient . We must learn never to underestimate the capacity of the human mind and body to regenerate  --  even when the prospects seem most wretched . The life-force may be the least understood force on earth . William James said that human beings tend to live too far within self-imposed limits . It is possible that these limits will recede when we respect more fully the natural drive of the human mind and body toward perfectibility and regeneration . Protecting and cherishing that natural drive may well represent the finest exercise of human freedom . The will to live is a window on the future . It opens the individual to such help as the outside world has to offer , and it connects that help to the body 's own capability for fighting disease . It enables the human body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a theoretical abstraction but a physiologic reality with therapeutic characteristics . The physician 's method of delivering truth to a patient can help combat or help intensify disease . If delivered the wrong way , the truth can produce panic and erode hope  --  a dismal state that hardly offers an ideal environment for making the most of the physician 's ministrations . If delivered the right way , however , the truth can bolster the patient 's will to live , and various plus factors can come into play . The treatment of a patient is incomplete if it is confined to diagnosis and the administration of medicines or other procedures . It becomes complete only when the patient 's own resources and capacities are fully engaged . This is where the science of medicine and the art of medicine come together . The modern physician strides forth into the world from medical school with a certificate of learning in one hand and a vast array of exotic medications and technological devices in the other . But the humans who look to him for help are fragile , perplexed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know that they matter . They do n't want anything to come between them and their physicians . People want their physicians to be finely tuned human beings capable of exquisite sensitivity and tenderness . Patients do not warm up to impersonal and detached super-scientists . They want to feel that the doctor who is examining them is thinking of nothing else . The wise physician makes a careful estimate of the emotional needs of the patient . He creates a mood of confidence for the encounter with diagnostic technology . He explains that he will not attach sovereign importance to the results . He does n't abandon Continued on page 48 Healing continued from page 32 the patient to a device if he can possibly help it . The wise physician understands , too , that the patient 's biochemistry may respond differently to a stress challenge under circumstances of anxiety than under circumstances of physical strain . The chances of a patient opposing or resenting medical technology are in direct proportion to the distance of the physician from the scene . People feel secure in the presence of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to other places and are deprived of direct contact with or access to their physician that they tend to become a little uneasy . The practice of medicine , as has been emphasized over the centuries by almost every great medical teacher ( from Hippocrates to Holmes , from Galen to Cannon , from Castiglione to Osier ) , calls first of all for a deeply human response by the physician to the cry of the patient for help . In the majority of cases , what patients need most of all is assurance that their own healing systems are beautifully designed to handle most of their complaints . The physician who understands the importance of sitting at the bedside , even though his presence may actually be in the nature of a placebo equivalent , is attending to a prevalent and quintessential need . Medical science may change , but the need to understand and deal with human beings remains constant . Nothing is more important in medical education , therefore , than " reverence for life , " to use Schweitzer 's phrase . Moral values , an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or replaceable . We know very little about pain  --  what it is , what causes it , how to deal with it without panic . Almost everyone can rattle off the names of at least a dozen drugs that can deaden pain for every conceivablecause  --  all the way from headaches to hemorrhoids . There is far less knowledge about the fact that 90 percent of pain is self-limiting ; that it is not always an indication of poor health ; and that , most frequently , it is the result of tension , stress , worry , idleness , boredom , frustration , suppressed rage , insufficient sleep , overeating , a poorly balanced diet , smoking , excessive drinking , inadequate exercise , stale air or any of the other abuses of modern society . An often-ignored fact about pain is that the best way to eliminate it is to eliminate the abuse . Instead , many people reach almost instinctively for painkillers . Many doctors are troubled over the extent to which the medical profession today has to deal with ailments or " illnesses " that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up by ourselves . Doctors ' offices are overloaded with people who are mistakenly convinced that something dreadful is about to happen to them , making it difficult for patients genuinely in need of expert diagnosis and treatment to get the attention they need . For the patient , illness is not a matter of argument . It is not even a matter of definition . It is a supremely subjective state and is to be taken seriously even when pathology is totally negative . Symptoms that , for the doctor , are verifiably without organic cause are nonetheless real to the patient . The fact that symptoms may be psychogenic does not refute the existence of illness any more than it abolishes it . For the patient to understand the difference between functional symptoms and organic causes requires more than an understanding of contrasting definitions . It requires a willingness on the part of the physician to talk things out , to explain that illness often is the result not of germs but of wear and tear on the mind or body or both . It can be explained , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , anxiety , uncertainty , smoking , noise , wretched food , overeating , overcrowding and overworking are all involved in wear and tear , especially when they occur in combination . By explicating the connection between all these possible causes and the symptoms , and by giving as much weight to the psychogenic factors as to the physiological ones , then considering possibilities of counterattack , the physician can help the patient to confront his complaints in a way that may be therapeutic . Illness is not a laughing matter . Perhaps it ought to be . Laughter is a form of internal jogging . It moves your internal organs around . It enhances respiration . It is an igniter of great expectations . An understanding of the way the placebo works may be one of the most significant developments in medicine in the past century . The placebo does not have imaginary effects , though it operates through the imagination . It is quite possible that hope , faith and the will to live make their registrations on human chemistry the way the placebo does . The science of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things are achieved . The first is the accuracy of the diagnosis . The second is the proportionate nature of the treatment . The third is the full mobilizaContinued on page III Healing continued from page 48 tion and release of a patient 's healing resources in which robust expectations of full recovery play an important part . Many brain researchers agree there is probably enough reserve capacity in the brain to meet problems far more demanding and complex than any that have so far confronted the species . The fact that most humans do not use more than 15 to 20 percent of their available intelligence seems to indicate that the principle need of humanity is not for a better brain but for a way to make better use of the brains we have . The concept of reserve brainpower waiting to be unlocked is comforting at a time when philosophers are asking whether the human race is smart enough to survive . The conditions of life have been running down . The dominant intelligence , however , has been trained on tribal business rather than on the operation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this challenge is related to the need for a new consciousness . It is a consciousness that can take into account the condition of the species rather than the condition of any of its subdivisions . Ethical questions exist on concentric rings . Any break , especially in the outer ring , produces breakdowns on the inner rings as well . By the outer ring , I have in mind the management of society . An illustration of a breakdown in human values is the decision by government to manufacture nerve gases and to breed and stockpile virulently toxigenic bacteria as weapons of war . Not even war relieves us of the obligation to distinguish between essential ingenuity in a fight for survival and the exercise of random and unlimited malevolence . Consider the question of moral integrity inherent in a situation in which the government appropriates large sums of money to subsidize those who grow tobacco but at the same time warns its citizens that tobacco can cause cancer . Can the medical profession regard such actions casually ? Does the profession have no function except to wait for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time when the earth has become a single geographic community calls for an enlargement of the Hippocratic Oath . In today 's world , the physician must make his commitment not just to individual life but to the institution of life . To the extent that medical societies are concerned only with professional questions , they restrain physicians from involvement in ethical issues . Insulated in that manner from his central role , the physician can trail happily after illness while ignoring his obligation to help humanize society and make it safe for human beings . Truth-telling to patients is often debated as though the only issue is whether physicians are obligated to tell what they know . Far more consequential are these issues : Does the physician always know the truth ? What is the effect of truth on the patient ? To what extent can total candor undermine the physician 's effectiveness in dealing with the ravages of disease ? How does unvarnished disclosure affect the quality of life  --  and the quality of dying ? Is the fear of malpractice suits causing some physicians  --  understandably , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Walter Cannon , one of the great figures of American medicine in the 20th century , once wrote a paper about the hex of the voodoo doctor and why it was that people died on cue . What Dr. Cannon concluded was that it was not the hex that killed people but their own acceptance of the certainty they were going to die . The will to die replaced the will to live . If people can keep an appointment with death , they can keep an appointment with life . If they can he programmed to die , they can be programmed to live . The best physicians are not just superb diagnosticians but men who understand the phenomenal energy and therefore curative propensity ) that flows out of an individual 's capacity to retain an optimistic belief and attitude toward problems and human affairs in general . It is a perversion of rationalism to argue that words such as " hope " or " faith " or " love " or " grace " are without physiological significance . The benevolent emotions are necessary not just because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been primarily concerned with the overworked or exhausted adrenal glands . But what about the effects of the underworked adrenal glands ? Adrenal insufficiency , whether from depletion or atrophy , is the problem . Are we to assume there are no hazards in inaction and purposelessness ? Does the body pay no price for emotional , mental and physical lethargy and stupefaction ? I can imagine no greater satisfaction for a person , in looking back on his life and work , than to have been able to give some people , however few , a feeling of genuine pride in belonging to the human species and , beyond that , a zestful yen to justify that pride .                     