@@494089

How the Soviet Union retains its ' friends : THE COST OF PAX SOVIETICA BY NICK EBERSTADT AND TOM RICKS SINCE THE DEATH of Stalin , the Soviet Union 's treatment of its allies and friends has followed a broad pattern of trading economic support for political control ? that is , of accepting financial loss as the price of empire . In recent years the costs of this system of governance have multiplied , even as the Soviet Union itself has entered a period of increasing economic difficulty . The consequences of the dilemma first became apparent in the most expensive region of the empire , Eastern Europe ? and specifically in Poland . Today we see the Soviet Union trying to reassert its political control over the Polish people while simultaneously decreasing its economic support . Over the next two decades , the men who rule the USSR are likely to face this kind of situation repeatedly . Whatever the eventual outcome in Poland , it will very likely become a precedent that will loom over the Sovi ? t Union 's relations with its allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The first are governments it has installed in contiguous nations , and now supports through armed occupation . These are Mongolia , Afghanistan , and the Warsaw Pact nations . The second are Marxist-Leninist nations overseas . Some of these , such as Cuba and Vietnam , are ruled by regimes that came to power on their own terms , and largely by their own exertion ; others , such as the ruling cliques in Angola and Ethiopia , have always depended on the support of Soviet bloc troops . Finally , there are " radical " but non-Leninist leaders in the poor world : included in this category would be Hafez Assad , Muammar Qaddafi , and Yasir Arafat . Without the help of these nations and men , the Soviet Union could not achieve many of its military and diplomatic ends . Yet these political allies and ideological friends also present Moscow with a number of strategic and economic problems . The third world radicals with whom the Soviet Union allies itself are very often consummate politicians ? and , as the adage has it , politicians can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the terms of lease Nick Eberstadt is a visiting fellow at the Center for Population Studies at Harvard University . Tom Ricks is a Washington writer . They are collaborating on a book-length essay on the global context of Soviet-American relations . often have proved to be exorbitant , and repossession has often come unexpectedly . The waning of the era of decolonization has sharpened Soviet disappointment in the third world . Although it is obvious that the Soviet Union could benefit from an alliance with , say , guerrilla leader Robert Mugabe in his fight for control of Rhodesia , it is not so clear to President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe how the Soviets can help him in the more complex task of raising the living standards of his people while assuring the sovereignty of his regime . In fact , the Soviet Union can not offer very much . As the International Institute for Strategic Studies observed in the 1980 edition of Strategic Survey , the Soviet Union finds it difficult to compete with the West in providing aid , technology , and anything more civilized than the tools @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Survey observed , " Western economic assistance to the third world surpassed total Soviet non-military assistance for the 25 years previous to 1979 . " The men in the Kremlin possess an enormous distrust of their friends in the poor nations . This is not unreasonable . More often than not , Soviet investment in " radical " third world leaders who were not avowedly Marxist-Leninist has not paid off . No matter how mutually advantageous the Soviets ' relations with the third world leaders have been at times , such alliances ultimately have proven neither stable nor reliable . Sekou Toure , Sukarno , Nkrumah , Sada t , and , in his own way , Siad Barre , must be weighed against Arafat , Qaddafi , and , in her own way , Indira Gandhi . Faced with this political deficit , Soviet leaders have drawn back from Khrushchev 's policy of extending help to the third world 's anti-colonialist " nationalist bourgeoisie " ( Sukarno , for example ) in favor of a return to the Stalinist practice of trusting important work to solidly " socialist " regimes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , but he is in power today because in 1969 the U.S. , aware of his then undisguised anti-Soviet sentiments , did not oppose his revolution against King Idris . In any event , Qaddafi rules in a region where political supremacy is best measured in months . Ara-fat 's aims are supported today by the Soviet Union , but eventually they may be better served by aid that is at once anti-Zionist and anti-Soviet , be it from Riyadh , Peking , or even Lagos . And although Gandhi has been driven into the Soviet embrace by her anti-American-ism and her fear of China , the Politburo knows that others in her nation do not share her specific fears and prejudices , and that she has been rejected by her people once already . When other independent nations make overtures toward the Soviets , as Mexico seems to have done in accepting " cooperating country " status in Comecon ( the Soviet bloc economic organization ) , it is because they expect to glean certain specific , and usually short-term , advantages from the move . Although Mexico 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and emigration , it would be highly unrealistic to expect Mexico to move from quiet observation to sympathetic participation in Comecon . y ET THE VIEW from the Soviet Foreign Ministry is not entirely bleak . Moscow 's search for allies is shaped by the knowledge that a nation 's interests are not always the same as those of all its politicians , and that it is politicians , not nations , who shake hands , sign agreements , and deliver orations . The men who direct Soviet foreign policy know how easy it is to find third world statesmen who believe their people are incapable of discerning their own best interests . It is the nature of politics and oppositions that in most nations , at any given time , factions can be found within the political elite who will deem it in the " objective " interest of the nation to accept foreign slush funds or military hardware , or who will even acquiesce in outside military intervention . In the Afghanistan of 1979 , out of approximately 15 million people , there were fewer than 10,000 Marxists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Red Army move in . But a small fraction did , and that was enough . Nevertheless , quisling relationships , if not cemented by Soviet troops or Soviet proxies , are likely to be transient , for an unoccupied people usually finds means of impressing its interests upon an unresponsive regime . For their part , overseas Marxist-Leninist regimes may have goals different from those of their Soviet patrons , but observed conflicts of interests have been relatively minor . Cuban hesitancy about participation in an assault on Eritrea may have been annoying , but it was hardly insurmountable ; Vietnamese occupation of Cambodia may not have been exactly what the Soviet Union would have wanted at a time when it was pressing for acceptance of an increased Soviet presence in the Far East , but it did have its advantages . The gravest Soviet difficulty with its friends is not political but financial . The economies of the Soviet Union 's Marxist-Leninist friends have demonstrated a troubling inability to make themselves self-sufficient . Cuba and Vietnam ( to say nothing of the states they occupy ) are not economically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grow during the 1980s , precisely when the USSR , with growth rates lower than at any point in its peacetimehistory ( and still falling ) , is apt to be least able to increase its aid . In both Cuba and Vietnam , the deepening of " socialism " has not brought prosperity . In Cuba , rigid controls and economic mismanagement seem to have succeeded in bringing the economy to a precarious halt . According to one set of World Bank figures , Cuba 's per capita GNP is smaller now than it was under Batista . If those numbers are accurate , Cuba has joined Cambodia and South Yemen in that exclusive club of nations whose economic output per person is lower today that it was 25 years ago . One startling indication of the state of Cuban affairs , Sovietologist Jiri Valenta recently wrote , is that " in 1980 , for the first time in its history , Cuba . . . had to import a large quantity of sugar instead of exporting it . " At the moment , Moscow 's subsidy to Havana ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) amounts to about $4 billion a year . This amount is approximately half as large as Cuba 's own internally generated GM ' is thought to be . Military aid to support the 40,000 or so Cuban troops and advisers abroad comes in addition to this amount . It currently runs at perhaps $2 billion . Vietnam is even worse off . Contrary to expectations , the end of the war and the subsequent program of " socialist reconstruction " have lowered output and living standards . Although statistics on Vietnam are not entirely reliable , a 1978-79 World Bank mission reported that in post-collectivization Vietnam , basic consumer goods such as grain , cloth , and cooking oil were as scarce as they are in India and Bangladesh . Sympathetic observers such as William Shawcross report that conditions have worsened since that time . The Soviet Union has found it necessary to ship several million tons of grain to Vietnam in each of the past few years to alleviate the difficulties caused by " bad weather . " State Department estimates suggest that the total Soviet grant to Vietnam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the figure at two and even three times that level . This would mean that Soviet money accounts for at least an eighth of Vietnam 's economic consumption , and perhaps as much as a quarter . T HE SOVIET Union 's sub-Saharan friends have fared no better . Angola 's per capita food production is now at about half the 1970 level . And in Ethiopia ( according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture ) , per capita food output is 30 percent lower today than it was when Colonel Mengistu 's Dergue ousted Emperor Haile Selassie in the midst of a famine in 1974 . Over the next few years , the cost of supporting Vietnam , Cuba , Ethiopia , and the Soviet Union 's other economically inefficient but militarily useful clients is likely to increase . So , it seems , will the Soviets ' domestic economic problems . If the Politburo chooses to continue to bankroll its impoverished surrogates , surely it will also look for new ways to use them . There is evidence that the search is on . Edward Luttwak has reported , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been training Cuban forces in combat methods appropriate to conditions of the desert . Similarly , 50,000 Vietnamese " guest workers " are now laboring in the factories of Warsaw Pact countries , according to a Christian Science Monitor account printed in November . Cuban troops and Vietnamese coolies are unlikely to asume new burdens solely on the basis of their admiration of the Soviet Union ; every new job they take on will require that much more in client support from the Soviet government . As measured by the unreliable medium of international foreign exchange , the Soviet Union may spend some $10 billion a year on its proxies in the third world . High as these costs seem , they are small when compared with the expense of maintaining the Soviet Union 's European allies . S OVIET control in Eastern Europe is decisive , but it is also subject to a number of limitations . The task of mobilizing unwilling captives for competition against one 's adversaries is not an easy one . Since the death of Stalin , total terror has been ruled out as impractical in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bourgeois aspirations and nationalist sentiments of their European protectorates , the Soviets have engaged in a delicate game of coax and menace , backing up their suggestions with the 30 Red Army divisions stationed west of the Soviet border . This modus operandi , so unhappy for the peoples of Communist Europe , is also far from ideal for Moscow 's leaders . In order to cow Eastern Europe , the Soviet Union must be assured of military predominance over its subject nations . From this political necessity flow both strategic and economic consequences . Soviet occupation of these nations must be tempered by the reality that , left to their own devices , the soldiers of the Warsaw Pact could not necessarily be relied upon to point their rifles westward . Thus the armies of the Eastern states can never be more than police forces ? and we are now seeing whether they can be relied upon to play even that role in Poland . The prospect of sharing their most sophisticated weaponry with the governments of Eastern Europe is , and must remain , out of the question . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviets ' repossession of the Czechoslovakian government from Alexander Dubtek would have been incalculably more risky if deliverable nuclear warheads had been in Dubtek 's possession . As a result of its uneasiness with its involuntary allies , the Soviet Union is obliged to assume almost the full cost of the military competition with NATO , accounting for 80 percent of the Warsaw Pact budget . ( The United States , by comparison , pays 40 percent of NATO 'S expenses . ) Though the economies of Eastern Europe are more productive than the Soviet Union 's , their share in the defense of " socialism " is far lower . According to most reliable estimates , the military absorbs somewhere between 10 percent and 18 percent of the Soviet Union 's GNP ; in Eastern Europe , the average fraction is about 3 percent , ranging from an estimated 1.4 percent in Rumania to an estimated 6.3 percent in East Germany . It is unlikely that the Soviet government , acutely aware of financial constraints and always eager to cut costs , would have taken upon itself the full costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expense seemed forbidding . The Soviets ' relationship with Eastern Europe depends upon rewards as well as tanks . The peoples of Eastern Europe were somewhat sensitive to comfort when they came under Soviet rule . They have shown , for example , that they are bourgeois in the sense that they will revolt befon they are starving . To keep them complacent , the Soviets have allowed something to arise that would never be sanctioned in the motherland : a fragile and tenuous , but nonetheless unmistakable , consumerism . The peoples of Eastern Europe were granted ( albeit tacitly ) the right to expect material conditions to improve and creature comforts to multiply . Encouraging prosperity under the Soviet mode of economic organization is , of course , a problematic task . In an effort to increase growth while maintaining stability in Eastern Europe , the Soviet Union relaxed some of its rules of " socialist " organization , though never to the point where control of the system came into question . Yet simply tinkering with the Soviet model has proven insufficient , so the Soviet Union has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is a fact that is generally ignored by Western observers . The common notion about East bloc trade with the Soviet Union conforms to the Polish joke : " We give them our meat , and in return they take our coal . " In the days of Stalin , when control over the satellites was absolute and the dictator 's first task was to rebuild his shattered economy , this may have been so . But today the joke is wrong : During 1979 , Poland 's per capita meat consumption was nearly twice that of the Soviet Union . T HE FACT IS that Eastern Europe registers as a deficit on the Soviet ledgers . Because trade within Comecon is valued at artificial prices , the size and rate of growth of the deficit have not been generally recognized . In terms of rubles , the Soviet Union runs a slight profit in its trade with Eastern Europe . But when Comecon trade is valued by prevailing world prices , a different picture emerges . Soviet trade patterns with Eastern Europe are those of an undeveloped area 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil , gas , and timber , Eastern Europe provides the USSR with machinery and finished consumer goods . Eastern Europe , of course , is hardly the ideal supplier of precision products . In the hothouse of Eastern Europe 's economy , plants that could not survive elsewhere foist their sour fruits on captive markets . Comecon trade overvalues the worth of its sorry creations by a factor of two or three , if compared with what might be bought on the world market . At the same time , the Soviet Union , which during the 19705 became the world 's largest oil producer , supplies the Warsaw Pact nations with raw materials at prices that are the stuff of nostalgia in the West . The discrepancy beween Comecon prices and world prices is most apparent in oil , which the USSR now sells to its captive states at half or less of what it might fetch on the free market . Currently the Soviet Union is obliged not only to deliver more than 75 million tons of oil annually ? the equivalent of over 1.5 million barrels a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousand cubic feet of natural gas . On December 11 , Czech officials confirmed to Michael Dobbs of the Washington Post that the Soviet Union is planning to break that obligation and reduce energy supplies to Eastern Europe by 10 percent . The openness of the announcement can be taken as an indication of the severity of Soviet economic difficulties ; its timing should be taken as a lesson , for it seems to be an economic complement to the political crackdown in Poland . All told , according to calculations made by economists Jan Vanous and Michael Marrese , the Soviet Union 's 1980 subsidy to Eastern Europe comes to roughly $20 billion . This is not an inconsiderable factor in the economic health , such as it is , of Eastern Europe . If the World Bank 's reckoning of the GNP for the Warsaw Pact nations at about $400 billion is correct , then the Soviet subsidy constitutes 5 percent of the total " output " of the Eastern bloc . And if , as many experts believe , standard economic accounting methods overstate output in these countries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Eastern Bloc 's economic dependence on the Soviet Union is even greater than these comparisons would suggest . A S OIL prices rise and the quality of goods in Western markets improves , the financial costs of maintaining Eastern Europe and its inflexible , inefficient economies will increase . These are hardly unbearable costs : $20 billion a year is a small price even for a faltering Soviet economic machine to pay for control over the lives of more than 100 million people . This de facto Marshall Plan for Eastern Europe , provided grudgingly to unwilling recipients , costs the Soviet Union no more than 2 percent of its GNP in foregone earnings . Centrally planned economies , moreover , aim for political control rather than efficiency ; if the second can be had , all well and good , but it is the first which Communist systems strive for , and obtain just about as effectively as Western systems obtain profits . It would be a mistake to overlook the role Western Europe has played in underwriting the economicprosperity of the Soviet satellites . During the 1970s , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Western European loans , resulting in a debt of nearly $70 billion . It is not clear how much more will be forthcoming . A fundamental financial crisis seems to be pending , with a frightened but financially prudent Western Europe unwilling to further finance Soviet domination of Eastern Europe even as the Soviet Union scrambles to reduce the strain on its own economy . F OR 20 YEARS Soviet leaders have directed their diplomatic efforts at achieving political " detente " with Western Europe . But much to their displeasure , they have not been able to forestall pressures for a true detente with their own Eastern European subject states ? that is , for a relaxation of Soviet control over social policies . To some extent , this is actually a consequence of the Soviet bloc 's pursuit of detente with the West during the 1970s . Twenty years ago , Soviet consideration of an invasion of Poland would have been a simple matter of examining logistical difficulties . Today , even if the USSR decides to risk the military aspect of an anti-Poland operation , it will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and possible political and economic setbacks . Can the Soviet Union assume most of the $20- to $30-billion Polish debt to survive a cutoff of vital technology and trade from the West ? Can the Soviet government afford to go on demonstrating to its third world allies that to be a friend of the Soviet Union means to risk invasion ? However , most of the pressures for this detente emanate not from Moscow or Paris or London , but from Eastern Europe itself . It has been possible to find technocrats willing to rule and direct the Warsaw Pact nations for the Soviets , but the peoples of Eastern Europe have no great love for either the men in Kremlin or their troops . In most , though not all , Eastern European countries , the forces of patriotism and government are in fundamental opposition . The conflict between the two was easier to suppress in the late 1940s and early 1950s , when Eastern Europe 's societies were exhausted and its politics Stalinized . Stalin 's successors decided that these nations would only remain pacific under a delicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedoms of thought and movement , and of contact with the West to an extent unthinkable in the Soviet Union . Even more than the Soviets , the Eastern European regimes have felt the pressure of the post-Stalin contradiction of not being able to continue in the dictator 's path , yet not being able to stray far from it , of presiding over a system dangerous either to continue or to reform . The Brezhnev-era attempt to alleviate their client states ' difficulties with economic palliatives has only made the dilemma more immediate . If the Western nations were to do nothing , pressures for detente in Eastern Europe would mount anyway ; perhaps not in Bulgaria , where Todor Zhivkov can speak of his people as the " loyal younger brothers to the great Russians , " and perhaps not in Rumania , where Nicolae Ceau*escu has managed to blend nationalism and " Brezhnevism " into a unique Transylvanian variant of totalitarianism . But in East Germany , Hungary , Czechoslovakia , and Poland , pressures for economic and political independence from the Soviet Union can be expected to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breeds constraint ; for reasons of ideology and security , Soviet leaders feel unable to withdraw from Eastern Europe . In light of current Soviet economic difficulties , and of the strong likelihood of their becoming more severe during the 1980s , it is nearly as improbable that the Soviet leadership could attempt to increase the Soviet presence in , or subsidy to , Eastern Europe . Thus it seems likely that the Soviets will attempt to muddle through ? that is , mount a desultory attempt to contain and minimize a continuing crisis . Such a half-hearted strategy is really no strategy at all , for brushfire responses can only slow , not reverse , the political drift of much of Eastern Europe . Eventually there might come a flashpoint crisis that demands ( in the Soviet view ) a military response . Yet the peoples of Eastern Europe appear to have learned well the lessons of Hungary and Czechoslovakia , and now know how to probe without provoking an invasion . For many Warsaw Pact citizens , such a standoff , no matter how uneasy , would bring them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for decades . T HE WEST is in a position to help move the Eastern Europeans beyond a mere stalemate . Soviet-East European relations do not exist in a vacuum . Given the situation developing in the Warsaw Pact countries , Western Europe and the United States , despite recent events in Poland , might be able to encourage a gradual relaxation of the Soviet grip on the economies and peoples of Eastern Europe . This is not to be confused with updated versions of the 1952 Republican Party platform 's call for " rolling back " the Soviets to the Ukraine . ( As John Spanier has noted , that plank " seems to have been devised primarily to roll back the Democrats in the United States , " and it was all too easy to move from that kind of blustering for domestic consumption to Radio Free Europe 's false encouragement of Hungarian hopes in 1956 . ) For the West , the advantages of " Finlandizing " Eastern Europe are self-evident . Although in Soviet eyes Finlandization is something to be foisted upon one 's enemies , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least undesirable outcome for an empire facing the problems that the USSR seems likely to encounter in the coming decades . After all , as William Pfaff has observed , of the 12 nations on the Soviet periphery , the one causing the least worries for the Politburo , the one whose border with the Soviets is most peaceful , is Finland , which was beaten by the Soviet Union during World War II but was never occupied . Finland sustains its own economy , and indeed , through its trade deals , has been made to play a disproportionately large role in sustaining the Soviet empire . With its army of 40,000 men-100 times smaller than the Soviet armed forces ? Finland poses no military threat to the USSR . And Finland tacitly allows the Soviet Union a veto over its foreign policy . Yet , as the Economist has noted , Finland is the only democracy east of the Baltic . It has a nominally free press and holds free elections ; its citizens enjoy freedom of speech and movement , and make changes in their lives more or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the notion of settling for a life that is half-free . But this is surely more satisfactory to the people of Finland than the situation of the Warsaw Pact nations is to the peoples of Eastern Europe . w HAT CAN American policymakers do to en- courage rather than frustrate this possibility ? Simply recognizing the possibility would be a step in the right direction . At bare minimum , our responsibility to the Poles and to other Eastern European peoples is not to get in their way , and , especially , not to mislead them ; there should never again be a situation in which American promises are given with no intention of their being kept , as happened with Radio Free Europe in 1956 . Americans could further help the people of Eastern Europe by keeping an eye on Western bankers . Only one side in East-West relations has ever attempted to separate business from politics , Western governments must scrupulously examine the loans being granted to the Warsaw Pact nations by Western financial institutions . If loans are dispensed carelessly or out of fear of losing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of subsidizing the inefficient systems which retard economic progress , but also of suffocating political progress by underwriting regimes which would otherwise themselves be forced by economics to liberalize . Yet loans also could be granted explicitly as rewards to be given after each successful step in economic liberalization . That can happen only if Western banks act both as a consortium and as stewards of Western interests ; right now it is not clear that they can do either . Finally , the West must stop subsidizing the Soviet imperium . Currently , Japanese , European , and even American corporations and governmental bodies make the Soviet task of controlling its allies far easier than it might otherwise be by granting Moscow financial room to maneuver . In Angola , to take one case , Soviet proxies are now making the jungles safe for the MPLA 'S varient of " socialism . " This is an expensive task : by some estimates , it costs as much as $3 million per day . The USSR has been spared the necessity of footing this bill . Instead , Gulf Oil has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $5 million a day in royalties to the Luanda government . But it is not necessary to look to exotic regions of the world for further examples . Western corporations are competing against each other to participate in the 3,000-milelong gas pipeline from Western Siberia to Western Europe , which during the next decade is expected to increase the Soviet Union 's hard currency receipts by 50 percent , even as it gives the men in the Kremlin a foot on the oxygen line , as it were , of the nervous patients of Western Europe . Readers of the Soviet journal International Affairs are familiar with the Marxist-Leninist view of the West , in which every economic and social disturbance is held to be an auspicious outcropping of economic crisis , another indication that the decrepit West is slouching toward the end of an era . This assessment is wrong ; indeed , it is far more descriptive of the Soviet predicament . This is not to say that all is well in the West . Both the Soviet empire and the Western Alliance are pained , but by entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hallmarks of modern totalitarianism . The Western malaise is not precisely economic , but spiritual and moral . Among its many manifestations are , on the one hand , the evident unwillingness of the adherents of the European peace movement to defend their own societies , and , on the other hand , the evident willingness of Western industrialists and financiers to reap short-term profits at the expense of Eastern freedom and Western security . The ailments of the superpowers are chronic , but not necessarily terminal . Whether East or West will emerge the more successful form this long-term competition depends largely upon their recuperative abilities . These are as yet unknown . 