@@432219

 | Ben Wilson , the 17-year-old star forward of the Illinois state champion basketball team , was walking with his girlfriend during a school lunch break . Suddenly , they were confronted by three teen-age gang members . As the 6-foot 8-inch Wilson tried to move past them , one youth turned to a companion and said , " This guy pushed me . Pop him . " The teen-ager pulled out a .22-caliber pistol and fired two shots into Wilson 's abdomen . Wilson died a day later ? on Thanksgiving eve . And before the year was out , 11 more people were murdered by gang members , bringing the city 's 1984 total to 98 gang-related deaths . Chicago is in the throes of some of its worst gang violence since the 1930s . Youth gangs that once battled over turf have evolved into small criminal empires fighting for control of thriving narcotics , auto-theft , gun-running and extortion operations . Many leaders of Chicago 's estimated 110 street gangs are well out of their teens and polished their street schooling in Illinois prisons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of the victims are innocent bystanders . Elliott Williams , 19 , was gunned down by a gang member who later said he was angry because Williams ? a member of no gang ? failed to respond to his own gang 's hand signal . Members of the Black Gangster Disciples shot and killed Carey Epkins , a 26-yearold deaf man , at a bus stop . They mistook his arm gestures for the signals of a rival gang . But it took the Wilson killing to stir anger outside the churches and funeral parlors in black and Latino neighborhoods . Mayor Harold Washington has taken a hard line : " I will not listen to any excuses for gang crime and street violence . " He has reversed a decision to shrink the police force and shifted $450,000 in federal funds to the police gang-crime unit . The city has also allocated new money for neighborhood civilian patrols and created a citizens ' task force that will discuss the problem at 25 community meetings . And last week rock star Stevie Wonder , the mayor 's guest for Martin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concert to raise funds to combat gangs . " The time to strike is now , " says the mayor . Publicity : But in many neighborhoods the gangs are so entrenched that they flaunt their criminal operations . Heavily armed teams deal drugs openly at street corners , using gang " peewees " as police lookouts . The " street tax , " or seguro ( insurance ) , is a regular part of a merchant 's business expenses on many blocks . Younger gang members mimic these operations by collecting a " tax " from schoolchildren or " tolls " to ride the elevators in housing projects . And violence is even a public-relations tool . After a Chicago Tribune series on gangs , members of gangs not mentioned in the paper called to protest . " They wanted us to help publicize them as the biggest and meanest guys in town , " said investigative reporter William Recktenwald . " They can use the clips to recruit 13-year-olds . " Last month when a 15-year-old was mistakenly shot to death , the accused killer told police that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nightly news . Just before Christmas , 200 black and Hispanic gang leaders gathered for an unprecedented summit meeting at the headquarters of the El Rukns , a " religious sect " that grew out of the notorious Blackstone Rangers . Reico-el , an El Rukn minister , held a press conference to announce that the gangs would enforce their own peace in a spirit of " brotherhood . " If there are violations , he said , " we know how to punish our own . " But the city has no intention of ceding the problem to the gangs . Chicago actually tried that back in the ' 60s , and the Blackstone Rangers managed to siphon off about $1 million in federal job-training funds ? seed money , some contend , for future narcotics and weapons businesses . @#                     