@@432090

 | One by one , the traits that humans supposed were uniquely their own ? from tool-using to monogamy ? are turning up in other creatures . Today , language stands alone as the distinguishing mark of mankind . Yet scientists digging for the roots of language have been as frustrated as paleontologists without fossils . Since modern tongues bear no more resemblance to each other than hummingbirds do to gorillas , it 's hard to believe they have anything in common , much less to imagine what a shared ancestor sounded like . According to a new book by University of Hawaii linguist Derek Bickerton , however , creole languages are the missing linguistic fossils . Scattered across the globe from Honolulu to Guyana , they have similar structures , suggesting that they reflect a linguistic logic innate in man . Bickerton calls them " the equivalent of the Galapagos to Darwin " and says they may be evidence of a " bioprogram " that shapes man 's gift of words . It is a controversial theory that has been advanced before in one guise or another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fifteen years of studying creoles around the world . Because the structures of creoles were formed from scratch , instead of evolving from existing tongues , they show grammar and syntax developing naturally . Studies of how children learn to speak support the idea that creoles reflect a linguistic bioprogram , for early-childhood language strongly resembles creole structures . These observations prod Bickerton to assert that creoles " give us access to the essential bedrock on which our humanity is founded . " Makeshifts : Creole languages sprang up as colonialism spread , from 1500 to 1900 . Laborers were imported into such places as the Caribbean and Hawaii , creating working populations with diverse languages . In order to communicate , the workers developed pidgin languages , makeshift tongues that stuck together words from the speakers ' original languages , using whatever rules they knew . Pidgins are functional , but that 's about all . Because they have no coherent rules , they suffice for brief encounters but not for full expression . Children seem to realize this , says Bickerton , for on Hawaiian plantations they developed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different from pidgin as well as from many modern languages on the island . " In Hawaii , " Bickerton believes , " we have empirical proof that ... the first creole generation produced rules for which there was no evidence in the previous generation 's speech . " Hawaiian and the roughly 350 other creoles around the world share almost identical grammatical structures . For instance , all known creoles use only three articles : the definite ( corresponding to " the " ) , the indefinite ( like " a " ) and the zero ( like " -s " as in " they bought books " ) . In addition , creoles indicate whether an action was accomplished or not , showing in a sentence such as " I went to see Bill " whether the speaker actually saw hint Creoles are also negative- happy , putting negatives before subject , verb and object as in " no dog did n't bite no cat . " According to Bickerton , these and nine other similarities are " strong evidence that some genetic program common to all members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If there is indeed a bioprogram for acquiring language , it should also guide children learning to speak . Specifically it should generate something like an English creole for American babies . Bickerton says it does ? that the grammatical mistakes children make resemble creoles . He offers several examples . Children are as fond of negatives as the most diehard creole speaker , doubling and tripling their " noes , " " nots " and " nevers . " They also have trouble moving words to produce questions , asking , " I can ... ? " rather than " Can I .. ? " The author explains this difficulty by saying it 's " unnatural " to move words around to ask a question ; creoles move words to the front of sentences only to emphasize them . " Can I ... " would then mean something like " I really can . " Says Bickerton , " The child sees that moving a word to the beginning of a sentence is not to emphasize it , and thinks that 's bizarre . " So , following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for both declarative sentence and question . Conversely , the rules of grammar that are a snap for children to pick up " turn out .. . to be key features of creole languages , " Bickerton writes . He cites the ease with which children use the " - ing " ending . Even 2-year-olds know this verb form -- and such " nonpunctual " phrases ( like " I was playing " ) are also an important part of creoles . Moreover , children never make the mistake of tacking " - ing " onto a verb such as " want , " even if the desire has lasted for a while . That is , they say , " I want candy , " and not " I am wanting candy . " The reason . says Bickerton , is that creoles do n't use " ing " to indicate continuing and current states of being . Bioprogram : Just as creoles came into being to replace mere gibberish , so did the first truly human language . Bickerton asserts that the brain circuitry for the linguistic forms first developed by humans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because children are most adept at handling verbs ( " mama " and " dada " notwithstanding ) , it might indicate that action words were also the first components of an ancestral human language . That claim is controversial ? and impossible to prove -- but then so is the author 's basic argument . Does it necessarily follow that because creole structures are universal , they are also innate ? Previous ideas on the innateness of language , including those of Noam Chomsky , have recently taken a beating , and although Bickerton 's theories are different ? the rules of his bioprogram are a lot looser and unfold gradually instead of being hardwired into a child from birth ? they are sure to attract criticism Perhaps their most disturbing implication challenges free will : if language reflects a bioprogram , and if we can think only what we have words for , are our thoughts biologically programed , too ? @#                     