@@487766

Vadim Belotserkovsky is a Soviet dissident who left his country in 1972 . In May , he became a dissident in the West , this time for protesting antidemocratic and anti-Semitic broadcasts by his employer , Radio Liberty ( RL ) , the U.S-. government-funded station based in Munich that beams Russian-language broadcasts to the Soviet Union . Belotserkovsky is fighting to regain his job . His case , which has received little attention in the American press , stands as -a reproach to the Reagan Administration 's anti-Communist crusade and the station 's policies and political views . - Originally called the American Committee for Liberation from Bolshevism , the station was established by State Department and Central Intelligence Agency officials in 1951 . It began broadcasting to the goviet Union two years later . ( Its sister station , Radio Free Europe ( RFE ) , started ? broadcasting to Eastern Europe the previous year . ) Unlike the Voice of America , which is supposed to disseminate news and culture from an American perspective , Radio Liberty speaks from a Russian point of view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fierce disputes among the ? migr  --  s it employs . Contrary to what most Americans think , Soviet ? migr  --  s hold a spectrum of views from left to far right , and the first staff , recruited covertly by the C.I.A. , included people of various political persuasions . As Cord Meyer , who served as a C.I.A . overseer of Radio Liberty , in the early days , wrote in his book Facing Reality : From World Federalism to the C.I.A. , " Exile leaders were so divided among themselves on ideological lines , and the , different political groups were so prone to infighting , that a tower of Babel would be erected if they were left to their own devices . " - Documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act in the 1970s reveal that the staff included a large number of ultra-right-wing nationalists  --  people who dream of a non-Communist but no less powerful Russian state and who preach Russophilia and intolerance of " alien elements " ? and even former collaborators with the Nazi occupation forces in the Soviet Union during World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roughly ' divided into two factions . The first , which I will call the nationalists , consists of first- and second-wave ? migr  --  s , who left the Soviet Union between the Revolution and the end of World War II . Most of them identify with - the Russian Orthodox religious views and the intensely nationalist beliefs of the exiled writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn . The other faction represents the third ? migr ? , wave , the more than 250,000 who came to the West in the 1970s . Predominantly Jewish , mostof them were born after the Revolution and were raised en : tirely as Soviet citizens . Although anti-Communist , they are more tolerant of liberal and even socialist values , and tend to sympathize with the Westernized political views of physicist Andrei SakharoV . Belotserkovsky belongs to this group . In its early years , Radio Liberty served as a weapon in America 's cold war arsenal . In the mid-1950s , its broadcasts denounced Communist governments from East Berlin to Moscow . It , and to a greater extent Radio Free Europet played an inflammatory role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promises of Western aid . Having been criticized for . those broadcasts after the uprising , U.S. station officials informally imposed constraints that barred irresponsible statements . Nevertheless , polemics and strident anti-Communism continued to mark the broadcasts until 1971 , when an even bigger scandal broke in the United States over revelations that the C.I.A . had secretly funded the two stations since 1950 . Senator William Fulbright , then head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , led the fight in Congress to shut down the stations as a " relic of the cold war . " After a long struggle , a compromise was reached . In 1973 , Congress severed the C.I.A . ' s tie to the stations and established a Board for International Broadcasting ( B.I.B. ) to fund and oversee them . Until 1982 , however , a corporate board of directors continued to run the stations . The two boards battled constantly over policy , programming and financial matters . The Pell amendment dissolved the board of directors and reconstituted the B.I.B. into a bipartisan board with nine voting members ( no more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ President . In effect , control of the stations ' policy and operations is in the hands of Presidential appointees , especially the B.I.B. 's chair . In Munich , RFE/RL Inc. is organized as a private cor-poration with 1,750 permanent employees and its own president , former New York Senator James Buckley . Each sta , tion has its own director , who is responsible for program content and personnel . Radio Liberty is the leading Western broadcaster to the Soviet Union . Every week its forty-six transmitters beam 400 hours of programming in twelve languages ; Russian-language programs are on twenty-four hours a day . Americans hold most of the managerial posts at the station , and ? migr  --  s work as writers , announcers , editors , producers , technicians and the like . Administrative controls are supposed to insure that broadcasts do not violate the B.I.B. 's 1973 statement setting forth the stations ' mission and the guidelines adopted in 1976 by the B.I.B. in consultation with Congress . According to the mission statement , " RFE and RL are required by law to operate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the United States . " In 1976 , when d  --  tente prevailed , those instructions meant that program material should stress " an orderly process of evolution in the U.S.S.R. . . . toward domestic and - tional policies more conducive to international understanding . " They also directed the stations to avoid " propagandistic argumentation , gratuitous value judgments and unsupported criticism of the Communist system . " The guidelines , which ? many emigres  --  primarily those who came to ' the West in the second wave  --  saw as yet another corrupt aspect of d  --  tente , became the subject of a bitter struggle inside and outside Radio Liberty in the late 1970s . Kontinent , the most influential emigre political journal , published in Munich and closely associated with Solzhenitsyn 's right-wing views , attacked them in a series of articles and editorials . According to Kontinent , they resulted in the " ruthless censorship of any slightly fresh word or courageous thought " and promoted " broadcasts of a , frankly Marxist inclination . " They also touched off infighting at Munichheadquarters . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nationalists posted a letter on the station bulletin board charging that Jews had seized control of the Russian-language service . In a meeting at the station a few months later , Victoria Semenova , a producer and nationalist activist angered by new guidelines issued by the B.I.B. , stated that many broadcasts lacked a " Russian spirit " and that there was a " pro-Sovietism in the majority of our programs . " Many Jewish emigres interpreted her charges as thinly veiled anti-Semitism . But when Vladimir Matusevitch , the Jewish managing editor of the Russian program service , retorted , " Our broadcasts are not for the Russian people but for the Soviet people . . . in the Russian language , " the rightists said his words proved that the station had fallen into pro-Soviet hands . Semenova fired off letters to the station 's president , members of Congress and the B.I.B. She was mildly reprimanded for publicizing internal disputes , but it was Matusevitch who lost his post . He was transferred to the London bureau , despite the protests of his predominantly Jewish supporters . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a victim of the anti-Semitic sentiments of the station 's influential nationalist faction . There is some evidence to support his assertion . A few months after his transfer , in an open discussion with staff members of Radio Liberty , the well-known ? migr ? Leonid Plyusch remarked that some Soviet officials believe that " Jews are the entropy of Europe . " To the consternation of . some of the other participants , a - nationalist activist at the meeting openly agreed . Jewish staff members responded by publicly accusing the nationalists of anti-Semitism . Semenova and others shot back that the Jewish employees were inciting hatred of the " Russian nation . " By late 1977 , the acrimony was so intense that the Jewish staffers sued the nationalists for libel in a West German court . The suit was unsuccessful . . . By 1980 the B.I.B. was alarmed by this negative publicity and the prospect of such disputes going out over the airwaves . In November it dispatched James Critchlow , the board 's planning and research officer , - to Munich to monitor broadcasts and examine scripts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  bre , Critchlow documented a number of " policy violations , including anti-democratic , anti-Western material . " While finding no " overt evidence of anti-Semitism , " Critchlow reported that " there were anti-Semitic overtones in some broadcasts " and that " a common thread running through the violations is the expression of Russian nationalistic and xenophobic views . " He concluded that American officials had " lost control of RL 's Russian output . " In a recent interview , Critchlow said that the B.I.B. took quick action after receiving his report . At a board meeting in January 1981 it instructed the station 's management to end the practices he had criticized and to tighten controls over religious and historical prom gramming . But by that time , the Reagan Administration was settling into the White House , and leading members of the B.I.B. were soon on their way out . The main qualification President Reagan 's appointees to the board seem to have is their enthusiasm for the Administration 's anti-Soviet crusade . Frank Shakespeare , who served as director from February 1982 until this past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was an executive at RKO , director of the United States Information Agency under Richard Nixon , and former chair of the right-wing Heritage Foundation . Presumably , Shakespeare , who refused repeated requests for an interview , approved an influential Heritage Foundation memorandum-titled " Mobilizing the Airwaves : The Challenge to the Voice of America and RFE/RL , " which was published only a few months before his appointment . " With the pursuit of d  --  tente , " the memo proclaimed , " the radios have been seriously under- funded . . . . In view of ' the potential these stations hold for American security and policy , it is important that this trend be reversed . " President Reagan has been a fierce advocate of an activist broadcasting program . His choice for director of the U.S. Information Agency ; Charles Wick , launched an ideological purge at Voice of America . In July 1982 , Reagan personally announced a long-range program for Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty that " will make it easier for millions of people living under Communist rule to hear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . between the forces of totalitarianism and freedom . " While the budgets of social pro . grams were being slashed , the stations ' budget increased from $80.4 million in 1981 to $125 million in fiscal year 1986 . Reagan 's anti-Communist crusade soon ? had a major impact on Radio Liberty . In April 1982 the B.I.B. provoked an uproar in the pblitically volatile ? migr ? community by appointing George Bailey as station director : ( The pOsition does not require Senate confirmation . ) A onetime correspondent and executive editor of The Reporter and a former European journalist for ABC News , Bailey , who is multilingual , had lived in West Germany since the early 1960s . As a civilian employee of the U.S. Army in postwar Germany , he interrogated displaced Soviet citizens and Red Army defectors and developed ties to the American intelligence community and to ? migr  --  s of the second wave . The New York Times and other publications have reported that he worked for the C.I.A . Bailey 's appointment raised two serious questions about the B.I.B. 's compliance with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about his service in the C.I.A . are true , his appointment violated the 1973 legislation that severed the stations ' ties to the agency . The choice of Bailey also contravened the spirit of the 1976 guidelines , which prohibit Radio Liberty from identifying " with any opposition group , political party or organization . " Bailey had longstanding and . well-known ties to Kontinent  --  which is funded by his personal friend Axel Springer , the right-wing West German publishing magnate  --  and to its editor , Vladimir Maksimov . Indeed , he was coordinating editor and de facto publisher of Kontinent from 1974 , when it was founded , to 1982 , and as such was deeply involved as a partisan in ? migr ? politics . The journal had spearheaded the ? migr ? campaign against the legislation and the guidelines . Not surprisingly , Bailey quickly dismantled the mechanisms set up to insure adherence to the guidelines . A Congressional investigation this year found that he eliminated the pre-broadcast review of scripts , which had been conducted by the station management , and authorized politically sympathetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to station officials , " favored the programs of friends while blocking those of foes . " No less important , Bailey recruited his former Kontinent cohorts for leading positions at the station . Bailey 's policy , the investigation concluded , was " rem -- iniscent of the fox guarding the henhouse . " The result  --  has been a series of , highly controversial broadcasts . Since ' 1983 , Radio Liberty programs have claimed , for example , that Jewish revolutionaries bear a direct responsibility for the destruction of the old regime , that anti-Semitic pogroms in the Ukraine during the Civil War should be understood in the context of Jewish support for the Bolsheviks and that Ukrainian Nazi ' collaborators were freedom fighters . Such broadcasts , which echo recent Soviet anti-Semitic prop aganda , have been protested by Jews and non-Jews alike . Simon Wiesenthal , Harvard University Sovietologist Richard Pipes , the Anti-Defamation League and Senator Claiborne Pell , among others , have criticized the B.I.B. 's failure as an oversight agency . - But with Shakespeare at the helm , the B.I.B. was unwilling even to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ critical reports in the press forced , the issue last year . In fact , since 1982 , the board 's staff had repeatedly alerted B.I.B. members to the questionable broadcasts . James Buckley , who as president of RFE/RL was responsible for enforcing station guidelines , believed that nothing was amiss . In a recent telephone interview he asserted that Bailey 's loosening of controls has " produced much richer , more responsive ' broadcasting . " Buckley 's outlook helps explain why Vadim Belotserkovsky 's protests cost him his job 1. st May , after twelve years at , Radio Liberty . Described as a " first-class nuisance " by detractors and as a " crusader " by admirers , Belotserkovsky has always been an outspoken and uncompromising man . Despite a fairly successful career in the Soviet Union  --  he worked as a journalist on a number of newspapers and magazines , including Izvestiia and Literaturnaya Gazeta  --  he was drawn , as a Jew and as a democratic socialist , into the human rights movement of the late 1960s . Unable to obtain work , Belotserkovsky left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish emigration . Belotserkovsky 's family name ( he is the son of a famous Soviet playwright of the 1920s and 1930s ) and his journalistic experience helped him obtain a job at Radio Liberty . He worked at the New York office until 1973 , when he was transferred to Munich to write and coordinate a popular program titled " The Workers ' Movement . " Its themes reflected Belotserkovsky 's longstanding interests . He believes that political and social change in the Soviet Union requires a mass workers ' movement and has devoted his most recent book , Self-Management ( published in the West ) , to the subject . An active member of Radio Liberty 's Sakharov wing since the 1970s , Belotserkovsky wrote a series of internal memorandums protesting what he perceived to be a right-wing Kontinent takeover of the station in the aftermath of Bailey 's appointment . He also wrote a letter to President Reagan calling on him to " alter the situation at RL in the interest of the USA , of democracy and of Russia , " and an article in an ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence at the station . In 1984 a new outburst of anti-Semitic broadcasts outraged Belotserkovsky , particularly a program about Solzhenitsyn 's latest novel , August 1914 . As did the novel , the program portrayed heroes in czarist history , invariably ethnic Russians , as " the embodiment of the best national features , " while characterizing villains , frequently Jews , as " cosmopolitans " ( a Stalinist code word for Jews ) , with " nothing Russian either in their blood or their character . " Such broadcasts prompted Belotserkovsky to send a written protest to Buckley . When he received no reply , Belotserkovsky made his charges public in an article in The Nation see " Undoing the West in the Soviet Union , " March 16 , which documented a number of antidemocratic and anti-Semitic statements in Radio Liberty broadcasts . His superiors demanded that he promise to refrain from making further public protests . When Belotserkovsky refused , he was fired for violating Section III-5B of the union contract , which prohibits station employees from pursuing any " journalistic activities . . . that adversely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent appeal to Congress and the B.I.B. , leading members of the Soviet human rights movement in the West declared that " any of us would append his signature " to Belotserkovsky 's refusal to desist from further criticism of Radio Liberty . " It is for the right . . . to protest publicly in such circumstances that members of human rights movements . . . are fighting . " For such protests , " people in those countries are also deprived of jobs and subjected to repression . " Many emigres point out that other employees had been critical in ' public prior to the adoption of Section III-5B without even receiving a reprimand . Moreover , none of the employees responsible for the disputed broadcasts have been disciplined . Bailey was eased out as director at the end of March , but he remains a consultant to the station on full salary . - When B.I.B. chair Shakespeare arrived in Munich l  --  st April for a board meeting , he allegedly told Buckley , referring to Belotserkovsky , " Get rid of that S.O.B . " Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the in-house critics , and Belotserkovsky was an easy target . The spirit of intolerance appears to be spreading at station headquarters . Three of the employees who signed a letter to Buckley last May supporting Belotserkovsky were issued formal reprimands in October and may be fired . Belotserkovsky is appealing his dismissal in a Munich labor court . The proceedings , which will resume next February , are expected to be lengthy , and his salary will be terminated on December 31 . The father of a college student , he has no other means of support . One B.I.B. official thinks he has " a better than 50 percent chance . " Whatever the out-come , it is hard to dispute Belotserkovsky 's own bitter comment on the case : " There , in the U.S.S.R. , I was without work because of anti-Semitism ; and here , because I protest against anti-Semitism . Is there such a great difference ? " Belotserkovsky 's case raises several important questions . Buckley 's approval of questionable broadcasts at Radio Liberty makes his recent nomination to a Federal judgeship even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objectives and content of U.S.-funded broadcasts to Communist countries . The latter issues involve not only Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty but also two newly created stations : Radio Marti , broadcasting to Cuba , and Radio Kabul , to Afghanistan . Even assuming that such stations play a legitimate role in promoting American values , the Reagan Administration 's management of Radio Liberty dramatizes the danger that ? migr ? - staffed stations may become fundamentally " un-American " in their ideology and broadcasts . ?                     