@@487764

A big body count can really make President Reagan 's day . The Administration hardly waited for the corpses to be cleared out of Egyptair Flight 648 before it offered congratulations to President Hosni Mubarak for his " firm action " against terrorism . The triumphant tone of the message , tinged with the usual expression of regret at the loss of life , was strikingly similar to that delivered a few weeks ago to Colombia 's President Belisario Betancur Ctiartas after he ordered troops to storm the Palace of Justice , where guerrillas were holding much of the country 's judiciary hostage . So the Administration must be pleased with the November figures : 160 dead between Malta and Bogota , scores more wounded , and the international terrorist herd ( as Charles Bronson calls it in Death Wish 3 ) considerably thinned as winter approaches . The trouble with body counts is that they have more meaning as vital statistics than as historical facts . Piles of bones in Vietnam , in the Middle East , in Central America , could not resolve the essential political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result from the kind of firm action Reagan and Secretary of State Shultz favor is an escalation of terrorism rather than an abatement . There are more than enough Moslem fundamentalists ; Palestinian hijackers and Libyan hit squads to disrupt travel in the eastern Mediterranean for the foreseeable future , and hi-tech commando raids or surgical strikes  --  even if they are " cleaner " than the one last week  --  will surely up the ante of the violence . The Entebbe solution of 1976 was popular but obviously ineffective in the long run . The Betancur solution was dramatic but Probably counterproductive . Mubarak 's earlier tactic of negotiation in the Achille Lauro shipjacking angered Reagan but certainly saved lives . It 's too bad the Egyptian leader did n't stick to his guns . MACARTHUR FOUNDATION ? I THE CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHILANTHROPY JAMIE KITMAN When the directors of America 's second-largest charitable foundation voted down a package of internal reform measures in June , they closed a curious chapter in American philanthropy much the same way they had opened it : with more than a trace of self-interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John D. and Catherine T. MacArthuf Foundation has set a new low standard for charitable organizations . Although it has given away more than $240 million over the past seven years , certain directors of the Chicago-based trust have never lost sight of the maxim , Charity begins at home . In its service ; they have engaged in blatant - self- dealing , misled Congress and offices of the Federal government and paid themselves among the highest fees ever received by charitable trustees . Their failure to discharge fully the foundation 's legal obligation to distribute a set proportion of its assets every year has shortchanged the public they are supposed to benefit . Because Federal authorities and the Illinois Attorney General 's office have failed to act , although they are aware of the facts ; most of the directors  --  whose ranks have included prominent Chicago businessmen , leading academics and former government officials  --  remain in office . Excused from the burdensome ethical obligations and legal duties that appropriately attend the creation of a mammoth charitable institution , they are living proof that the Reagan revolution has spread to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , that folks do it differently in Chicago . ( Continued on Page 615 ) Limits of t issent n cold wars , grounds of conscience can easily become fields of fire . Teachers , ? Writers , clergy and social dissidents stand in the militarized zone of ideas and beliefs , and they historically thine under attack from all sides . Some unusually big guns are trained this year on Margaret Randall , the well-known editor ( El Corno Emplu-mado ) and writer ( Sandino 's ' Daughters ) who gave up her U.S. citizenship eighteen years ago to ' live and work in Mex-ico . But that was in another country and a different age , and Randall is back in the United , States , teaching American studies and women 's studies at the University of New Mexico . She is married to an American , she has an American child , American parents and an American life . She would like to have an American green card as the first step to regaining her lost citizenship , and in political peacetime she would get both as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the government is mobilizing its legal machinery to deport her . 4 DriVen by the ideological imperatives of the Reagan Administration 's campaign against the Latin American left and its- sympathizers , the Immigration and Naturalization Service wants to declare Randall " ideologically excludable " under the McCarran-Walter Act of 1952 , one of the enduring structures of the McCarthy era . Her ideological crimes include criticizing the war in Vietnam and U.S. foreign policy , and praising the accomplishments of certain revoluLions . What made the government really ' ee red was a line she wrote in 1975 : " The Vietnamese Revolution has won its greatest victory . U.S. imperialism has suffered its greatest defeat . " True though that was  --  not even Accuracy in Academia could contradict the fact  --  it was Randall 's evident approval that got her into trouble . An I.N.S. panel went through her bibliography ( she has written some forty books ) and concluded that her writings " go far beyond mere dissent , disagreement with , or criticism of the United States or its policies , " into some unspecified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The panel ordered deportation proceedings to begin . The Center for Constitutional Rights is challenging that decision in Federal court , and the case is likely to carry into next year . Randall has something of a cause c  --  l ? bre in Albuquerque , where she grew up and where she now teaches and lives on a temporary continuous visitor 's visa . Her colleagues are unanimously supportive ; the faculty senate backed her without a dissenting vote . The conservative student senate , however , voted against her almost 3 to 1 , and a group of right-wing collegians held a downtown rally to press for her deportation . To facilitate her departure , they " presented " her with a one-way bus ticket to El Paso and $5 to get her across the border . New Mexico 's Republican Senator Pete Domenici wants Randall out , but Democratic Senator Jeff Bingaman is on her side and liberal Governor Toney Anaya has so far stayed neutral . Mary Martha Weigel , chair of-the American studies ! department , of which Randall is a member , is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a group of prominent writers , including NormanMailer , Alice Walker , Grace . Paley , Toni Morrison , Kurt Vonnegut , Arthur Miller and William Styron , have joined the proceedings . Randall 's own students are steadfastly loyal , and the whole experience has been , to- say , the least , educational for them . " Most of them were n't even born in the fifties , " she said recently , " and they have no idea what life was really like during McCarthyism . " The government can hardly argue that Randall 's residency would constitute a danger , even a dim and distant one , to the country . Her deportation is not meant to serve justice but to create a climate of control . In times of ideolog-ical crisis , the government finds the McCarran-Walter Act a useful managerial mechanism ; over the years it has denied entry to such hardened thought criminals as Graham Greene , Farley Mowat , Pablo Neruda , Gabriel Garcia Marquez , Carlos , Fuentes and Dario Fo . Now the thought police have struck , again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as thorough political organizing to beat them back to their barracks . Sour Charity T he Reagan Administration tells us that there 's no need for the government to support education , the arts and other activities for the public good . Business and private philanthropy , the Reaganites say , can meet the need more efficiently than the state . . It is n't working out that way . According to the Urban Institute in Washington , government support for the arts , education and various social services declined . by $12.5 billion from 1981 to 1984 , while private aid for those purposes increased by only $4.6 billion . And what of the record of individual foundations and philanthropies ? Two case studies in The Nation have revealed some serious blemishes . In " The Selling of Miss Liberty " ( November 9 ) and " The Battle for Ellis Island " ( November 30 ) , Roberta Brandes Gratz and Eric Fettmann described the commercialization and corruption of private and nonprofit agencies in what should have been a public effort to restore two national shrines . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MacArthur Foundation , revealing a tangled web of deceit , self-dealing and conflicts of interest . To update the Statue of Liberty saga : On November 22 the government-appointed centennial commission , its ranks augmented by twenty-five new members but still dominated by chair Lee Iacocca , held its first meeting in two and a half years . The meeting was called only days after the publication of Gratz and Fettmann 's first article and featured a defense of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation 's " tasteful and appropriate merchandizing " campaign . Also on the agenda was the showing of two new television appeals for donations , starring Gregory Peck and Ronald Reagan . Members then watched David Wolper 's twenty-minute presentation of the second-by-second plans for next July 's one-hundredth anniversary celebration . If calling the meeting was an attempt to deflect the charges made by Gratz and Fettmann , it succeeded only in confirming their substance . Although foundation president William May had insisted that the budget for the work is still a rock-bottom $230 million , Iacocca told the gathering , " We 've already used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get another $100 million beyond that . " After consistently poor-mouthing the amount of money that will be taken in by government-sponsored commemorative coin sales ( at one point he said it would generate only $40 million ) , Iacocca expressed the hope that " maybe we 'll get $160 million " from those sales . And he revealed that the budget for restoring the Great Hall on Ellis Island , pegged at $125 million , does not include an additional $75 million for other necessary work on the islaLd . The long-awaited master plan for the restoration of Ellis Island has yet to appear . At the meeting Iacocca announced plans to form a new subcommittee on architecture , this one composed of commission members rather than the technical experts who serve on the current advisory bodies . " We have a lot of ideas , but none of them are firm , , " the Chrysler executive told Fettmann . Iacocca 's references at the meeting to the island 's outer half as " a shambles " and a " piece of real estate " rekindled the fear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many structures on the island will be demolished  --  the course promoted by Iacocca 's favorite architectural adviser , John Burgee , and rejected by the previous experts . Although the commission 's roster has increased to forty-six , Most of the new members are corporate executives whose companies have financial ties with the foundation . Only one of the new commissioners , Phillip Lax , has any detailed knowledge of the restoration project . Given the commission 's composition , it is unlikely that the new members will monitor Iacocca 's fund-raising and restoration projects . The lesson provided by the shenanigans at the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation and the MacArthur Foundation is that when you let the private sector do it alone , the public always pays in the end . The Wrong Horse T f President Reagan 's call for covert funding of " freedom fighters " seeking to overthrow the socialist government of President Jose Eduardo dos Santos in Angola succeeds , the United States will be sinking its teeth into its own tail . The recipient of the aid , Jonas Savimbi 's South Africa-backed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sabotage against the facilities of U.S. corporations in Angola . Following the repeal of the Clark amendment last July , which removed the only legislative barrier to American efforts to overthrow the government , the Administration began pressing for aid to Unita , seeking an estimated $20 mil-. lion to $30 million in covert funds . What , Reagan did not mention is that attacks on Gulf Oil facilities in Angola by Unita and South African forces have endangered American lives . Savimbi has ' often proclaimed that the company 's facilities in the Cabinda enclave are his prime target . Sales from Gulf 's joint venture with the Angolan government generate at least 70 percent of the country 's foreign exchange earnings , and its destruction would send the economy into a tailspin . In a 1980 interview Savimbi Said he was infuriated by the partnership between Gulf and the government and promised to send the company packing if he took power . - Thus , Reagan 's proposed covert aid conjures up a bizarre scenario of the Cuban troops in Angola protecting the facilities of U.S. corporations against attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South African Defense Force . He calls for replacing a government committed to a mixed economy and tolerant of foreign comrianies with a guerrilla band dedicated to booting out the most important U.S. corporation in Angola . The thriving Gulf-Angolan consortium has proved an exemplary cooperative venture : 51 percent of the profits go to the Angolan government and 49 percent to Gulf . Since Chevron 's takeover of Gulf , in March 1984 , the ten-year relationship has strengthened , the company agreeing to invest several million dollars in social development projects in i northern Angola . Executives of other American oil companies operating in Angola have praised the government 's pragmatism and dependability . P.W.J. Wood of Cities Service Company told The Wall Street Journal : " The Angolans are more and more development-oriented . They are n't interested in politicizing central Africa on behalf of Cuba or the Soviet Union . " From 1982 to 1984 , Angolan oil exports to the United States doubled . Trade between the two nations totals more than $1 billion a year . As Gerald Bender , president of the African Studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Africa subcommittee last month : Angola buys more American goods than all but two or three countries in sub-Saharan Africa . American businesses have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in , Angola since its independence . No American citizen or property has been touched by the government . Any destruction of American property or murder of American citizens in Angola has been carried out by South Africa and Unita . Paradoxically , the United States is both Angola 's largest trading partner and the only member of the United Nations that refuses to recognize the dos Santos government . Instead , the Administration backs an organization that is a pariah in Africa , supported only by Pretoria . - South Africa invades Angola at will , claiming to be in " hot pursuit " of guerrillas fighting for the independence of Namibia , Angola 's neighbor , which South Africa illegally occupies . In fact , Pretoria seeks to bolster Savimbi 's forces and keep Angola 's economy in a state of turmoil . In May , two- South African saboteurs were killed and one captured only 300 yards from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carrying limpet mines and incendiary bombs , President Botha 's regime claimed they were merely " gathering information " on Swapo and A.N.C . guerrillas . Even by South Africa's-loose standards of veracity , a raid 800 miles beyond Namibia 's border is stretching the definition of hot pursuit . The surviving saboteur confirmed that the raiders ' objective was to blow up the installations without regard for casualties among the 1,100 people living there , 118 of whom are Americans . Savimbi openly acknowledges his " special relationship " with South Africa , and Pretoria wants him in power-so that it can gain access to Angola 's oil , which it desperately needs . Meanwhile , with the South African economy strapped , the Reagan Administration intends to assume the economic burden of funding Unita . Congress should recognize that aid to Savimbi is aid to South Africa . It should also know that the Administration 's policy of focusing exclusively on the Cuban/Soviet threat will insure that South Africa 's withdrawal from Angola and from Namibia is deferred indefinitely . ROB NIXON . 