@@487036

It is possible to view the history of painting in the present century as a sequence of revolutionizing questions of increasing scope . Cubism was a narrower investigation than Abstractionism , since it assumed that painting would remain representational while asking why it must remain tethered to our optical experiences of the visible world . Abstractionism denied representation altogether , but assumed all the conventions of pictorial space . Abstract Expressionism broke the identification between painting and pictorialism by making the act of painting central , with the work itself but a record of fierce interaction between artist and pigment . But even this abrupt reduction of paintings to the energy of their execution assumed all the formal boundaries that segregated painting from sculpture , from dance , from poetry or music or drama . The final revolution sought to erase even those , not to speak of the deeper boundaries between art and philosophy on the one side , and art and life on the other . " Erase " is too mild a term : " explosion " is more violently apt , and the inspired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ December 2 ) surveying the crash of barriers breached or broken in the hectic period between 1958 and 1964 is appropriately titled " BLAM ! " " BLAM ! " is also the title of a painting by Roy Lichtenstein , pivotal in this show , which embodies all the revolutions that preceded it and made it possible by holding them at a distance . It is perceptually equivalent to a real visible object : namely , what could be a panel from any of the standard adventure comics of the era ; it is utterly pictorial because it is no longer important not to be ; it camouflages painterliness by appearing to be as mechanically produced as its subject ; it internalizes the boundary between fine and popular art ; and it flaunts the boundary between word and image by presenting the image of a word ? " BLAM ! " ? the violent Arthur C. Danto is the author of The Transfiguration of the Commonplace ( Harvard University Press ) . sound of shell striking plane , sending the pilot spinning from his anguished cockpit . It encapsulates by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century has defined itself , and stands in defiant liberation from divisions it rejects as arbitrary . It is a perfect emblem of the spirit of its time . Pop Art drew its energy in part from the fact that it allowed itself everything that had been repudiated as extrinsic to painting by earlier revolutions , in much the same way that triumphant feminists might allow themselves to look " feminine " if it were no longer required to submerge that quality in order to claim their autonomy . From this perspective , Pop would be philosophically equivalent to Minimalist Art  --  a second category in the Whitney show  --  which explicitly eliminates what it pleases Pop to tolerate , seeking for a kind of pure , reduced artistic essence through systematic subtraction . Drawing its subtractionist imperative from the history of successive artistic purgations , Minimalism at last arrived at objects  --  cubes , slabs , planks , poles , metallic squares  --  that could finally not be told apart from their industrial counterparts in the real world save with reference to the mere concept of art . But this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Campbell soup cans and Brillo boxes and Tide cartons , the domestic flotsam of commercial reality jostled into the space of art by a kind of conceptual determination . Both Pop and Minimalism were in effect philosophical exercises , for each was groping toward something that had finally to be recognized by philosophy itself : whatever was to distinguish art from reality was not going to be something evident to the eye . Once this was acknowledged , the visual arts became detached from the act of vision , and the way was open to fusion with the other arts . And it became a matter of artistic choice what is to be the relationship between work and eye , and whether the eye is to be treated as part of the mind or as an organ of sense that can be stimulated or violated . The happening , which is the third of the forms arrayed in the Whitney exhibition , addressed itself to breaching the boundaries between art and life by inviting viewers to participate as agents of artistic modification , enabling art to become , reciprocally , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admittedly more often hoped for than attained , all esthetic distances were to collapse . Allan Kaprow 's original happenings were exciting in part because the insulating conventions of gallery space could no longer be counted on to protect work and viewer from each other , and one entered them with a sense of danger : just to experience the works in the way they demanded required deci-*the mons of an order not commonly called for in the moral spaces of museums or theaters . Of course , nothing like this is possible any longer , and the reconstituted happenings at the Whitney are distancing quotations Jf original environments which the visitor now enters as a tourist , secure in the identities the happenings once attacked , as little in danger of being swamped as the visitors to colonial Williamsburg are of turning into Minutemen . This is true , I think , even of the spectacular jumble of tires , hundreds and hundreds of them , deployed in the areaway below street level in front of the museum . It re-enacts an environment of 1961 which Kaprow created in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " it was to have made a transcultural reference to the raked gravel gardens of Zen , and in the manner of Zen it was supposed , I imagine , to illuminate through the sudden shock of seeing worn tires in the atmosphere of refined sensibility the art gallery once stood for . The 1984 reconstitution is vastly augmented in size and number , but it can not resuscitate the shock . Piles of tires , piles of anything , are what people expect to see in proximity to museums these days . The only avenue for serious shock , at least within the limits of moral possibility , would have been for the Whitney to have allowed some of its more famous holdings  --  its Hoppers and Averys , Gorkys and Motherwells  --  to be strewn outside and exposed to the fumes of taxis and buses , for to the tossed butt . We are all pre4 pared to see tires elevated to art , but there is a barrier against seeing paintings demoted to the status commonly occupied by tires . There is a political asymmetry in artistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artistic aristocracy , but aristocrats are seldom flung into alleys or even symbolically junked except by maniacs . The entire brief period canvassed at the Whitney had , in its own right , some of the properties of its most representative achievements . It was itself a kind of happening , in that no one who entered it knew how it was to come out , and everyone was driven by the most extraordinary optimisms regarding the transformative powers of art . The period began insidiously , under the sullen shadows of Abstract Expressionism , and ended sharply , when everyone became slick and expensive , and the art world became a precinct of the world of high fashion , and the great dealers assumed the role of makeweights in the marketplace of taste . The works here have a tacky urgency , a willed impermanence , which gives the show its air of paradox . For these works were not aimed at museum installation , but were meant to be effective in some way that is at odds with the apparatus of preservation and connoisseurship and constrained presentation that defines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works of Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg , for example , have the dusty look of memorabilia dragged from the attic . Rauschenberg 's legendary combine , in which a lonely tire rings the neck of a stuffed goat , is too fragile now to travel , I was told by Barbara Haskell , to whose superb curatorial enterprise the exhibition is due . There is something grimly comic in the thought of that pretty funny assemblage being kept intact by geriatric measures when it is the destiny of stuffed goats to fall apart . But in a way this is true of almost everything here : in almost every instance ephemerality is given permanence by artificial infusion  --  a kind of esthetic taxidermy . The way these works were meant to be effective was the way the political happenings of the later 1960s were meant to be , and one can not overlook how the spirit of the artworks surfaced in what we refer to as The Sixties ( well after Johns and Lichtenstein , Warhol and Oldenburg , Rosenquist and Rauschenberg had become established as cultural monuments ) in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was often enough observed at the time , had become a genre of happening , and protest a mode of theater , and rebellion a style of life . The transformative ambitions of the artists were transmitted , perhaps through the massive publicity these movements received in the popular press , and inherited by the counterculture . And the ragbag thrift-shop look of so many of these works became the costume of political participation in the peace marches and teach-ins , thedemonstrations and rock festivals that swept the youth of the world . Much in the way that young people began to " dress for success " and take up positions in the corporate establishment , the prefiguring artworks took on the air of permanence we find among those that made it to the second floor of the Whitney , where visitors wander reverently past crushed automobiles at ' . elaborate rearrangements of shambled furniture . But here , in suitably temporary quarters on the fourth floor , everything is rowdy and daring and playful and brash . It was a moment of delicious freedom , when the rules of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The giant presences of Abstract Expressionism had lost their power to paralyze , and the corporatization of the art world had not yet taken place . The Whitney has given the art world of today a glimpse , shattering in its innocence , of its marvelous , irrecoverable childhood . It did not grow up to what it promised , but the boundaries it trampled deserved , mostly , to be trampled , just as the boundaries ' assaulted in the 1960s deserved , mostly , to be broken . It is often claimed that artworks offer metaphors for life . What the Whitney has done is to show how a period of art history is a metaphor for social transformation . Its short , boisterous duration is sobering , though it would be nice to believe that the spirit of liberation might live on in society , despite the cautioning rigidities that have overtaken the art world . There is another perspective under which the exhibit may be pondered : that of the historical counterfactual , which enables us to speculate about what might have become of these artists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly Warhol , were so congruent with the movement that gave them prominence that we can not imaK- , ine an identity for them outside if. - Oldenburg would have been a master whichever way art had gone , and Judd might have been . So might Lichtenstein , to judge from two exuberant drawings of 1958 , though of Bugs Bunny and Mickey Mouse . I am provoked to this reflection by a haunting , even exquisite portrait collage by Tom Wesselmann , as luminous as an old master . Wesselmann is represented here by later works , irreverent and audacious , incorporating the appurtenances of bathroom and kitchens . And he went on to paint his variations on the Great American Nude , pink , heavily nippled female forms with neat pubic triangles , bathing and lounging , like plastic cutouts of the women of Bonnard . They are fine , sassy pieces , but the collage of 1959 is a poem , and it induces a nostalgia for the artist Wesselmann might have become and for the art world in which he might have become it . Of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world in which such an art world would be possible rather than the one to which , considered now as social documents , these works were a collective response . ?                     