@@432422

 | The story of this presidential election begins in Norfolk County , Mass. , birthplace of both George Bush and Michael Dukakis , in communities only 5 miles apart . Their families settled in different suburbs , and therein hangs the choice that now faces American voters . It 's the Republican gentry of Greenwich , Conn. , against the Democratic do-goodism of Brookline , Mass . Each party has winnowed out the most ideological candidates , men who came from urban or rural backgrounds , and found its center of gravity in candidates whose lives were formed in thriving bedroom communities . " It 's the battle of the Norfolk County boys , " cracked Bush . A wimp and a weenie . Whatever the outcome , multitudes are complaining it 's revenge of the ' burbs ? a race sure to be short on inspiration , lacking in pizzazz and devoid of passion . For fans of caricature , this election will be drawn as Bush the Wimp vs . Dukakis the Technoweenie . In self-portraiture , it will be the Statesman vs. the Problem Solver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ideology . Both men lack one . What they offer is less a platform than their persons , not because either is so stellar but because the roiling partisan debate begun in the 1960s about the nature and size of government has subsided . The ' 60s produced a massive increase in interventionist government that constructed a vast safety net for its citizens . Ronald Reagan in the ' 80s represented the reaction to that , and he unraveled the safety net as much as the public would tolerate . Now comes the cooling-off period when coping with what we 've wrought will be the first order of business in the ' 90s . If things get appreciably worse in the economy ? a distinct and , some say inevitable , consequence of the Reagan era ? then largescale action will be necessary . But neither Bush nor Dukakis has expressed himself in such terms . They are tinkerers who will only be forced into the bold stroke by circumstance . At issue , then , is the question : How would each man govern ? Dukakis , the protoactivist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a program for the transition period between the November 8 election and his hopedfor inauguration . He has insisted repeatedly in his stump speeches that the next President will have to begin working at the job before he takes office , and he wants his team to " hit the ground running " after their heads clear from the victory celebration . His agenda is getting more complicated by the week , but he thinks the first order of business is to get a good reading on the precise size of the 1990 budget deficit and to begin attacking it through beefed-up tax enforcement . Dukakis , whose campaign has been relatively pander-free , has vowed to to make " tough choices " on spending , though he has not specified where . He has also promised to keep the Pentagon 's budget pretty much where it is . Tax hikes , goes the Dukakis dodge , " should only be considered as a last resort , but no candidate can rule them out . " " A mystical belief . " To Dukakis , governing is problem solving through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is value-neutral " consenso-mania . " To his supporters , who think that the more folks brought into the tent , the more likely it is that a solution can be managed politically , this is " effective multilateralism . " Whatever the case , the consensus-building process for Michael Dukakis is a panacea , according to his blueprint for economic revival ? " Creating the Future . " In an uncharacteristic moment of campaign emotion , he told community leaders in Davenport , Iowa , that he would return in his first month as President and convene a " summit " of business , labor and local leaders to come up with plans to save dying communities around the country . " He has a mystical belief , " says a Statehouse aide , " that getting everybody with an interest in an issue in the same room will bring acknowledgement ( a ) that something has to be done , ( b ) that there is a generally accepted way of doing it and ( c ) that these players can bring it off . It does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principle applies to foreign policy . For instance , some key advisers  | told US . News last week that they thought Dukakis would try to find a way to keep Reagan 's arms-control negotiators linked to Dukakis 's own team of bargainers . The reason : Having Reaganauts such as Paul Nitze involved in the treaty process is better than having them carp at it from the outside and would ease Senate passage of an eventual treaty cutting strategic weapons . Dukakis generally has opposed Reagan administration military initiatives and is dead set against nuclear weapon modernization . So Bush ammo in the fall will focus on these McGovernite tendencies . Dukakis thinks he has counterpunches , citing Bush 's role in the Iran-Contra scandal as a breakdown of antiterrorism policy and the Noriega debacle in Panama as a corrupt foreign policy at odds with something as fundamental as America 's war on drugs . Though Dukakis generally would be a stickler for seeking allied consensus before acting , he has promised some pre-emptive actions on foreign policy such as banning all flight tests of nuclear missiles if the Soviets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua . A fudge factor . On matters of style and substance , Bush is more difficult to figure . Unlike his current boss , he vows to negotiate personally with Congress in a summit on the budget deficit , though he has yet to give hints about where he thinks the trims should come . He gets inexplicably rousing cheers in his stump speeches when he calls for a constitutional amendment to give a President the line-item veto ? a tool to X out specific budget items in large appropriations bills . But he wo n't have any better luck getting it from Congress than Reagan did and still wo n't say how he 'd wield it . He has called for a " selective freeze " on spending to trim the deficit but has argued that the " selective " part of the equation would involve adding money for education and anti-drug programs . Bush has promised not to raise taxes , and a pillar of his campaign is a pledge to cut the capital-gains-tax rate roughly in half . The other pillar is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But his only new idea on the issue is to allow parents to create tax-exempt accounts to help pay for college . While Bush is hypersensitive to any sign that he might be departing from the Reagan line , he has implied that there is great room for change in personnel in his administration . But even in that formulation , the fudge is more pronounced than the fact . He told US . News there would be " wholesale " changes in staffing in a Bush administration . Asked if that meant there was no place for longtime Bush adviser James Baker ( the Treasury Secretary who wants to be Secretary of State ) , Bush replied : " I said wholesale change , ' not total change . ' There 's a difference . " Figure Baker goes to State , if he still wants it . Thus , the fall campaign will be as content-free as these candidates can make it and could go to the one who makes the fewest mistakes . The strategy for each campaign is to drive home points about the opponent 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weeks following the collapse of his opposition , while Dukakis has yet to show his true colors as nominee because he has n't nailed down the nomination . Though his victory over Jesse Jackson and Al Gore in last week 's New York primary made him the nominee in most eyes , barring a catastrophe , Dukakis will have to fight Jackson through all the primaries until June 7 . After that , Dukakis 's mating dance with Jackson could become the defining element of the fall campaign . If Dukakis and Jackson reach an accommodation that keeps Jackson and his vast black following happy , there is a danger that Democrats once again will be offering a ticket that is too liberal for mass consumption . However , if Jackson is not satisfied with his treatment by Dukakis , the Democrats risk the specter of an ugly convention that turns off a huge constituency they need to bring to the polls in November . No matter what happens between Dukakis and Jackson , Bush operatives already plan to tag the Democratic ticket as borderline Bolshevik . It is headed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a man from " the Soviet state of Massachusetts . " Warming to the invective , Atwater adds : " The Democratic Party has proven its true colors once and for all by nominating a Northeastern frost-belt liberal who is a big taxer and a big spender and a protege of Tip O'Neill and Ted Kennedy . " Focusing less on personality and more on bigpicture issues , Bush last week opened his speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors with an " unsolicited political prognostication : The economy is thriving and will continue to thrive . And there will be no more important issue in the fall election than experience in foreign policy . " Dukakis does n't have to be Greek to know where his Achilles ' heel is . Neither does Bush have to be a weatherman to know which way the wind 's blowing when it comes to the kind of attacks he will face . " We 're toying with rerunning the Dole ads , " says one Dukakis staffer in only partial joking reference to the biting nowhere-man commercials that Dole aired against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York with attacks on the Reagan administration 's dealings with Panamanian strong man Manuel Antonio Noriega , its strung-out war on drugs , the continuing questions surrounding Atty . Gen. Edwin Meese and the chaotic state of affairs in his department . But Bush is probably right that the state of the economy ? or at least voters ' beliefs about how each of these personalities can cope with the economy ? will be determinative . The irony is that these fortunate men ? products of America 's most fortunate time ? will find themselves addressing those from all stations who are worried that the good times are gone . The election will turn on the question of which one can best convince voters that the worst could come , even conceivably in Greenwich and Brookline , if the other guy gets elected .                     