@@431976

 | For almost two weeks before every period , Sally R. felt awful . Her breasts were swollen and tender , herr face was puffy , her stomach felt crampy and she was not able to zip up half her skirts and slacks . Sakly thought her discomfort was something all young women had to endure till one day she mentioned it to her doctor . The doctor said Sally had premenstrual syndrome and , far from having fo suffer every month , there were things she could do to ease her symptoms . Ruth D. , a 35-year-old housewife , put off visiting her gynecologist when she experienced burning and itching in the vaginal area . When it persisted , however , Ruth made a doctor 's appointment . ' She was upset to learn that she had mondial vaginitis , an infection caused by the prescription drugs she had been taking . The doctor treated Ruth for the infection but warned her that it could recur under certain conditions . Connie B. , in her late forties , began to have irregular periods . Assuming it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . She remembered how a slightly older friend had seemed to age when she had gone through menopause and Connie dreaded that the same thing would happen to her . Connie 's doctor told her that even if what she was experiencing was the onset of menopause , there were some simple things she could do to ensure against premature aging . These are just three examples of the many ailments and myths about the reproductive cycle ? from menstruation to menopause ? that can trouble women . But today , there is no need for women to suffer these " female disorders " Modern medicine and better understanding of the female body have helped clear up many misconceptions . The Monthly Cycle ? What Is Normal ? When a patient tells me , " I 'm having trouble with my periods , " she usually means that she 's noticed a change in her menstrual habits . The change is most commonly an increase in bleeding or clotting or a shorter number of days between periods . The patient wants to be reassured that the change she has observed is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The menstrual cycle is controlled by an extremely complex system of chemical signals , part of the body 's endocrine system . Various hormones , notably estrogen and progesterone , are produced in cyclical sequence every month , resulting in ovulation and menstruation . However , the regularity with which the endocrine system functions can be affected by many situations . Causes of Irregularity . Any environmental stress , such as going on vacation , a new residence or diet , work problems , a change in sleeping or waking patterns or family crises can result in menstrual irregularity . Women who go on crash diets or who are excessively concerned with body image ( some dancers , for example ) or women who suffer from anorexia nervosa may have irregular periods . You may remember reading about some women who experienced menstrual irregularities when they started to jog , That was not surprising . Not only is running stressful in and of itself , but the beginning joggers also changed their diets and sleeping patterns . Nevertheless , in most cases , the joggers ' erratic periods returned to normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods like clockwork at the same hour every 28 days , even if they are in comas . Other women virtually never menstruate ( although they may be fertile and able to become pregnant ! ) . It is interesting to note that women who spend a great deal of time together ( such as mothers and daughters , roommates , women who work long hours together and others who are close ) tend to cycle simultaneously . Generally speaking , there is enormous variation in menstrual cycles , and changes in cycles and patterns are very common . For instance , some women generally have heavier periods in their twenties and thirties than before or after . Many other women in their thirties experience a second or third day of heavy bleeding while their overall cycle length may be shorter than it was when they were younger . One of my patients , a woman in her early forties , bleeds very heavily and has since she was a teenager . Many other women who are in their mid-forties , however , report that they bleed more lightly and cycle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cycle ( measured from the start of one period to the start of the next ) can run from 18 to 45 days . This may include a day or two during a period when a woman stops bleeding . Changes in a cycle that are patterned , meaning changes that recur month after month , are usually due to a variation in hormone production . Unpatterned changes , which occur irregularly , however , may be caused by uterine growths such as polyps and tumors , which tend to bleed randomly . For this reason , I am much less concerned about a patient who tells me that for the preceding six months she has experienced two days of spotting for several days before the start of her period than I am about a patient who has irregular staining or spotting occurring randomly in between her periods and following no pattern . Problems that are not directly related to the menstrual cycle still appear to be influenced by it . For instance , women who have a tendency toward Candidu a/bicans ( a fungus infection commonly called monilial vaginitis or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right before or right after their periods . One possible explanation for this is that production of the hormone progesterone increases during the second half of the menstrual cycle ( between the midpoint and the onset of menstruation ) . This increase in progesterone enhances the amount of glycogen that is ' stored by the cells and provides the fungus with more food . Any bacteria that can normally grow in the body grows faster when blood is present ( that 's why wounds are so prone to infection ) ; as a result , other kinds of vaginitis are also more likely to recur at the time of menstruation . A word here about menstruation and medication : I have noticed that patients frequently discontinue medication , particularly vaginally inserted creams and suppositories , during their periods . Do not discontinue prescribed medications when you start to menstruate unless you are specifically instructed to do so by your doctor . Menstrual Cramps . Menstrual cramps occur if the uterine muscle goes into spasm . I believe this occurs when the production of progesterone , which has a relaxing effect on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suddenly drops at the end of the cycle ( when menstruation begins ) . Thus it is no coincidence that many women who suffer from severe menstrual cramps also at the same time have hyperactivity of the smooth muscles of the bowel ( loose stools or diarrhea ) : It has recently been found that menstrual cramps are mediated by the action of a group of body chemicals . prostaglandins : There are new prescription drugs available that reduce or suppress these substances and thus may relieve cramps.The major drawback of these drugs is that they are very irritating to the gastrointestinal tract . Fortunately , most women for whom they would be prescribed would only need to use these anti-prostaglandin drugs for one or two days during each month and therefore any possible irritation would be held to a minimum . Premenstrual Syndrome . Many of the periodic , some-  | times vague , discomforts commonly reported by women are now recognized to be part of a condition known as premenstrual syndrome . Among its symptoms are abdominal pain and cramping , tension ' which may be experienced as depression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breast tenderness and swelling , joint pains , skin problems , bloating ( particularly of the ankles , abdomen , fingers and face ) , weight gain and an increase in respiratory problems . If a woman is subject to premenstrual syndrome , she usually experiences several of its symptoms rather than just a single symptom . The symptoms may appear at any time during the two weeks before the onset of menstruation . Some women experience a premenstrual weight gain of several pounds . This may be due in part to an individual 's indulging her cravings for extra amounts of food or sweets at this time . It also could be due to what is probably the most troublesome symptom of premenstrual syndrome ? water retention . The causes of water retention are not fully understood ; they are , however , most likely hormonally linked . Similarly , the psychological symptoms of premenstrual syndrome ( depression , irritability and so forth ) , seem to be related to sodium and potassium imbalances which are also hormonally regulated . My advice to patients who suffer from premenstrual water retention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foods or to take a mild diuretic , but not both . Some women always suffer from premenstrual syndrome , some women never do and some women have it only at certain times in their lives . After years of listening to women describe their symptoms , I can add another characteristic to the premenstrual syndrome : It accentuates whatever physical or emotional weak points ( depression , anxiety , etc. ) there are in the body at the time . Recently it has been shown that traumatic events ? for example , accidents , crime , illnesses , performances , examinations , etc. ? may make onset of menstruation earlier or later , even in women who are usually very regular . MENOPAUSE For many years people have mistakenly equated the aging process with the cessation of a woman 's periods . This is false . The fact is that sortie women still in their late thirties can begin ; to have problems of aging , while other women do n't have these problems until they are in their sixties or seventies ? and maybe not even then . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of which are hormone related but are simply problems of physical aging . Granted , the average 20-year-old has a lot more stamina than the average 60-year-old . However , what you look like and how you feel as you grow older are determined largely by three factors : heredity ? about which you can do very little ? and diet and exercise ? about which you can do a great deal . In fact , contrary w what was once believed , lack of a balanced diet , adequate in calcium and vitamin D and lack of regular , reasonable exercise ( walking is tops ) have much more impact on the aging process than do normal changes in hormone production , such as occur at menopause . In cultures where older people do some type of  | physical work , premature bone aging is almost unheard of . In this country , early bone aging is more common in women than in men.The reason apparently is that traditionally men have worked into their middle sixties while women became more and more sedentary a good 20 years before that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or slowly a woman 's skin ages is genetically determined . But to avoid premature aging of the skin , stay out of the sun . Prolonged exposure to the sun can not only hasten skin aging but can cause skin cancer , particularly in women who have fair skin . Though menopause is a time of profound hormonal changes . it can be relatively symptom-free . The one exception to this may be the classic " hot flashes . " which result from the sudden dilation of blood vessels of the face and chest . While uncomfortable , these " flashes " are harmless , but they tend to occur at night and may interfere with sleep . They disappear when the menopause is completed and do no permanent physical damage . Formerly estrogen-replacement therapy was widely prescribed for menopausal women to combat hot flashes and , it- was mistakenly thought , delay the symptoms of aging . Since estrogen has been shown to cause cancer of the uterine lining , estrogen replacement , if prescribed at all , is recommended only for short periods when symptoms are acute . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occur anywhere throughout the female reproductive system . The most common examples of this problem are fibroid tumors of the uterus . Uterine Fibroids tend to occur as multiple rather than single growths and they are almost always benign . The decision whether or not to operate to remove them is governed by three factors : Are they bleeding ? Are they causing pain ? How large are they ? Fibroids can frequently be removed without removing the uterus ( this procedure is called myomectomy ) . In about 10 percent of cases , fibroids recur after they have been removed and these new growths may require additional surgery . Ovarian Cysts are the next most common growths . The ovaries are normally filled with little follicle cysts that sometimes become enlarged . For example , it 's not unusual to find a slightly enlarged ovary in a menstruating woman . This enlargement usually disappears without treatment within a few weeks or months . In postmenopausal women , however , where the general risk factors for malignancy are higher , any enlargement may require surgical investigation . Polyps , another common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in various parts of the body . In women , they appear in the cervix and the uterus , where they may cause bleeding . Sometimes they can be removed in the doctor 's office . but frequently they require removal by dilatation and curettage ? which is a hospital procedure . There are other types of cysts that occur throughout the female genitalia . Cystic remnants of embryonic structures appear in the vaginal wall ; cystic outpouchings occur in the urethra ; sebaceous cysts are as common in the genital area as are pimples or boils around hair follicles . Cervical cysts ( most often nabothian cysts ) are benign . Cervical cysts look and feel like little pearls and are caused by cells that have gotten underneath the outer skin of the cervix and are producing mucus Endometriosis involves the formation of cysts filled with tissue similar to the tissue in the lining of the uterus . These cysts can form almost anywhere in the abdomen . The most common symptom of endometriosis is severe menstrual cramping . Treatment may require surgical removal . Infertility is a possible consequence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can grow rapidly . The incidence of endometriosis seems to be increasing in recent years although precisely why it is on the rise is not known . Bartholin Cysts can occur if the Bartholin glands , which are located on either side of the vagina and normally secrete lubricants , close off . This closure can cause extreme swelling of the labia and terrible pain , usually relieved by lancing . A surgical procedure called marsupialization ? in which the gland is opened , a small wedge-shaped section cut out and the edges sewn back ? may be done to facilitate draining and discourage new cyst formation . Malignancies of women 's external genitals are almost always squamous-cell carcinomas . These are very simliar to squamous-cell carcinomas of the cervix . How can you tell if a lesion in the genital area should be a source of concern ? As ageneral guide , any painless ulcerated lesion ( as opposed to , for example , pimples , boils or herpes sores ) should be biopsied . For good health care , a woman should examine herself regularly . A good time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bath or shower because the soapy water enhances your sense of touch . I can not emphasize too strongly that any tiny bump or change in skin texture should be brought to your doctor 's attention without delay . A small irregularity will be much more apparent to you than to your doctor , who only sees you once or twice a year . THE D AND C The D and C ( dilatation and curettage ) is a surgical procedure that may be indicated if there is abnormal bleeding . It involves dilating ( temporarily enlarging ) the opening of the cervix and inserting a very sharp surgical tool called a curette , with which the doctor gently scrapes out the lining of the uterus . Abnormal bleeding may occur due to various causes . In cases of spontaneous miscarriage , where the patient continues to bleed , a D and C is performed to remove any tissue that remains in the uterus . A D and C is also appropriate when a patient is hemorrhaging because of hormonal problems and the bleeding must be stopped immediately ( if hormones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before they take effect ) . Cases of random mid-menstrual-cycle bleeding may be cured by a D and C if the origin of the bleeding is hormonal ; if it is not hormonal , the D and C allows a diagnosis of the lining of the uterus to determine if the bleeding is caused by a polyp or a tumor . In general , abnormal bleeding in older patients and in all postmenopausal patients suggests an immediate D and C. With younger patients the procedure may prove to be unnecessary , depending on the pattern of bleeding that is observed over several months . There are two steps that should be taken before a D and C is done : first , a Pap test ; second , an endocervical curettage under anesthesia just prior to the D and C. The reason for this is that it is important to keep separate the tissue scraped from the cervical canal ( endocervix ) in case there is an unrecognized p'recancerous or cancerous cervical lesion . SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES In recent years , the old concept of venereal disease ( VD ) has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gonorrhea , chancroid , lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale ) , to include more than 20 sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs ) . Some of these STDs affect only women . But because the diseases can be transmitted to women by their sexual partners , they are classified among the STDs . These diseases are caused by a variety of agents , among them bacteria , viruses , fungi , protozoans and parasites . Women who are infected with one STD are at highest risk for developing another STD . There are still many myths extant about STDs . One of these , the idea that " nice people do n't get VD , " is not onl absurd ( since diseases do n't discriminate ) but dangerous . A woman should be aware that STDs are spread through all forms of intimate contact , not only through genital sexual intercourse . Women who suspect that they may have been exposed to a sexually transmitted disease should not hesitate to be tested . If your regular doctor is unwilling to examine or test you for an STD , go immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the five classic venereal diseases ? chancroid. lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale ?  | have practically disappeared from the U.S. There is also encouraging news in that the total number of cases of syphilis in the U.S. has been progressively decreasing since the early 1940s . The current annual number of cases of primary and secondary syphilis in this country is about 100,000 . The number of cases of congenital syphilis ( syphilis which was passed by the mother to her baby during pregnancy ) is today no more than several hundred . Syphilis is relatively easy to diagnose by a blood test . The best treatment for it is penicillin , although other antibiotics may be used . On the other hand , the number of reported cases of gonorrhea in the U.S. has progressively increased since 1958 . The rate of increase runs between six percent and 12 percent annually . In 1977 , just over one million cases were reported . The disease is currently considered to be in epidemic proportions . Eighty percent of all women who have gonorrhea do not show symptoms of the disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men run as high as 70 percent . In women , gonorrhea frequently settles in the cer- vix , although the disease can be contracted in the throat or rectum . The infection may spread to the lining of the uterus , the Fallopian tubes , the abdominal cavity and elsewhere throughout the body . Gonorrhea is treated with penicillin and other antibiotics . If it is not treated , a serious complication for women can often result : a group of infections called pelvic inflammatory disease ( PID ) . PID can also occur as a result of another common STD , nongonococcal urethritis ( NGU ) . NGU is usually asymptomatic in women ; an infected woman , if pregnant , can pass the organism on to her baby . PID affects the Fallopian tubes , ovaries and uterus and is very painful . PID can result in sterility and may recur again and again . Treatment for the disease is antibiotics ; sometimes hospitalization is required . An estimated 500,000 cases of PID occur annually in this country . There are two sexually transmitted viral diseases which appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ venereal warts . The herpes virus that usually causes genital infections ( herpes virus 2 ) is closely related to the virus that causes cold sores . In fact , the cold-sore virus may sometimes cause genital sores . Similarly , the virus that causes condylomata acuminata ( venereal warts ) is very similar to the virus that causes skin warts . Herpes first appears as small blisters located in the vagina , near the rectum or on the vulva , thighs or buttocks . These blisters may go unnoticed until they ulcerate and become very painful . The sores may also become secondarily infected with bacteria or fungus , causing swelling so severe that it prevents urinating . The open sores are highly contagious ; there is an incubation period of three to six days after exposure to the disease .  | A woman who has open sores at the time she is about to give birth should be delivered by cesarean section since the virus can be very dangerous to the baby.The sores gradually disappear , but the virus remains dormant and can recur , particularly during times of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be applied to dry up the sores more quickly , there is no known cure for herpes at present . Venereal warts are growths which can appear in or around the vagina and rectum and may cause itching and bleeding . They also are very difficult to cure . Venereal warts are . usually white in color with rough surfaces ; they often grow in clusters.Though they are communicable , not everyone is susceptible to infection . The incubation period after exposure is erratic ; it varies from several weeks to many months.The warts grow particularly rapidly if a woman is pregnant and if the growths in the vagina are extensive , cesarean delivery may be necessary . Treatment consists of burning the warts off with chemicals and/or by electrocauterization . The procedure may require hospitalization . It is common for the warts to recur and , like herpes , recurrence appears to be stress related . Psychotherapy may be helpful in treating this disease . Among STDs , the complaint I hear with greatest regularity from my patients is , " My vaginal infection is back ! " This usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sexual transmission is not the only way these infections are contracted , it plays a significant role . The infections are : trichomoniasis , candidiasis and nonspecific vaginitis ( Corynebacterium vaginale Haemophilus vagina/is vaginitis , Chlamydia trachomatis and Ureaplasma urealyticum ) . Trichomoniasis is caused by a protozoan flagellate ( a single-celled parasite ) called Trichomonas vaginalis . In addition to sexual transmission , it can be transmitted by contact with an infected person 's bath towel or clothing . An estimated 2 ? million cases of trichomoniasis occur annually in this country . The symptoms of the disease include a vaginal discharge which may be very light or profuse , white , yellowish or greenish in color and is often accompanied by an offensive odor . Irritation and itching may be experienced . About 25 percent of women with  | trichomoniasis do not show any symptoms . The incubation period ranges from several days to three weeks , and the symptoms most often appear at the time of or just after menstruation . About 80 percent of cases are diagnosed when the women have Pap tests . The treatment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is highly effective but controversial because animal studies have shown the drug to be carcinogenic . If a woman is under treatment for trichomoniasis. her sexual partner should be tested and , if infected , treated . Candidiasis ( often called monilial vaginitis or yeast infection ) is caused by the yeast Candida albicans , which is normally found in harmless quantities in the mouth , gastrointestinal tract , rectum and vagina . If there is an overgrowth of the yeast , symptoms develop . An overgrowth may occasionally result from sexual transmission but is more often caused when a woman has been taking certain drugs including oral contraceptives , some antibiotics , metronidazole or cortisone . Symptoms of candidiasis commonly include an uncomfortable inflammation of the vulva and a thick white discharge . The usual treatment for the disease is the insertion of vaginal tablets containing nystatin , an antibiotic drug which is specific for Candida albicans . Other treatments include miconazole nitrate cream , clotrimazole vaginal tablets and painting the vagina with gentian violet . Reinfection from the rectum frequently occurs . Therefore when candidiasis is recurrent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treated with oral nystatin . The third most common sexually transmitted vaginal infection is nonspecific vaginitis . This is characterized by a white or gray malodorous discharge and may produce a mild burning sensation and abdominal discomfort . Between 10 percent and 40 percent of women who have this disease are asymptomatic . Ampicillin is specific for Corynebacterium vaginale vaginitis and tetracycline is the treatment of choice for the other two infections . Many things can go wrong with the complex female body . However , if a woman observes the basic rules of good health care and follows her doctor 's advice when necessary , she can minimize or even eliminate her chances of having the traditional " female troubles . "                     