@@492578

you never need worry about a fast-moving cold front spoiling your stay in the Dutch ABCs  --  Aruba , Bonaire , and Curacao , just 60 miles off the Venezuelan coast . Their temperature varies little from the average of 81 ? F. ( yet it never seems even that hot , thanks to constant trade winds from the east ) . Rainfall seems almost nonexistent  --  only 20 inches a year . But the excellent climate is only part of the ABCs ' allure . Many islanders , for instance , are descended from the Dutch and intermixed with other stocks to create their own unique culture , including a special language called " Papiamento , " a blend of English , Spanish , Dutch , and Portuguese . But not to worry : Most everyone speaks several languages , including excellent English . Happily , present-day islanders retain the Dutch traditions of politeness , cleanliness , and efficiency . Most important , they are genuinely friendly people who welcome visitors . Their bright , whitewashed buildings with colorful orange roofs crowd the waterfront and reflect the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deep blue sky and turquoise green water , the dwellings seem too toylike to be real . The vividness of the buildings is a 86 ( from p. 82 ) remarkable contrast to the desert-like terrain of each island 's interior : Large cacti and scrub are the ABCs ' main natural vegetation . Early explorers cut down all the trees for shipbuilding . Aruba Aruba , only 19.6 miles long and 6 miles across at its widest point , is best known for two things : beautiful palm-lined beaches and shopping . The beaches , some of the cleanest and brightest in the Caribbean , seem to stretch on forever , making them ideal for early-morning and late-evening walks . The major luxury hotels that crowd the beachfront range from the elegant locally owned Tamarijn Beach Hotel to such big international chains as Holiday Inn , Americana , and Sheraton . The shopping is nicely centered in one area of brightly painted stores along Nassaustraat in the main city of Oranjestad . Because cruise ships stop regularly , the shopping complex has grown into one of the most sophisticated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hub of Aruba , you 'll find a great deal to see on this tiny island . The roads are good but many are unmarked : Visitors can either consult the local road maps frequently or take their bearings from the ever present dividivi trees . The divi-divis ( which according to locals grow sideways instead of upward ) are all bent permanently in one direction  --  southwest ? by the easterly trades . A tour of Aruba should include the rugged north coast , site of the largest and most perfectly formed natural bridge in the Caribbean . Near the center of the island , at Casibari , is another natural curiosity , rock formations mimicking the shapes of various animal heads . You 'll find plenty of curious manmade objects on Aruba as well . Along the doorways and windows of many cottages you 'll see ornate carvings of flowers and strange symbols carved into concrete  --  hex signs , made to ward off evil spirits . . ? yet this is a very Christian population . And near the Aruba Sheraton is De Olde Molen ( The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Holland . It 's still in operation , not as an energy source but as a very popular and unusual restaurant . Another interesting stop is Spanish Lagoon , where pirates supposedly hid their booty and where some of the treasure may still be waiting to be found . Nearby Frenchman 's Pass is a definite must for bird watchers . Large green and yellow parakeets  --  about twice the size of those usually seen in the United States  --  nest in steep cliffs along the roadway . Sunset is the best time to see them . Besides touring Aruba , you can also arrange horseback riding , tennis , golf , and scuba diving through your hotel . Getting there is easy on ALM Antillean Airlines . Bonaire Although Bonaire is considerably larger than Aruba ( 24 miles long and from 3 to 7 miles wide ) , it is far less developed . It lacks Aruba 's beaches and shopping opportunities but more than compensates with its myriad of other outdoor activities . Bonaire has been described as a desert island surrounded by an oasis of coral reefs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Caribbean . Except for the Venezuelans who come to Bonaire to enjoy sun and seclusion , the hotels cater mainly to scuba divers from the United States . You do n't need to be a scuba diver to explore Bonaire 's hidden underwater treasures : The snorkeling is also excellent . Underwater you 'll see many bright orange sponges the size of boulders , convict-striped sergeant fish that love to be hand-fed , and amazing black crinoids with white tips that look like sea lilies . Curacao Curacao is not only the largest of the Dutch ABCs ( 38 miles long and 7 miles wide ) but the busiest . Of all Dutch ports , Curacao 's Willemstad harbor is second only to Rotterdam 's in importance , primarily because of a large oil complex developed over the decades . Taking an initial look at Willemstad , the first-time visitor may experience deja-vu , and no wonder . It seems whenever magazines or advertisers want to depict the cheerful old-world architecture found in some Caribbean cities , they choose Willemstad 's yeIlow-and-orange waterfront . Willemstad is divided into two almost separate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ port city . The two sides are known as Punda and Otrabanda . Punda , meaning " point " and located on the east bank , is the older settlement , dating back to 1634 . Not only is Punda the section of Willemstad with most of the old restaurants and stores in storybook colors , it is also one of the great shopping malls of the Caribbean . It far surpasses even Aruba . Many visitors find Punda 's large floating market with fresh Venezuelan produce equally intriguing . Curacao 's cosmopolitan population ( more than 50 different nationalities ) is best reflected in its diverse dining establishments . The local specialty  --  rijsttafel ( pronounced ricetahfel ) ? is a kind of transplanted Indian smorgasbord containing from 15 to 40 different servings , such as pork , shrimp , chicken , beef , vegetables , and fish , that have been either broiled , stewed , or fried . A relish of chopped peppers can be added to spice things up even more . In your exploration of Curacao , you will probably pass by the gigantic Curacao Drydock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hemisphere . The complex , painted in bright crayon colors , is so large and unnatural looking that from a distance it resembles a child 's overelaborate erector set . It 's an unforgettable sight . You do n't need a new vocabulary to learn the Dutch ABCs . Aruba , Bonaire , and Curacao simply spell perpetually warm , sunny weather , a myriad of activities , and friendly people . That all goes well in any language .                     