@@432252

 | When an American sits down to a typical breakfast , chances are the menu includes bug spray , weedkiller , an embalming agent and arsenic . It 's no joke . Favorite foods such as bananas , cereal , milk and toast all contain traces of lethal chemicals . Today , these substances are so widespread in food that they are accumulating in human tissues . Some poisons are part of the natural environment , like the minute amounts of arsenic in cow 's milk or the lethal oxalic acid in rhubarb that is neutralized by cooking . Others ? pesticides , fungicides and formaldehyde ? are put there by farmers and food processors . Federal health officials insist that the toxin levels in food are well below human-safety limits . Yet environmentalists and a growing number of private physicians worry that poisons winding up in body tissues may cause diseases and even permanent defects . Behind the malaise . Many doctors believe that some general maladies ? indigestion , frequent headaches , dizziness and insomnia ? often stem from environmentally contaminated food . " Patients accept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our food chain from organic to chemically processed foods , " notes Dr. Paula Davey , a clinical ecologist in Ann Arbor , Mich . " People sensitive to synthetic chemicals find themselves in trouble medically in their 40s and 50s , instead of in their 60s and 70s . We now have to defend ourselves against chemicals that we never saw in our environment until this century . " All this is happening as Americans live longer than ever ? up to 75 years on average . Despite increasing life spans , says Dr. Marshall Mandell of Norwalk , Conn. , " the quality of life is not what it ought to be . We could live long , comfortable lives . Instead , the degenerative diseases , such as those of the heart and kidneys , are increasing in our society while such afflictions are unknown in societies not as exposed to pollution . " Doctors who treat illnesses linked to pollutants blame shortsighted farming practices and excessive use of pesticides by homeowners . As Mandell puts it , " Future historians will say we were foolhardy : They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it . ' " Too much ? American farmers use 1 billion pounds of insecticide each year ? nearly 41/2 pounds of bug killer for every man , woman and child in the U.S. As a consequence , 52 percent of the average American 's food intake contains chemical residues . An extreme example of the problem : Watermelon sales in California , Oregon and Washington were halted July 4 after 33 cases of food poisoning were linked to the pesticide aldicarb . Yet without heavy use of this and 369 other approved agricultural chemicals , government officials contend , this would not be a land of plenty . " Pesticides are needed in agriculture , and you 're going to have some residues , " says John Wessel , who monitors contaminants for the Food and Drug Administration . " Those tolerances are set conservatively , and the risk of harm is extremely low . " However , with laws regulating pesticides and other agricultural chemicals up for review this year in Congress , environmentalists are trying to focus fresh attention on the toxic threat to the food chain . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as parts per billion , but some experts say these toxins can collect in human bodies and cause permanent damage . A University of Hawaii researcher , for instance , last year discovered a rise  | factor in the changing nature and quality of food . Antibiotics are mixed with feed to promote rapid growth in 66 percent of the beef and 80 percent of the pork produced in the U.S. FDA officials say the practice is leading to the development of bacteria that resist antibiotics . These bacteria can be passed along to humans who consume improperly cooked meat . The result : Human infections that can not be treated with penicillin or tetracycline . Outbreaks of salmonellosis , an intestinal disorder , killed four people and triggered diarrhea and digestive turmoil in 6,000 others in Chicago in February . Scientists at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control suspect that the salmonella organisms responsible were resistant to antibiotics . One source of trouble in the food chain is as easy to find as a lush lawn in the suburbs . Hydrologists have long warned that what is spread on yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pesticides and fertilizers is linked directly to severe pollution problems in the Chesapeake Bay , Puget Sound and the Great Lakes . Because of chemicals washed from land , some species of fish are no longer safe for human consumption . New York State officials warn against eating eel , channel catfish , lake and rainbow trout and chinook and coho salmon from Lake Ontario . They say that pregnant women and children should not eat any striped bass from state waters and that no one should eat more than one meal per week of any fish caught from inland state waters . in birth defects among babies of women who drank cow 's milk contaminated with the pesticide heptachlor in 1982 . An official of Velsicol Chemical Corporation , a manufacturer of heptachlor , says that the compound is not a mutagen and that the company has taken steps " to prevent it from entering the animal or human food chain . " Concerns about what traces of toxins may be doing to people focus on studies like the one in 1983 by the Environmental Protection Agency that found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breast milk contains traces of polychlorinated biphenyls ? or PCB 's ? fire retardants . Both substances were banned a decade ago , but toxicologists say the chemicals break down so slowly that they remain a stubborn part of the environment . Some chemicals in food are leftovers from the never ending battle against bugs . But the pests seem to be winning . They develop resistance to chemicals faster than new agents can be produced . " Even though we want to avoid eating insects in our food , " says David Pimentel , a Cornell University agricultural scientist , " it 's impossible . " Outlawed chemicals also can reappear in the American diet . Nine years after the EPA 's 1972 ban on DDT ? **31;784;TOOLONG ? the pesticide was discovered in imported beef . In a classic example of what environmentalists label the " boomerang effect , " DDT exported to Central American countries was eaten by cattle in fields sprayed to control budworms . The slaughtered beef , headed for fast-food franchises but seized at U.S. ports , had DDT concentrations 31 times higher than federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compounds such as the insecticide parathion and the growth enhancer daminozide , degrade into harmless substances faster than DDT does . But they are troublesome , too . Daminozide is used to speed growth of fruit trees and peanuts , among other crops , and it has been shown to cause cancer in laboratory animals . High residues of it have been found in apple juice and applesauce . " The lifetime dietary risks from residues of daminozide on both raw and processed foods may be high , " an EPA official admits . Competition among growers is one Michigan , since 1983 , has banned consumption of trout from the Tittabawassee River because of dioxin-contamined sediment . Beyond making some species unsafe to eat , toxic runoffs are endangering entire fish populations . Industrial products are a key factor in the rise of cancer among fish , according to researchers . In Michigan 's Torch Lake , a dump for copper-mining wastes , every sauger tested to date had liver cancer . In Puget Sound , liver disease is found in about 70 percent of the English sole . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ catch . Some of the marine species that are dying off because of pollution are familiar to any seafood enthusiast : Atlantic herring , Pacific salmon , Alaska king crab and California sardines . The decline in commercial fish has stepped up the drive to rid the environment of some of the chemicals . The EPA and the FDA are reconsidering the allowable levels of scores of commonly used insecticides and herbicides . Already , the EPA has proposed a ban on the fungicide captan , which has been shown to cause tumors in mice and rats . The compound , used on apples , peaches and strawberries , " may pose an unreasonable risk to public health , " the agency says . Nature vs. nature . On the rise , too , is a greater dependence on insects ' natural enemies . For instance , dragonflies are highly effective for mosquito control . Fewer pesticides are needed when farmers plant crops that bugs find unattractive or when they introduce biological predators . Natural pesticides that degrade easily are being developed from plants , too . Rotenone , used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , extracted from chrysanthemums , are gaining popularity as general insecticides that do not creep into the food chain . That is only the beginning of a trend away from the use of synthetic , highly toxic compounds to battle pests and boost crop growth . Says Manfred Kroger , a food-science professor at Pennsylvania State University : " Human ingenuity will find answers . We have realized that we were fouling our nest . Next , we 're going to work more closely with nature in growing our food . "                     