@@487914

Israel 's aerial offensive in Lebanon last July was aimed at the Palestinians , but its chief victims may actually have been the Lebanese who continue to / work , against almost hopeless odds , for the restora-tion of a viable state . For a quarter of a century , Lebanon , its government fragile but still in working order , was the only country on Israel 's perimeter with which Israel had waged no war . Even then , most Lebanese recognized that without peace their government was unlikely to survive . The situation changed only after the Palestine Liberation Organization , driven out of Jordan in 1970 by King Hussein , shifted its operations to Lebanon , where several hundred thousand Palestinian , refugees had lived in sullen impotence since the Arab defeat in 1948 . By the early 1970s , the P.L.O . had made Lebanon ' into a base for promoting its strategic goal of winning . Palestine back from the Israelis . The Lebanese government , too weak to fight back , promptly collapsed . Since then , Lebanon has been not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arena of a civil war . The Israeli-Palestinian struggle is only a sideshow , but a settlement to the civil war is inconceivable as long as it goes on . Among Lebanese , a tacit understanding exists that any settlement of the civil war must restore control of the country to their hands . That means putting severe limits on the freedom the P.L.O . now enjoys  --  including the freedom to do battle with Israel on Lebanese soil  --  in an environment of internal chaos . Yet Israel 's massive attacks help perpetuate the chaos . Admittedly , the Lebanese have only themselves to blame for the deterioration of their state . It can be argued that , even without intrusion from Israel or the presence of a halfmillion Palestinians in the country , the Lebanese would still 4 be at one another 's throats . Outside influences were , , at most , the catalyst that transformed steady political deterioration into civil war . During the worst of the fighting in 1975 and 1976 , Lebanese managed to slaughter Lebanese by the tens of thousands . , Milton Worst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1960 's ( Simon and Schuster ) , writes frequently on the Middle East . For the past five years , the Syrians have occupied much of the country , acting under a general Arab authorization to keep a lid on the violence . The Syrian presence has reduced the level of killing significantly . But relations between Lebanon 's contending factions have probably worsened during this period , and it is generally conceded that if the Syrian forces left today , full-scale civil war might very well resume tomorrow . T he problem of Lebanon , at bottom , is that it is a highly diverse society whose members , though all products of Arab civilization , have never come even close to achieving a consensus on how to run their country  --  or , in fact , on whether , it should be a country at all . Lebanon would not even exist had not the French , foreseeing the end of their empire after World War I , created it to assure the perpetuation of a friendly presence at the eastern end of the Mediterranean . Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people disagree among themselves on politics , economics , ? religion , race and external relations but their views assume so many different combinations and permutations that Lebanese are splintered into numerous contending groups , each of which seems to be so sure of its rectitude that it views all others with contempt , preferring persistent confrontation to social compromise . A Lebanese state still exists  --  on paper  --  but it is a feeble mediator between factions at best ; at worst , its authority is disdainfully dismissed . The . situation in Beirut is the most obvious example of the anarchy  --  or , more charitably , the feudalism  --  into which Lebanon has fallen . ' The eastern sector of Beirut is under the control of Bashir Gemayel 's powerful Phalange Party , the highly authoritarian force that speaks for most of the country 's Maronite Christians . The Phalange has been fighting to achieve nothing less than a return ' to the era when a Maronite minority ran Lebanon to suit itself . To this end , it has become a military prot  --  g ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ support . West Beirut is , in a manner of speaking , governed by the Lebanese National Movement , a loose-knit coalition headed by Walid Jumblatt , h mild-mannered Druze whose family has a long history of involvement in left-wing politics . The groups making up the National Movement are often called " leftists , " but they actually have little in common with the Lebanese left beyond a bitter opposition to the goals of the Phalangists and a tactical comriaitment to the P.L.O . There are Sunnis , Shias , Christians of diverse sects and Druzes ; Marxists , state socialists and capitalists ; parliamentary democrats , constitutional republicans , Stalinists , Bonapartists and Fascists ; Nasserites , Greater Syrians , Lebanese Nationalists , Syrian Baathists , Iraqi Baathists and Pan-Arabs ; Islamics , Pan-Islamics , secularists and Khomeini-ites . Whatever their beliefs , they tend to hold to them fiercely , admitting little room for alternate truths . The National Movement drifted into an alliance of convenience with the P.L.O . by force of circumstance . The Phalangists , for their part , are Western-oriented and therefore , generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growing military power of the P.L.O . in Lebanon . In retrospect , P.L.O . leaders concede that they probably provoked the Phalangists unnecessarily in the early days of the civil War . Since then , they have often had to remind themselves that their struggle is not against the4 Phalange but against Israel . Even within the National k , Movement , however , there is a serious question about how strong and enduring the Lebanese commitment to the Palestinian cause is . Whatever their differences , the Phalange and the National Movement mirror each other in being heavily armed . The Phalange , unified and more highly trained , exercises what amounts to an iron grip on East Beirut . In contrast , the National Movement lacks central guidance and discipline . It is made up of small private armies , with anywhere from a few dozen to a few hundred members . Some are more trigger-happy than others , but none seem reluctant to use their weapons , often rather casually , to enforce their will . Each of these groups has staked out a sector of West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must pass a checkpoint , normally manned by several young toughs wearing distinctive insignia and carrying automatic weapons . Within its perimeter , each group is more or less sovereign . In return for services , rendered or not , it collects taxes , which creates a pattern of exchange that can also be described as racketeering . It is the money these groups extort from shopkeepers , hotel managers , company directors and householders that keeps their armies in food and guns . The racketeering in-Beirut  --  at which the Phalangists are the acknowledged masters  --  is one of the hidden themes of the ongoing civil war . In the struggle for " turf , " groups jostle continually against one another . Sometimes new groups are formed , professing some eclectic ideology , to challenge the profits of old ones . The blood of bystanders and participants is spilled indiscriminately in encounters that few outsiders can ever hope to understand . Rarely arely in Beirut does an hour pass without the firing of weapons somewhere within earshot . The Lebanese government long ago gave up trying to stop this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who patrol the great avenues of Beirut and generally ' try to keep the hostile factions apart . But , at best , the Syrians ' maintain a tense watch over the status quo . They went into battle this spring against the Phalange , which had tried to enlarge its domain by seizing the mountain city of Zahle , and after an extended siege they forced the Phalange to evacuate . There are some signs that the Syrians have had enough of such peacekeeping activities , which cost them heavily in men and money . But they can not leave without having some other group assume responsibility for enforcing public order . Ideally , of course , it should be the Lebanese government . If Lebanon is to function again as a country , everyone agrees , the authority of the central government must somehow be restored . Any analysis of how that restoration is to be accomplished must start with the Palestinians . They too rule over a sector of Beirut , as well as over their enclave in southern Lebanon . The P.L.O . serves , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinians living in Lebanon . For them , the P.L.O . is not just a symbol of struggle , as it is for the Palestinians in Jordan or the Gulf , but an ongoing , benevolent political presence . Yet , while the , P.L.O . ' s fiefdom is only one among dozens like it , the Palestinians agree with the Lebanese that they are foreigners , whose stay , though protracted , can not be considered permanent . Aggravating the discomfort of the P.L.O . is the Shias ' recent entry upon Lebanon 's crowded political stage : The Shias , expelled from the territory in southern Lebanon now occupied by the Palestinians , demand their homeland back , just as the Palestiniansdemand theirs back from Israel . The Shias ' organization , called Amal ( hope ) , appears to be brimming with funds from Khomeini 's Iran , and it is putting heavy pressure on the National Movement to loosen the Palestinian hold . In a typical Lebanese irony , the Shias , product of the most intolerant wing of Islam , are dangling the prospect of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factions , the Phalange. any analysts here believe that the process of reconciliation among Lebanese can start only after the Palestinians , in agreement with Israel , leave the country to resettle in their own homeland . Neither the Phalange nor the National Movement will agree to disarm as long as a Palestinian military force hovers about to threaten them , and without disarmament of the private armies there can be no rebuilding of the state . Many Lebanese argue that until Israel consents to treat the Palestinian question seriously , factional confrontation must inevitably continue . But others , a trifle more hopeful , contend that some semblance of order  --  however fragile  --  might be restored if ' the country experienced a few months of tranquillity , during which tempers cooled and suspicions ebbed . A period which met that description did , in fact , begin this spring , after the Syrians and the Phalangists stopped their fighting in Zahle , and it produced a glimmer of optimism among the Lebanese . A high-powered committee from the Arab world began to explore the prospects for an accord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he would withdraw the Phalange from under Israel 's wing . No one believed ' that a settlement was at hand , and few even took seriously Gemayel 's pledge to break with Israel . But it is generally agreed that if the Lebanese could somehow get together and establish a government with real powers , its first priority would be to regain control of the south and keep the Pdlestinians from waging constant border warfare . The Lebanese Army already has a 1,200-man force in the area . With Syria 's consent  --  conveying with it a potential for intervention by the Syrian Army  --  the Lebanese contingent could conceivably be expanded into a real peacekeeping force . But on July 10 , Israel resumed its bombing in the south and a week later attacked Beirut , abruptly terminating the period of calm and bringing in its wake an atmosphere of angry political disarray . The Lebanese had no - trouble understanding Israel 's objective in attacking the Palestinians . Dismissed out of hand was the explanation that the targets were military . In the south , Israel had no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capacity from the air , and in fact the reprisals against Israel 's northern settlements were the most successful the P.L.O . has ever undertaken . As for Beirut , it was hardly worth 300 innocent lives to kill a handful of low-level , dissident P.L.O . bureaucrats whose danger to Israel was insignificant , if there was any danger at all . What is taken for granted here is that Israel intended a program of massive destruction , with the casualties such a program necessarily entails . Otherwise it made no sense to bomb and shell densely populated neighborhoods in downtown Beirut and refugee camps in the south . As the Lebanese understand it , Israel 's objective is nothing less than to destroy the structure of Palestinian life , ripping apart the fabric of Palestinian , soCiety , and some of them are even quietly sympathetic to this objective . Less clear is what Israel is trying to do to Lebanon itself . Few see it as a coincidence that the massive raids occurred just after the Syrian truce with the Phalange , the Arab mediation initiative , Gemayel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American envoy Philip Habib , sent to the Middle East to end the Syrian-Israeli missile stalemate , would move next to_the resolve the Lebanese crisis itself . Prime Minister Menachem Begin has often proclaimed his interest in Lebanon 's internal affairs , and even boasted in the Knesset once of his concern for Gemayel . All this suggests that Israel , while raiding Palestinian strongholds , also has political designs on Lebanon . It seems obvious that Israel does not want a settlement of the Lebanese crisis . No doubt the Begin - government calculates that the only conceivable settlement is one that would leave Lebanon a Syrian protectorate . Whatever Lebanese forces move south to discipline the Palestinians would be beholden to the Syrian Army and might even be under its command . Israel does not want Syria to come any closer to its northern border , even if tighter military control over the P.L.O . is one of the potential , benefits . - Any settlement , moreover , would put huge pressure on Israel to relinquish its control over Major Haddad 's puppet state , which it established as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring with it more U.N . peacekeeping forces , over which Israel has little influence . The option Israel has chosen  --  helping to perpetuate Lebanon 's disarray  --  would leave the P.L.O . with a free hand in the south , but it would also safeguard Israel 's own free hand to fight back in any way it likes . Israel would rather do the job of suppressing the Palestinians itself than entrust the responsibility to others in whom it has no Confidence . A decade or more ago , it was often said in these parts that Lebanon would be the second Arab state to sign a peace treaty with Israel . The observation reflected the belief that I to survive , the Lebanese state needed peace . It also reflected the government 's condition at that time  --  too weak to ' sign first but strong enough to overcome internal opposition and jump on a bandwagon . Now , practically speaking , there is no Lebanese state ' and Israel seems determined to make sure that none is re-created . Thus , Israel seems to have selected a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ?                     