@@494145

ENERGY CASUALITIES On December 7 , half a mile underground in Topmost , Kentucky , eight men died in a coal mine explosion . The next day in Palmer , Tennessee , 13 miners died in another disaster . Since men have been dying at the bottom of coal mines for centuries , not much was made of it . Press accounts ran in the back pages and made it into either a human interest story ( weeping widows and newly orphaned children ) or a case of tracking down the " cause " ( was someone trying to cut corners and save money ? ) . But there is a larger " cause " so obvious that no one talks about it : highly mechan ? ized , technologically advanced societies need energy , and producing energy is dirty and dangerous . But dirty and dangerous for whom ? When we send men into coal mines we know that some are not going to return . We know that oil has its costs , too . Taking it out of the ocean floor leads to rare but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a time . And trans ? porting oil across oceans from foreign deserts leads to occasional tanker spills which cause ecological calami ? ties , like the devastation of the Brittany coast by the Amoco Cadiz . That spill also destroyed the livelihood of hundreds of fishermen . These accidents happen far away . They happen to Breton fishermen , Korean stevedores , and Appala ? chian coal miners . That is one reason why the death of 21 young men in Kentucky and Tennessee will not produce street protests demanding that something be done about deep coal mining . The young , college-educated city dwellers who do take to the streets on energy matters do n't often think of the men who die to put oil in their tanks or coal in their city 's power plant . Their major concern is protecting nature from strip mines and themselves from nuclear power . Now it is true that even well-regulated strip mining can produce irreversible ecological changes , because after the land is restored it may never regain its original vegetation . It is also true that nuclear power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the worst disaster to date , Three Mile Island , showed that the only health damage of any significance was psychological : fear of a hazard which turned out to be nonexistent . Strip min ? ing produces eyesores , but it does n't bury anyone alive , and it does n't produce the kind of underground coal fire that sent toxic fumes into the homes of Centralia , Pennsylvania , for a decade . And the Three Mile Islands of this world locate the power source ? with all of its dangers ? among the people who use it . Most of us would like to farm out dangers to others . The trouble with nuclear power is that it makes people face the fact that if they want to play aster ? oids on their Atari , someone has to pay ? in risk . Nuclear power brings home the energy war , and most people like their wars to be fought overseas ? or in Appalachia.                     