@@322709

O'Neill tangles with some Republican Turks over camera angles <P> Tip O'Neill had heard enough . Incensed by an attack on Democratic legislators by Republican Congressman Newt Gingrich of Georgia during a debate last week , the House Speaker dropped his gavel and strode angrily onto the floor , leaving his Massachusetts colleague Democrat Joseph Moakley to take the chair . O'Neill shook a finger at Gingrich and roared , " You challenged their patriotism , and it is the lowest thing that I have ever seen in my 32 years in Congress ! " <P> As his Democratic colleagues recognized , O'Neill had gone too far . Mississippi Republican Trent Lott immediately demanded that the Speaker 's words be " taken down " -a signal that O'Neill should be called to order for violating the House 's rule against personal attacks . Parliamentarian William Brown consulted a dictionary to see if the word lowest was a slur . Minutes ticked by in painful silence until a chagrined Moakley , as gently as possible , informed the Speaker that he had indeed violated the chamber 's code . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protested a bristling O'Neill , " because I think much worse than what I actually said . " <P> The rarely invoked penalty for this infraction : enforced silence for the rest of the day 's debate . The judgment was so unsettling that Republican Leader Robert Michel quickly asked Lott to make a motion that exempted O'Neill from the penalty . Lott agreed , although he later defended his actions in taking O'Neill to task . " In the House you ca n't impugn a member 's integrity , " he said . " The Speaker demeaned his position by coming down on the floor and getting involved in hand-to-hand combat . " No one could recall a House Speaker ever having been thus reprimanded . ( The only known precedent was in 1798 , when the House was debating the expulsion of Vermont 's Matthew Lyon , who had spit in the face of a fellow member . After an explosive exchange , Speaker Jonathan Dayton challenged another member to a duel . Dayton , who was indicted for treason nine years later , along with Aaron Burr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That tempestuous scene was the culmination of a televised minidrama that began last January . An abrasive cadre of Republican " young Turks , " frustrated by the accommodating style of O'Neill 's golfing buddy Michel , began taking over the House floor every day after legislative hours to berate the Democrats . The chamber was invariably empty during these " special orders " sessions , but like all other action on the floor , they were broadcast live by the cable network CSPAN . What set O'Neill aflame was a bit of showboating by Gingrich ; during a fiery denunciation of several Democrats ' views on Central America , he paused suggestively in midspeech , as if to dare his foes to respond . In fact , he was taunting empty benches , but that was not noted by C-SPAN 's cameras , which were allowed to focus only on the orator .                     