@@432130

 | These are the glory days for " The Verdict . " Last week the movie received five Academy Award nominations , and it has already grossed more than $43 million , a figure that will surely climb much higher before it finishes its run . " The Verdict " is that rare Hollywood breed ? a commercial hit that also carries a message , in this case about the sometimes benighted world of the law . Because director Sidney Lumet and screenwriter David Mamet take their subject so seriously ? they clearly were n't making a Perry Mason potboiler ? " The Verdict " has also produced controversy . Lawyers righteously complain that it has besmirched their profession and that its plot is riddled with gross legal flaws . " The Verdict " is a two-hour account of a medical-malpractice case . Paul Newman plays a lawyer who represents the family of a young woman rendered a vegetable by the negligence of a doctor . Newman is a bum , a once promising , now boozing , lawyer reduced to seeking clients at wakes . He intends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic hospital in order to do justice and redeem his self-esteem . Opposing him is James Mason , senior partner of a Boston Brahmin law firm , who believes that winning is the only thing . Violation : The centerpiece of the movie is the trial , a battle neither side deserves to win . Newman presents a terrible case . His star witness disappears ? presumably because he has been intimidated or bought off by Mason . That is a clear violation of legal ethics , but Newman does not have the time to find out what happened . Newman 's crossexamination is ineffective . His only hope is a surprise witness he locates near the end of the trial : a nurse who filled out the admission chart on the injured young woman . The defense contends that the doctors had correctly administered a general anesthetic because the patient had not eaten for nine hours . Not so , testifies the nurse . She had written on her chart that the patient had eaten within one hour . ( Giving a general anesthetic on a full stomach often causes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patient . That is exactly what happened in " The Verdict . " When the doctor realized what he had done , he told the nurse to change the number on her chart to a nine . ) To bolster her testimony , the nurse pulls out a photocopy of the original , unchanged chart . Mason asks the judge to bar her document because it is not the original , and her testimony because it goes beyond the scope of a rebuttal witness , who is permitted to do no more than rebut statements of other witnesses . The judge complies , ordering the jury to ignore the damaging story they just heard . No fools , the jury returns a verdict for Newman 's client . This climactic scene involves several legal errors : The photocopy . Before the advent of Xerography , courts were reluctant to admit duplicates because of their inherent unreliability . The best-evidence rule allowed only originals in court . " But under modern rules of evidence , duplicates are now admissible for every purpose , " says Margaret Berger , a leading evidence authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since the issue in " The Verdict " is whether the original was tampered with , the jury should have been shown both copies and allowed to reach its own conclusion . The judge must not make that decision for them . The nurse 's testimony . She says the doctor told her to change the chart . That directly contradicts his defense that he correctly administered the general anesthetic since his patient had not eaten for nine hours . Therefore , says Vanderbilt law Prof. Michael Goldsmith , her statement would be well within the scope of a rebuttal witness . " The movie is very misleading , " says Goldsmith . " It gives the impression that the law is a total ass . Sometimes it is , but not in these situations . " The jury 's verdict . The case should never have gone to the jury . When the evidence of the surprise witness was barred , Newman 's case collapsed completely : he literally had no evidence . In these circumstances , Mason would have requested a directed verdict from thejudge and thejudge would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newman and Mason have caused many lawyers to scream in indignation . The film characters are little more than caricatures , though like other stereotypes , they are often drawn from truth . No fancy law firm would put two dozen young lawyers on a negligence case ; that full-court treatment is reserved for antitrust and merger fights . And it is hard to imagine a law firm assigning a female lawyer to seduce the opposing counsel . That 's clearly unethical . In an effort to prove himself , Newman chose to go on with the trial . Most lawyers would have called for a mistrial ; at the very least , that would have disqualified Mason from the case . Generous Offer : Mason is not the only unethical lawyer in court . Newman rejects a generous offer of settlement without consulting his client , tampers with the U.S. mail and sits around doing nothing but drinking until just 10 days before the trial : While outraged lawyers complain about this treatment , it is no secret that real lawyers have unilaterally rejected settlement offers which came in before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others have been known to slight their pretrial preparation . In his defense , screenwriter Mamet says he did some legal research for the movie , but ultimately he decided that his primary obligation was the narrative flow . " What 's important , " he told NEWSWEEK 'S Peggy Clausen , " is that which pushes the story forward . " Mamet 's choice was unfortunate . Other popularizers of the law have managed to get both the law and the story right . Charles Dickens , the most popular writer of his day , made it a point of honor to accurately weave legal technicalities through his books . But Mamet settled for a Rocky-style melodrama that only blunts the film 's social critique . Perhaps one point wo n't be lost . A generation of moviegoers may carefully investigate the lawyers they hire ? even ones with Paul Newman 's blue eyes . @# @#                     