@@492295

YOU CAN HELP SOLVE THE CANCER RIDDLE Ideas for solutions to big health problems have often come from serendipitous observations of the least likely persons . The history of medicine is filled with exciting discoveries by nonmedically trained persons . The purpose of the survey that appears in the removable centerfold of this magazine is to encourage you to send us your most intuitive insights about what you think causes cancer  --  your suspicions or far-out hunches about what you believe caused your own cancer or the cancer of your relatives or friends.The results will be encoded by volunteers in cancer organizations and reported in the Post . Those of you at high risk will have this called to your attention . When we began preparing this questionnaire , we started the poll with my secretary and good friend , Mary Lou Waldren . " What do you do to out-fox the ' big C ' ? " She grinned . " I buy a different underarm deodorant each time I need a new one , " she explained . " I figure that if there are carcinogens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brand long enough to develop cancer . " She said she no longer has lumpy breasts since giving up coffee , tea , chocolate and caffeinated diet drinks . Lumpy breasts are far more likely to develop cancer than are breasts without lumps , and for Mary Lou , getting rid of the worrisome lumps is worth foregoing caffeine . A biochemistry teacher once told us that he never lets his wife reuse deep frying fat in her kitchen . " Dispose of it after the first use " was his advice . He went on to explain what happens on reheating of the fat . I no longer remember the chemistry of his advice , since we gave up frying foods long ago when fats were incriminated for cardiovascular problems as well as cancer . What do you give up ? We know one politician who stays out of those smoke-filled rooms and says he 'd rather be healthy than president . A doctor we know says he does n't like to breathe the carcinogenic petrochemical breakdown products on the crowded highway when driving to and from work . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and that means congestion , but we do n't necessarily have to rush home under the same jammed-up toxic conditions . An extra half hour at the job in the evening can help to significantly cut exposure to degraded petrochemicals on the highway . " He reads a medical journal before heading home . Our friend , the late Hermann J. Muller , Nobel prize recipient for his discovery of the effects of radiation during the Hiroshima era , surprised the medical staff , while he was a patient not long before his death , when he insisted on extra lead to cover his genitalia before he would permit x-rays to be taken of his chest . A friend who is a cancer specialist told me he never saw a case of Hodgkin 's disease in a patient who had n't had his tonsils or adenoids removed earlier in life . What do you guess just might have caused cancer to start in someone in your family ? For example : My own only relative to die from cancer was an uncle who worked in a meat-processing facility . The citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their Dutch bologna . They make and sell a lot of it . Uncle Robbie handled the preservatives , which the employees called " binders , " that went into the meat . My aunt said he was very fond of both bologna and wieners . Often , when a ring of bologna would break off , he would eat the scraps instead of throwing them away . Once a week , or more often , he would bring home a package of wieners  --  so often , in fact , that , to this day , Aunt Dora dislikes them . And she told me something else about Uncle Robbie 's eating habits : He liked to eat the fat portions on meat . Also , he worked with the nitrites that are added to processed , smoked or cured meats . When these substances break down in digestion , they form dangerous nitrosamines , which are known to be carcinogenic in animals . Uncle Robbie left six healthy siblings who are now in their 70s and 80s , all robustly vigorous for their years . No one in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survey Continued on page 59 fact that he worked with meat preservatives for eight years prior to his cancer diagnosis makes me want to check out the possibilities of a high incidence of cancer in others who work with and eat a lot of fatty wieners , bologna , sausages , lunch meats and other processed meats containing nitrites . Dee Wilson , who cuts my hair , tested our survey and wrote : " My grandpa worked in a smokehouse for twenty years , curing meats and ate them all of his life . He got colon cancer which necessitated a colostomy . Devastated , he ended his life with a gun the first morning home from the hospital . My mother , not related to Grandpa , also grew up on a farm where she ate a lot of ham , sausage , bacon and frankfurters . At age 50 , a pain in her abdomen forced her to see a doctor . The surgeon found a malignancy the size of a grapefruit which he told her had been growing for about seven years . " Two cases do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Seven years ago , following a hunch , I wrote a book for Doubleday in which I suggested that readers use only fresh meat whenever possible if they wished to gamble that this would lessen their cancer risks . It had been discovered that by increasing the vitamin C added to processed , smoked or cured meats , the breakdown of nitrites added to the meat was retarded from advancing into the dangerous nitrosamines . The vitamin C is added in the form of sodium ascorbate or potassium ascorbate by the packer . Since meat packers add vitamin C in quantity to prevent the dangerous breakdown and since vitamin C is not altogether stable for storage , even in the best of conditions , I suggested that additional vitamin C be included in recipes which use processed meats . These include ham , bacon , pastrami , bologna , corned beef , dried beef , pickle loaf , sausages , hot dogs and other luncheon meats . Nearly 70 percent of all pork products are cured . We do n't eat processed meats in our home . But if your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that a teaspoon of sodium ascorbate added to a ham casserole , chipped beef ontoast or beans and franks just might prevent the preservative from breaking down into carcinogens during the time it traverses the intestines and colon . The fact that many more colon cancers occur in the distal ( end ) portion of the colon might be true because more of the additive nitrites have formed nitrosamines by the time they reach the end of their journey through the gastrointestinal tract . I wish the book , published in 1975 , could have reached more people , since today the National Research Council ( NRC ) of the National Academy of Sciences recommends that Americans cut their consumption of fats , fatty and smoke-cured meats and increase their intake of whole-grain products to help reduce their risk of cancer . This same National Academy of Sciences had reported only two years ago that not enough was known about the link between diet and cancer to make sweeping dietary recommendations . This caused many of us to hold back on our beliefs . Now the committee has found the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' Their newly issued report is based on the most exhaustive reviews to date of studies linking diet to cancer . Both animal and human studies have shown higher rates of cancers of the breast , colon and prostate in populations that eat a diet high in both saturated and unsaturated fats . Studies have also shown that eating less fat is associated with a lower incidence of these cancers . Dr. Clifford Grobstein , a University of California biologist and chairman of the NRC 's committee of 14 that prepared the report , compared the level of knowledge in diet and cancer today to that of smoking 's link to cancer 20 years ago . The report said , " It has become absolutely clear that cigarettes are the cause of approximately one-quarter of all the fatal cancers in the United States . If the population had been persuaded to stop smoking when the association with lung cancer was first reported , those cancer deaths would not now be occurring . Twenty years ago the ' stop-smoking ' message required some rather cautious wording . Today , the facts are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important . ... In the judgment of the committee , it is now time to offer some interim guidelines on diet and cancer . " No creditable scientist or physician wants to make recommendations or suggestions unless the facts can be proven . Now , however , the committee can explain that their recommendations to eat less smoked and salt-cured meat products derives from a substantial amount of research in parts of China , Japan and Iceland linking these products to high incidences of cancers of the esophagus and stomach . These foods may be contaminated by chemicals in the smoke or by the nitrites which have broken down into nitrosamines . Again , the committee points out that nitrosamines have been linked to cancer in laboratory animals . Specifically , the committee advised eating less ham , bacon , frankfurters and processed meats . A diet rich in certain vegetables may help prevent cancer . Early studies show that people who eat a diet rich in vegetables containing a form of vitamin A called beta-carotene have a lower incidence of cancer than people who do not eat as many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spinach and asparagus . Brussels sprouts , cabbage , turnips , cauliflower and broccoli contain substances called indoles that , in rodent studies , appear to lessen the number of cancers of the breast and stomach . More than 90 percent of the animals on an indole-poor diet got cancer , whereas only 21 percent to 27 percent on the indolerich diet developed the disease . Other researchers have discovered that patients who have cancer of the colon eat fewer vegetables that are rich in these substances than does the general population . There is substantial epidemiological data to support the contention that high fiber reduces colon-cancer risk . Studies of Africans Continued on pate HO because they were already late for the service at the cathedral  --  whisked him away . News accounts published in America , however , said : " He made no effort to get his escorts to take him to the waiting believers , " and " He ignored several hundred believers who sang hymns outside , barred from entry . " In his sermon , Graham had listed differences that becoming a Christian can make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give one " the power to be a better worker , a loyal citizen " because a Christian obeys those over him  --  an allusion to a verse in Romans 13 . A wire-service reporter elevated that lone phrase to the lead paragraph of his story , suggesting that Graham had made a major point of reminding his listeners to obey the government . Other reporters and commentators , not knowing the context , twisted the story and reported that Graham had preached on Romans 13 ( rather than John 5 ) , urging his Baptist listeners to submit to the authorities . The reaction among readers in the West was predictable : They were outraged that Graham had poured salt into the wounds of already repressed believers . As Graham concluded his sermon , a young woman in the side balcony unfurled a two-foot by four-foot banner announcing : " We have more than 150 prisoners for the work of the-Gospel . " Another young person in the pews on the main floor briefly raised a banner containing a Biblical quote : " Deliver those who are gone away to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man led the woman in the balcony to a nearby room . Apparently , few people saw the banners , and Graham , preaching at a distance from them with his reading glasses on , did not see what they said . At a press conference later , reporters informed him that the female demonstrator had been arrested , and they asked him to comment about the matter . He refrained , insisting he would need more information before commenting , but they pushed harder . Exasperated , he reminded them that even in the U.S. demonstrators are sometimes arrested for disturbing religious meetings . Subsequently , garbled stories based on an Associated Press account appeared : " ... when he concluded his sermon , two people in the congregation held up signs protesting against religious persecution . The evangelist was asked what he thought of that incident . At first he refused to answer but finally responded : ' We detain people in the U.S. if we catch people doing things that are wrong . ' " Columnists reacted fiercely , blasting Graham for his " callousness " toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remark to reporters . Ernest Furgurson , a former Moscow correspondent now in Washington , wrote : " He found no fault with the arrest of a woman who raised a banner during the service condemning Soviet religious persecution . " Understandably , quite a few American readers angrily concluded that Graham might just as well stay in Moscow instead of coming home to the United States . It was learned later , however , that the youthful demonstrators had been reprimanded and released after being detained only a few minutes . On the Tuesday of his visit , Graham addressed more than 500 religious leaders from around the world , including 30 from the U.S. , who had gathered for the peace conference . Underscoring man 's alienation from God as the root cause of war , he portrayed Christ as the key to peace  --  a point that Soviet newspapers , radio and television surprisingly included in their coverage . The war that is now being waged against the Christian church in some lands apparently was on Graham 's mind as well . He declared : " We should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights . " Those who followed Graham closely could readily agree with John Burns of the New York Times , who provided some of the best coverage of Graham 's visit : " Although he did not mention the Soviet Union in this context of a call for religious freedom , it seemed clear that he had the host government primarily in mind . . .. " Graham also denounced the use of chemical and biological weapons , and again it was clear who he had in mind as the prime offender . What happened at the peace conference is itself a major story that for space reasons can not be told here . In summary , what began as an exercise in anti-American , pro-Soviet politicking ended in a stunning propaganda defeat for the Soviets , thanks to the courageous efforts of several American church leaders . The Soviet press . which had covered the conference from the outset , failed to report the much more balanced outcome than the one originally scripted in Moscow . Graham himself warned Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it continued on its Kremlin-predetermined course , no one would take the conference seriously . Continuedon following page Cancer continued from page 59 and Japanese , and research on American Seventh Day Adventists , all of whom have high-fiber diets , have confirmed that these people have little colon cancer . Other studies in Scandinavia showed that , even in the same country , differences in the fiber content of the diet correlate with the number of people who get colon cancer . Fiber increases the size and frequency of stools and therefore reduces the exposure time and concentration of potential carcinogens in the gastrointestinal tract . It may also affect the metabolic processes of intestinal bacteria . In the United States , 114,000 cases of colon cancer were diagnosed in 1980 . That 's about 30.9 cases per 100,000 people . In Japan , however , where the diet includes far less fats from dairy products and meat , only four persons per 100,000 develop this cancer . Dr. George Weber , a nationally known research oncologist who studies tumors that have been removed by the surgery department of Indiana @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colon tumors I see are the size of my fist  --  too late ! " This is no reflection on Indiana 's excellent medical center , but it is a sign that prevention has n't been practiced by some of the population in our state . Tragically , a colon tumor the size of one 's fist must have been growing for four to five years . And if this is happening in Indiana , it probably is happening in your state as well . Most of these tumors stood a good chance of being discovered by checking for hidden blood in the stool years earlier . By avoiding metastases of cancer cells , a life could have been saved or a colostomy avoided . Do you have any good ideas for stool wipes that will show hidden blood more easily so that stools will be checked frequently by everyone over 40 ? When was your stool last checked ? Please answer the questions on our survey . If you wish to remain anonymous , omit your name but mail the form . Cancer volunteers will help get your answers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . i                     