@@432452

 | Cristina Saralegui , the Oprah Winfrey of Spanish-language television , is about to venture into virgin territory . " Up to a few years ago , " she tells her studio audience , " a woman was valued on the basis of one thing ? whether or not she was a virgin . " Well , times change , and nowhere more so than on the " Cristina " show . For the next hour , Saralegui moderates a lively discussion of how relevant virginity remains to the United States ' Hispanic community . One guest , a Spanish singing star , decries the hypocrisy of Hispanic men who sleep around before marriage but deny the same freedom to their future wives . Another , a Latin-American plastic surgeon , reports performing hymen-reconstruction surgery for young Hispanic women who fear the wrath of their traditionalist fathers . Suitably inspired , a few brave souls rise from the audience to confide that they surrendered their virginity before wedlock and do n't regret it . " A woman , " proclaims one , " should lose her virginity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she marries . " Virginity , si o no ? By the time Cristina signs off , the answer appears to be quizas ( maybe ) . What 's indisputable is that the Spanish-speaking airwaves have just swept another taboo topic into the public square ? and without a ripple of viewer protest . Hispanic television , it seems , is emanating a vibrant new tone . Once dominated by cheesy soap operas and amateurish variety shows imported from south of the border , it 's suddenly come of age with a surprising creative burst . These days nearly half the programs offered by the two major Spanish networks , Univision and Telemundo , bear made-in-America labels and emulate their most sophisticated Anglo counterparts . The nation 's 21 million telespectadores can now tune in Hispanic copies of " 60 Minutes " and " Entertainment Tonight , " get their world news from Hispanic Dan Rathers and Connie Chungs , enjoy riveting Hispanic dramas , slickly mounted game shows , provocative gabfests , even salsa versions of MTV . Joaquin Blaya , the wry , Chilean-born president of Univision , needs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish-language TV : " It 's watchable . " It 's also being fueled by a decidedly old-fashioned force : gringo greed . After decades of ignoring the Spanish media . American advertisers are recognizing the enormous potential of the Spanish audience . Not only do Hispanics comprise the nation 's fastest-burgeoning population ( growing roughly five times more quickly than the general population ) , but they now wield formidable purchasing power ( more than $130 billion a year ) . The payoff for Hispanic TV could be a delicious circle : greater advertising revenue permits the purchase of better programming , which gradually attracts a larger audience . which in turn permits the charging of higher ad rates . Quality leap : American investors , meanwhile , have moved in on the Spanish networks . The biggest , Univision , was purchased by the Hallmark greeting-card conglomerate last year , while U.S. financier Saul Steinberg 's Reliance Capital Corp . created Telemundo out of a handful of local Spanish stations in 1986 . The ensuing rivalry has sparked a renaissance if there was ever a naissance ) of video @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Chicago affiliate : " We 've come from television of the 1950s to that of the 1980s in a very short time . " The challenge now is to court those younger , bilingual viewers who are steadily defecting to English-language stations . " I call them closet Hispanics , " says Sarale-  | gui with a frown . " They have n't realized Spanish television has changed . They automatically associate it with what they saw their grandma watching . " Such disdain helps explain the move away from foreignmade novelas ( soaps ) and toward homegrown shows carefully tailored to the inter- ests of U.S. Hispanics . " It 's not enough that a program be just in Spanish , " says one student of the genre . " How relevant is a guy who visits his . girl riding on a horse or living in a hut ? " There 's certainly nothing irrelevant about " Portada , " Univision 's recently launched magazine show . Hosted by a deftly probing Cuban-American named Teresa Rodriguez ( reviewers , naturally , have dubbed her the Hispanic Barbara Walters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Hispanic community , such as the alarming high-school dropout rate . " With shows like these , " says Rodriguez , " Hispanics feel important for the first time . Someone 's finally asking their viewpoint and recognizing that they 're a vital part of this country . I do n't think Anglo television ever tells them that . " Univision 's hottest draw among the bilingual young is an " Entertainment Tonight " imitation called " Desde Hollywood . " Obsessively attuned to what 's chevere ( hip ) , this celebrity-interview show hopscotches from visits with Hispanic talents like singer Ruben Blades and comedian Paul Rodriguez to chats with Anglo stars like Jane Fonda and Linda Ronstadt ? many of whom bravely try out their high-school Spanish . Says producer Luca Bentivoglio : " We 're showing people that , for every big American star in this country , there 's an Hispanic counterpart who could be just as big if they got the exposure . " Inevitably , the Spanish networks have also learned how to emulate the worst sins of gringo telejunk . Witness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Giant Saturday " ) , Hispanic TV 's most popular program . What 's most striking about this three-hour game-variety-talk show is its frenzied commercialism . Pitches for such " good friends " as Coca-Cola , Polaroid and Tide are woven into virtually every contest and conversation . Host Mario Kreutzberger ( stage name : Don Francisco ) often leads the studio audience in enthusiastic sing-alongs of the sponsors ' jingles . Even so , the show offers something you 'll never get on " Wheel of Fortune " : serious discussions of such heavy subjects as infidelity , adoption and capital punishment . News hustle : Perhaps the clearest evidence of Spanish TV 's maturation can be observed on its nightly newscasts . To expand its journalistic reach , Telemundo recently hooked up with the Cable News Network to coproduce a Spanish-language world wrap-up that has won several awards ( including one for a series on Hispanic children with AIDS ) . Monica Seone , Univision 's widely lauded Central American correspondent , has taken viewers into explosive areas of El Salvador and Nicaragua that her Anglo counterparts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shortly before Panama 's controversial election , Seone scooped all her American rivals by nabbing an exclusive interview with Gen. Manuel A. Noriega . " Because we are Latinos and these events are of such burning interest to us , " she explains , " it 's easier to communicate with these politicians . We have more influence with them . " Such clout has not escaped the notice of Latin American correspondents for the U.S. media . Many now prep for their assignments by regularly monitoring the Univision and Telemundo newscasts . There 's one pertinent story , however , that has eluded the newscasts ' attention : the woeful paucity of Hispanic representation on American television . None of the three networks currently offers a single prime-time series about Hispanic characters . Indeed , one research study found that only one in every 50 TV roles goes to an Hispanic ( compared to one in 11 for blacks ) . And even when such characters do pop up , they tend to be typecast as gang leaders , drug dealers or clownish domestics . It 's not  | hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Los Angeles Anglos whose bicultural expertise is , shall we say , underdeveloped . In their defense , network programmers contend that a pool of talented Hispanic writers and producers does n't exist . But Columbia Pictures vice president Eduardo Cervantes , who says he 's the lone Hispanic executive involved in network production , insists that the pool is simply being overlooked . " The bottom line is that there is no commitment to develop any of that talent , " charges Cervantes . " Minority writers are considered outsiders . " Hispanic TV suffers from its own forms of self-destructiveness , beginning with its failure to develop a ratings method to accurately measure its viewership . But that oversight , which has inhibited station owners from attracting major advertisers , is about to be corrected . Univision and Telemundo have just joined forces to create a $40 million , state-of-the-art " people meter " system specifically for the Spanishspeaking audience . If the readings turn out as high as some suspect , the two networks could enjoy an advertising bonanza . Narrow view : In the meantime , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its sociological impact . Richard Rodriguez , a San Francisco author whose writings have stirred controversy by entreating Hispanics to discard their cultural insularity , is one of the video genre 's most outspoken naysayers . " It has created this Amos ' n ' Andy ' America for Hispanics , " claims Rodriguez . " With Amos ' n ' Andy , ' the whole city suddenly turned all black . Now , on Spanish television , the whole city is all Hispanic . In that sense , Spanish TV is self ' - ghettoization . " Others are considerably more optimistic . In their view , the eclectic new thrust of Hispanic television is helping unite a community that , because of its myriad national heritages , has long suffered from social factionalism . Recently , for instance , " Portada " explored the various ways in which Hispanics celebrate the quinceahero ( a girl 's 15th birthday party ) . " I got letters from Cubans saying they had no idea the Mexican quinceanero was such a religious event compared to theirs , " recalls " Portada " host @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonds , which is imperative if we 're to wear as united a face as , say , Jesse Jackson and the black community . " It 's a fascinating notion , but one that remains purely speculative . For now , all that 's certain is what Chicago 's Elisa Alfonso sums up most simply : " As the Hispanic population keeps growing dramatically , it 's educating itself and showing itself different things . So is its television . "                     