@@491781

THE MORMONS : HEALTHY IN BODY AND SOUL Why do the Mormons have a significantly lower cancer rate and fewer heart attacks and debilitating diseases than other Americans ? Could it be that family stability , physical fitness , abstinence , hard work and self-reliance are not outmoded virtues after all ? by Chris Jones and Gary Benson T hey do n't drink , and they do n't smoke . They give ten ent of their incomes to their : lurch . With no paid ministry , they commit most of their spare time to church service . They believe in Jesus Christ , living prophets , life after death , life before birth and the scriptures . To parents , family life is a top priority , and marriage in one of the church 's 17 temples is a primary goal . They are a people apart and yet their church continues to attract converts at the rate of one every three minutes despite growing apathy toward organized religion throughout the world . Who are they ? Members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And as their ranks approach the 5 million mark , adherents to this unique religion are observing the 150th anniversary of their church . The April anniversary will close a pair of decades in which the Mormons , once cloaked in myth and regarded with suspicion , have earned a position of prominence on the American religious scene . Their church has been widely recognized as one of the fastest-growing and most energetic religious groups in the world . Widespread missionary efforts , an array of uniquely effective church programs and determined defense of the traditional family unit have all increased Mormon visibility during recent years . But many owe their acquaintance with Mormonism and its doctrines to the example of prominent church members who have captured the public eye . When Chinese Deputy Premier Teng Hsiao-Ping made his celebrated visit to the United States last year , he told his hosts that there were two American attractions he felt he must see . First , he said , he hopedto visit Disneyland . The second request ? To meet Donny and Marie Osmond and hear them sing . Later , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Teng , the deputy premier was visibly moved . The Chinese leader , like countless other Osmond fans worldwide , was won over not only by the duo 's vocal talent but also by their uniquely wholesome image , a characteristic the Osmonds attribute to the influence of the Mormon church on their lives . Donny discusses his feelings candidly . " Perhaps one of the principles of the church that makes us a little different from our peers in the entertainment world is the fact that we believe in a living prophet of God and modern revelation . It 's the wisdom and teachings of our prophet Spencer W. Kimball mixed with the fundamental principles of our beliefs that bring about the family solidarity we enjoy . " The Mormon church began with only six members in 1830 under the leadership of Joseph Smith , the first Mormon prophet , who solemnly confessed to his family that Jesus Christ and God , the Father , had appeared to him in answer to a prayer when he was 14 years old . Later , heavenly messengers restored the authority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christ which they said had been taken from the earth with the martyrdom of the original 12 apostles . Mormons teach that an additional heavenly messenger , who had lived as a prophet on the ancient American continent , revealed to Smith the hiding place of a sacred record engraved on metal plates . Through the power of God , they say , Smith translated the plates from an ancient language to English and published a religious history of the American continent . It was called the " Book of Mormon , " after one of the prophets who wrote it . The book is accepted by church members as scripture , 68 along with the Bible , and accounts for the popular designation of " Mormon . " Whether the teachings come from their Book of Mormon or through a living prophet , members of this church have a lot to say about the value of families . The Osmonds and most other Mormons will readily quote one particular teaching from a modern prophet that is indicative of the high priority the church places on family living . " No @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . McKay , " can compensate for failure in the home . " Harmon Killebrew , the Minnesota Twins baseball great and another well-known Mormon , subscribes to that philosophy . " The responsibility of parenthood is awesome , " he explains . " There is nothing more challenging and rewarding than helping a youngster mold his life into that of a mature adult . After all , my baseball career is behind me , but I 'll always be the father of my children . And if I fail with my family , nothing else matters . " The Osmonds and Killebrews alike join thousands of other church members each week in holding what Mormons call " Family Home Evenings . " These are weekly evenings of devotion to family togetherness , studying religious principles , discussing family needs or perhaps going out for a round of ice cream cones together . More than 900,000 copies of a helpful lesson manual are printed each year as a resource guide to parents , providing simple lesson outlines designed to help families learn more about ways to foster love and harmony in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not so presumptuous as to think Mormons are the only people who have warm , happy teaching moments together , " explains Mormon church spokesman Jerry Cahill . " But unless families make a conscientious effort to plan for weekly time together , uninterrupted by work , school and other pursuits , the average family has a hard time experiencing those special moments . " Cahill says the effectiveness of the program lies not only in the content of the home evening but also in its consistency . " In a fast-paced world in which family relationships are undermined by hectic schedules and nights are monopolized by the television set , a weekly time together gives parents and children the chance to build relationships that strengthen family ties . " Genealogical research has assumed a major role in Mormonism . Today , for a nominal fee , the Mormon library supplies data requested from around the world . turn the union down ? Well , we listened to the organizers , and we thought a little bit , and we did a little figuring , and it turned out that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a big cut in pay . " I talked with Dr. Kenneth Weller , the president of Central College , in his bright , book-filled office on the second floor of Central Hall , the administration building , overlooking a quadrangle campus with a long pond and a humpbacked Japanese bridge . In the distance , I could see an avenue of flags stretching in the breeze  --  the flags of Britain , France , Austria , Spain , Mexico and the United States . Students were standing in groups or moving along the walks . Downstairs in the lobby I had seen a wall plaque with a Zen-like truism : " Anyone can count the number of seeds which come from an apple , but only God knows the number of apples which can come from a seed . " Dr. Weller gave me a look of gleaming satisfaction . " No , " he said . " No , indeed . We are not a Bible college . Were much too old and established for that . Were not even exactly a provincial college . Half our students spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the several countries where we have an arrangement . Those flags represent our foreign connections . The fact is , we require only one course in religion . No , what we are is a Christian college in the philosophical or ethical sense . We 're not interested in doctrine . Our basic tone is a concern for values . We 're weak on piety and strong on life in its wholeness . We 're concerned with how things work , but also with what ought to be . We remember here that Watergate was not the work of uneducated people . It was the work of highly educated people deficient in morality and ethical sense . We attempt to teach that ethical sense ? to reestablish it , I should say . To that extent , we 're concerned with the total lives of our students . Pella has always been an appropriate setting for our work . " A bell rang . A couple ran hand in hand across the bridge . Dr. Weller had his back to the window . He straightened a file of papers on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " we had a young male student killed in an auto accident . His friends organized a memorial service . It was spontaneous . There were Scripture readings and readings of secular poetry . Four hundred people attended . Our enrollment is 1,500. - We have a sense of community here , and I think that that turnout is a good demonstration of it . We think of it as a Christian sense of community . And it is n't just here at Central College . It embraces the whole of Pella  --  the college , the churches , the business community , everybody . It is the whole of Pella . Even newcomers here seem to feel it . I know I did . I 'm Dutch myself , but I 'm from Michigan , and I 've been here only since 1969 . There is a pervading community sense of heritage ? an almost mystic feeling of roots . And roots are a source of community . Responsibility equates with community . You see this responsibility , this morality , this ethic in the personal frugality here and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the generosity of our industries . But they are n't the only givers . Everyone gives to his capacity . It 's something that goes much deeper than the more conspicuous pieties  --  deeper than the Sabbath and all that . It 's the real thing . " He touched the file of papers again . " Now , do n't misunderstand me . I 'm not saying that we 're unique  --  that we 're an oasis here in the middle of the 20th century . " He stopped . He sat smiling at me across his desk . His smile faded . " No , " he said . " I 'll amend that . We are a little oasis here . I 'm afraid that 's exactly what we are . " X Mormons continued from page 69 there are high concentrations of members in the United States and Canada , processes and stores commodities from a number of church-run food production projects . For example , at a corn farm outside Chicago , Illinois , corporate executives , housewives , lawyers and jobless members work side-by-side during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tuna cannery in San Diego , California , satisfies the needs of the entire system for that product . There are apple , peach and pear orchards in Washington , beef and dairy farms in Michigan , a pork farm in Indiana , a chicken farm in Utah and numerous additional projects that supply the welfare storehouses . " While the church exists as a tool to help families help themselves , ' ' says Lee Asay , the lay bishop of an Indiana congregation , " families help the church and other families by staffing church positions and serving in their local church units . " And they do serve . In most congregations , every member who has embraced the principles of the church participates in some way in the organization , as a teacher , administrator , secretary or librarian for any one of the church auxiliaries for women , youth and children . Only a group of the religion 's highest ecclesiastical leaders dedicate their efforts full-time to the church . Lay leaders come from most walks of life and are called to serve without financial remuneration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who served as the governor of Michigan for two terms , was the regional leader of some ten congregations in the Michigan and Canadian area while he worked as the chief executive for American Motors Corporation . The colorful leader , who also presided over the heroic cooperative efforts of the U.S. auto industry in response to production needs during World War II , reflects on experiences in his youth that built what he calls a " moral foundation " for his professional achievements . " I , like most faithful Mormon boys today , was a boy scout and spent two years as a Mormon missionary in Europe after graduation from high school . Experiences like these are Continued on following page helping develop dedicated young men and women in the church today who will probably surpass any accomplishments I may have achieved , " Romney says . He now serves as a liason between the general Mormon leadership in Utah and regional leaders throughout the Michigan area . During his political career , Romney was often pictured by the media as a physical fitness enthusiast and drew attention to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Word of Wisdom . " Killebrew , former Pirates pitching great Vernon Law , golfers Billy Casper and Johnny Miller and a host of new , young Mormon athletes ( Gifford Nielsen , Danny White and Marc Wilson , to name a few ) are well-known for their abstinence from tobacco , alcohol , coffee , tea and other harmful substances . Although Mormons have been the object of some derision through the years due to this practice , considered " prudish " by some , recent clinical research has helped validate the effectiveness of the code . Independent studies published in American medical journals have shown members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have 65 percent fewer cases of lung cancer , 35 percent fewer cases of colon cancer , 35 percent fewer heart disease problems and 40 percent fewer liver ailments than the general U.S. population . The life expectancy in 1979 of a Mormon living the health code was three years longer for women and six years longer for men in the United States . " Mormons point to biblical scripture that calls the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies are sacred and worthy of respect , " explains Dr. James 0 . Mason , a distinguished former Harvard epidemiologist and former director of the Mormon Church 's world-wide medical programs . " Although it 's a supposition , not a scientific theory , the stability in the life of the average Mormon family could be one of the main secrets of this medical phenomenon of ours , " Dr. Mason points out . " It is known that possibly adverse physical and emotional effects are caused by deprivation , breakup of family , social problems and drug dependency . Church programs build a support structure to help people avert these kinds of stressful crises . " Dr. Mason is presently the executive director of the Utah State Department of Health . " The Word of Wisdom " is not solely a " thou shalt not " commandment to the Mormons , however . It emphasizes , for example , the positive benefits of using whole grains , fruits and vegetables without promoting radical health and diet fads . Moderation is a key element of the church teaching . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members follow the counsel that points out meat is " ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving , nevertheless ... to be used sparingly . " Moderation , of course , applies to all foods , and overeating in general is discouraged by the church . Largely as a result of the commandment , in many Mormon households a home wheat grinder or food dryer usurp counter space occupied by a coffee pot in most homes . While it is not a fundamental church requirement , home baking , canning and gardening are widespread among church members who take pride in both food production and healthful nutrition . The present prophet , President Kimball , has repeatedly encouraged members to cultivate home gardens as a family project . " After all , " explained one member , the mother of six children , " food is to be enjoyed , too . " " Yea , all things , " says Mormon scripture , " which come of the earth , in the season thereof , are made for the benefit and use of man , both to please the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food and for raiment , for taste and for smell , to strengthen the body and enliven the soul . " " It 's nice to know , " says food science and nutrition authority Lora Beth Larson , " that between the extremes of eating as duty and eating as self-indulgence lies the Lord 's view  --  that eating is a pleasant necessity and an occasion for joy and thanksgiving . " The stability of a Mormon home usually has its beginning in one of 17 sacred temples , where worthy members of the church may be married for eternity by an official with recognized authority . " I knew that I loved my husband even before I joined the church , " explains Lela Springer , a new convert who joined the Mormon church with her husband two years ago in Springfield , Ohio . " Mormonism made the idea of a marriage that lasted forever such a tangible belief . . . . We went ahead and were married again in the temple ordinance . We have since found that it made us much more committed to working @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a temple marriage will generally echo those comments , pointing out that the eternal nature of the commitment made with God helps them persevere in efforts to work out typical matrimonial problems rather than give in to the inclination to end the relationship in divorce . And divorce statistics tend to support the observation : While some 45 percent of the marriages in this country end in divorce , among couples married in the Mormon temple the divorce rate is only about 7 percent , Though the temple in Salt Lake City , Utah , is the most widely known , these striking structures vault skyward throughout the world . There are six in the state of Utah where the religion is predominant , one each in Arizona , Idaho , Alberta ( Canada ) , Hawaii , Washington , D.C. , New Zealand , Switzerland , Brazil and England , and two in California . Five new temples are currently under construction in Mexico , Japan , Samoa , Seattle and South Jordan , Utah . Church members use the sacred temples for an additional purpose that has resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genealogical research . Believing it their duty to search family records in order to perform ordinances by proxy for those ancestors who were unable to be baptized or married for eternity , Mormons place a special emphasis on doing genealogy work . Their library in the 28-story church headquarters in Salt Lake City , Utah , is considered one of the finest in the world . It is filled with records of millions of people filmed by special teams who search out yellowed birth and christening records in parishes and municipalities throughout Europe and many Latin American countries . Any visitor is welcomed to the modern facility and can , after asking a few quesContinued on page 125 1 . Mormons continued from page 111 tions , locate a microfilm print and begin the search for his own ancestors in one of 400 microfilm viewers . But the millions of names at the library are only duplicates . Deep in the Wasatch Range of the Rocky Mountains , behind a 14-ton steel door and under 700 feet of granite , the church preserves the originals in more than one million rolls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ names . The research crews add more rolls at the rate of more than 5,000 per month . This year , the Mormon church will host the second World Conference on Records , and some 10,000 of the world 's best genealogical researchers are expected to attend seminars on tracing ancestors and writing family histories . Do n't be surprised if some of them walk away from the conference entertaining the thought of becoming Mormons themselves . More than one million new members , most of them converts , have joined the church during the past decade . Some 200,000 became Mormons last year . That influx boosted the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from a position as ninth largest to one as fourth largest church in the United States . Taught the message of Joseph Smith 's vision and the " restoration of Christ 's church " by some 30,000 young men and women who serve two-year missions for the church at their own expense , the majority of new converts live in foreign countries . Ward congregations number some 10,000 in 77 countries , and the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Brigham Young University in Provo , Utah , has become the largest private university in the United States and educates thousands each year . Beginning in April , throughout the world , musical dramas , pageants , concerts , grand balls , building dedications , special worship services and other events will commemorate the 150th birthday of this dynamic religious group . The Mormon church , of course , is n't the only Christian organization with some laudable progress to its credit . But after a quick review of its accomplishments over the past few years , no one can say its members do n't have something to celebrate . That was the thought of U.S. Senator Frank Church when , in a speech presented to the U.S. Senate last July , he said , " Mr. President , today I join with the people of my state in honoring the Mormon pioneer people who have traversed a continent in search of religious freedom . Their story is one of the heroism and sacrifice which has been deeply etched in our frontier history . . . . The Mormon church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its president , Spencer W. Kimball . . Today we pay tribute to the Mormon pioneers and their descendants . We admire their valor , courage and example. ? '                     