@@494457

On personal acquaintance Arthur Kinoy is pleasant enough . His professional gifts are considerable , and his reputation among students and colleagues as a professor of law is excellent . One would have thought these blessings sufficient to content any man and persuade him to hold his tongue . Not so for Arthur Kinoy . Urged on by persons unhappily named in his acknowledgements , Kinoy has written the story of his life . The book 's matter consists chiefly in Kinoy 's narrative of his involvement in several remarkable chapters of recent American history ? Watergate , the trade union movement , the Rosenberg case , McCarthyism , the civil rights campaign in the South , the House Un-American Activities Committee , Congress 's attempt to expel Adam Clayton Powell , . and the Chicago Seven . However much has already been said on these subjects , much remains to be told , and Kinoy would have put posterity in his debt had he committed to print an account of what it was like to play a part in such great events ? circumstance , detail , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were there . Of this , however , Kinoy gives small measure . In the larger part of his book he seems satisfied to abandon thought for attitudes merely struck , judgmentfor a line emptily mouthed , and style for a m ? lange of committee-report prose and unadorned cant . There is a habit of mind ( or , perhaps more accurately , a quality of personality ) famously described by John Keats , writing to his brothers in December 1817 : " Negative capability , that is when a man is capable of being in uncertainties , mysteries , doubts . " Without negative capability , a man becomes desperate for some refuge from the fearsome complexity , the incomprehensible tears of things . He seeks out a cause , some overriding principle of action , to which he can devote himself completely . Let our man lacking negative capability be a lawyer , and he will need to search outside the law for the cause that saves him . The reason has to do with the peculiar nature of the law ; it is not a fixed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution of social problems , but a hodgepodge of improvisations for their slow amelioration . It is , in fact , a kind of institutional embodiment of negative capability . So our lawyer must look to the left , to the right , or upward to heaven , for the certainty that resolves all . Once he finds it , his ends are forever set , with his profession just a handy means to achieve them . Arthur Kinoy is such a man , who has committed himself to such a cause . It is the cause voiced in his book 's title and spelled out in its first pages : I was still very much committed to the work as a people 's lawyer that I had been involved in since the late 1940s . . . . The people 's lawyer represents movements of people who throughout the history of this country have struggled to protect and advance their elementary rights and interests against attempts by the government or big business to undermine or derail them . Kinoy 's cause is " the people " and their " struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the book 's title and opening to expect from Kinoy an intelligent justification of , say , public ownership of factories , or the elimination of class distinctions , or government by town meeting . What the reader gets is simply invocation , again and again , of " the people " and the " struggle . " For example : Then he Kinoy 's mentor issued a warning that has proved invaluable at other times of crisis in the people 's movements : " Do n't be paralyzed by the notion of the eternal life of an idea or of a body of legal concepts . After all , the only thing which is ' eternal ' to a lawyer for working people is the struggle of those people for a better life . " As we talked , I felt easier . True , the needs of that struggle shift and change . And as they do , the legal concepts required to protect that struggle also shift and change . The one immutable element is the necessity of searching out ways to make the law and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people . And , to the end of " the people " and their " struggle , " law is but a means : The ultimate test of the appropriateness of a given legal strategy could not be solely the likelihood of success within the court structure . The wisdom of bringing a lawsuit , of opening up a certain line of legal strategy , had to be judged in a wholly different way . The crucial question was what role it would play at that moment in protecting or advancing the people 's struggle . The trouble with this view of the function of law is that it ignores the value of law as a limit on power . No , Kinoy would say , if " the people " want something , it 's not for the law to deny it to them . Kinoy 's conception of the task of a people 's lawyer took shape in his first few months at the bar . Employed by the United Electrical Workers , he had been sent to Cleveland to represent the U.E. in a hearing before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair labor practices lodged by the union against a company with which the union was trying to bargain out an agreement . A guileless reader , assuming that Kinoy 's responsibility here was to ascertain whether the accusation had been filed in good faith , and then to present the case as well as he could , will find himself quickly disabused . " The test of success for a people 's lawyer , " says Kinoy , " is not always the technical winning or losing of the formal proceeding . " In truth , the U.E. had little interest in getting a favorable order from the N.L.R.B. Rather , the U.E. wanted " time to organize better their own union base in the plant in order to strengthen their bargaining position " and " to take some initiative in the bargaining . " Suppose that the client had been not a union but a corporation , the lawyer not a people 's lawyer but the other kind , and the lawsuit one brought by the cor-poration against a busi-ness with which the corporation had entered into an improvident con-tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its obli-gations under the con-tract and thus pressure the defendant into ac-cepting a settlement for something less than 100 cents on the dollar . Ev-ery lawyer knows that the bringing of a lawsuit to accomplish such pur-poses is unethical . For his professional miscon-duct in making imper-missible ulterior use of litigation , the corpora-tion 's lawyer would be subject to censure or worse . Perhaps because Kinoy was a young man when he represented the U.E. before the N.L.R.B. , he failed to see that , no matter the iden-tity of the client , his po-sition differed not at all from that of the corporation 's lawyer . Today , thirty-five years older , Kinoy can hardly plead the innocence of youth . Nor does he ; instead , he asserts that the ethical structures which apply to other lawyers do not bind a people 's lawyer : From my experience at the Cleveland hearing . . . I began to get an insight into the role of a people 's lawyer . . . . Increasingly , I realized that people 's lawyers must never forget their underlying purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ already in motion to carry forward their own struggles . . . Victory has to be achieved by the people themselves .. . and the legal work of a people 's lawyer must be directed primarily toward helping to create an atmosphere in which the people can more readily function , organize , and move forward . A HOMELY WAY of testing Kinoy 's faith is to ask who will determine the rights and the interests of " the people . " The country 's population is in the hundreds of millions ; discussion and referendum wo n't work . Still , in a democracy , some sort of elected representation must be the method , though Kinoy does n't concede even that much . He leaves the question untouched , one suspects , because his answer would be that he and his friends will know what 's good for " the people , " and that of course is what " the people " will want . It boils down to power ? power in the party of " the people , " Kinoy might say , power in my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the Communist Party . Whether it still is he does n't say . The cause of " the people " resolves doubt by excluding the possibility of any answer to any question other than the one it supplies . The price paid includes the loss of irony , of a play of mind without which the story of a life lived in perfect certainty lies dead on the page . Take the Rosenberg case . Kinoy had a role in the last-minute attempt to secure a stay of the executions . He failed . The Rosenbergs died , and this is what Kinoy finds to say about the significance of their deaths : Today , over a quarter of a century later , impartial historians of the period are beginning to understand that the trial was the cornerstone of a plan , of which Joe McCarthy was only one of the prime architects , to develop a national mood of hysteria that would allow suppression of all political opposition to the unfolding strategy of the Cold War . Since Kinoy apparently believes this ? never mind Ronald Radosh and Joyce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it ca n't be called dishonesty . Perhaps " wanting in independence of thought and distinction of manner " would do . Because Kinoy 's commitment leaves him ' unable to perceive that which his cause excludes as impossible , his book gives off an aura of fantasy . His world is not the world the rest of us live in , as exemplified by Kinoy 's account of a lawsuit where the government argued that the President had inherent authority to permit warrantless wiretapping when the President believed national security required it . Kinoy was one of two lawyers opposing the government in the Supreme Court . He saw the implications of the case as follows : We discussed the word to describe where all this might be heading . There was a word , but we were all reluctant to use it . It had fearful connotations for most Americans . It was a word out of European experiences which most Americans , including ourselves , were loath to put into an American context . That word was " fascism . " As Kinoy argued the case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ losing . When the Supreme Court decided his way , " it was almost impossible to believe . " A reader who knew about the case only what Kinoy tells of it would assume that the government 's malevolent plan to subvert the Constitution and institute tyranny had been forestalled by a near-miraculous courtroom victory . This is nonsense on stilts . Kinoy fails to point out that when the government submitted its theory of Presidential authority to the judiciary for the judiciary 's approval or disapproval , it was hardly committing the act of an incipient fascist state . He fails to point out that from district court through court of appeals to Supreme Court , twelve judges passed on the case . Their aggregate vote was eleven to one against the government 's position . He fails to point out that any well-informed lawyer would have known that Kinoy could not lose . The result was inevitable . Only one aspect of the case was problematic , and that is how the government 's lawyers could think they had even a remote chance of winning . Kinoy 's distortion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases . He is a people 's lawyer , battling endlessly on their behalf against the establishment . The untutored reader , knowing only Kinoy , would assume that Kinoy 's career has been a series of defeats , with the power of government and of big business crushing " the people " in their struggle . But should the reader persevere to the end of the book , he may realize for himself ? Kinoy fails to point it out ? that Kinoy has almost always won . When the people litigate against government or big business , the courts frequently decide for " the people . " Had Kinoy only been capable of seeing this , it might have served to temper some- what the hysterical and despairing tone which , together with his infirm grasp of the English language , makes his book so dreary . This man flatters himself . He has had no " odyssey . " He has had only a successful career in a political and legal system that rewards even his opposition to it . 