@@298626

Wickham spreads the blame <P> As senior military adviser to Secretaries of Defense over the years , Army General John A. Wickham Jr . learned much about the ways of Washington . For example : there are times when the military is expected to shoulder full responsibility for its snafus , and there are other times when it makes sense to spread the blame around . Last week , in his first meeting with reporters since being made Army Chief of Staff in June , Wickham deemed the climate right for straight talk . In any fair-minded parceling out of responsibility for the military 's mounting problems with weapons systems that cost shockingly more than planned and still do not work , said Wickham , full shares should be assigned to both U.S. industry and the U.S. Congress . <P> The general blamed private industry for turning out weapons and other equipment riddled with faulty materials and shoddy workmanship . " There are some things I can get emotional about , and quality control is one of them , " he said . " The Department of Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The failure of contractors to deliver on such assurances , Wickham said , has plagued everything from weapons systems to the most mundane matriel . The electronic weaponry of the Patriot ground-to-air missile was so failure-prone that the Army has decided to stop testing it for now . Until recently the Copperhead guided artillery projectile was beset with targeting problems . Even fatigue uniforms are not immune : one shipment shrank on being laundered . <P> The weapons system whose testing has recently caused the most embarrassment to the Army is the Pershing II missile , which is scheduled for deployment in West Germany four months from now but has failed in five of its 16 experimental firings . Every one of the misfires , Wickham charged , was the result of quality-control problems . Pershing 's contractor is the Martin Marietta Corp. , with headquarters in Bethesda , Md . Army officials familiar with the program explained that the most recent test , on July 27 , was botched because of improperly placed shims , or washers , in the hot-thrust section of the missile . Glitches that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a misplaced wire that led to a short circuit . Officials of Martin Marietta declined to respond to Wickham 's blast . <P> Turning to Congress , Wickham accused the legislative branch of having " aggravated " problems surrounding another of the Army 's headache projects , the M-1 Abrams tank . Deliveries of the AGT-1500C turbine engines for the huge ( 120,023-lb. ) vehicles have been so slow that the Army has been forced to cannibalize the power plants of field-tested units and use them on tanks coming off the production line . Under Secretary of the Army James R. Ambrose estimates that this rip-out process has cost " well over a million dollars so far . " Yet a House-Senate conference committee refused to allow the Army to choose a second manufacturer . The apparent reason : members bowed to pressures from New England legislators to keep the jobs dependent on it with the current contractor , Avco Corp . ' s Lycoming Division in Stratford , Conn.                     