@@336747

Lenin 's white statue seemed to gaze down expectantly on Mikhail Gorbachev as the Soviet leader walked to the podium of the Kremlin 's Palace of Congresses , - opened a thick folder and began his 2-hr. 41-min. speech . Between Lenin and Gorbachev lay seven decades of Soviet history , much of it officially ignored or obfuscated  --  and nearly all of it haunted by the ghost of Joseph Stalin . But Gorbachev had insisted there should be no " blank pages " in his country 's past . Now , in an address marking the 70th anniversary of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution , he had an ideal occasion to demonstrate the glasnost ( openness ) that has become a watchword of his 31 months in power . What he revealed instead was the limits of glasnost and the cautious path he must tread between foot-dragging conservatives and impatient reformers within the Communist Party leadership . <P> Gorbachev did , however , fill in a few of Soviet history 's most troubling blanks . Not since Nikita Khrushchev 's now famous secret speech to the 20th Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the atrocities of the Stalin era  --  particularly the terror-filled 1930s , when millions of citizens were arrested or summarily executed , or starved to death as a result of forced collectivization . Declared Gorbachev : " The guilt of Stalin and his immediate entourage before the party and the people for the wholesale repressive measures and acts of lawlessness is enormous and unforgivable . This is a lesson for all generations . " Yet Gorbachev tempered his criticism by noting " Stalin 's incontestable contribution to the struggle for socialism , " and seemed to diminish the extent of Stalin 's crimes by numbering his victims in the thousands , rather than millions . Nonetheless , Gorbachev took an unprecedented step . Although Khrushchev had attacked Stalin 's legacy with far more passion and detail 31 years earlier , his speech was never published in the Soviet Union ; Gorbachev 's was carried live on nationwide radio and television . <P> In other ways too , Gorbachev cracked open new windows in the previously impenetrable wall of Soviet history . He partly restored the reputation of Khrushchev , who died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1964 . " It required no small courage of the party and its leadership , headed by Nikita Khrushchev , to criticize ( ( Stalin 's ) ) personality cult and its consequences and to re-establish socialist legality , " Gorbachev told the 5,000 Soviet officials and foreign dignitaries assembled before him in the cavernous modern hall . Khrushchev , who tried to launch decentralizing reforms similar to Gorbachev 's , had not been publicly named by a Soviet leader in more than two decades .                     