@@432249

 | There were plenty of surprises in a term that tackled key issues ranging from crime to religion . What conservatives had been hoping would be a year of triumph at the Supreme Court turned out to be a time of frustration . Showing a surprisingly independent stance in the term that ended July 2 , the Court put a halt to a steady drift to the right in recent years . While handing down decisions bolstering law enforcement , the Justices kept intact the wall separating church and state and struck blows against both business and labor . Still , the balance of power on the Court remained precarious . The temporary absence of one Justice early in the year produced tie votes in eight major cases . " After the sharp turn to the right last year , this term was a moderate one , " remarked Prof. Geoffrey Stone of the University of Chicago Law School . No special interest emerged a clear winner as the High Court continued its unpredictable course . Among the issues that dominated the 1984-85 term : Church and state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Justice on key issues , missed 56 cases after surgery . hints that it might allow closer ties between government and religion , the Court affirmed church-state separation . In one closely watched case , the Justices voided an Alabama statute allowing moments of silence in public schools , citing evidence that state legislators intended to bring prayer back to the schools . The Reagan administration , which backs a constitutional amendment authorizing school prayer , had urged the Justices to approve the law . The Court also struck down " shared time " programs in Michigan and New York City in which public-school teachers taught special classes part time in parochial schools . In a third case , the Justices said Connecticut went too far in recognizing religion when it allowed workers to schedule days off on their Sabbath , a right that might conflict with the preferences of others . Said Chief Justice Warren Burger : " Government must ... take pains not to compel people to act in the name of any religion . " Government powers . Public officials at all levels took a beating this term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress could override wishes of states and set national standards in a number of important policy areas . The case forced San Antonio to pay overtime to municipal transit workers . The Court also overruled a lower court 's decision allowing another community in Texas ? Cleburne ? to use zoning ordinances to block group homes for retarded residents . Congress did not always get its way , either . The Court declared unconstitutional a $1,000 limit lawmakers had set on spending by political committees on behalf of presidential candidates . The Justices said for the first time that cabinet officials might be forced to pay damages when they violate citizen rights in national-security cases . However , the Court spared former Atty . Gen. John Mitchell from facing a suit filed by a man whose telephone he ordered to be tapped without obtaining a warrant . Washington State officials who wanted to broaden a crackdown on pornography ran into a roadblock when the Supreme Court said that they could not ban material that incites " lust . " Criminal law . As they have done in recent terms , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Court did little to slow the quickening pace of capital punishment . With the Justices turning back repeated pleas for mercy , two dozen men and one woman were put to death around the nation in the last year , compared with a total of 20 over the previous seven years . The Justice Department won important authority to pick and choose among potential criminal cases when the Court rejected a charge that U.S. authorities had engaged in " selective prosecution . " The ruling permitted singling out for criminal charges young men who had  | spoken out against draft registration . The Justices gave school officials more power to open student lockers in narcotics searches and permitted police to search motor homes without a warrant . Yet criminal suspects prevailed in several important cases . For example , poor defendants won rights to have high-quality legal aid when pursuing appeals and to psychiatric help when pleading insanity . Business and labor . The Court played no favorites , with both interests losing big cases . Unions took a blow when the Court decided members could quit labor organizations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further weaken their power . But business took a loss when the Court declared them subject to civil lawsuits accusing them of conspiring to violate the law under a racketeering statute that Congress had aimed at organized crime . Big banks found themselves liable to be barred from sections of the country when Justices allowed states to form alliances favoring regional banks . Why did the Court shift direction this session ? For one thing , says Professor Stone , criticism a year ago of the Court 's conservative turn " may have had a subtle influence that tempered the views of some Justices . " Also , the Court 's docket did not include many of the controversial criminal-law and civil-liberties issues that have given a clue in the past to the Justices ' thinking on broad trends . Even though this term was no boon for conservatives , they hope for better things if Reagan has more vacancies to fill . Razor-thin margins on many major issues offer solace to the forces , led by Reagan , who would like the High Court to be a model of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts it : " We want judges who are interpreters of the law , not makers of new law . " The President 's one appointment so far ? Sandra Day O'Connor ? once more joined Chief Justice Warren Burger and Justice William Rehnquist in the judicial-restraint wing of the Court . But a long list of 5-to-4 and 5-to-3 votes found conservatives on the losing side almost as often as they were in the majority . The fragility of the voting alliances was demonstrated when Justice Lewis Powell ? a key " swing " member of the Court 's moderate center ? missed oral arguments for five weeks after cancer surgery . Of 56 cases heard in his absence , eight drew tie votes , causing the lower-court rulings to be upheld . Powell , who will be 78 in September , resumed his case load and gave no indication that he would step down soon . But if he or any of the other four Justices who are over 76 decide to retire , the White House is poised with a list of conservatives to nominate . Among those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antonin Scalia , 49 , both former law professors and former Justice Department officials who now sit on the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington , D.C. Also in the running is William Clark , 53 , a former Reagan appointee on the California Supreme Court who later served as White House national-security adviser and U.S. Interior Secretary . A second look . Whether or not vacancies materialize , the Supreme Court will have a chance during the term starting October 7 to resolve divisive questions it avoided in 1984-85 . In criminal law , the Justices will once again grapple with capital punishment . In a Mississippi case , they must decide whether an accomplice to murder can be sentenced to death even if he did not actively take part . The Court also will consider whether defendants in capital crimes ? nearly half of whom are black ? have the right to question potential jurors about racial bias . The Justices approved some state restrictions on abortion in recent terms . They will take up the subject again by studying anti-abortion statutes passed in Illinois and Pennsylvania . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retreat from affirmative action last year when it upheld layoffs of minorities so white workers with more seniority could keep their jobs . Next term , the Justices may clarify the issue when they hear a " reverse discrimination " case filed by white teachers laid off in Michigan . The results of these controversies and others may show how much impact Ronald Reagan 's campaign for judicial restraint will have on a Supreme Court that recently has shown a strong tendency to go its own way .                     