@@432314

 | As Manila and Washington plan a new future for the Philippines , jubilation already has given way to the reality of coping with the many problems left behind by Ferdinand Marcos as well as some grave new ones . The most immediate challenges for Corazon Aquino will be keeping the political ambitions of powerful military and civilian rivals in check , reviving a shattered economy , curbing endemic corruption and thwarting a Communist insurgency . A healthy regard for the U.S. 's own strategic interests will force the Reagan administration to consider deeper involvement ? not only more aid but eventually , perhaps , American military advisers for the Philippine Army . But with Marcos gone , there is far less worry that the critical U.S. military bases in the Philippines would become guerrilla targets or be held hostage to political demands . Like her predecessor , Aquino has left open the possibility of a longterm renewal of the leases that end in 1991 . Some Aquino aides already are talking about a " mini-Marshall Plan " to help rebuild the economy . However , some influential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be specific discussions with Aquino about actual military and economic aid needs " before we get into talking huge sums , " insists Senator Richard Lugar ( R-Ind. ) , chairman of the U.S. observer group during the February 7 election and a major congressional voice on Philippine affairs . Even with increased U.S. aid , the road ahead is rocky . " After Marcos , it will be very hard to put things in order , " says Cardinal Jaime Sin , leader of the powerful Roman Catholic Church . Sin and other church leaders were instrumental in galvanizing support for Aquino and in getting masses of people into the streets to protect headquarters of military men who had turned against Marcos ? a move that proved to be a major turning point in forcing him from office . Aquino has major assets beyond her popularity : An apparent sense of moderation and a Philippine tradition of nonviolence that contrasts sharply with that of many Third World nations . One of her first moves was a call for Filipinos to " forget the past " and work for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past insistence that Marcos be made to answer for the murder of her husband , former opposition leader Benigno Aquino . Marcos himself was sinking from view . In a brief statement on February 28 at Hickam Air Force Base near Honolulu , he said he avoided using force to retain power in order to save lives . The U.S. , he claimed , refused to let him seek internal exile in the Philippines . Aquino 's cabinet includes two influential , ambitious and openly opportunistic potential rivals . One is Juan Ponce Enrile , who was Marcos 's chief martial-law administrator for nine years beginning in 1972 . He abandoned the former President only when Marcos was about to arrest him . The other is Prime Minister Salvador Laurel , a longtime Marcos ally who apparently agreed to run for Vice President with Aquino mainly as a way to remain a principal player in Philippine politics . Already he has been richly rewarded for , first , his defection from Marcos in  | 1982 , and , second , his reluctant decision to join Aquino . Besides Vice President and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he has his own political machine , he is ambitious , and he clearly envisions himself as Cory Aquino 's successor ? suggesting that he may become a major power broker in the new government . Other potential threats to Aquino are provincial power brokers and military men only recently introduced to direct political participation . Mayors , governors and other " up country " officials have traditionally run their areas in near feudal style , dispensing patronage , settling local disputes and taking a cut from almost every economic activity . Aquino must break the power of these rural leaders , or else remove them , to put through promised land reform and other economic reforms . But she lacks enough trusted , experienced aides to replace the hundreds , or thousands , of officials linked with Marcos-era corruption and inefficiency . Evidence of this is Aquino 's appointment of Maj. Gen. Prospero Olivas as the new head of the National Police even though he was one of the officers implicated , and later acquitted , of cover-up charges in the killing of her husband . The role of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major source of power for Marcos , but they were not regular participants in political activity . Their role in deposing him may have changed all that . " The military now has the heady feeling of having determined the outcome in the political world , " says former U.S. Defense Secretary James Schlesinger . " They will be more inclined to play the game of Manila politics and less inclined to be out there in the field dealing with insurgents . Their status has been elevated , so they are going to be more the power behind the throne . " Deep divisions among Aquino 's supporters surfaced on her second day in office as she responded to demands of human-rights groups by ordering the immediate release of all political prisoners , including some suspected Communist insurgent leaders , over the objections of Enrile and Gen. Fidel Ramos , the newly appointed Army chief of staff . During her campaign , Aquino promised to free political prisoners and considers such action a vital part of efforts to neutralize the insurgency . She also favors a dialogue with the rebels @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any of these moves could trigger open conflict with key leaders and threaten the existence of her fragile coalition . Enrile warned that Aquino would have to bear responsibility for any security problems resulting from the prisoner release . For the U.S. , the demise of a longstanding but discredited ally could hardly have gone more smoothly . Under steadily mounting pressure from Washington , Marcos on February 25 surrendered the power he had held for 20 years with surprisingly muted public recriminations and little bloodshed . Only a dozen deaths were recorded despite four daXs of confrontations between thousands of troops and millions of people . Three basic assessments determined the speed and strength of U.S. efforts to get Marcos out and Aquino in . First was the insistence of U.S. diplomatic troubleshooter Philip Habib that the onetime strong man had irretrievably lost control of events and that " the Marcos era has ended . " Second was fear of being caught on the wrong side if a bizarre military revolt ? mostly limited to shooting in the air and televised changing of political allegiances ? turned into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and visible deterioration of the health of the 68-yearold Marcos , whose chronic kidney ailment could only have been aggravated by the strain of the crisis . Behind America 's frantic diplomacy was a frank admission of strategic self-interest . Many U.S. officials contend that the 53-year-old , Americaneducated Aquino is the kind of moderate , personally honest , democratic reformer who  | given enough help ? can turn things around in the Philippines . Thus , they contend , a bet on Aquino is a good bet on future stability that would provide the best possible assurance of security for Subic Naval Base and Clark Air Base , the biggest overseas American military installations . Since taking office , Aquino has refused to make any public commitments about the bases future beyond the present agreement , which expires in 1991 . However , she has resisted pressure from leftist supporters who demand a U.S. withdrawal and indicates privately that she " leans " toward a continued American military presence in the Philippines . For the moment , top officials in the White House and State Department were obviously delighted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sore ribs from everybody moving to the front at once to claim credit , " quipped one Reagan aide as reports poured in of Aquino 's quick start on putting together a government and ending turmoil in Manila . However , some analysts with long memories warned that the depth of U.S. involvement in Aquino 's accession had created commitments that could backfire dangerously if the untested new leader fails . On several occasions , ranging from South Vietnam in 1963 to Iran in 1979 , the U.S. has pushed , pulled and conspired behind the scenes to topple allied regimes that it decided were too inept , corrupt or repressive . But until late February in the Philippines , American leaders had never made such an open effort to remove one chief of state and replace him with another . Eventually , Aquino might have achieved on her own the power that she and many others insist was honestly won in the February 7 election , then lost to Marcos through fraud . However , it would have been a far longer , more difficult and bloodier struggle without U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " attempts to prolong the life of the Marcos regime by violence are futile . " This creates an Aquino debt to Washington and should offset some Philippine criticism that U.S. leaders , especially Reagan , stuck with Marcos too long . But it creates a commitment to make sure that Aquino succeeds , possibly involving the U.S. more deeply than at any time.since the former colony became independent in 1946 . In the end , the biggest single factor in the Reagan administration 's turn away from Marcos was his inability or unwillingness to deal with his country 's most threatening problems . These were a military afflicted by cronyism , pervasive corruption and general economic stagnation caused in large part by Marcos 's own policies . All these left the nation vulnerable to Asia 's only expanding Communist insurgency . The rebels now number about 30,000 , half of them armed . Ultimately , Aquino will be judged by how effectively she attacks the same problems . Dismantling the stifling monopolies set up by Marcos could restore the confidence of businessmen who , with their own economic interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would in turn encourage badly Jubilant Aquino forces welcome troops whose turn from Marcos was critical to outcome I  | I needed credit from both private banks and the International Monetary Fund . As matters now stand , the government is struggling to make payments on $26 billion in foreign debt . Even more-basic economic problems , such as very low prices for sugar , coconuts and rice and soaring unemployment , are going to take much longer to alleviate . So will an increase in private foreign investment and the return of capital sent abroad during the Marcos era . Aquino 's prospects for defusing the insurgency are likewise unclear . But she is trying , promising amnesty to rebels who lay down their arms . The offer may attract some who became guerrillas because they were convinced that was the only way to bring down Marcos . This , however , will not alter the basic aim of the 20,000-strong Communist Party , which remains dedicated to forcible overthrow of the established order . For eventual success , Aquino must undertake a major military retraining program to turn a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , she must supply thousands of troops who often lack such basics as ammunition and boots . Both of these things ? in common with so much else that Aquino must do ? will take an enormous investment of time as well as money . But as the shouting fades , those could be the two commodities she finds in shortest supply .                     