@@486995

obligations receive the most attention in this book ; and while these can be seen as little more than nonstop housekeeping , they are also the locus of what many people mean when they think of themselves as Jewish . Raised in the home of an Orthodox rabbi and married to one , Greenberg is intimately familiar with nooks and crannies of Judaism that most Talmudic sages never glimpsed . She tells how to kasher ( make kosher , or purify ) the pot that will be used to kasher other utensils for Passover by filling it with water , bringing it to a boil and using pliers to drop into the water a large stone that has been heated over an open flame . That causes the water to overflow ; hence , the pot is considered to have been " immersed " in boiling water . Once the pot has been kashered , spatulas and can openers , the blades of the food processor and various other utensils can be immersed , at an item-towater ratio of one to sixty . ( If the water stops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) It takes weeks to purify a house for Passover  --  not everything has to be boiled , of course , some household items must be blow-torched and others simply scrubbed  --  which is why Greenberg quotes her mother as saying that the Jewish housewife was the only one who did n't go out of bondage on Pesach . The spiritual value of cooking and cleaning has long been enshrined in American Protestantism ( " Dirt is sin , " explained one nineteenth-century home economist ) , but traditional Judaism far outstrips even the most excessive American passion for antisepsis . Greenberg , who teaches , writes , lectures and is raising five children while pursuing a doctorate at Columbia University , openly looks forward to the day Orthodox Judaism will accommodate women . She welcomes feminist innovations like the naming ceremony for daughters and the wedding blessing spoken by the bride . At the same time , she 's perfectly content to wait while a tradition that has learned to distinguish confidently between the metal and the plastic racks of the dishwasher ( the former can be kashered , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equal partners in religion . Hers is one way of being a Jewish feminist , and perhaps it 's the easiest . All you really give up is the fight , and the reward is spiritual sustenance for a lifetime . Many of the contributors to ' On Being a Jewish Feminist share Greenberg 's willingness to wait , and they greet each new sign of recognition  --  a prayer altered to include a reference to women , a nod of welcome from the men 's side of the synagogue  --  with joy and gratitude . But among the essayists  --  who include scholars , political organizers , writers , social workers and rabbis  --  are some who ca n't sit still behind the screen . As voice teacher Gail Shulman points out , Judaism itself sets up many a Jewish girl to be a feminist . A passion for justice , what she calls " the courage to live in opposition , " is imbibed with the chicken soup in many homes . Beyond the laws and rituals that write out females there is a lively tradition of energetic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pragmatism , inevitably raising their daughters to talk back . Paula Hyman , a professor at Jewish Theological Seminary , writes about the women of the shtetl , who supplied crucial extra income by sewing at home , selling bagels from a basket in the marketplace or working in a shop . " Jewish culture permitted ' . . . women to be strong , capable and shrewd , " she observes , and suggests there is a great deal more in Jewish history that may constitute " usable past . " Whether there is a usable present for women in organized Judaism remains a question , judging from these essays . The non-Orthodox branches ? Conservative , Reconstructionist and Reform  --  have made varying efforts to include women in the life of the synagogue ; and indeed , to a woman like radio producer Thena Kendall , who had to sneak into the cemetery to attend her father 's burial , since the ultra-Orthodox men following his coffin would not let her join them , the Reform tradition has brought immense satisfactions . " I can sit alongside my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can now touch or kiss a Torah scroll when it is carried around the synagogue , " she relates gladly . " This year I was even invited to carry a Torah on Simhat Torah . " Nonetheless , even the most liberal co regation regation bases its sacred practices on ? ' written tradition created by men to support male experience and steeped in quotidian misogyny . " The Otherness of women is part of the fabric of Jewish life , " declares professor Judith Plaskow . " Feminism demands a new understanding of Torah , God , and Israel : an understanding of Torah that begins with acknowledgment of the profound injustice of Torah itself . " Like most religions , Judaism could use a rewrite by now ; and several of these contributors are going at it , beginning with an attack on the male imagery attached to God and reaching into forgotten mystic traditions , even into other cultures , for ideas and inspirations . New liturgies and ceremonies arising from Jewish feminist radicalism are already popular in some congregations , and two such liturgies are included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this innovative worship belongs in the same literary category as those hymns about love and the sunrise sung to an ill-plucked guitar at liberated Christian services , but time does wonders for a tradition . These two books should be read together . Greenberg 's uncritical celebration of Jewish family life is tempered dramatically by Mimi Scarf 's essay on battered Jewish wives , which shows that domestic violence , whatever your grandmother may have told you , is not confined to goyim . And the more superficial essays are illuminated to a dazzling degree by Greenberg 's step-by-step rehearsal of their complaint . Green-berg 's profound reverence for the past does not commit her to a lifetime of looking backward , but it 's the contributors to On Being a Jewish Feminist who are making her future possible . Packaged as a set they 'd make a great bat mitzvah present . ?                     