@@297332

And every woman , as Washington tests a retreat from affirmative action <P> On the surface , the move seemed important but limited , the reaction utterly predictable . The Reagan Administration told companies employing some 7.5 million workers that it would no longer make them draw up detailed plans for hiring and promoting women and blacks , Hispanics and members of other minority groups . Civil rights activists denounced the step as a retreat from the Government 's commitment to end race and sex discrimination . On the other hand , some employers grumbled that the Administration had not gone far enough toward its announced goals of reducing the burden of paperwork on companies doing business with Washington and ending what Ellen Shong , director of the Labor Department 's Office of Contract Compliance Programs , called " mindless confrontations " between executives and bureaucrats . <P> In fact , the Administration went much further than either its friends or its foes realized toward an unpublicized though not exactly secret goal : a weakening of " affirmative action , " the hotly disputed , quietly successful federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from remaining white , male preserves . <P> The proposed new regulations affecting the hiring policies of companies that do business with the Government were published by the Labor Department last week in the Federal Register . They will take effect in about three months , unless modified after a 60-day period of public comment . The new rules include two important changes that were all but ignored last week in the initial public debate . One would make it far more difficult for workers who are discriminated against to collect back pay for jobs or promotions they did not get . The other provision would flatly forbid any employer with a Government contract to favor one race over another-hiring blacks , say , instead of equally qualified whites-even to atone for the effects of past discrimination . Government officials privately describe the new rules as an attempt to test how far it is politically safe for the Administration to proceed toward abandoning the current concept of affirmative action . <P> That deceptively bland bit of bureaucratic jargon has become a fighting slogan since Lyndon Johnson made it Government policy in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out how the Government would enforce the prohibitions against bias in employment that had been written into the Civil Rights Act of 1964 . In its mildest interpretation , affirmative action merely requires an employer to attempt to recruit women , blacks , Hispanics and others for jobs usually held by white males . But courts and previous Administrations have increasingly enforced a sterner standard : employers must set numerical goals and timetables-hiring or promoting , say , five women and five blacks or Hispanics by mid-1983 into a bookkeeping department that is now staffed by 25 white males . The Carter Administration went so far as to imply that employers might have to hire or promote women and minority-group members over white males who might have somewhat higher job qualifications .                     