@@487718

The staging of the recent Thirteenth Chinese Communist Party Congress in Beijing illustrates the importance placed on symbol and style by a Commu- nist leadership anxious to court the West . After closing the congress , the new party General Secretary , Zhao Ziyang , led a parade of new Politburo Standing Committee members to a press conference and cocktail reception . Decked out in elegant Western-style suits and ties , the new leadership was sending an explicit signal of unity and openness to the West . As the party leaders lined up in order of rank for the world 's photographers , Zhao flashed his inside lapel to show his suit was " Made in China . " Zhao 's carefully choreographed victory celebration was a performance put on largely for the benefit of China watchers worldwide , and was an opportunity to observe how Western Sinologists find meaning in nuance . A great deal was at stake at this party congress : Would China 's senior leader , Deng Xiaoping , actually retire ? Would his heir apparent , Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang , triumph over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victory for Deng and Zhao is now clear  --  that it came as somewhat of a surprise to many observers is also evident . Reporters used phrases like a " brilliant coup " and " nothing less than a rout " to describe the personnel changes engineered by the two leaders . Sinologists are now pondering just how they managed to pull it off . As always in this field , explanations and speculation vary widely and deliciously . Zhao 's victory was a surprise  --  as the congress convened , it was not at all clear which faction would triumph or how . Inner-party battles for influence among China 's leadership are fought behind high walls in Beijing and in secluded seaside resorts to the east . The results are revealed only at staged events , the curtain pulled back to reveal the prize . Deng Xiaoping himself may be feeling somewhat surprised at his " rout . " Over the past year the familiar pendulum swing of Chinese politics had surged strongly back toward what Chinese label the " left " : conservatives in the leadership who feel economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the party 's centralized control and despise the creeping " bourgeois liberalization " that has come hand in hand with an opening to the West . The conservatives were especially threatened in late 1986 by an explosion of cultural liberalization and political discussion in the media and on university campuses . At the end of that year , they used the specter of chaos inspired by A/isa Joyce , a former reporter for The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour , lived in China from 1982 to 1984. student demonstrations to crack down on intellectuals and the media , and finally to oust the more liberal party General Secretary , Hu Yaobang . Emboldened by the silence of Deng Xiaoping , the conservatives eventually overplayed their hand by expanding their criticism to touch on the hallowed ground of rural economic reforms . With this , Deng came quietly forward to signal that the campaign had gone too far . He commented to a visiting foreign delegation in May that " leftism " posed the greatest danger to China 's development . Thus , China scholars speculate , the tide began to turn against the conservatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholesale retirement of an entire generation of revolutionary leaders , most of whom played leading roles in last winter 's conservative backlash . In cutting a swath through the leadership posts , Deng retired nearly half of the Politburo and opened the way for his prot  --  g ? , reformer Zhao Ziyang , to proceed with the program of economic modernization that had been stalled since last year . Joining new General Secretary Zhao on the powerful Politburo Standing Committee are a quartet of younger leaders whose commitment to reform is clear but whose allegiance to the methods and pace of it is less sure . Although younger and better educated , they still represent the compromises made during pre-congress negotiations and the struggles that remain over the fundamental issues of policy within the party . At least two of the five ? Zhao himself and Hu Qili  --  are considered firm supporters of a vigorous reform program , while the other three ? Li Peng ( expected to replace Zhao as China 's Premier ) , Qiao Shi and Yao Yilin are more closely allied with older politicians and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new leadership is united in wanting China to move forward , one China scholar described them as " Janus-faced , looking back to the past and forward to the future . " No one expects the conservative forces to retire gracefully into the back alleys of Beijing , and their influence will continue to be felt until they die . Deng himself , while relinquishing most posts , retained the powerful chairmanship of the Military Affairs Commission , where he will continue to wield the ultimate decision-making power . Although Zhao was also given a position on that commission , thus further consolidating his control over the various power-brokering factions , Deng 's chairmanship still poses a problem . One China expert called it a " nuclear deterrent " ? if Zhao is forced to call upon Deng to mediate between factions , he risks destroying his own legitimacy at the top of the leadership . Zhao Ziyang laid down the policy directions for the party congress in his working report delivered on the opening day . It made a forceful argument for continued economic reform and modernization and stressed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ becomes the official line of the Thirteenth Party Congress and the blueprint for China 's development . Zhao 's central thesis was that China is now and will remain until the year 2050 in the " primary stage of socialism , " during which virtually any form of economic experimentation is justified . With this theory , Zhao has established a basis in Marxist ideology for market experimentation and given official sanction to economic practices that , in any other system , might be called capitalist . " Socialism with Chinese characteristics , " in the favorite phrase of Chinese politicians , is now redefined to mean anything that works to develop the country . By signing on to the document , conservative party leaders have relinquished any future opportunity to question or criticize the political orthodoxy of reform policies . When asked recently by a foreign delegation what this Marxist formulation actually meant , Zhao reportedly responded , " It 's a way of keeping people like you from asking whether we are going capitalist . " With the ideological basis for reform now set in concrete , the leadership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western and Chinese observers are skeptical about whether Zhao has enough real political momentum to achieve this . One Western scholar pointed out that the new leadership is still hedging its bets by continually stressing in the working report the Chinese socialist catechism of adherence to the " four cardinal principles " ? upholding the socialist road , the people 's democratic dictatorship , the party 's leadership and Marxist-Leninist-Maoist thought . Maintaining strict political discipline in China , however , may eventually work against the other goals of reform , openness and development . China watchers were worried that there were meaningful blank spaces in the report where several controversial issues were avoided . These include price reform , the dismantling of urban subsidies , the opening of labor markets and a bankruptcy law . In addition , while Zhao 's working report acknowledged the need for structural reform of the political system , the goals of political stability and party supremacy clearly take precedence . Western Sinologists agree that the continuation and success of economic reform depend on significant changes in the political bureaucracy and that these are unlikely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the prospects for reform in China is an interesting contrast to the approach of Sovietologists grappling with the phenomenon of perestroika . China scholars have always looked for a constant and stable progression in China 's political development . They have been frequently surprised , therefore , and disappointed by the convulsions , purges and campaigns that continue to clutter the political landscape . Political change in the Soviet Union , however , has generally been viewed more skeptically , and the recent setbacks in Gorbachev 's reform program  --  such as the ouster of Moscow party chief Boris Yeltsin  --  have been greeted with a certain degree of smugness and an outpouring of long-suppressed pessimism about Gorbachev 's prospects . Where China scholars have , perhaps naively , always hoped for the best , Soviet scholars seem always to have expected the worst . Thus , while China 's reform efforts are headlined " China Goes Capitalist , " questions about the Soviet Union begin with " Will Gorbachev fail ? " and are followed by " What happens if Gorbachev succeeds ? " As Dusko Doder , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the West , the truth about the Soviet system has always been less important than the threat the system implied . " This perceptual bias stems , in part , from the fact that U.S. images of the two Communist giants are very different . One is a superpower posing , in conventional U.S. thinking , a strategic threat to the West . The other is a very poor Third World country whose military poses a questionable threat even to small neighbors like Vietnam . Serious study of the Soviet Union began with the cold war and continues to be couched in that terminology ; our scholars are called , ominously , " Kremlinologists , " and their ranks are filled with ? migr  --  s who have been less than sympathetic toward the Soviet leadership . The " smiling masses " pictures brought back to this country by American tourists to China contrast sharply with a collective picture of the Soviet people as gray , glum and somber . Sinologists , for the most part , have evinced a love of their subject not widely shared by their Sovietologist counterparts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school such as A. Doak Barnett at Johns Hopkins University , have had a very personal relationship with that country since birth . Some were born and raised in prerevolutionary China , children of missionary parents , and brought to their scholarship an intimate understanding of the roots of the Revolution and an empathy with the impulse for radical change . Accordingly , many twentieth-century China scholars did not view the Revolution of 1949 as a sharp break in Chinese history but saw it in the context of evolutionary change . The 1917 Bolshevik Revolution , by contrast , has traditionally been viewed as a radical departure from a natural , European trend toward constitutional democracy . Critics of the China field have charged that much of the scholarship is tainted by a political bias , and some China scholars have agreed . The old school of China watchers was lambasted in the 1950s for its role in " losing " China to Communism . The second generation of specialists , dominated by the New Left thinking of the 1960s and early 1970s , had at least some sympathy for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ University of Michigan , one of this country 's most distinguished Sinologists , concedes that , especially during the Cultural Revolution , China specialists were too easily taken in by the rhetoric . A major breach in the ranks of serious China scholarship came with the publication of two books in the early 1970s by distinguished Belgian Sinologist Pierre Ryckmans , writing under the pseudonym Simon Leys . The first , called The Chairman 's New Clothes , sought to destroy the illusions of Western scholars about the Cultural Revolution . In Chinese Shadows , published in 1977 after a six-month stay in China , Leys lamented the Maoists ' systematic destruction of the country 's cultural heritage : " The totalitarian cancer , the organized cretinization , the dictatorship of illiterates , the crass ignorance of the external world together with a pathetic inferiority complex toward it  --  those traits are not the natural features of the most civilized people on earth . " By the time Americans began to flow into China in the mid-to late 1970s , much of the na  --  vet ? about the Cultural Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , by the Chinese people 's own denunciations , public and private , of that period . Foreign students and teachers , diplomats and journalists listened to endless tales of horror and brutality , of which the West had remained largely ignorant . Over the past ten years , scholars have become more critical of the Chinese system . An outpouring of writings by Chinese intellectuals about their treatment under Mao and their continued repression under Deng has begun to galvanize a new dissident advocacy group for China . Last winter American scholars broke their traditional silence and sent a petition to Deng Xiaoping denouncing the crackdown on intellectuals . This action may have helped persuade Deng to restrain the conservatives from further purges . In charting the process of reform in the Communist countries today , both Sinologists and Sovietologists suffer disappointments from raised expectations , and their predictions often swing back and forth between optimism and pessimism . When Hu Yaobang was ousted last January , and when Boris Yeltsin met a similar fate last month , Western scholars decried the seeming betrayals and dolefully pronounced the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the reform-minded leadership is stronger than predicted . In neither country will change come overnight . Marshall Goldman , a Soviet expert at Harvard and one of those most pessimistic about Gorbachev 's chances , describes China 's reform as attempts at " reversing the direction of a huge tanker in the water . " China scholars may have an advantage here , for they are familiar with the patience that befits an ancient and slow-changing culture . They know that , as they study the choreography of high party politics , ordinary Chinese remain unimpressed and wait to see the effects of policy changes in their .. il everyday lives . 1=1                     