@@329672

After years of activists ' complaints about abuses in Soviet psychiatric facilities , 26 American psychiatrists , lawyers and interpreters last March toured such institutions in the U.S.S.R. and interviewed more than two dozen patients whose hospitalization had been questioned . The watchdog group concluded that while improvements had been made , disturbing evidence remained of unjustified confinements and fundamental shortcomings in psychiatric practice . Most troubling were the continued use of drugs that appeared to have more punitive than therapeutic value and the domination of the Soviet psychiatric establishment by some of the very officials who ruled it when abuse was rampant . <P> Thus , when the World Psychiatric Association met in Athens last week , one of the most controversial issues on its agenda was whether to readmit Soviet psychiatrists , who resigned in 1983 rather than face expulsion for human- rights abuses . Eager for acceptance , the Soviets made an eleventh-hour acknowledgment that " previous political conditions in the U.S.S.R. created an environment in which psychiatric abuse occurred for nonmedical , including political , reasons . " <P> Following a stormy final session @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the W.P.A. voted to accept the Soviet delegation , provided that the use of psychiatry for nonmedical purposes is banned . Moreover , in a symbolic addendum , the organization agreed unconditionally to admit a new independent Soviet psychiatric union whose members are considered genuine reformers . <P> Human-rights advocates had looked to the Athens vote as a key test for the W.P.A. Although the Soviet delegation announced no specific personnel changes , it did call for " enlightened leadership in the psychiatric community in the U.S.S.R. " That failed to appease the majority , which seemed unwilling to , restore the Soviets ' membership . Then vice president-elect Felice Lieh Mak of Hong Kong suggested a compromise : making readmission contingent on a satisfactory W.P.A. visit to Soviet psychiatric facilities in the next year . Only then did the majority swing to the Soviet side . The vote was 291 to 45 , with 19 abstentions . <P> Nonetheless , there remained the central question regarding the Soviet psychiatrists : whether admitting them or barring them was more likely to encourage reform . For a year , outgoing W.P.A. president @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grounds that it would encourage rehabilitation . He contended that the Soviets as members of the W.P.A. would be subject to greater scrutiny and influence from abroad than they would be as outcasts . Others who favored readmission , including U.S. psychiatrists Alfred Freedman and Abraham Halpern , argued that during the past few years  --  especially in the months preceding the Americans ' March visit  --  the Soviets had satisfied the criteria established for readmission in 1983 , which called simply for " amelioration " of past abuses . In the year since the last W.P.A. meeting , for instance , the Soviets have released more than a hundred " patients . " In July they purportedly banned the use of pain-inducing sulfazine , the most notorious of the contested drugs .                     