@@487773

Wagner writes in his memoirs that when he was 16 or so , Beethoven 's Ninth Symphony " became the mystical goal of all my strange thoughts and desires about music . I was first attracted to it by the opinion prevalent among musicians , not only in Leipzig but elsewhere , that this work had been written by Beethoven when he was already half mad . " Wagner believed there was method in that madness but he could not be certain , since he had never actually heard the work . He had stayed up nights copying the score ; he had made a transcription for piano ; and in 1830 he looked forward giddily to the next performance of the symphony , a more or less annual event in his home town of Leipzig . In My Life he remembers the rehearsal : After the first three movements had been played straight through like a Haydn symphony , as well as the orchestra could manage it . . . . the wild - wy. shrieks of the trumpet ( with which the fourth movement begins ) resulted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Pohlenz was in a bath of perspiration , the recitative did not come off , and I really began to think that Beethoven had written nonsense . The Gewandhaus Orchestra of Leip-. zig has improved since Wagner 's disillusionment . If , at Carnegie Hall last month , the orchestra played the first three movements of the Ninth " like a Haydn symphony , " it did so in the very best sense . There was no straining for sublimity , only the working out of a muscular logic . The recitative was smooth as Schlag , and the finale , which in some hands becomes a sloppy bacchanal or a haphazard string of variety acts , was splendidly paced . The musicians ran their course , exultant as heroes running to victory . If you check the text , this is exactly what the tenor tells them to do . It was a very satisfying conclusion to the orchestra 's Beethoven cycle under its music director , Kurt Masur . I had come to the cycle with great expectations , having fallen in love with the orchestra two years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the noises it makes that make the Gewandhaus lovable , it is also the echo of ancient noises the orchestra has known  --  the voices of Telemann , Bach , Mozart , Mendelssohn , Wagner . I happen to be a sucker for this sort of thing . When Carnegie Hall was a stand of virgin timber , Leipzig had a rich musical tradition . A church choir is recorded in 1017 , and by the late middle ages there were Stadtpfeifer and Kunstgeiger , wind and string players , on the town payroll . In 1688 Kuhnau founded a collegium musicum or amateur chamber group ; in 1704 Telemann stole some of his players and started a rival ensemble , which J.S. Bach , cantor of the Thomaskirche , took over in 1729 . In 1743 , a number of collegia that had been playing in coffeehouses joined forces under Bach 's student Doles and hired a tavern , and in 1781 the construction of a new guild hall for the drapers gave Leipzig 's big orchestra a home and a name . This fluid compound of amateur and professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ musical life , with members playing at Thomaskirche services , at the opera , at civic ceremonies and  --  a persistent addiction  --  in coffeehouses . ( The orchestra has retained its versatility under Communist patronage . While 150 of its members are on tour , fifty stay behind to take care of business at home . ) Mozart conducted two of his symphonies in 1789 , and to keep the piayers from dragging he beat time so hard that his shoe buckle burst  --  an incident which , in the words of Fritz Hennen berg 's 1962 monograph , " throws a characteristic light on the truly genial mentality of the orchestra . " In fact the players were not used to being beaten at . As a rule the concertmaster would lead , a conductor being called in only when there were choral forces to be managed . Christian Pohlenz 's successor , Felix Mendelssohn , was the orchestra 's ( and arguably Europe 's ) first real conductor . If , at his first rehearsal in 1835 , Mendelssohn found the orchestra " very good , thoroughly musical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berlioz came to conduct his " Symphonie Fantastique " and two overtures  --  works as arcane in 1842 as Beethoven 's Ninth Symphony had been in 1830 ? he was pleasantly surprised to find two rehearsals sufficient for an " irreproachable " performance . Since then the orchestra 's music directors have included Nikisch , Furtwangler and Walter ( who was forced to resign by the Nazis ) . Brahms , Wagner , Grieg , Saint-Saens , Tchaikovsky , Mahler , Richard Strauss and Stravinsky all conducted at one time or another . Given all this , one might like to believe that the orchestra 's character is a matter of tradition , that it plays Beethoven now somewhat the way it played Beethoven in 1801 or 1830 . If it did , Carnegie Hall would have emptied out presto  --  just ask Wagner . And yet there may be some present significance to the fact that most of Beethoven 's symphonies were played in Leipzig within a year of their Vienna premieres and that they were played straight through , without the deletions or vaudeville additions resorted to elsewhere . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Leipzig had to rely on their own instincts . Instinctively they took Beethoven seriously  --  not as a god , not as a fad , but as a brother who could speak for them  --  and it may be this attitude , rather than any particular approach to sforzandos or fermatas , that has been passed along behind the desks for the past couple of centuries . Indeed , a certain attitude toward music at large  --  born of a Lutheran mingling of church and Stadt and private enthusiasm  --  seems to have survived the various regimes from Doles to Masur , from Frederick II to Honecker . Which is not to say that Furtwangler 's Ninth would have sounded remotely like Masur 's . I know only Furtwangler 's Bayreuth recording , but if a Leipzig version turns up that sounds like Masur 's I 'll eat it . A tricky thing , tradition . Masur has been music director since 1970 . He spends six or seven months a year with the orchestra , which is about twice the average for brand-name free-world conductors . His musicians have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of serious students , which is no accident ; most are alumni of the Hochschule fur Musik , the Leipzig conservatory established in 1843 by Mendelssohn , where Masur and several of the first-desk people teach . And the conductor , who won the German Democratic Republic 's Brahms Look-alike Contest three years in a row , does seem more the fatherly professor than the artiste . To his gestures , which range from fingertip petit point to a broad beer-hall rock , the players respond instantly  --  audibly and visibly . ( At the end of the storm in the Sixth , Masur leaned menacingly toward the cellos when their low C thunderings failed to recede , and the first-desk players not only hushed up but actually leaned backward . Masur is scheduled to conduct the New York Philharmonic in February , and I fear for his ribs . ) The winds in some American orchestras sound like organ pipes . The Gewandhaus winds are another story ; I was sitting too low to be sure , but from the sound I could have sworn there were people breathing into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shut . In the Sixth Symphony , the flutes made quivering nightingale sounds here , icy lightning ( in league with the piccolo ) there ; and the duet of oboe and bassoon in the third movement took on just the right touch of rusticity . As for thestrings , they are neither as glossy as in most American orchestras nor as honeyed as in Vienna or Berlin . They are civilized and trim , in the Saxon and Anglo-Saxon manner . These strings play tennis . If the orchestra has a fault , it is the tendency of the cellos to play too quietly and too legato , so that when playing in octaves with the basses they almost vanish  --  the bass line is felt but not heard . Masur has a way of making rhythmic motives evident but not obnoxious , so that they really do motivate the music . Without that skill , a conductor essaying Beethoven is rafting without a paddle . But sometimes Beethoven 's rhythms are obnoxious , as in finales of the Seventh and Eighth and almost all of the Fifth ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to disappoint the vulgar crowd , including me . Masur also forgoes heroics , and in this repertory that takes heroism . His restraint paid off everywhere but in the Fifth , which was painfully deflated  --  one could almost hear the hiss of warm air . Since I missed the two concerts given in October , my first impression was of the Fourth and Fifth Symphonies . The Fifth was predictably wan but the Fourth should have been wonderful ; it was merely fine , probably because the orchestra was still taking the measure of Carnegie after a month of town halls and maximum-security Holiday Inns . After that it was whack , whack , whack  --  the Sixth hit right on the nose , the Seventh and Eighth looped elegantly into short center , the Ninth knocked out of the park . Perhaps a program , or at least a nickname , gives the Leipzig imagination the tiny nudge it needs to soar . The " Pastoral " began with a true allegro ma non troppo that gradually relaxed , indicating the " awakening of cheerful feelings on arriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a coach and inhaling the new air , whereas someone like Walter seems to have been mellowing out in Heiligenstadt for a week already . ) And then the brook babbled , the peasants danced , the storm stormed , the air cleared and thanksgiving was offered in the most native and heartfelt way . The " Choral " Symphony was just as bright-eyed . These joyful results seem to have been obtained by means dry as dust : a respect for dynamic markings and repeats , a pedant 's analysis of form , a jurist 's notion of tempo , and an absolute attention to the sounds each player was making . The outcome confirmed the words inscribed above the door of the original Gewandhau , and beneath the organ pipes of the present one : Res severa verum gaudium , which may be rendered , " True pleasure is a serious matter , " or perhaps , " A difficult activity is a true joy . " ?                     