@@480511

ELEGANT lies have , in this world , an unfair advantage over incoherent truths . Seymour Hersh seems under-standably angry at this fact , though his anger just confirms it. * Choked with his undigested truths , he draws as much attention to his foe 's elegance as to his lying . He analyzes Henry Kissinger the way a barbarian is said to box in Demosthenes ' first Philippic : " Hit , he grabs the hit place : hit him elsewhere , his hands go there . He has neither the skill nor the nerve to parry blows while studying where to land his own . " So Hersh goes to all the places on the globe where Kissinger had an impact , grabbing each place , howling *Seymour Hersh , The Price of Power : Kissinger in the Nixon White House . Summit Books , 698 pages . $19.95. at the hurt , attributing the evil to one man . There is an unconscious tribute in the way Hersh dogs Kissinger 's tracks , almost day by day , during Nixon 's first term . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , mattered ; but Hersh nags at performance within a framework of Kissinger 's own choosing . He accepts the strategic vision in order to argue over tactics . He becomes obsessed with little things , down to Kissinger 's manner and mannerisms , because he shares Kissinger 's obsessions on the large things . He is so determined to show that Kissinger did everything poorly that he can not recogGarry Wills 's most recent book is Lead Time , published by Doubleday . He teaches at Northwestern University . 72 nize how many things Kissinger did well that should not have been done at all . This means that Hersh meets the adversary on his strongest ground . Kissinger is a superb personal negotiator . Hersh himself supplies the evidence for that . He indignantly establishes that respected journalists were transformed into Kissinger 's errand boys ? Joseph Alsop and James Reston were the most shameful cases . But how does Hersh think Kissinger acquired such power over reporters except by the exercise of negotiating skills like tact , flattery , professional rewards and punishments , playing on the weaknesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was harnessed to a naivete about the way large forces interact . Despite professorial throat-clearings about the need for a " conceptual framework , " despite the ritual incantation of " geopolitics , " Kissinger always had a crudely simplistic view of the way the world works . His only scholarly book , A World Restored , purports to tell the story of the Congress of Vienna ; but it leaves out huge areas of relevant concern , economic and military and religious ? and even important actors , like Tallevrand ? to focus on the personal qualities of Mettcrnich . Kissinger 's memoirs reveal no larger understanding of events . The different outcomes of Kissinger 's relations with China and North Vietnam depend , simply , on the quality of the major statesmen involved : " Pham Van Dong thus did not take long to dash my dim hope that he might prove to be another Zhou Enlai .... " Less personal forces rarely swim into Kissinger 's view : anticolonialism , a force that has remade the maps of most of the globe since World War II , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its direction . The same applies to the third world generally . " Geopolitics " means , for Kissinger , " Who 's on top ? " in any sector , America or the U.S.S.R. It seems to have nothing to do with , for instance , the allocation of global resources . I N ALL these matters , Hersh meekly follows in his enemy 's footsteps . For him , too , the third world does not exist except when Kissinger manages to find a Russian threat there ( e.g. , in Allende 's Chile ) . For Hersh , too , besting the Russians is so important that he will attack Kissinger for not wresting more from them in SALT I. He even uses Kissinger 's " betrayal " of hard-liners over Taiwan to castigate him . The blindness is worst in the area of this book 's major concern , Vietnam . In historical perspective , America 's mistake was to think it could take up a neocolonial role in Indochina , where even France had been defeated despite years of experience , many loyal agents , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed to obtain . The folly of this was perfectly captured in the dreams of Graham Greene 's Quiet American , Pyle , about a " third force " to remake ex-colonies benevolently from the outside , " with clean hands . " Far from attacking this view of things , Hersh rushes to embrace it . He treats Kissinger as a traitor to " third force " values , a treachery demonstrated when he refused to replace Thieu with " Big Minh " in 1971 . Kissinger 's error was not in conducting the Vietnam war , but in trying to reach a military outcome rather than a " civilian solution . " The civilian solution has been a staple of liberal analysis for years . Embedded in David Halberstam 's The Best and the Brightest , a book used heavily in classrooms , it has misled a whole generation of students . In the 1950s , when Kissinger began writing about national security , Rockefeller Republicans and Kennedy Democrats agreed that the Pentagon was muscle-bound ; its responses all had to be massive , not flexible . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combat troops would be needed to seal off North Vietnam and control South Vietnam . This was the mindless call for " more " that the liberals mocked . They knew better . Robert McNamara had made the calibrated use of least necessary forces possible , to be " surgically " applied while parallel efforts at nation-building went on in strategic hamlets and pacified areas . The government itself might have to be remade , but for the people 's good . Those calling for mere troops , with more arms , were missing the subtler point . The " civilian solution " people thought they were not escalating ; but they engaged us more deeply in Vietnam by intruding into the very texture of national life ( shifting whole villages about , choosing acceptable and unacceptable officials and imposing them on the society ) . A Kennedy admirer like Roger Hilsman , far from wanting to " give up the struggle " after the president 's assassination in 1963 , thought that the other assassination , of Diem , both obliged us to the society we were remaking and gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hilsman is one of the heroes of Halberstam 's book ( as major sources usually are ) , one of the best who is allowed to remain brightest . Kissinger , as the Republican theoretician of limited war , brought remnants of the " civilian solvers " into his National Security Council . These are the " disgruntled " ex-employees whose testimony Kissinger discounts and Hersh relies on ? men like Roger Morris , Anthony Lake , and Morton Halperin . But the point is not that these men felt personally mistreated by Kissinger ; more important , they felt he had betrayed the " enlightened " way of conducting the war . Roger Morris wanted to go back to square one and " knock off " Thieu as Diem had been knocked off . Thus for Hersh , who relies on Morris as Halberstam did on Hilsman , the great missed opportunity of 1971 was the chance to bring back Diem 's assassin , " Big Minh , " and make the proper solution work this time ? or the next . As even Hilsman had admitted , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have the talent or appetite for political power , and someone else was bound to replace him soon . The picture was not a happy one . There might well be a series of coups , and the political turmoil in Saigon would inevitably hurt the war effort . The best that could be hoped for if the Diem regime was removed would be that , like Egypt , Vietnam would find her Nasser the second time around ? or the third ? or the fourth . Some solution . The problem with Hersh 's book is not that he used testimony from the disgruntled ( some of it very damning about Kissinger 's personal deportment ) but that he does not break free from his own sources ' illusions about policy . I F KISSINGER tends to reduce international diplomacy to personal relations between rulers , Hersh reduces almost everything to personal terms . Since he can not get very worked up about the abandonment of Taiwan , he criticizes Kissinger 's China policy because it involved the exclusion of the secretary of state . A great part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treatment of William Rogers . But I remember it was a commonplace in the Nixon campaign of 1968 that " the boss " would be his own secretary of state . If Rogers did not realize that , he was too dumb to be secretary of state . When the reality of his office was confirmed , month by month , and he played the role assigned him , we have to assume that he was doing his duty as he saw it . That Kissinger was gratuitously nasty to Rogers is undoubtedly true ; but that does not affect the fact that overtures to China probably had to be kept secret even from the bureaucracy . The personalization of every event leads Hersh to ignore restraints built into the very nature of certain processes . He sees Kissinger 's intrusion in the last-minute details of SALT I 's formulation as an attempt , out of vanity , to steal the glory from Gerard Smith 's negotiating team . But both countries , in such a transaction , are addressing domestic audiences as well as each other . For that reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the other . The only way to do this and reach an agreement is to leave last-minute corn-promises ambiguous , to be shaded in ways favorable to either for " home consumption . " These constraints are at work , no matter who is doing the bargaining ; and they point up the fallacy of belief in " the SALT process " as something redeeming in itself , its mere procedure increasing understanding , so that each agreement will make subsequent ones easier to arrive at . Actually , SALT I made SALT It harder to negotiate , since its ambiguities allowed each side to claim the other had " cheated " on its own " shaded " interpretation . Kissinger , in his memoirs , unduly personalizes the opposition to SALT It , blaming it on Senator Henry Jackson ( and Richard Perle ) . But Hersh outdoes even that accusation when he blames SALT I 's deficiencies on nothing more than Kissinger 's need to grab the limelight . The same limits affect Hersh 's most sustained and interesting passage , which concludes his bookKissinger 's attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thieu 's opposition . Hersh calls the discounting of Thieu 's attitude a " miscalculation . " It was , rather , a calculated risk . In this case , the constraints upon the process came from a pattern that had held since 1964 ? every even-numbered year , peace talk was encouraged ; the war was sedated , to mute it as a campaign issue ; then , in November , we played " catch-up ball " to negotiate again from strength . In that sense , the Christmas bombing of 1972 was just the culmination of a cycle growing more intense every other year . Kissinger , knowing the pressures to reengage would be insistent after the election , tried to use the preelection lull to force a real settlement on Thieu . But Nixon , uncertain how real negotiation would " play " electorally , followed the expected rhythm , refusing to pressure Thieu until after the election ( and even then " pressuring " him largely by humoring him ) . Kissinger 's earlier settlement would have come apart , as Nixon 's did later ; but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by then , simply a cosmetic process to disguise our withdrawal . " Peace with honor " meant trying to find a way to lose without saying we had lost . Some have noticed that Hersh 's hostility to Kissinger makes him paint the man , at times , in darker colors even than those used on Nixon ? a uselessly nice exercise in comparative blackguarding . Both Nixon and Kissinger deserve credit for trying to break out of certain cold war rigidities ? by the opening to China , detente policy , and SALT . And both share the blame for unconstitutional and immoral acts like the secret bombing of Cambodia , the wiretaps , the plots against Allende . They supplemented each other 's strong points and encouraged each other 's vices . H ERSH 'S book founders on matters of large design and analytic approach . Many details , by contrast , are energetically pursued , especially new information released by the government at Hersh 's request . We learn , for instance , that early in Nixon 's term , the National Security Agency discovered that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flier misunderstood his orders . This was at odds with the administration 's assumption that the North Koreans were deliberately " testing " Nixon . Yet the NSA information never reached the White House . Why not ? Hersh asked an analyst from the agency . Because the analysts knew " it would never be accepted . " The political use of intelligence depends , more often , on a receptivity to its implications than on the validity of its evidence . Hersh can not pause to reflect on this interesting point , since his own filter for evidence is its usefulness in damning Kissinger , and this does not pass the test . Nonetheless , anyone interested in the period will learn many discrete new facts , to be exploited in later works , where Hersh fails to see their real significance . In fact , there are several good books hiding in this had one . Unfortunately for Hersh , some of them have already been written ? by William Shawcross , for HARPER'S/SEPTEMBER 1983 instance , on the Cambodian bombing ; by Gerard Smith on the SALT negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Roger Morris on maneuvers within Kissinger 's NSC . Admittedly , Hersh supplies corroborative details to each of these authors ' findings , and makes some of them more plausible by showing that they fit Kissinger 's character as revealed in other episodes . But Hersh 's compromise between chronological and topical organization means that the relevant items must be hunted back and forth through his repetitive , disjunctive account . The way to approach each subject is through the more orderly presentation of the earlier books , supplementing them with Hersh by use of his index . I think the general use of his book , in fact , will be to read Kissinger 's memoirs , with a constant footnoting out of Hersh , who " followed " Kissinger in a double sense , stalking the man and submitting to his design . But there are other unwritten books here , too . Against Alexander Haig , for instance , Hersh compiles a devastating record . Much of what was written immediately after the Watergate events used Haig as a source ? so he looks as heroic in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hersh . But people taken in by Theodore White , as White was taken in by Haig , will find their corrective here . Another book could be made up of Hersh 's tales about the Nixon administration 's control of the press ? by seduction , intimidation , castigation , manipulation . Hersh , like I. F. Stone , was an honorable holdout from this massaging process , and he has the right ? as well as the goods ? to criticize his peers . As for Kissinger 's scheming and vindictive nature , those not already convinced by the record may be impervious to Hersh 's accumulation of even further examples . I am astonished that those qualities still astonish Hersh -- to a point where he can not tell us when those vices mattered , in policy terms , and when they did not . Others , we can assume , will now sort matters out -- with Hersh 's help . 