@@480680

Does arms control contribute to the preservation of peace and the avoidance of war , or even to the limitation of weapons ? Would the world be very different or more dangerous if arms-control conferences did not take place ? Is there any serious possibility of agreements , either dramatic or incremental , which would transform the international environment for the better and which elude us only because we are too shortsighted or too malign to grasp them ? Or is the whole process just the pursuit of a will-o% the-wisp , an ignis fatuus which wastes millions of man-hours and raises popular expectations only to confound them ? Is the whole arms-control industry in fact the modern equivalent of the alchemist 's search for a philosopher 's stone which will turn the lead of international tensions into the gold of perpetual peace ? Let me state at once that I do believe arms control to be necessary . Nevertheless , there are a number of current beliefs about arms control , armament , and disarmament which I consider to be not only fallacious but positively harmful : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it necessary to pay lip service even when they do not share them . Let us examine some of the illusions which lie behind the pressure for arms-control agreements . The first illusion is that the danger of war is in direct proportion to the number of weapons that exist in the world ; so , conversely , the fewer weapons nations have , the less likely they are to fight . " Arms races " build up to war , or so it isalleged ; arms reductions , therefore , logically lead to peace . This proposition is quite untenable . Some wars have been preceded by intensive armaments competitions ; others ? and the great majority over the past 150 years ? have not . Some arms competitions have made a considerable contribution to the international tensions which culminated in war ; others have simply died away . Wars can break out between fully armed nations , partially armed nations , or nations with virtually no arms at all . When they do occur , it is for a very simple reason : one side or the other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That belief is based on a perception of the ratio of strength between the adversaries ? economic potential and social cohesion as well as military capability ? and such a perception of imbalance can occur as much between lightly armed states as between heavily armed ones . Arms increases or arms reductions may be valuable in conveying messages of intent , and may affect the international atmosphere accordingly . But the size of inventories is in itself of little importance . A diplomatic revolution may occur , such as the Anglo-French entente of 1904 or the Sino-American rapprochement seventy years later , and the former adversary 's armed forces suddenly become a powerful guarantee of peace . Arms reductions may therefore be a welcome indicator of the ebbing of international tensions , but unless the basic source of those tensions is removed , the reductions are as likely to exacerbate as to alleviate the situation ? creating new uncertainties , new suspicions , new fears of imbalance and threat . That brings me to the second illusion : that arms reductions would make war less destructive if it came . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the number of weapons , even the number of nuclear weapons , in the arsenals of the belligerent states at the outset of hostilities . By the end of 1914 the belligerent powers of Europe had virtually exhausted the stocks of ammunition they had accumulated before the outbreak of war , but they fought on for four increasingly ghastly years . The United States entered both world wars minimally armed . The destructiveness of a war is determined not so much by the capacity of the belligerents to inflict punishment as by their readiness to endure it . The nuclear arsenals of the superpowers could be reduced by a factor of a hundred without affecting their capacity to destroy each other , and probably the rest of the world as well . But even if those reduced arsenals were used as selectively as the advocates of nuclear war-fighting suggest , the length of the war and the destruction it caused would be determined not by the number of weapons available but by the readiness of the belligerents to endure punishment in the hope of ultimate victory . A few missiles directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one belligerent , or indeed both ; or they might fight on as grimly among the radioactive ruins as did the Russians in the ruins of Stalingrad or the Germans in the ruins of Berlin . Indeed , the reduction of nuclear arsenals to the kind of minimal levels which did not threaten global destruction might encourage the desperate or the fanatical on both sides to do precisely that . A knowledge of the capacity of the adversary to inflict further nuclear destruction could be a far greater incentive to peaceful accommodation than the realization that he had shot his nuclear bolt and that war could now be pursued by more traditional means . Arms reductions ? the " deep cuts " advocated with so much propagandistic flourish by both sides today ? would thus make war no less destructive ; and if they were really so deep as to affect its destructiveness , they might create the kind of instability that could make it more probable , Nor , if the cuts applied to existing inventories , would they significantly reduce military expenditures . Size of inventories in itself bears @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ balance or to the cost of maintaining it . Finally , there is the illusion that arms control , however one may interpret the concept , provides an alternative , and a preferable alternative , to armament as a means of ensuring international security . In fact the two activities are totally interdependent . " Security " is a subjective condition , a state of mind . It is based on two elements : first , the assumption that no one wishes to attack us ; and second , the belief that , even if someone had the will and the capability to do so , he would be deterred by our evident capacity to resist . Of those two elements , the first is by far the most important : security based simply on military deterrence is a very poor second-best to security based on mutual confidence , and by itself provides a totally inadequate framework for world order . Armamentsmay , and should , ensure that if a potential adversary has the will to attack us , he will be deterred from doing so . But arms control should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will not be led to develop it through a misperception of our intentions . States acquire arms from the day of their creation to transmit to the world the message that they belong to the species of m ? chara animal which will , if attacked , defend itself . They need also to transmit the simultaneous message that their arms constitute no threat to the security of their neighbors ; that is what arms control is all about . In the nuclear age , states need to make it clear to their own peoples that their weapons constitute no threat to the survival of their society , a message which is not always transmitted as clearly as one would wish . If I may summarize in a highly simplistic manner , I would say that armaments are about deterrence and arms con- trol about reassurance . Security is rr achieved by a synthesis of the two . 1 his skeptical analysis may annoy many and perhaps shock some . But I suspect that anyone involved in government , irrespective of his nationality , would quietly agree with much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illusion that arms reductions would in themselves make peace more secure and that total disarmament would make it perpetual is so deep-rooted and so widespread as to constitute an ineluctable political fact which has to be accommodated to OUT policy . It is , as it were , a Platonic " noble lie " : governments themselves may not believe it , but it is an aspiration to be encouraged and not discouraged . Anyhow , no Western politician would dare confront his ( or her ) electorate and tell them frankly that they are wrong . Governments must be seen to he striving to attain the Heavenly City of disarmament : even if the goal is unattainable , the object is a noble one , and the very process of trying to reach it will be a civilizing and pacifying influence on international behavior . But about this I am far from sure . It can not be wise to encourage the belief that security lies only in the achievement of an unattainable goal or in the conclusion of agreements which , even if they could be reached , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peaceful world . These false expectations engender unnecessary and debilitating fears , fears which find expression in such phrases as " the next round of arms talks will provide the last opportunity for mankind to get the arms race under control , " or that failure to achieve a " breakthrough " will be catastrophic . It is the existence of this attitude which turns arms-control negotiations , which by their very nature require patient , intricate , 14 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE ; MAY and prolonged discussions , into propaganda exercises in which the participants unilaterally put forward sweeping proposals which they know will be unacceptable to their opponents , so that they can blame them when negotiations collapse . The higher the expectations aroused by governments responding to ( or exploiting ) public opinion , the greater will be the disappointment when they are not fulfilled , the more bitter will be the mutual recrimination , and the worse the international climate as a result . There are further dangers inherent even in those arms-control negotiations which have the apparently irreproachable objective of " mutual and balanced force reductions subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by governments fundamentally suspicious of one another and negotiating only in response to a public opinion which they have to appease or hope to exploit . With these dangers we have become very familiar over the past twenty-five years . The focus on numbers of missiles , with little or no consideration as to their military utility ; the retention of redundant weapons as " bargaining chips , " as the West still retains its superfluity of tactical nuclear warheads ; the actual development of weapons as " bargaining chips , " as the United States has justified the development of the MX missile ; the use of arms-control negotiations not so much to reach understandings with the other side as to " constrain " it ( a word very popular with American negotiators ) to accommodate its programs to our requirements : all this not only increases tensions but distorts our own arms programs , which have long since become tailored not to the real needs of defense but to the playing of a complex game . Arms-control negotiations can not be insulated from the general framework of relationships between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to transform those relationships . A recent report on the American requirement for strategic defenses , commissioned by the U.S. Defense Department and prepared by a committee under Dr. Frederick Hoffman of the Rand Corporation , took as its base line the assumption that the Russians will continue to set a high priority on their ability to control , subvert or coerce other states as the basis of their foreign relations .... Domination of the Eurasian periphery is a primary strategic objective . The Soviets ' preferred mode in exploiting their military power is to apply it to deter , influence , coerce ? in short , to control ? other states , if possible without combat . Now , one may or may not agree with this assessment of Soviet intentions . I myself regard it as a grotesque caricature . But it does express the views of the present U.S. Administration . Any government which perceives its adversaries in this light is bound to mistrust their good faith and assume that they will use arms-control negotiations simply to obtain or maintain military superiority ? and that they will cheat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible that this assessment of Soviet intentions is correct . It is not improbable that the Soviet perception of Western intentions is almost identical . In either case , negotiations between two parties who mistrust each other so profoundly are unlikely to be anything but a continuation of the cold war by other means , with each attempting to gain a moral and physical superiority over the other . The perceptions themselves must change before negotiations can become anything more than wrestling matches .                     