@@487721

There is enough of an internal connection between artistic expression and the historical peri- od in which it flourishes that , we are all ready to agree , not everything is possible at every time . It would , for example , be difficult to imagine Michelangelo doing what we venerate him for in the time of Giotto , or Leonardo painting the Last Supper  --  or the Mona Lisa  --  when Masaccio executed the Expulsion From Paradise . Nor is it easy to imagine Michelangelo or Leonardo painting as they did a century later , after the epic of Renaissance art had climaxed and come to a close with their stupendous performances . In a sense , to make their work possible , each of them required just the sequence of transformations in the way artists represented the world that had in fact taken place . The same must be true in some degree of the third member of the triad in whom the Renaissance impulse achieved fulfillment . Yet it is not quite as difficult to imagine Raphael in much earlier stages of the Renaissance . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a century or more after his death  --  for the simple historical fact is that academic art for the next three centuries was more or less defined in Raphaelesque terms . He died in 1520 . In 1550 Vasari 's Lives of the Artists first appeared , in which , in effect , the end of the history of art was declared . It was not , as Browning wrote , that " Suddenly , as rare things will , it vanished , " but that the problems of the Renaissance agenda were basically solved : there was no place to go beyond Michelangelo , Leonardo and Raphael . The Age of the Academy was at hand , and indeed the Accademia del Disegno was founded in 1563 . This period might just as well have been called the Age of Raphael , and it lasted well into the nineteenth century . Indeed , it was through Raphael 's adaptations of their work that Leonardo and Michelangelo survived as part of the curriculum . It is hardly matter for wonder , then , that those English artists who found confirmation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves explicitly Pre-Raphaelite . Difficult as it is to read such a work as Sir John Millais 's Christ in the Carpenter 's Shop as a blow struck for Modernism , it was plain to the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood that art would have to return to some historical node anterior to Raphael and trace another path altogether , if relief was to be found from the tyranny of his forms . Their positive theories were less Modernist than their repudiations . Modernism was given its impetus less by their obsession with visual truth  --  with transcribing the world as it presents itself , " rejecting nothing , selecting nothing " ? than with their negation of academic artifice . Ruskin characterized them this way : They Intend to return to early days in this one point only  --  that , insofar as in them lies , they will draw either what they see , or what they suppose might have been the actual facts of the scene they desire to represent , irrespective of any conventional rules of picture-making ; and they have chosen their unfortunate though not inaccurate name because all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Raphael 's time did not this , but sought to paint fair pictures rather than represent stern facts . Between Raphael and ourselves there is , accordingly , the whole history of Modernism , which dismantled the conventions and examples of his acknowledged excellence , making him , of the three titanic figures of the High Renaissance , quite the least available to us . The gnnding familiarity of the Raphaelesque idiom blinds us to his originality , while Modernism itself desensitizes us to the inducements of the academic maniera he invented . And it is perhaps this very historical circumstance that heightens the availability to us of Leonardo and Michelangelo . What we respond to in them are the extravagances that survive the sweet adaptations of Raphael  --  extravagances that may have looked coarse or uncouth to academicized vision but which , to Modernists like ourselves , embody the very meaning of artistic power and pictorial genius . The price of having been perhaps the most influential artist in history is that Raphael , today , looks too  --  academic . Too pure , too perfect , too polished , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great achievements . Other circumstances contribute to the distance at which we hold Raphael . Like a very successful professor , he appears to have had a career rather than a life . Vasari 's biography reads like a curriculum vitae , together with a letter of florid recommendation as to his collegiality and gifts as a teacher  --  and , of course , Name Address some shrewd criticisms as to the limits of his powers when ranged alongside those of Leonardo or Michelangelo . Unlike theirs , his personality seems elusive . In describing him , Vasari uses such adjectives as " mild , " " tender , " " gentle , " " gracious , " " sweet , " " courteous , " " friendly , " " generous " ? all Boy Scout virtues , and as soft as modern taste finds his " Dear Madonnas " ( Browning again ) to be . " No less excellent than graceful , " Vasari writes , " he was endowed by nature with all that modesty and goodness which may occasionally be perceived in those few favoured persons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually gentle , by the fair ornament of a winning amenity . " Leonardo is perceived as a wizard , inverted , devious , secret , magical and dangerous . And Michelangelo is said to have been driven by that legendary ternbiltd that has , ever since Romanticism , been a component in our conception of towering artistic greatness . Finally , of course , there is the evidence of the works . We all know that scholars know vastly more than we about the Last Supper or the Sistine Chapel ceiling , but those works address us so immediately and totally that experiencing them dissolves the metaphorical version of the grime that literal restorers feel it necessary to remove . But Raphael 's most famous works are the frescoes that embellish the Papal chambers  --  the School of Athens , or the Disputa  --  both of which seem too freighted with allusions and learned references for us to unravel them as we troop with other sightseers through the Camera della Segnatura . And then there are the dear Madonnas , luminous embodiments of absolute solicitude and total maternal loge , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to compel . Vasari tells us that Raphael was of an amorous disposition , and even that his death ( at 37 ) was due to heavy lovemaking and a lowered resistance . There is a marvelous painting , La Fornama , said to be of his mistress , a bold flirt of a woman holding a bare breast while pointing to an armband with Raphael 's name , as if to say that it and she belong to him . But little of this eroticism comes through in the chaste Madonnas ; we stand before them respectful but unengaged . Still , he was one of the great artists , and one can not be indifferent to the exhibition of his drawings on view ( until January 3 ) at the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City . Indeed , precisely because of the spontaneity , the immediacy , the unstudied , free , swift , gestural transcription of presumed feeling drawings promise , these pieces would appear to offer the best solvent for the glaze that has settled over this master 's name and work . So @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the drawings , which are certain to be marvelous , but to look for Raphael , to seek , across the centuties , a sort of post-PreRaphaelite contact with a nearly vanished sensibility . There are glimpses of him , to be sure , and in his greatest drawings he stands out like a being of another order against the other artists who form what the Morgan calls " his Circle " ? somewhat misleadingly , I think , since his circle was composed more of intellectuals and poets and high ecclesiastical personalities than of the artists in his workshop who came under his immediate influence . Yet the personality remains as elusive as ever ; it is difficult to meld the forty-odd drawings by himor said to be by him into a coherent corpus . You are going to have to work to find him , which gives a certain interest to the show . There are a number of reasons for this elusiveness . First , of course , is the fact that the drawings come from the three main periods of Raphael 's career , and show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three radically different artists : Perugino , to whom he was apprenticed and whose clear Umbrian style is the basic stratum in Raphael 's artistic persona , especially in the Madonnas ; Leonardo , whom he was dazzled by in Florence and whose smoky style , when superimposed upon Perugino , yields the archetypical Holy Family ; and Michelangelo , whose work on the Sistine ceiling Raphael was allowed , surreptitiously , to see , and which he proceeded , as far as he could , to make his own . Undoubtedly , Perugino 's influence , while it admitted the Leonardesque overlay , impeded Raphael 's full command of Michelangelo 's style , which he aspired to but could not reach . ( " Dry , minute , and defective in design " is how Vasari describes Perugino 's manner . ) So Raphael 's personality flows through the sequence of drawings like a river , whose tributaries are all the streams of High Renaissance expression and invention . It is only at the end , in the magnificent head and hand he drew for the Transfiguration  --  the masterpiece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest drawing in the show and , for all I know , the greatest drawing in existence  --  that he comes fully into his own as a genius . The discontinuity of style is heightened by the fact that Raphael experimented with so many different drawing media . The feeling of a pen drawing differs from that of one in metal-point . Metal-point differs from black chalk , which he used so effectively , and black chalk differs from red chalk , which he employed with such evident relish and through which , I think , his eroticism finds expression . There is something sensuous in the red chalk female nudes that one would never expect to find in Leonardo , whose women are made of smoke , or in Michelangelo , whose women are like men with appended breasts . Raphael 's nudes are caressed onto paper , but we know he struggled with the male form : he labored so strenuously for its drafts-manly conquest as to call into question Ruskin 's assessment that he was interested more in fair representations than stern facts . On the other hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stimulated by certain incapacities he had in mastering what Vasari called the " difficult foreshortenings " of Michelangelo ? The shifts from period to period , each defined by a powerful artistic style Raphael had to accept and overcome , as well as the shifts from medium to medium within a given period , mean that Raphael as a recognizable stylist exists , for the most part , only at a certain level of abstraction . So this is not like a show of Rembrandt drawings , or drawings by Leonardo , in each of which one feels the presence of the same extraordinary touch and vision . Raphael is almost always at a distance , and this is compounded by the fact that these are working drawings , done not for their own sake but as instruments to get a painting going , so that he went no further with them than he had to , save in certain exceptional cases . In a way , many of them have the interest that the underdrawings  --  the synopie  --  for the frescoes would have if we were able to see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So we are not moved to that degree of awe we expect with the greatest of the great masters . The Raphaels are arranged in roughly chronological order , clockwise around the first three and a half walls of the Morgan 's main exhibition hall . The remaining space is given over to drawings of disputed origin  --  they may be by Raphael , or they may be by Giulio Romano or Giovanni Penni , or one of the others in his workshop . The corridor is hung with drawings by these secondary masters in which there is no admixture of Raphael 's hand . Penni seems to have inherited Raphael 's delicacy , but none of the robustness inherited by Romano , whose drawing tends to a coarseness where Penni 's tends to insipidity . It requires no great eye to see Giulio 's heavy hand in the Transfiguration 's depiction of the mad boy and the agitated father , even if this difference would not have been visible at Raphael 's death . Inevitably , one will want to concentrate on the pure Raphaels . Even so , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of several hands and styles that can not be explained away simply by reference to a diversity of influences and media , that the waters are more brackish than the structure of the exhibition concedes . It comes as no surprise to read in the catalogue that at least half the drawings have been questioned at one time or anotherbelieved to be copies , or ascribed to Penni or Romano , or held to have been touched by someone other than Raphael himself . I can not pretend to connoisseurship in such matters , but I find it hard to accept all the confident attributions of present-day experts . And this insecurity dilutes the awe , for one is not altogether certain , in every case , that it is Raphael to whom one is responding . My advice is to go immediately to the stunning drawing of the head and hand , made as preparation for the pivotal figure in the lower register of the Transfiguration . This is pure Raphael , at the apex of his powers , and I would let it impose itself totally on one 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Form of the Good in Plato 's heaven : something that illuminates itself and everything else . It is a miracle of what drawing can achieve : Notice the line that defines the brow and nose and then disappears , notice the light that defines the cheek and nostril and penetrates into the man 's hair  --  and notice that hair , soft and surging , urgent and cascading down the young man 's neck . It was this drawing that sold at Christie 's in 1984 for just under $5 million ? $4,797,144 to be exact , including an 8 percent buyer 's fee , and worth , in my book , every scudo . Still , that kind of price must put an extraordinary degree of pressure on attributors : No Penni , no Giulio Romano  --  and certainly no Polidoro da Caravaggio or Perino del Vagawould be worth anything near that kind of money . Of course , there are other pressures making one want the drawings to be by Raphael , and perhaps every drawing here is by him . Still , the nagging uncertainty remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is , on the other hand , immensely reassuring that the power of the Transfiguration drawing transcends the knowledge of its price , and we feel in the presence of grace when we look at it . Once you have internalized this drawing , you might begin to look for others that participate in its light . There is a magnificent horse 's head in the lobby , dense with strength ( contrast the mane with the mop of the young man in the master drawing ) . It is impossible not to be moved by the Sybil , in red chalk , who twists about her axis as she leans on one heavy arm and gazes , with an accepting sadness , over her shoulder , while her other hand hangs in resignation between her knees . The kneeling female nude , again in red chalk , has passages Ican close my eyes and recall with wonder . The sheet of three male figures in black chalk , so close to Michelangelo as once to have been ascribed to him , has a softening light and weight that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the show , of course , but it is very faint indeed in many of the official Raphaels and to my eye absent from others that may , as a matter of external fact , truly be by him . With these one responds , at most , to the fact that they are by Raphael , not to the drawing itself . This is a connoisseur 's show , which means one is looking for the artist , letting questions of meaning and substance and interpretation subside . Still , given the evanescence of the artist 's personality , this is perhaps not an unreasonable priority , and when the personality comes at you full strength , as in that incredible head , it is worth considerable time and effort to be transradiated by its inner light . El                     