@@332655

He was an intrepid pilot of the silk scarf and goggles school , the kind of man who could ( and did ) attempt to set a new speed record between Paris and Saigon , who could crash in the Sahara and survive , rescued by Bedouins . He was also the acclaimed author of such international best sellers as the novel Night Flight ( 1931 ) and the children 's tale The Little Prince ( 1943 ) . As if these achievements did not generate sufficient glamour , Antoine de Saint- Exupery also managed a death that was both heroic and mysterious . At 44 , he had won permission to fly photoreconnaissance missions over his native France . On July 31 , 1944 , he took off from an Allied base in Corsica and never returned . He may have been forced down in the Mediterranean by two German fighter planes . No wreckage or remains were ever found . <P> Wartime Writings should add more luster to the Saint-Exupery legend , though the author might think otherwise . He was a perfectionist , accustomed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submitting it for publication . He used language with extreme care and respect , all the while doubting its ability to communicate essential truths : " I 've always thought that words were like love among tortoises  --  something not well attuned as yet . " This collection of letters and miscellaneous pieces would certainly strike Saint- Exupery as unpolished and riddled with contradictions and inconsistencies . It is all of that and something more : an urgent journal , composed haphazardly and under pressure , of a world in turmoil and a soul in torment . <P> Like millions of others during those dreadful years , Saint-Exupery had ample reason for anguish . His dream of defending his country from Nazi invaders was interrupted by the fall of France in 1940 . The collaborationist Vichy government , hoping to appropriate some of his fame and prestige , named the writer-pilot to a post on its National Council . He scornfully refused from a self-imposed exile in the U.S. , where he continued to write books and advocate American intervention in the war . <P> His activities proved controversial among his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an implacable enemy outraged warring factions . He dared suggest that the Vichy regime , which he " hated , " had nonetheless saved France from " utter extermination " at the hands of the Third Reich . He feared the recriminations that might follow once the war was over and refused to stir passions against those who had stayed home and labored under the Germans : " A Frenchman abroad should be his country 's advocate rather than a witness for the prosecution . " He had the temerity to criticize the Gaullists : " Because this group is taking part in the fight outside France and constitutes a normal ' foreign legion , ' it claims the reward of ruling the France of tomorrow . It 's absurd . The essential characteristic of sacrifice is that it claims no rights . " In his politics as well as his piloting , Saint-Exupery proved an inveterate soloist .                     