@@480839

It was common knowledge way back when I was a teenager that the mass media ? newly reinforced by television ? was generating mass conformity , mass passivity , and mass " loss of autonomy . " It was even producing a new kind of dismal American , a truly ominous being , grimly referred to as " mass man . " In other words , it was common knowledge in my youth that the one thing we could not expect from the forthcoming 1960s ? still hidden then in the womb of time ? was exactly what we got from that turbulent era : a vast revival of political activity , a great throwing-off of the chains of conformity , and an exhibition of youthful autonomy so appalling to many a media critic that when last heard from they were blaming television for breeding unrest and political rebellion . Not since it was common knowledge that international trade made war obsolete ( this was in 1914 ) had humankind 's bottomless capacity for mischief proven so many reputable social thinkers so devastatingly wrong . To find out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? for it is not easy to be completely wrong ? I decided not long ago to return to the scene of the accident , by which I mean those anxious post-war years when " What Is Television Doing to Us ? " ( New York Times Magazine , June 12 , 1949 ) was a question to which every right-thinking American expected an unpleasant answer ? and invariably got one . Whether it was the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr predicting in 1949 that " much of what is still wholesome in our lives will perish under the impact of this visual aid , " or hack writers predicting the death of conversation and the onset of mass myopia ( " Does Television Cause Eyestrain ? " House Beautiful , August 1950 ) , virtually the entire discussion of television 's influence took place in an atmosphere of hand-wringing hysteria . Curiously enough , this hysterical atmosphere had nothing directly to do with television itself . What inspired it was the unnerving national experience of wartime propaganda . Four years of Rosie the Riveter , " Loose Lips Sink Ships , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports of Hitler 's irresistible " Big Lie Technique , " had persuaded a remarkable number of Americans that mass propaganda was a new power too great for " the masses " to withstand . " Politically , a lever of frightening efficiency has been devised , " warned Mahonri Sharp Young in the Spring 1948 issue of the American Scholar . " New techniques of mass persuasion are being designed to manipulate a supposedly spontaneous public opinion . The existence of radio 's influence can hardly be doubted . Argument occurs only over its extent and its depth . " Now add the visual impact of television to this " frightening " power of radio , MGM , and Life magazine , and the mass media truly looked like the new master and dictator of the world . It has become , warned the eminent critic Gilbert Seldes , " as powerful in shaping our lives as our schools , our politics , our system of government . " But was it ? The power of the wartime propaganda rested on the fact that every means of persuasion had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " V for Victory , " " Beat the Axis , " " E for Effort , " win the war , do your bit . Writing so soon after this experience of media power , the critics assumed that mass entertainment in peacetime America was not only a potential instrument of mass propaganda ? which of course it is ? but that it was already the conveyor of concerted , coordinated mass propaganda . Beneath mass media 's surface of miscellaneous amusements , there was a single propaganda message , and the early critics thought they knew exactly what it was . " The message is invariably that of identification with the status quo , " wrote Theodor Adomo , the Frankfurt School social theorist , in 1954 . " The whole entertainment side of broadcasting which surrounds the communication of ideas , " wrote Seldes , " tends to create a mood of consent and acceptance . It can not afford to stir and agitate the mind . " The mass media operated on the mass audience like a deadly opiate . They " expedited flight from unbearable reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the American Journal of Sociology . " Whenever revolutionary tendencies show a timid head , they are mitigated and cut short by a false fulfillment of wish-dreams , like wealth , adventure , passionate love , power , and sensationalism in general . " Like an electronic vampire , the mass media sucked the life force out of the people . " The repetitiveness , the selfsameness , and the ubiquity of modern mass culture tend to make for automatized reactions , " said Adomo , " and to weaken the forces of individual resistance . " Gunther Anders , a radical social critic , called this inner weakening " depersonalization . " Ernest van den Haag , a conservative critic , called it " de-individualization . " Whatever it was called , it was reducing Americans to a state of zombielike inner docility , or so the students of " mass culture " insisted , until a great democratic revival erupted in America for the first time in fifty years . Before the upheaval subsided , the alleged victims of the mass propaganda of " unreflecting obedience " had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by had the great engine of passivity failed so badly , and why did the mass propaganda of conformity have so little effect ? Because commercial mass entertainment in America is a wonderfully inefficient tool of mass persuasion . And the reason the early critics of the media failed to see this was that they assumed its " frightening efficiency " in advance , and so were blind to all evidence to the contrary . Milton Berle is a good case in point . While the critics wrote of the media 's " selfsameness " and its " stereotypes , " the most dominating figure on television was an outrageous egomaniac , so extravagantly shameless that nobody could have invented him except himself . Far from affirming " sanctioned attitudes , " as the media was supposed to do , Berle trampled on every rule of decorum . Nor did he generate the required " mood of consent , " since not only was he the most popular entertainer on television but he was also , as polls showed , the most widely detested one . l knew people who would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying gasoline from Texaco , the sponsor of the Berle show . To well-bred , right-thinking people , Berle 's " message " was all too anarchic . When Jackie Gleason supplanted Berle in public favor , the media critics did not modify by an iota their belief that the media " expedited flight from unbearable reality . " Yet Gleason 's Ralph Kramden was almost unbearably real . Envy and vanity made him a fool and folly made him mean and dishonest . The portrait was pitiless , as Seldes himself admitted , and the moral a harsh one ? harsh and yet profoundly humane : it takes strength and integrity just to be decent . Such was the weekly theme of a television program that enjoyed immense popularity at a time when the critics were accusing the media of " reproducing the very smugness , intellectual passivity and gullibility that seem to fit in with totalitarian creeds . " Blind to any virtues in popular things , the media critics took it for granted , as Lowenthal noted in a survey of mass-culture studies , that " the media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distractions . " If something amused a vast number of Americans it had to be degrading , or how could it serve as mass propaganda ? In that bigoted spirit , the critics could see nothing in the American Western , for example , except infantile violence . According to television critic Marya Mannes , the entire genre could be summed up as " good men and bad men who rode horses over magnificent country and decided issues by shooting each other . " Yet it was the grand and terrible theme of the old-time Western that some " issues " could not be peaceably resolved : the dusty wooden cowboy town is in thrall to a tyrant ? the local cattle baron or the gambling-casino owner ; the sheriff is the tyrant 's drunken tool ; the churchgoing good folk are helplessly dithering . Nothing but armed insurrection can overthrow the tyranny and " clean up the town . " And where is the message of subservience in that ? Many a Western could have been denounced as " subversive " were they not so thoroughly American . Interestingly enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the impact of television was made by professional politicians . After seeing what the plot-ridden Republican National Convention looked like on television in 1952 , politicians freely predicted that " TV would be the making of the directpresidential primary , " as Walter Goodman reported in the New Republic . And so it was , although it took a rebellion against an unpopular war to complete the job that television had begun . The reason the politicians were right goes a long way toward explaining why the media critics were wrong . America 's politicians understood television 's menace to the old nominating system because they never lost sight of the central truth about American life ? that the American people believe devoutly in democracy , that we hate to see it openly violated , that we love to see its values affirmed and triumphant , even in our " entertainment and distractions . " That is why the mass media performed so poorly as an engine of social control and passive obedience . In America you can not promote deference and successfully sell soap . You can not promote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of democracy may not be precise or exacting , but our love of democracy runs deep , and that love has done more to shape the media than the media has done to shape us . That was what the early critics overlooked so ' completely . Appalled by the power of mass propaganda , they concluded that the masses everywhere were empty and pliant and that Americans cherished nothing strongly enough to resist the designs of lawless ambition . That they were so largely in error is a truth well worth remembering in our darker hours .                     