@@487771

The search for good news from the election leads to Oregon . Voters in that state approved the nation 's fourth Citizen Utility Board ( CUB ) , which may represent the most promising movement in utility reform this side of public ownership . In most places , individuals hand over more money to utilities than they do taxes to the state 's treasury . Gas companies underestimate demand and have to buy excess fuel at inflated prices . Electric companies pour capital into nuclear power plants and then abandon the projects , charging customers for their mistakes . More routinely , a utility company asks its state regulator for a rate hike several times greater than what it expects to get ; the Public Service Commission trims the request a bit , and both sides go home happy , leaving the ratepayer to pick up the tab . Adding insult to injury , customers are usually forced to pay " rate case expenses , " the amount spent by the utility to argue for the increase . Despite those indignities , efforts to change the system have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own intervenors in a case , lobby for legislation or propose that regulators be elected rather than . appointed . But there has been little in the way of reform of the process by which utilities set their rates . Until CUBs came along , that is . Inspired by Ralph Nader and his acolytes in the mid-1970s , the boards hire experts to represent residential ratepayers in various ways , lobbying and advocating their case at rate hearings , for example . Funded and controlled by those who belong to it , a CUB receives no government assistance  --  only the right to piggyback its membership solicitations on utility bill mailings. w . On Election Day , 53 percent of Oregon 's voters approved the establishment of a CUB in their state . The Oregon State Public Interest Research Group ( OSPIRG ) spent about $40,000 in behalf of the initiative , while utilities poured more than $1 million into a slick radio , TV and direct-mail campaign to portray it as a " boondoggle . " The latter 's effort , which began in September and in which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization , backfired . " Their ad campaign succeeded in creating visibility for us , " Eric Stachon of OSPIRG said recently . Oregon is the first state to pass a CUB initiative by referendum . State Legislatures set up CUBs in Wisconsin arid Illinois in 1979 and 1983 , respectively , and California 's Public Utility Commission formed a local version in San Diego in 1983 . CUB legislatiion was introduced in ten states this year , and the prospects for passage seem particularly good in Massachusetts . Rising electricity and gas rates are n't the only reasons the CUB idea is finding favor across the country . As the Center for the Study of Responsive Law and other public interest groups promoting CUBs point out , utilities get the rate hikes they seek because Public Service Commissions usually hear only one side of the story . A commission sees itself as a quasi-judicial body , arbitrating between competing claims . A utility can afford to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars on economists , engineers and other experts to present its case . It will spare no expense on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because its costs are ultimately borne by ratepayers . Across the hearing room from this three-piece-suited battalion is , depending on the state and the importance of the issue , an assistant attorney general , an appointed government intervenor , a lawyer for a local public interest group or , as in Oregon , no one at all . Thus if rate hikes are approved routinely , it may be because regulators never hear a good argument for rejecting them . The spoils claimed by the utilities do n't end with higher rates . The vast majority of states have enacted automatic fuel adjustment clauses that permit surcharges to be levied on customers before a hearing is held , or with no hearing at all . Most states allow electric utilities to charge their customers for construction work in progress , which amounts to paying for power they will theoretically receive in the future . Finally , utilities are universally permitted to collect money for " phantom taxes " ( taxes they overestimate and ultimately do n't have to pay ) , which cost electric utility customers almost $5.1 billion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Action Foundation . Arguably , such practices flourish because citizens lack adequate representation in the hearing rooms where they are approved . Many states have government-appointed consumer counsels , but they are to the utilities ' representatives as public defenders are to the ritzy corporate lawyers . Also , they are vulnerable to political pressure . Brian Lederer , an aggressive public advocate in Washington , D.C. , was ousted in 1983 by Mayor Marion Barry Jr. , apparently for his effectiveness at challenging the utilities . According to Mark Green and Michael Waldman , writing in The Village Voice , when New York 's Consumer Protection Board began organizing consumers in opposition to a rate hike request by the Niagra Mohawk Power Company , the State Senate lopped $50,000 from the board 's computer budget . Unlike government intervenors , " a Citizen Utility Board is n't in jeopardy when it starts making waves , " says Tom Tobin , who is coordinating CUB campaigns around the country . " What 's more , a CUB is directly accountable to consumers ; it 's got the resources to do a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can do public education and lobbying . All of this makes it more powerful than any public agency or board . " One naturally looks to Wisconsin for information on how well the boards work , since it was the first state to have one . Attracted by eye-catching CUB leaflets ( " ARE YOU MAD AS * &#!%; ABOUT HIGH UTILITY BILLS ? " ) accompanying their utility bills , 27,000 people joined during the first year of operation , and membership has more than quadrupled since then . The annual budget of $719,000 has been put to work in a way that has won plaudits even from skeptics . The board 's claim to have saved ratepayers about $100 for every dollar contributed proves to be more than puffery , and utility officials grudgingly concede its effectiveness . Consider : ? CUB-sponsored testimony played a decisive role in defeating both automatic fuel adjustment charges and Wisconsin Telephone 's request for local measured service . ? The CUB persuaded the Public Service Commission to assess consumers ' ability to pay higher utility rates and then take that into account for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Clever cross-examination of Wisconsin Telephone officials proved that the financial indexes used by the company to win a previous increase in its rates had since improved . As a direct result of this strategy the commission , which had seemed sympathetic to another increase , denied the request . Despite the success in Wisconsin , or perhaps because of it , getting the necessary legislation in other states has not been easy . In Illinois the legislators acted on a CUB initiative only after 111 cities and towns had approved it by a margin of at least two to one . Oregon 's referendum effort was mounted because the legislature had killed a CUB bill . A few powerful state senators in New York have refused to allow pertinent legislation out of committee , so proponents are applying to the Public Service Commission instead . The commission has already endorsed the idea of establishing a board in New York , but utilities are suing to block implementation . Progress is being made , however . Each year , CUB bills are introduced in more states and get a little further in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Massachusetts , for example , the Public Interest Research Group has signed on 105 legislative co-sponsors , and the bill could come to a vote before long . A CUB for Pacific Gas &; Electric 's customers in California may be established soon , and Montana 's Public Service Commission is seriously considering a CUB proposal as well . Besides their significance in utility reform , according to Tobin and his colleagues , Citizen Utility Boards signal a consumer revolution , a decisive step toward the empowerment of citizens . If corporate interests are developing a nervous twitch as they watch the growing popularity of CUBs , it is understandable : the architects are happily sketching plans for organizations that would guarantee consumer representation on insurance and banking issues , using a similar procedure for funding . ?                     