@@333753

" We need a fresh start . " With that , a beleaguered President Corazon Aquino moved decisively this week to counter a growing sense that her government was foundering badly . In a brief national television appearance Sunday , Aquino announced that she had asked for the resignations of her entire Cabinet . Among those forced out : Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile , who with increasing boldness has recently opposed Aquino 's policy of seeking a negotiated end to the country 's 17-year-old Communist insurgency . The President then announced that she had appointed Deputy Defense Minister Rafael Ileto , a West Point graduate and former Ambassador to Iran and Thailand , to succeed Enrile . Said the President : " I hereby give notice to all those who may be inclined to exploit the present situation that the sternest measures will be taken against them if they try . " <P> Aquino 's stunning action capped a fortnight of public protest and violence unmatched since the former housewife took office nine months ago . Only days after the leftist trade-union leader Rolando Olalia and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , David Puzon , was ambushed and shot to death in a hail of automatic-weapons fire . A leading Japanese businessman was kidnaped while returning home from a round of golf . A bomb exploded in a Manila department store , injuring 13 people . Finally , at week 's end Ulbert Ulama Tugung , a prominent Muslim ally of the President 's , was slain outside a hotel in the capital . <P> Rumors began circulating in Manila that unnamed politicians , assumed to be allied with former President Ferdinand Marcos , Enrile and elements in the military , planned to reconvene illegally the national assembly that Aquino disbanded after her accession . As word of the presumed minicoup spread , armed forces Chief of Staff General Fidel Ramos moved to block it , ordering his commanders to " disregard " any orders that might come from the Defense Ministry . At Ramos ' direction , government troops in trucks and armored vehicles lined the street leading to the presidential palace in Manila and secured key radio and television stations . <P> On Sunday afternoon Aquino summoned Enrile and Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 25-minute session Enrile emerged smiling and waved at bystanders but made no comment . Ninety minutes later Aquino went on television to announce that the Defense Minister had stepped down . She also declared , " We shall be acting on the other resignations in the next few days , " and emphasized that Ramos " has taken preventive measures against the recklessness of some elements in the military . " Ileto became the first member of the new Cabinet to be sworn in . Lest anyone miss the point , Ramos issued a statement through a palace spokesman declaring that the " New Armed Forces of the Philippines stands behind the present government of President Aquino . "                     