@@432372

 | It 's National Child Abuse Prevention Month , but Tim and Cindy Lapish are n't participating . Last September , the couple faced every parent 's nightmare when Nathan , their 2-year-old son , fell down the basement steps of their Columbus , Ohio , home . Tim , a pastor at the Central Baptist Church , rushed the boy to a hospital , where an intern mistook a Kool-Aid stain on the boy 's thigh for a bruise ? and suggested that the Lapishes had abused Nathan . Within hours , a hospital social worker intervened , telling the Lapishes they needed psychological counseling . The couple was quickly vindicated , but the episode took a heavy toll . " My wife was so distraught , " Pastor Lapish recalls , " that she had a miscarriage that evening right in the hospital . " Regrettably , the Lapish family 's ordeal was no fluke . In 1985 , authorities say , more than half the 1.9 million reports of child abuse and neglect were deemed unfounded , and 500,000 families ? many like the Lapishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former head of the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect : " We are talking about a massive and unjustified violation of parental rights . " Hyping the numbers What 's behind the barrage of accusations ? Exaggerated fears about the extent of child abuse and neglect are largely to blame , some experts say . Indeed , such fears , together with the burgeoning number of child-abuse reports , have generated widespread public misunderstanding analogous to that surrounding the scare over missing children several years ago . At that time , officials warned that 1.1 million to 1.5 million children were " missing " each year , conjuring up images of widespread abductions by strangers , such as the kidnapping depicted in the TV movie " Adam . " In fact , the vast majority of missing children are teen runaways or children taken by a parent in a custody struggle . No one doubts that child abuse is a serious problem that warrants widespread vigilance . But some experts have begun to question whether public figures have generated unnecessary anxiety among parents over battered and molested children . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lady Nancy Reagan warns that " last year , over 1 million cases of child abuse were documented . . . and for every case reported , 3 other cases were ignored . " But Jane Burnley , who now oversees the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect , says those numbers are misleading : " We 're not talking about a couple of million children being scalded , maimed , starved and raped . The extreme cases in day-care centers and settings outside the home draw so much attention that they distort what 's really happening . " That distortion , adds Burnley , is compounded by the way reports of abuse and neglect are commingled in national statistics . Of the 1.9 million reports of child abuse and neglect received nationwide in 1985 , state social workers confirmed approximately 750,000 cases of child maltreatment , the American Humane Association ( AHA ) says . But more than half of those cases involved instances of neglect , with the most common problem being latchkey children left unsupervised at home . By comparison , fewer than 20,000 confirmed reports ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injury , like a burn or fracture . And while confirmed reports of sex abuse rose to 113,000 in 1985 , they still involve a relatively modest number of children . Even when the figure for sexual abuse is quadrupled ? to account for unreported instances of molestation ? the statistics show that fewer than 75 out of 10,000 children are abused each year . Says Larry Brown , AHA 's executive director : " We tend to look at the pathological behavior and miss 1 the fact that most kids and their parents never get reported . " False alarms hurt kids The disparity between the number of reported and confirmed cases of abuse involves more than just a concern for statistical integrity : Children have also been endangered by the deluge of unfounded reports . In many states , social workers are so flooded with a backlog of reports that they are unable to respond quickly to new complaints . In Virginia , for instance , case workers investigated 12,000 more complaints last year than in 1980 . But because they had to devote so much time to checking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to conduct thorough investigations . As a result , case workers wound up identifying 3,000 fewer abused and neglected children than in 1980 . Roberta Telfair , a social worker in Richmond , admits that " it 's impossible for us to go out on every complaint within 24 hours . I know some county supervisors who do n't assign cases for three weeks after they come in . " Part of the problem is that state regulations are so broad that social workers find they must  | investigate virtually every complaint to determine which ones are legitimate . In Kansas , for example , a parent can be charged with child abuse for " blaming ... or rejecting " a child . With abuse and neglect so ill-defined , operators of childabuse hot lines are often unable to screen out irrelevant calls . Callers constantly press operators to investigate complaints about immoral lifestyles ( " The parents drink and smoke pot all day " ) and indigent , backward families ( " There 's no running water in the house " ) ? even though they may lack evidence that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lowe , chairman of a parents ' group called VOCAL ( Victims of Child Abuse Laws ) , says that with public suspicions inflamed , many social workers are " plain terrified they 'll be sued if they do n't treat every report as valid . " Yet some child-safety specialists defend current reporting practices , insisting it 's best to err on the side of caution . " It 's simply a mistake , " says Patricia Schene of the American Humane Association , " to equate an unfounded report with a false report . Often , social workers do n't have time to fully investigate a complaint , or they may not open a case because the abusive incident seems atypical . " To illustrate that point , officials cite statistics from Pennsylvania and Oklahoma , where roughly a third of all families involved in unfounded complaints have been reported again at a later date ? and found guilty of abuse or neglect . " No child ever died from a social worker 's evaluation , " asserts Dr. Richard Krugman , a child-protection expert . " Kids die @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some child advocates question the wisdom of the come-one , come-all approach to prevention . " The pendulum will swing back toward public disinterest in child abuse if we do n't start doing a better job of screening out inappropriate reports , " argues Besharov , the former head of the national center . Adds Burnley , the center 's current overseer : " In this country we ca n't afford to send a social worker into every home where someone thinks there might be a problem with a child . "                     