@@321410

Call them the boys of Indian summer . Roy Scheider , 47 , and Robert Redford , 46 , have both donned pinstripes and taken the field in two new movies about the All-American pastime . In Tiger Town , the first made-for-TV feature for the new Disney cable channel , Scheider plays Billy Young , a fading 39-year-old baseball legend who is spurred on to win a pennant by the faith of an eleven-year-old fan , played by Justin Henry , 12 ( Kramer vs . Kramer ) . Scheider , who broke his nose during an early " career " as a boxer , says that he has always wanted to portray a baseball player but never before had the chance . " As a kid , I played sand-lot softball , " he recalls . " Now here I am acting out a fantasy I 've had since I was dreaming of ways to get out of New Jersey . " Redford , meanwhile , was returning to the screen for the first time since 1980 , when he appeared in Brubaker and directed Ordinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memorial Stadium in Buffalo filming The Natural , based on Bernard Malamud 's 1952 novel about a 34-year-old baseball player who finally makes it to the big leagues during the 1930s . Like Scheider , maybe like every American male , Redford is glad to have a chance to explore an unlived fantasy . He had planned to be a ballplayer at the University of Colorado , but , Redford recalls , " I went there on a half scholarship and proceeded to get sidetracked . " <P> It was a wedding with , well , star appeal . After a five-year romance , Carrie Fisher , 26 , who rocketed to fame as Princess Leia in the Star Wars trilogy , and Paul Simon , 41 , still crazy about her after all these years , were married in a Jewish ceremony at his West Side Manhattan apartment . The cast of guests appropriate to such a show-biz union included the bride 's long-divorced parents , Eddie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds , Star Wars Creator George Lucas , Comedian Robin Williams , Simon 's once and present singing partner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ couple with a jukebox filled with records from the 1950s . More traditionally , Papa Fisher gave his daughter six ruby , garnet , jade and diamond rings and a vintage Cartier watch . To his new son-in-law he gave his " most prized possession , " a framed photograph of Fisher holding Carrie and her brother Todd when they were babies . After the formalities , though , the customary honeymoon was replaced by a " working honeymoon " as the couple flew off to Houston , where Simon and Garfunkel were to appear as part of a nationwide reunion tour .                     