@@334458

For Americans , William Klein is the least palpable of their great photographers , like one of the ectoplasmic figures in his own blurry street shots . Nowadays every history of photography gives his wild pictures of the early 1950s their due . But though born in New York City , Klein , 58 , has lived in Paris since 1948 , when he arrived packing the camera he won in a G.I. poker game . Living abroad made him less of a presence in the camera circles of his native country . So did the truculent novelty of his early work . Klein 's debut volume of New York street photography , published 31 years ago in France , has yet to be issued in the U.S. <P> It hardly helped matters that in 1965 he quit picture taking for nearly 15 years to make films , mostly documentaries . With Klein threatening to become the missing link of American photography , the San Diego Museum of Photographic Arts has come to the rescue with a retrospective of his work , on view through April 5 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities , and it should , to spread the word again that Klein was crucial to the camera world 's postwar taste for more offbeat and haphazard imagery ; he helped set the mood from which photographers like Garry Winogrand and Diane Arbus sprang . <P> Klein came to photography by way of painting , having studied briefly with Fernand Leger . Once he turned to the camera , the former sociology major from New York 's City College showed a deep instinct for the urban demotic , with its links to the police blotter , the tabloid and the B movie . With money earned by doing Vogue fashion spreads in France , he made a picture-taking trip to New York in 1954 , equipped with both the expatriate 's eye for its psychic stresses and the native 's complicity in them . Without resorting to the bizarre , he got the profoundly unsettled , the unearthly demeanor of sidewalk crowds , the implacability of children at play . <P> Klein worked with a locomotive verve and an indifference to the holy writ of camera technique . At a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still standard on most 35-mm cameras ) was deemed the only fit instrument for recording truth , Klein used a wide angle to collect as much incident as possible within the frame . He favored a flash at long exposure , for its jittery harshness . He also went in for blurred images : smudged bodies in motion , heads so close to the lens that they dissolve into gaseous globes . The archetypal Klein photo is Minigang , Amsterdam Avenue , 1954 . A boy with his face screwed into a fury pokes a blurry gun straight at the camera , while a young friend at his arm questions the act with his eyes . In the brief catalog that accompanies the San Diego show , Curator Arthur Ollman reads this image as a metaphor for Klein the photographer : " The aggressor and the intimate voyeur , " Ollman calls him . " Both the provocateur and the calm student of provocation . "                     