@@480736

From Tales of a New America , by Robert B. Reich , to be published by Times Books in March . Reich teaches political economy at Harvard 's John F. Kennedy School of Government . Ivan Boesky and associates amass a fortune through insider trading ; General Electric admits to defrauding the Air Force . By playing fast and loose with the law , American business is courting more of what it deplores : nit-picking regulations . Yet , complain as they do about government regulation , most business executives have no objection to the goals behind it : they generally agree that the public deserves protection from toxic wastes , nuclear accidents , air and water pollution , insider trading , unsafe products , and corporate monopoly . Rather , the complaints of American businessmen center on the ways regulations are designed and administered : statutes are overly complicated , and the rules written to implement them are excruciatingly detailed . Nit-picking regulation has been blamed for slowing the growth of America 's productivity and impairing the nation 's competitiveness , yet environmental , health , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no less stringent than in the United States . In Western Europe and Japan , however , regulations are farless detailed than they are in the United States . Moreover , they impose less paperwork , entail only informal inspections and reports , and generate significantly lower compliance costs . The regulation of American business is uniquely picayune . Why should this be so ! Many who speak for American business lay the blame at the feet of a " new class " of social planners and public-policy professionals who abhor private enterprise . These individuals , who now inhabit government regulatory agencies , relish any chance to harass American business with endless , trivial commands ? to clog the channels of commerce with piddling requirements and voluminous forms . They take delight in transforming common-sensical regulatory goals into reams of nettlesome detail . Unfortunately for those who find this story satisfying , it wilts in the face of the facts . To begin with , the new class of interventionist zealots who are supposedly responsible for the picayune character of so much modern regulation has been hard to track down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government regulation , has succeeded in abandoning some regulatory efforts . But ? and here is the important point ? it has done nothing to change the way in which the remaining regulations have been administered . The Code of Federal Regulations has continued to swell with detail , the Federal Register is bulging with new interpretations and elaborations , and American business has continued to writhe under the burden of pettifogging directives from Washington . The underlying problem has nothing to do with nefarious forces hidden within regulatory agencies ; it is inherent in the American regulatory process itself . Consider this fable : An inventor named Henry has just marketed a turbocharged , fully automatic vacuum cleaner . The product proves enormously popular , but it suffers from a small flaw : the vacuum emits a roar something like that of a jet engine at full throttle . This flaw does not deter consumers from using the vacuum , however . They simply set the timer and go off to the movies while the machine does its work . In neighborhoods all over America , the roar of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passing birds to fall stunned from the sky . Henry would like to make a quieter version of his product , but so far has had no luck . Adding an adequate muffler would triple the vacuum 's cost . Now , suppose that several years before Henry invented his vacuum cleaner , Congress had instructed the Environmental Protection Agency to take steps to " ensure no household appliance emits excessive noise . " That was all the legislation said . Congress left it to the EPA to devise and enforce regulations concerning neighborhood noise pollution . Since then , the agency has issued only one broad rule : " No consumer product shall generate noise in excess of 200 decibels . " That 's it no reporting requirements , no interpretations , no elaborations . The EPA publishes the rule and considers the problem settled . Henry has hired a Washington lawyer , Seymour , who informs him of the EPA regulation .. Worried about the threat to his company , Henry asks Seymour if he can think of some legal way to continue selling the turbocharged vacuum cleaner . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I can think of two hundred ways to dodge this regulation . " Two months later , the EPA inquires about the vacuum . It seems the agency has been getting complaints about all the noise . Seymour meets with the EPA 's attorneys . " The regulation does n't apply to the turbocharged automatic vacuum , " Seymour tells them matter-of-factly . " It says no consumer product should emit a sound in excess of 200 decibels , but this is n't a consumer product . It 's designed for industrial applications , although consumers happen to use it . And it 's not even a product , but a service , since under our unique payment plan it is leased rather than purchased outright . " The EPA attorneys silently take off their hats to Seymour , and go back to their law books and word processors . Two months later , the EPA announces a more detailed set of rulings , which define " consumer product " as " any product or service sold or leased to industrial or consumer users . " The attorneys return to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says Seymour , calmly . " The regulation prohibits sounds in excess of 200 decibels . But our automatic vacuum recorded only 195 decibels when we tested it outside in the middle of a field during a hailstorm . Here 's the proof . " He hands the EPA attorneys computer printout showing the results of the experiment . They take off their hats again , and retreat to their office to devise more precise rules for how such products should be tested . Over the next several years Seymour meets with the EPA attorneys innumerable times . Each time , he claims that the burgeoning regulations , rules , and interpretations still do not apply , Each time they become more detailed . Seymour also disputes their applicability before administrative law judges , and he appeals the judges ' rulings to the federal courts , which issue opinions further elaborating upon the EPA 's regulations and interpretations . Meanwhile , the original statute has been amended by Congress to avoid the loopholes and ambiguities that Seymour ( and others like him ) have discovered . The new law is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excruciating specificity . Five years later , Henry meets with Seymour . " I 'm afraid , " says Seymour , " we 've reached the end of the line . But at least I got you more than five years of delay . " Henry is downcast , nonetheless . " Does this mean we have to stop selling the automatic vacuum , or else install a muffler ? " he asks . " Either that , " Seymour warns , " or you 'll have to pay a fine every year you violate the regulation . " " How much ? " Henry asks , trembling . " A full 2,500 American dollars , " Seymour says , as he grins and takes off his hat to himself . This fable exaggerates , but not by much , the typical fate of a regulatory effort . It describes a familiar dynamic between business and government . American corporations are not reluctant to test the limits of the law . They pay lawyers handsome sums to discover loopholes , technicalities , and elegant circumventions . In many instances , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the firm at least temporary relief from a regulation , enabling it profitably to continue doing what it was doing before . Nor do American lawyers recoil from the challenge . Indeed , they relish it . This ploy may be rational from the standpoint of a lawyer and his client , but it is often irrational for American business as a whole . Each maneuver generates a countermaneuver by the regulatory bureaucracy and Congress ; every feint and dodge , a more complicated prophylactic for the next encounter . The result , over time is a profusion of legislative and regulatory detail which confounds American business . Unlike the story of the new class of public-policy professionals , there are no plotting villains in this tale . Seymour and other lawyers like him have no intention of confounding American capitalism . Henry too is simply trying to dohis job ; indeed , he has a responsibility to his shareholders to do whatever he can , within the limits of the law , to maximize the firm 's profits . All the actors are only fulfilling the roles assigned to them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The story , exasperatingly , suggests no obvious plan of action . For any fundamental improvement to occur , businesses would have to accept a broader definition of their responsibilities , a definition under which they would not simply yield to the letter of the law but endorse its spirit , or else openly challenge its underlying goals . Such a change in attitude is unlikely , The notion that government is the foil of business is deeply ingrained in America ; in no other nation is it assumed to be legitimate , even necessary , for business executives and their lawyers to try systematically to outwit government officials and their lawyers . In most countries , regulations are devised consensually , through ongoing negotiation . But in America , when thrust meets parry , the miasma of regulation only thickens.                     