@@480589

From the conclusion to Endless War : How We Got Involved in Central America and What Can Be Done , by James Chace , published by Vintage Books . Chace , who was for many years managing editor of Foreign Affairs , is an editor at the New York Times Book Review . In Latin America , where the United States has been obsessed with stability , the country that should concern us most is Mexico . Indeed , the final argument the Reagan Administration has used to justify its military buildup in Central America is that such action is a hedge against the spread of leftist revolutions to Mexico , the so-called last domino . While Mexico has shown remarkable resilience over the past half-century , the problems it now faces are grave . It is certainly in the interest of the United States that Mexico maintain its stability ? but the place to look for trouble is not in neighboring Central America but in Mexico itself : What may threaten Mexico in the near future are the enormous debt-servicing charges that have come due after its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible for Mexico to meet interest payments over the next few years without instituting socially dangerous austerity programs . The primary foreign policy task for the United States in this hemisphere is to deal with the very real social and economic problems of Mexico and the other Latin American debtor nations without tying the solutions to the ideological thrust of Central America 's revolutions . What Mexico fears is not Marxism-Leninism in El Salvador or Nicaragua but a widening war . In any such generalized conflict in the region , Mexico might well be dragged in . As Carlos Fuentes points out , " Mexico would be under tremendous pressure to come down on the side of the U.S. in a war .... But if Mexico comes down on the side of the U.S. openly in a situation of generalized conflict , it will lose its nationalist consensus and legitimacy and provoke an onslaught from the left . " On the other hand , were Mexico to come down on the side of Managua ? and by extension Cuba , and by further extension the Soviet Union ? there would be pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The delicate balance between the left and the right would he broken , and Mexico would be destabilized . Ironically , the United States " would play the role of the domino pusher from the north . " This , Fuentes warns , " would be the ultimate accomplishment of Washington 's penchant for self-fulfilling prophecy : a Mexico destabilized by American nightmares about Mexico . " If , however , the United States were to adopt a policy of allowing Mexico and other regional powers to take the lead in finding peaceful solutions for the region ? and this is the way to encourage Mexico not to return to its isolationist past ? Washington could devote its considerable diplomatic and financial resources to working with Mexico and Costa Rica to solve their debt problems . After all , stability in the region is as much in Mexico 's interest as it is in America 's . Today , the spillover of refugees from the activities of the Guatemalan guerrillas threatens Mexico 's southern provinces , and Mexico is worried about the unrest that this might stir up among its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Marxist rebels installed a leftist government in Guatemala Ciry , the first thing they would ask for would be a nonaggression pact with Mexico . Fuentes is right in saying that it would be the United States , not a small Central American state , that would be the domino pusher if Mexico were to become destabilized because of external revolution in the region . In confronting the probability of continuing turmoil in Central America over the next decade , the United States must learn to distinguish between indigenous revolution and Soviet-inspired subversion . It must do more than accept change only in order that things remain the same , that is to say , that the United States maintain its predominance in the region . It must seek to create stability out of revolution rather than fear revolution and , in so doing , work with revolutionary governments to prevent their alignment with and dependence on the Soviet Union . The U.S.-Soviet rivalry in the Third World will very likely be played out in Latin America , with its huge debts and unstable regimes . It will be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difference between trying to create democracy in a barren setting and reinforcing democracy where it already exists . We misread history if we conclude that democracy is impossible in Central America . Again and again when it has been snuffed out , it has reappeared ? in 1948 in Costa Rica , in the 1950s in Guatemala , in 1972 in El Salvador , in 1979 in Nicaragua , in 1981 in Honduras . Today , America 's " credibility " is indeed in question because of the obtuseness of its foreign policy . By continuing a long history of relying on repressive local military forces to maintain stability in Central America , the United States is not allowing fragile democracies to grow stronger and hardy democracies to flourish .                     