@@336253

Free trade is solemnly revered in theory but largely ignored in practice throughout the world . In recent years commerce between nations has become increasingly burdened with restrictions as governments everywhere have sought to protect their industries from foreign competition . <P> To brake the drive toward ever greater protection , the Geneva-based General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade last week issued a long-awaited study on ways to help lift trade barriers . The 60-page report was put together by a group of seven public and private officials who included Democratic Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey and Pehr Gyllenhammar , chairman of Volvo . If global commerce were allowed to flow freely , they argue , the world as a whole could regain the vigor that it showed from 1950 to 1973 , an era the report describes as " the most dynamic single generation of widespread growth in human history . " <P> The GATT study sets out a 15-point program for " specific , immediate action . " Among the recommendations : fairer agricultural trade rules , reduced government subsidies to industries and fewer restrictions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report urges the start of a new series of world-trade talks . " We have tried to be realistic , " said Fritz Leutwiler , former president of the Bank for International Settlements and chairman of the group . " We realize that 100% free trade will remain science fiction forever , but we think heads of government should not be paying lip service to free trade while building protectionism . " <P> The GATT document was greeted by U.S. officials who have been pressuring Western Europe and Japan to ease restrictions on American products and services . " I welcome wholeheartedly the tone and tenor of this report , " said U.S. Trade Representative William Brock . He called the recommendations " just the sort of tonic necessary to reinvigorate the global trading system , which we have worked so hard to foster since World War II . "                     