@@480524

TEN TIMES A YEAR ? OnCe a month except in August and October ? a small group of well-dressed men arrives in Basel , Switzerland . Carrying overnight bags and attacH cases , they discreetly check into the Euler Hotel , across from the railroad station . They have come to this sleepy city from places as disparate as Tokyo , London , and Washington , D.C. , for the regular meeting of the most exclusive , secretive , and powerful supranational club in the world . Each of the dozen or so visiting members has his 11 own office at the club , with secure telephone lines to his home country . The members are fully serviced by a permanent staff of about 300 , including chauffeurs , chefs , guards , messengers , translators , stenographers , secretaries , and researchers . Also at their disposal are a brilliant research unit and an ultramodern computer , as well as a secluded country club with tennis courts and a swimming pool , a few kilometers outside Basel . The membership of this club is restricted to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the availability of credit , and the money supply of the banks in their own countries . They include the governors of the U.S. Federal Reserve , the Bank of England , the Bank of Japan , the Swiss National Bank , and the German Bundesbank . The club controls a hank with a $40 billion kitty in cash , government securities , and gold that constitutes about one tenth of the world 's available foreign exchange . The profits earned just from renting out its hoard of gold ( second only to that of Fort Knox in value ) are more than sufficient to pay for the expenses of the entire organization . And the unabashed purpose of its elite monthly meetings is to coordinate and , if possible , to control all monetary activities in the industrialized world . The place where this club meets in Basel is a unique financial institution called the Bank for International Settlements ? or more simply , and appropriately , the BIS ( pronounced " biz " in German ) , THE B1S was originally established in May 1930 by bankers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dis-burse Germany 's World War 1 reparation payments ( hence its name ) . It was truly an extraordinary arrangement . Although the BIS was organized as a commercial bank with publicly held shares , its immunity from government interference ? and taxes ? in both peace and war was guaranteed by an international treaty signed in The Hague in 1930 . Although all its depositors are central banks , the BIS has made a profit on every transaction . And because it has been highly profitable , it has required no subsidy or aid from any government Since it also provided , in Basel , a safe and convenient repository for the gold holdings of the European central banks , it quickly evolved into the bank for central banks . As the world depression deepened in the Thirties and financial panics flared up in Austria , Hungary , Yugoslavia , and Germany , the governors in charge of the key central banks feared that the entire global financial system would collapse unless they could closely coordinate their rescue efforts . The obvious meeting spot for this desperately needed coordination was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold swaps and war-damage settlements . Even though an isolationist Congress officially refused to allow the U.S. Federal Reserve to participate in the his , or to accept shares in it ( which were instead held in trust by the First National City Bank ) , the chairman of the Fed quietly slipped over to Basel for important meetings . World monetary policy was evidently too important to leave to national politicians . During World War II , when the nations , if not their central banks , were belligerents , the Ens continued operating in Basel , though themonthly meetings were temporarily suspended . In 1944 , following Czech accusations that the his was laundering gold that the Nazis had stolen from occupied Europe , the American government backed a resolution at the Bretton Woods Conference calling for the liquidation of the his . The naive idea was that the settlement and monetary-clearing functions it provided could be taken over by the new International Monetary Fund . What could not be replaced , however , was what existed behind the mask of an international clearing house : a supranational organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be accomplished by a democratic , United Nations ? like international agency . The central bankers , not about to let their club be taken from them , quietly snuffed out the American resolution . After World War II , the ms reemerged as the main clearing house for European currencies and , behind the scenes , the favored meeting place of central bankers . When the dollar came under attack in the 1960s , massive swaps of money and gold were arranged at the BIS for the defense of the American currency . It was undeniably ironic that , as the president of the BIS observed , " the United States , which had wanted to kill the BIS , suddenly finds it indispensable . " In any case , the Fed has become a leading member of the club , with either Chairman Paul Volcker or Governor Henry Wallich attending every " Basel weekend . " RIGINALLY , the central bankers sought corn- ( plete anonymity for their activities . Their headquarters were in an abandoned six- story hotel , the Grand et Savoy Hotel Univers , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There purposely was no sign over the door identifying the ars , so visiting central bankers and gold dealers used Frey 's , which is across the street from the railroad station , as a convenient landmark . It was in the wood-paneled rooms above the shop and the hotel that decisions were reached to devalue or defend currencies . to fix the price of gold , to regulate offshore banking , and to raise or lower short-term interest rates . And " a new world economic ordererations ( as Guido Carli , then Italian central bank , put it ) , Basel , remained almost totally and its activities . In May 1977 , however , the BIS gave up its anonymity , against the better judgment of some of its members , in exchange for more efficient headquarters . The new building , an eighteen-story-high circular skyscraper that rises over the medieval city like some misplaced nuclear reactor , quickly became known as the " Tower of Basel " and began attracting attention from tourists . " That was the last thing we wanted , " Dr. Fritz Leutwiler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National Bank , explained to me while watching currency changes flash across the Reuters screen in his office . " If it had been up to me , it never would have been built . " Despite its irksome visibility , the new headquarters . does have the advantages of luxurious space and Swiss efficiency . The building is completely air-conditioned and self-contained , with its own nuclear-bomb shelter in the sub-basement , a triply redundant fire-extinguishing system ( so outside firemen never have to be called in ) , a private hospital , and some twenty miles of subterranean archives . " We try to provide a complete clubhouse for central hankers ... a home away from home , " said Gunther Schleiminger , the supercompetent general manager , as he arranged a rare tour of the headquarters for me . The top floor , with a panoramic view of three countries ? Germany , France , and Switzerland ? is a deluxe restaurant , used only to serve the members a buffet dinner when they arrive on Sunday evenings to begin the " Basel weekends . " Aside from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On the floor below , Schleiminger and his small staff sit in spacious offices , administering the day-to-day details of the ms and monitoring activities on lower floors as if they were running an out-of-season hotel . The next three floors down are suites of offices reserved for the central bankers . All are decorated in three colors ? beige , brown , and tan ? and each has a similar modernistic lithograph over the desk . Each office also has coded speed-dial telephones that at a push of a button directly connect the club members to their offices in their central banks back home . The completely deserted corridors and empty offices ? with nameplates on the doors and freshly sharpened pencils in cups and neat stacks of incoming papers on the desks ? are again reminiscent of a ghost town . When the members arrive for their forthcoming meeting in November , there will be a remarkable transformation , according to Schleiminger , with multilingual receptionists and secretaries at every desk , and constant meetings and briefings . On the lower floors are the ms computer , which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and provides instantaneous access to data about the global monetary situation , and the actual bank , where eighteen traders , mainly from England and Switzerland , continually roll over short-term loans on the Eurodollar markets and guard against foreign-exchange losses ( by simultaneously selling the currency in which the loan is due ) . On yet another floor , gold traders are constantly on the telephone arranging loans of the bank 's gold to international arbitragers , thus allowing central banks to make interest on gold deposits . Occasionally there is an extraordinary situation , such as the decision to sell gold for the Soviet Union , which requires a decision from the " governors , " as the Ins staff calls the central bankers . But most of the banking is routine , computerized , and riskless . Indeed , the BIS is prohibited by its statutes from making anything but short-term loans ? most are for thirty days or less ? that are government-guaranteed or backed with gold deposited at the ms . The profits the ms receives for essentially turning over the billions of dollars deposited by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A s SKILLED as the BTS may he at all this , the central banks themselves have highly com- petent staffs capable of investing their de-posits . The German Bundesbank , for example , has a superb international trading department and 15,000 employees ? at least twenty times as many as the ins staff . Why then do the Bundesbank and the other central banks transfer some $40 billion of deposits to the BIS and thereby permit it to make such a profit ? One answer is of course secrecy . By commingling part of their reserves in what amounts to a gigantic mutual fund of short-term investments , the central banks create a convenient screen behind which they can hide their own deposits and withdrawals in financial centers around the world . For example , if the BIS places funds in Hungary , the individual central banks do not have to answer to their governments for investing in a communist country . And the central banks are apparently willing to pay a high fee to use the cloak of the BIS . There is , however , a far more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the BIS : they want to provide it with a large profit to support the other services it provides . Despite its name , the BIS is far more than a bank . From the outside , it seems to be a small , technical organization . Just eighty-six of its 298 employees are ranked as professional staff . But the ms is not a monolithic institution : artfully concealed within the shell of an international bank , like a series of Chinese boxes one inside another , are the real groups and services the central bankers need and pay to support . The first box inside the bank is the board of directors , drawn from the eight European central banks ( England , Switzerland , Germany , Italy , France , Belgium , Sweden , and the Netherlands ) , which meets on the Tuesday morning of each " Basel weekend , " The board also meets twice a year in Basel with the central banks of Yugoslavia , Poland , Hungary , and other Eastern bloc nations , It provides a formal apparatus for dealing with European governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Community ( the Common Market ) . The board defines the rules and territories of the central banks with the goal of preventing governments from meddling in their purview . For example , a few years ago , when the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris appointed a low-level committee to study the adequacy of bank reserves , the central bankers regarded it as poaching on their monetary turf and turned to the Ins board for assistance . The board then arranged for a high-level committee , under the head of Banking Supervision at the Bank of England , to preempt the issue . The OECD got the message and abandoned its effort . To deal with the world at large , there is another Chinese box called the Group of Ten , or simply the " G-10 . " It actually has eleven full-time members , representing the eight European central banks , the U.S. Fed , the Bank of Canada , and the Bank of Japan . It also has one unofficial member : the governor of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority . This powerful group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , meets for long sessions on the Monday afternoon of the " Basel weekend . " It is here that broader policy issues , such as interest rates , money-supply growth , economic stimulation ( or suppression ) , and currency rates are discussed ? if not always resolved . Directly under the G-10 , and catering to all its special needs , is a small unit called the " Monetary and Economic Development Department , " which is , in effect , its private think tank . The head of this unit , the Belgian economist Alexandre Lamfalussy , sits in on all the G-10 meetings , then assigns the appropriate research and analysis to the half dozen economists on his staff . This unit also produces the occasional blue-bound " economic papers " that provide central bankers from Singapore to Rio de Janeiro , even though they are not Ins members , with a convenient party line . For example , a recent paper called " Rules versus Discretion : An Essay on Monetary Policy in an Inflationary Environment , " politely defused the Milton Friedmanesque dogma and suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , just before the Williamsburg summit conference , the unit released a blue book on currency intervention by central banks that laid down the boundaries and circumstances for such actions . When there are internal disagreements , these blue books can express positions sharply contrary to those held by some BIS members , but generally they reflect a consensus of the G-10. 0 vER A bratwurst-and-beer lunch on the top floor of the Bundesbank , which is located in a huge concrete building ( called " the bunker " ) outside of Frankfurt , Karl Otto Pal , its president and a ranking governor of the BIS , complained to me about the repetitiousness of the meetings during the " Basel weekend . " " First , there is the meeting on the Gold Pool , then , after lunch , the same faces show up at the G-10 , and the next day there is the board which excludes the U.S. , Japan , and Canada , and the European Community meeting which excludes Sweden and Switzerland from the previous group . " He concluded : " They are long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business gets done . " This occurs , as Pdhl explained over our leisurely lunch . at still another level of the BIS : " a sort of inner club , " as he put it . The inner club is made up of the half dozen or so powerful central bankers who find themselves more or less in the same monetary boat : along with POW are Volcker and Wallich from the Fed , Leutwiler from the Swiss National Bank , Lamberto Dini of the Bank of Italy , Haruo Mayekawa of the Bank of Japan , and the retired governor of the Bank of England , Lord Gordon Richardson ( who had presided over the G-10 meetings for the past ten years ) . They are all comfortable speaking English ; indeed , Pohl recounted how he has found himself using English with Leutwiler , though both are of course native German-speakers . And they all speak the same language when it comes to governments , having shared similar experiences . Pal and Volcker were both undersecretaries of their respective treasuries ; they worked closely with each other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defend the dollar and the pound in the 1960s . Dini was at the IMF in Washington . dealing with many of the same problems . Pi31-11 had worked closely with Leutwiler in neighboring Switzerland for two decades . " Some of us are very old friends , " Pdhl said . Far more important , these men all share the same set of well-articulated values about money . The prime value , which also seems to demarcate the inner club from the rest of the BIS members , is the firm belief that central banks should act independently of their home governments . This is an easy position for Leutwiler to hold , since the Swiss National Bank is privately owned ( the only central bank that is not government owned ) and completely autonomous . ( " I do n't think many people know the name of the president of Switzerland ? even in Switzerland , " Pal joked , " but everyone in Europe has heard of Leutwiler . " ) Almost as independent is the Bundesbank ; as its president , Kffil is not required to consult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? even about such critical issues as raising interest rates . He even refuses to fly to Basel in a government plane , preferring instead to drive in his Mercedes limousine . The Fed is only a shade less independent than the Bundesbank : Volcker is expected to make periodic visits to Congress and at least to take calls from the White House ? but he need not follow their counsel . While in theory the Bank of Italy is under government control , in practice it is an elite institution that acts autonomously and often resists the government . ( In 1979 , its then governor , Paolo Baffi , was threatened with arrest , but the inner club , using unofficial channels , rallied to his support . ) Although the exact relationship between the Bank of Japan and the Japanese government purposely remains inscrutable , even to the BIS governors , its chairman , Mayekawa , at least espouses the principle of autonomy . Finally , though the Bank of England is under the thumb of the British government , Lord Richardson was accepted by the inner club @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But his successor , Robin Leigh-Pemberton , lacking the years of business and personal contact , probably wo n't be admitted to the inner circle . In any case , the line is drawn at the Bank of England . The Bank of France is seen as a puppet of the French government ; to a lesser degree , the remaining European banks are also perceived by the inner club as extensions of their respective governments , and thus remain on the outside . A second and closely related belief of the inner club is that politicians should not be trusted to decide the fate of the international monetary system . When Leutwiler became president of the ms in 1982 , he insisted that no government official be allowed to visit during a " Basel weekend . " He recalled that in 1968 , U.S. Treasury undersecretary Fred Deming had been in Basel and stopped in at the bank . " When word got around that an American Treasury official was at the uts , " Leutwiler said , " bullion traders , speculating that the U.S. was about to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Except for the annual meeting in June ( called " the Jamboree " by the staff ) , when the ground floor of the ms headquarters is open to official visitors , Leutwiler has tried to enforce his rule strictly . " To be frank , " he 48 told me , " I have no use for politicians . They lack the judgment of central bankers . " This effectively sums up the common antipathy of the inner club toward " government muddling , " as Mil puts it . The inner-club members also share a strong preference for pragmatism and flexibility over any ideology , whether that of Lord Keynes or Milton Friedman . For this reason , there was considerable apprehension last spring that Paul Volcker would be replaced by a supply-side ideologue like Beryl Sprinkel , and considerable relief when he was reappointed for another term . Rather than resorting to rhetoric and invoking principles , the inner club seeks any remedy that will relieve a crisis . For example , earlier this year , when Brazil failed to pay back on time a ars @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inner club quietly decided to extend the deadline instead of collecting the money from the guarantors . " We are constantly engaged in a balancing act ? without a safety net , " Leutwiler explained . T HE FINAL and by far the most important belief of the inner club is the conviction that when the bell tolls for any single cen- tral bank , it tolls for them all . When Mex-ico faced bankruptcy last year , for instance , the issue for the inner club was not the welfare of that country but , as Dini put it , " the stability of the entire banking system . " For months Mexico had been borrowing overnight funds from the interbank market in New York ? as every bank recognized by the Fed is permitted to do ? to pay the interest on its $80 billion external debt . Each night it had to borrow more money to repay the interest on the previous night 's transactions , and , according to Dini , by August Mexico had borrowed nearly one quarter of all the " Fed Funds . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fed was caught in a dilemma : if it suddenly stepped in and forbade Mexico from further using the interbank market , Mexico would be unable to repay its enormous debt the next day , and 25 percent of the entire banking system 's ready funds might be frozen . But if the Fed permitted Mexico to continue borrowing in New York , in a matter of months it would suck in most of the interbank funds , forcing the Fed to expand drastically the supply of money . It was clearly an emergency for the inner club . After speaking to Miguel Mancera , director of the Banco de Mexico , Volcker immediately called Leutwiler , who was vacationing in the Swiss mountain village of Grison . Leutwiler realized that the entire system was confronted by a financial time bomb : even though the IMF was prepared to extend $4.5 billion to Mexico to relieve the pressure on its longterm debt , it would require months of paperwork to get approval for the loan . And Mexico needed animmediate fix of $1.85 billion to get out of the interbank market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than forty-eight hours , Leutwiler had called the members of the inner club and arranged the temporary bridging loan . While this $1,85 billion appeared ? at least in the financial press to have come from the BIS , virtually all the funds came from the central banks in the inner club . Half came directly from the United States ? $600 million from the Treasury 's exchange-equalization fund and $325 million from the Fed 's coffers ; the remaining $925 million mainly from deposits of the Bundesbank , Swiss National Bank , Bank of England , Bank of Italy , and Bank of Japan , deposits that were specifically guaranteed by these central banks , though advanced pro forma by the ms ( with a token amount advanced by the ins itself against the collateral of Mexican gold ) . The BIS undertook virtually no risk in this rescue operation ; it merely provided a convenient cloak for the inner club . Otherwise , its members , especially Volcker , would have had to take the political heat individually for what appeared to be the rescue of an underdeveloped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their paramount values ? rescuing the banking system itself . On August 31 of this year , Mexico repaid the rus loan . But the bailout was only a temporary , if not pyrrhic , victory . With the multibillion-dollar debts of a score of other countries ? including Argentina , Chile , Venezuela , Brazil , Zaire , the Philippines , Poland , Yugoslavia , Hungary . and even Israel ? hanging like so many swords of Damocles over its sacred monetary system . the inner club has " no choice , " as Leutwiler has concluded , but to remain a crisis manager . This new role has created considerable concern among the outer circle , and even in the Bank of England , since the members who do n't entirely share the mentality of the inner club want the BIS to remain primarily a European institution . " Let the Fed worry about Brazil and the rest of Latin America ? that is not the job of the ais , " a blunt representative of the Bank of England , definitely not part of the inner club , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does not have the experience or facilities to become " a mini-IMF ? putting out fires around the world , " as one staffer described it . To mollify such dissent on the periphery , inner-club members publicly pay lip service to the ideal of preserving the character of the BIS and not turning it into a lender of last resort for the world at large . Privately , however , they will undoubtedly continue their maneuvers to protect the banking system at whatever point in the world it seems most vulnerable . After all , it is ultimately the central banks ' money at risk , not the ms 's . And the inner club will also keep using the BIS as its public mask ? and pay the requisite price for the disguise . 