@@337145

Through the week , tension mounted in Bethlehem . The colored lights strung near Manger Square were brazenly destroyed . After receiving several threatening phone calls , Mayor Elias Freij , a Palestinian Christian , canceled his annual cocktail party for Israeli and Arab notables . Angry slogans appeared on walls . One read , JESUS CHRIST , HOW CAN WE BE EXPECTED TO CELEBRATE YOUR BIRTHDAY WHEN THE SOUL OF OUR HOMELAND IS RINSED WITH THE BLOOD OF OUR MARTYRS ? Nervous soldiers in riot gear stood guard as tourists filed into the Church of the Nativity , built in the 6th century on the spot where Christ is believed to have been born . Troops with assault rifles and tear-gas launchers patrolled the market area , while soldiers ringed the perimeter of the picturesque hilltop village . On Christmas Eve , the heavy military presence combined with a cold rain to keep Bethlehem unusually quiet . Those pilgrims who did venture into the town were frisked before boarding their buses . <P> Christmas is always an anxious time in Bethlehem , a tempting target for terrorists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ message from the Israeli-occupied West Bank . But never in recent memory has the town , home to 30,000 Arabs , been more of an armed camp than this year . <P> Nerves tightened throughout Israel and the occupied territories last week as government soldiers continued to battle crowds of enraged Palestinian protesters . The confrontation took an ominous turn when the 740,000 Arabs who are citizens of Israel joined their brethren in the occupied territories in a general strike . The United Nations Security Council registered its indignation by voting 14 to 0 to " strongly deplore " the Israeli tactics . The U.S. , Israel 's most loyal defender , abstained rather than veto the resolution , marking one of the few times the U.S. has failed to back Israel in the Security Council . What particularly upset the Reagan Administration was Israel 's use of live ammunition in confronting protesters . " Order must be maintained without the use of lethal force , " declared State Department Spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley . " Techniques are available to accomplish this , and we urge they be employed . " <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard-line Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir to crack down on the rioters . Four thousand soldiers swept through towns and refugee camps , arresting as many as 1,000 Palestinians and carting them off to hastily erected detention centers . Then , in an angry speech in the Knesset , Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin announced that Israeli soldiers would continue to shoot at the " leaders of disorder , throwers of fire bombs . " Rabin added that his men would aim to injure , not kill , but he left little doubt that the government would not tolerate the loss of Israeli life . " As Defense Minister , I have responsibility for the lives and safety of the soldiers and border police , " he said . " It is my duty to give them the means to protect themselves . . . to hurt those out to hurt them . "                     