@@295234

Loose talk about Reaganomics brings a verbal thrashing from the President <P> He had been the Reagan Administration 's glowing star , casting light on all the murky , mystifying tax and spending statistics that his wondrous computers at the Office of Management and Budget continually cranked out . He was the farm-bred , Harvard-educated wizard who would transform those numbers into the magic by which Ronald Reagan 's economic recovery program would prove a smashing success . Even David Stockman 's adversaries admired his effectiveness as a promoter of the Reagan cause . At his regular breakfast last week with Treasury Secretary Donald Regan and Chief Economic Adviser Murray Weidenbaum , Stockman was delighted by a birthday cake presented by Regan , his principal rival within the bureaucracy . It was decorated with 35 tiny hatchets , symbolizing Stockman 's tender years and his budget-slashing accomplishments . He laughed loudly at another Regan gift : a T shirt bearing the words I AM A TEAM PLAYER on the front and TREASURY DEPARTMENT SUPPLY-SIDERS on the back . <P> That moment of warmth was a refreshing change for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publicly . Indeed , that same afternoon President Reagan drew derisive laughter from the White House press corps when he insisted that the celebrated feud between Secretary of State Alexander Haig and National Security Adviser Richard Allen had been " exaggerated out of all reality " and that , to the contrary , " we 're a very happy group . " Yet , at the end of that same press conference , Reagan learned for the first time that his whiz-kid budget director had brought yet another flap upon the Administration : in an article in the December issue of the Atlantic Monthly , Stockman was quoted as saying some most indiscreet things about the Administration 's entire approach to budget balancing and tax cutting . Suddenly , the architect of Reaganomics was in danger of being fired . And for the second time in two weeks , Reagan had to summon a top aide to the White House for a stern presidential scolding . <P> An ashen-faced Stockman called a press conference and announced that he had offered the President his resignation but that Reagan had refused it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " my poor judgment , " " loose talk , " " careless rambling " and use of a " rotten , horrible , unfortunate metaphor . " Reagan , he said , had given him a verbal thrashing . " My visit to the Oval Office for lunch with the President was more in the nature of a visit in the woodshed after supper , " Stockman said . " He was not happy about the way this has developed-and properly so . " <P> By week 's end Stockman had survived the initial uproar . But the Administration 's star had clearly fallen into a black hole , possibly taking Reagan 's fading chances to win future economic fights in Congress with him . It was doubly unfortunate that Stockman 's self-inflicted wounds came at a time when the nation 's economic recession was deepening and the Administration 's tax and spending policies were meeting rising resistance on Capitol Hill ( see following story ) .                     