@@432454

 | For once , the whole world was watching . At least 60 , million people ? one sixth of the earth 's population a : the time ? sat in silent communion before their television sets , waiting for news that men had touched down on the face of the moon . But at that moment , 4:16 p.m . EDT , July 20 , Apollo 11 astronaut Neil Armstrong had a crisis on his hands . After a flawless , three-day voyage . 240,000 miles into space , Armstrong was easing his tiny lunar module , the Eagle , down to the Sea of Tranquility when alarm lights went off on the control panel . His on-board computer guidance system had overloaded , causing the spacecraft to overshoot its intended landing site by nearly four miles . Now , strapped into a standing position much like an old-time trolley driver , Armstrong assumed manual control , executed a fish-hook turn backward and started looking out the window for an alternative site . His pulse rate was 156 . The Eagle had less than 60 seconds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commencing the countdown for a mandatory abort . Although the ascent engine 's fuel tank was still full , the astronauts had already entered the socalled dead man 's zone less than 50 feet above the lunar surface . If Armstrong tried to pull out at the last moment , he would n't have room to clear the lunar mountain ranges . For 22 seconds , while copilot Edwin E. ( Buzz ) Aldrin Jr . called out velocities and altitudes , Armstrong hovered over a field of jagged boulders until he spotted what appeared to be a suitably flat clearing . He brought the Eagle to touchdown with only 18 seconds of fuel to spare . Six hours and 38 minutes later , Armstrong climbed down the Eagle 's ladder and carefully pressed his left boot into the moon 's powdery plain . " That 's one small step for man , one giant leap for mankind , " he said , an aphorism he had composed himself on the trip from Earth . Twenty minutes later Aldrin joined him ; together they unveiled a plaque : " Here men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AD . We came in peace for all Striding toward infinity foot on the mankind . " They stayed a scant 125 minutes , cavorting about the surface and scooping up 46 pounds of lunar rock and particles . They returned to the Eagle , and the next morning , lifted back into orbit to rejoin crew mate Michael Collins in the command module Columbia . Space has little margin for error , and no room for sentiment . The Eagle was jettisoned , and became another hunk of celestial trash . As the venerable science-fiction novelist Arthur C. Clarke observed , the Apollo 11 crew had " opened the door to infinity . " But man has been slow to walk through . In the three years after the Eagle landed , the Apollo program seemed to convert the improbable into the inevitable . Five more times , astronauts landed on the moon ; by the last mission , most of the world was n't watching . Out of that boredom was born aimlessness , the ailment from which America 's space program still suffers . After glorious Apollo came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many disparate functions , none of which fires the imagination . In the wake of the Challenger disaster three years ago , NASA was thrilled merely to get the shuttle flying again .  | Once the nation was consumed with the space race . We do n't talk that way anymore . If we did , we 'd find that the folks out in front are Russians . But they , too , are adrift , speaking of Mars while contenting themselves with setting endurance records in orbit . Now they know a great deal about the effects of prolonged space travel on everything from loneliness to the loss of calcium . Thus far that knowledge has n't led them anywhere but in giant circles . By contrast , Apollo paid down-to-earth dividends . Man 's conquest of the moon would have been a bargain at twice the price ; it was the best return on an investment in research and development since Leonardo da Vinci bought himself a sketch pad . The total NASA budget from 1959-1973 , the year after the last lunar landing mission , was $50 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has spawned many more billions of dollars ' worth of new products and new industries . The list of " direct " spinoffs from Project Apollo includes Tefloncoated cookware , freeze-dried foods , shatterproof eyeglasses , quartz-crystal watches , cordless power hand tools such as the Dustbuster vacuum cleaner , artificial limbs made from ultralight spacecraft composites , mass spectrometers for surgery , the heart pacemaker and various weather and communications satellites used by corporations and consumers all over the globe . The list of " indirect " spinoffs from Project Apollo features one of the most revolutionary gadgets of modern times : the home computer . Back in the late 1950s , the state-of-the-art computer was the size of a city block . The space program encouraged an extraordinary process of miniaturization that down-sized master computers . As it happened , the Eagle 's 17-pound model was not equal to its task . But its development helped spark the personal-computer revolution . Great explorers have the habit of peaking young and coming to ends that do n't match their early glory . Columbus died in obscurity . Magellan was killed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was not heard from again . By that measure , the Apollo 11 crew has n't fared so badly . But none have turned their space adventures into box-office successes . Our popular taste in heroes seems to run more to icons than to real men : schoolboys may line up around the block to win the signature of the bloke who played Luke Skywalker , while the men who first walked on the moon walk among us barely the stuff of footnotes . Collins , 58 , seems the most at peace with his postastronaut life . After serving as director of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington , he turned to writing books about space . Former lunar module pilot Aldrin , 59 , has had the most personal problems . Following his return to Earth , he suffered a series of severe mental breakdowns requiring hospitalization and drug therapy . He also went through two failed marriages and frustrating careers as a car salesman , rancher and lecturer . Recently remarried for a third time , Aldrin is now a space consultant , commercial pitchman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the greatest potential for stardom but chose to maintain a low profile . After retiring from NASA in 1971 he became a professor of engineering at the University of Cincinnati . He did a series of TV commercials for Chrysler , but stopped short of trying to be Chuck Yeager . He is now a partner in a computer-software firm based in Lebanon , Ohio . Armstrong has not written a book about his " giant leap , " and still refuses to grant interviews to would-be biographers . Like other space veterans , the Apollo 11 crewmen have expressed disappointment with the present program . Armstrong favors the launch of a permanent orbiting space station . Collins says the nation should aim for Mars . At a recent press conference Aldrin said he hoped the 20th-anniversary celebration would be an occasion for a new beginning . It has n't happened and he believes his hopes may be just " wishful thinking . " Thinking wishfully ? having a desire ? may be just what NASA needs . The crucial element still lacking in America 's space effort is what President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspirational goal like John F. Kennedy 's challenge in 1961 to land a man on the moon before the end of the decade . " We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things , " Kennedy said at the ground-breaking of the Manned Spacecraft Center in Houston , " not because they are easy , but because they are hard . . . because there is new knowledge to be gained and new rights to be won , and they must be won and used for the progress of all mankind . . . And therefore , as we set sail , we ask God 's blessing on the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventure on which man has ever embarked . " That adventure merely began with Apollo 11 . Twenty years later , it is time for man to make the next " giant leap " into the cosmos ? for all mankind .                     