@@293547

Reagan turns to foreign policy , meeting allies and helping a troubled junta <P> <P> Preoccupied with domestic economic problems since the Inauguration , the Reagan Administration of necessity last week turned its attention to foreign policy . Important visitors-British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , French Foreign Minister Jean Franois-Poncet and Israeli Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir-were in Washington to get acquainted with the new Administration . Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev was speaking out in Moscow , giving his first-and unexpectedly moderate-response to Ronald Reagan 's tough anti-Communist talk . Congress , as well as some of America 's allies , was beginning to ask troublesome questions about whether the Administration 's desire to draw the line against Communist-aided subversion in El Salvador was a step on a slippery road toward another Viet Nam . <P> Brezhnev 's speech to the Soviet Communist Party Congress ( see WORLD ) had been expected by some Administration foreign policy experts to be an anti-American diatribe . Instead , Brezhnev suggested a summit meeting between himself and Reagan , and expressed a willingness to talk further about arms control while retaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reminiscent of Reagan 's speeches during last fall 's campaign . Brezhnev also tossed out a variety of negotiating ideas that Secretary of State Alexander Haig judged " new and remarkable . " Among them : a hint that the Soviets might consider expanding an existing agreement under which NATO and the Warsaw Pact countries have been notifying each other of major troop movements near the European zonal border , to cover military maneuvers within the U.S.S.R. as far east as the Urals . <P> The American response was cautious . Reagan , for example , stressed that the Soviet role in supplying arms to the leftist guerrillas in El Salvador " should be straightened out " - that is , eliminated-before any summit meeting . Still the Administration did not slam the door on a summit , although the President is clearly not interested in an early meeting . Instead it indicated that Reagan would see Brezhnev , but only after long and thorough consultation with U.S. allies . As the President told reporters at an impromptu press conference , " I have pledged to them that we 're not going @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Closer relations with the allies is one of the major foreign policy themes of the new Administration . The allies who visited Washington last week could hardly have responded more warmly to the U.S. overtures . Britain 's Thatcher , the first head of a NATO government to call on Reagan at the White House , was greeted by a huge honor guard arrayed across the South Lawn . Battle streamers snapping in a brisk wind , the Marine Band passed in review , its bearskin-hatted drum major raising a brass baton in salute . Reagan in his welcoming remarks stressed watchfulness : " So long as our adversaries continue to arm themselves at a pace far beyond the needs of defense , so the free world must do whatever is necessary to safeguard its own security . "                     