@@335143

The wheels of military justice have begun turning in the Moscow embassy sex- for-secrets spy scandal . At the Marine base in Quantico , Va. , a closed pretrial hearing resumes this week in the case of Sergeant Clayton J. Lonetree , the former embassy guard accused of providing Soviet agents with entry to the building 's most sensitive areas . At a similar session two weeks ago , military authorities began outlining their case against Corporal Arnold Bracy , Lonetree 's alleged accomplice . In each instance , a Marine reviewing officer will consider whether the Government 's case justifies a court-martial on espionage charges , which can carry the death penalty for servicemen . <P> The fact that the two Marines ' march to justice will be played out to a military drumbeat has cheered many civilian observers and dismayed as many others . For the same reason : the no-nonsense procedures of military justice would get right to the punitive point , without being deflected by wimpy legal niceties . But that vision of military law is at least naive . Sergeant Lonetree and Corporal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of a court-martial , but before that can happen , they will enjoy some advantages they would not have in civilian courts . <P> Recognizing the special requirements of discipline in the ranks , the Constitution authorizes separate legal regulation of the military forces . Each branch of the service had its own system until 1950 , when the Uniform Code of Military Justice was adopted in response to complaints about disparities among the services . Since then , architects of military law have been moving it closer to civilian standards of trial procedure and evidence . Even before the U.S. Supreme Court 's Miranda decision , military defendants were required to be informed of their rights before questioning , and the military contends that Lonetree and Bracy were properly informed of the right to silence . <P> Officials say , however , that both men made admissions that are crucial to the charges against them . That may not help the prosecution though . Defense sources indicate that Bracy has withdrawn significant portions of his statements , and military law , unlike federal civil procedures , requires some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Because of the nature of the case , corroboration will be difficult . ( The prosecution is seeking classified CIA information , some of which the agency may be reluctant to provide , and that reluctance is not greatly eased by the fact that the tribunal is military . ) <P> Perhaps the greatest advantage to the defense is the " Article 32 " pretrial hearing now under way in both cases . A grand jury proceeding , the nearest civilian equivalent , hears the prosecution 's case without the defendant or his lawyers present . At Article 32 hearings , the defense is not only present but can challenge witnesses and call its own . Even William Kunstler , the activist attorney representing Lonetree , concedes that " at the end of Article 32 , the defense knows almost everything that the prosecution has . "                     