@@321900

To create a commission of truly impartial investigators requires a lot of shrewd judgments . After much inquiry , United Nations Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim finally picked the five members . Both the U.S. and Iran warily weighed them and then approved . The five are all men with low profiles and high marks for integrity . They all have experience in three main areas-the law , diplomacy and human rights . The commissioners : <P> Co-Chairman Andrs Aguilar Mawdsley , 55 , chief counsel for Venezuela 's state oil company , is a bon vivant who loves Caribbean music but is also an eloquent spokesman for democracy . Son of a professional diplomat , Aguilar earned a law degree from McGill University in Canada and a doctorate in political science from Venezuela 's Central University , where he taught civil law and was law school dean in the 1950s . He suffered a painful lesson in political repression in 1956 when he was imprisoned for opposing General Marcos Prz Jimnez . After the Prz Jimnez dictatorship was overthrown , Aguilar became Minister of Justice under the new Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has served as Venezuelan Ambassador to both the United Nations and the U.S. and as chairman of the U.N . Commission on Human Rights . He has been particularly visible as president of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights , part of the Organization of American States . In 1978 he headed a special team that investigated human rights violations in Nicaragua and issued a blistering attack on the Somoza regime . Another report is due soon on human rights violations in Argentina . <P> Co-Chairman Mohammed Bedjaoui , 50 , is Algeria 's chief delegate to the United Nations . An attorney who holds a doctorate from the University of Grenoble in France , Bedjaoui served from 1958 to 1961 as legal adviser to the rebels ' provisional government during the protracted Algerian struggle against France . After Algeria achieved its independence in 1962 , Bedjaoui held a series of high-ranking government posts , including Secretary General , Minister of Justice and Ambassador to France . Bedjaoui has been a member of the U.N . International Law Commission since 1965 . <P> Adib Daoudy , 56 , of Syria , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ related to the Shi'ites , who form the dominant religious group in Iran . Although a foreign affairs adviser to Syria 's President Hafez Assad , Daoudy has never belonged to a political party . Despite the fact that the Syrian government is pro-Khomeini , Daoudy has called the embassy hostage-taking an act that " has harmed everybody , including Iran and Islam . " A graduate of the University of Damascus , he earned a Ph.D . in international law from the Sorbonne . In the early 1950s he served on the U.N . relief agency for Palestine refugees and argued in the U.N . for their repatriation and compensation . In private life , he is a devotee of classical music and a noted art collector .                     