@@494127

THE SOCIAL SECURITY HYSTERIA BY BOB KUTTNER To put the matter bluntly , Social Security is heading for a crash . ? The New York Review of Books , December 2 , 1982 Put bluntly , the old have come to insist that the young not only hold them harmless for their past profligacy , but sacrifice their own prosperity to pay for it . ? The Washington Monthly , November 1982 T O BE blunt about it , rubbish . Social Security is not heading for a crash , and old folks are not extortionists . The hysteria over Social Security began in the conservative journals ( The Public Interest has been sounding the alarm since 1975 ) , but lately the panic has swept across the spectrum . It 's hard to pick up a newspaper or magazine these days without encountering an imaginative headline like SOCIAL SECURITY : THE COMING CRASH ( over an article by Peter J. Peterson in The New York Review of Books ) , or A COLLAPSING SYSTEM ( Chicago Tribune ) , or ? my favorite ? THE MONSTER THAT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stories are remarkably similar ? and similarly misleading . The general theme is that changing demography , coupled with the greed of the nation 's elderly , is wrecking not just the Social Security system but the entire economy . It is claimed that by early in the next century , Social Security will consume as much as 75 percent of federal revenues ; that payroll taxes will grow to as high as 28 percent ; that today 's workers will get a very poor return on their Social Security taxes , if they geta return at all ; and that the economy would be far better off with a substitute system of Individual Retirement Accounts or other private savings mechanisms . The reports of Social Security 's impending collapse are greatly exaggerated . Curiously enough , while the liberal press was catching up with the catastrophe , President Reagan 's own National Commission on Social Security Reform was completing its study and concluding that the system is eminently salvageable , given a little foresight and political nerve . The commission ? bipartisan and blue-ribbon , of course ? was created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cut benefits by between $80 billion and $110 billion over four years ran straight into a political brick wall . The commission must report by December 31 . At its preliminary discussions over the Veterans Day weekend , all fifteen commissioners ? who range politically from arch-conservatives like Senator William Armstrong of Colorado to liberals like Lane Kirkland , president of the AFL-00 , and Representative Claude Pepper of Florida ? reached a surprising degree of consensus on the magnitude of the problem . They also rejected any radical change in the system . At its final round of meetings , beginning December 10 , the commission will attempt to reach agreement on a single plan . To understand the controversy , it helps to remember that Social Security is a pay-as-you-go system . Payroll taxes flow in and benefits flow out . There is no big pool of capital like that of a private pension fund . The term " bankruptcy " does not properly apply , since the real issue is simply whether taxes and benefits match . The system faces both a short-term cash crunch ? it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a longterm need to adjust to changing demographics . Although it is true that the ratio of workers to pensioners is gradually declining from about 3 to 1 to about 2 to 1 , it is equally true that the total ratio of workers to dependents ( including the young ) is remaining quite stable ; and it is costlier for society to support a child from birth to age 21 than to support a pensioner from age 65 to death . The system 's basic problem is that since 1972 pensions have been fully indexed to price levels , while revenues from the payroll tax reflect wage levels . During the past five years , wages have fallen behind prices by about 10 percent . In 1980 , for example , prices ( and hence Social Security checks ) went up by 14.3 percent , while wages increased only 8.3 percent . If wages had just kept even with prices , or if Social Security had been pegged to wages , there would he no crisis . Social Security would be running a large surplus well into the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " inter-generational class warfare " notwithstanding . A L FIFTEEN of the Social Security commission 's members agree on three fundamentals . First , Social Security can not continue to base its tax collections on wages and its benefits on prices . Second , between now and 1990 the system will run a deficit averaging about $25 billion a year , which it must make up through a combination of reduced benefits and increased taxes ; after 1990 , when the baby boom generation is in its prime earning years , the system will again run a surplus . Third , after about 2010 , when the baby boomers begin to retire , other adjustments will be necessary , including a possible delay in retirement age , or lower pension ratios . One figure helps put the issue in perspective : Social Security today consumes about 5 percent of the gross national product . After the year 2020 , even under fairly pessimistic assumptions , it will consume all of 6 percent . And if benefits are shaved , or the normal retirement age postponed , it will consume less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Social Security faces both a fiscal and an ideological challenge . The fiscal challenge is manageable enough , though it will require some nimble political brokering , since Republicans do n't want to raise taxes and Democrats do n't want to cut benefits . The ideological challenge is far more instructive , and , as we shall see , laden with ironies . Beyond the budgetary pressures , conservatives tend to he hostile to Social Security for several reasons . First ? let 's be frank ? Social Security is our most overtly socialistic program ; it deliberately redistributes a lot of income , and not just between generations . If you earn the minimum wage all of your working life , your pension under Social Security will equal about 60 percent ofyour last paycheck . If you earned the top wage subject to payroll taxes ( currently $32,400 ) , Social Security pays you only 27 percent of that . Thanks to Social Security , the poverty rate among the elderly has dropped from 25 percent in 1970 to 15 percent today . Some 15 million retired people would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1978 Social Security provided 39 percent of all of the money income received by the elderly , and 76 percent of the income received by the elderly poor . This redistribution was , of course , deliberate . The whole purpose of Social Security was to guarantee a minimally decent standard of living for the aged , without a means test ; and the absence of a means test is the other major feature that rankles the right . Where income transfers are necessary at all , conservatives prefer that they be strictly limited to the needy ; a means test is stigmatizing and thus useful as a deterrent . Demands for means tests are invariably accompanied by protestations of genuine humane concern . But when the moment comes to provide the funding , the right invariably produces a Stockman-like character to explain that , unfortunately , the money is not available . The conservative critique also argues that Social Security is at once a had deal ( returns might he higher on private savings ) and too good a deal ( millions of Americans who " do n't need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go broke paying the bills . ) Moreover , the right contends , Social Security , as a nearly universal but spurious form of savings , depresses the true rate of capital formation and thus the rate of economic growth . Conservatives suggest a neat way of cutting the knot : introduce a means test for the " welfare " portion of Social Security , and offer incentives to gradually privatize the business of saving for retirement by the middle class . It is a rare issue of any right-wing policy journal that does n't include an article explaining that if we phase out Social Security in favor of Individual Retirement Accounts , pensioners will get a better rate of return , and the national savings rate will soar . Needless to say , this theme has been eagerly embraced by the nation 's financial institutions , since it would provide a steady source of long-term , " blocked " ( that is , no withdrawals ) savings accounts . I N THEORY , the Reagan Administration ought to be very receptive to this line of argument . The Reaganauts feel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the biggest barrier to new budget cuts . As David Stockman told William Greider in the Atlantic interview , " The Social Security problem is not simply one of satisfying the actuaries . It 's one of satisfying the here-and-now budget cuts . " Moreover , Mr. Reagan 's current chief economic adviser is Martin Feldstein , a man who built his early reputation as an econometrician by offering gloomy warnings about the damage Social Security was inflicting on private savings . Mr. Feldstein , in a now famous and highly controversial 1974 journal article anticipating supplyside economics , calculated that Social Security was depressing the gross national product by precisely 19 percent a year . In other words , were it not for Social Security , our economy would have grown by more than two trillion dollars in the past four years . Another White House Social Security expert is Peter Ferrara , author of two books sponsored by the libertarian Cato Institute , Social Security : The Inherent Contradiction , and Social Security : Averting the Crisis . Mr. Ferrara 's reform plan is to privatize the whole system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Individual Retirement Accounts . This , Mr. Ferrara ruefully admits , would have cost the Treasury $62 billion in 1982 , a sum he suggests could be made up by selling off federal lands and perhaps by delaying the retirement age to 68 . I RONICALLY , Mr. Reagan 's own Social Security com- mission is having no truck with any of this . Privatization is not even part of the debate . And despite the seeming philosophical and fiscal appeal of this ultimate reform , the White House is prudently keeping its privatization theorists far away from the commission and the press . Intentionally or not , the President has a commission that reflects the broad public support for the present Social Security system . In appointing Alan Greenspan , formerly Gerald Ford 's chief economist , as chairman , President Reagan bought himself a small-c conservative who is taking seriously his mandate to salvage the system . Mr. Greenspan , in turn , appointed as his executive director Robert Myers , another impeccably conservative man , trained as an actuary , who spent his entire professional career working for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve as Mr. Reagan 's own deputy Social Security commissioner . In fact , Mr. Myers has been with Social Security since before it existed . In 1934 he served as the junior actuary for President Roosevelt 's Cabinet Committee on Economic Security , which invented the system . In his own scholarly writings about Social Security and savings , he has dismissed Mr. Feldstein 's claims as nonsense . Hiring Mr. Myers to dismantle Social Security would be like hiring Admiral Rickover to privatize the Navy . The commission 's senior Democrats are former Social Security commissioner Robert Ball , a shrewd and courtly infighter whose grasp of the technicalities matches Mr. Myers 's , and Representative Pepper , at 82 the grand champion of America 's elderly , and the new chairman of the House Rules Committee . The commission 's other Congressional members , with one exception , have just faced an electorate in no mood to play games with Social Security . The exception is Robert Dole , who is running for President . As chairman of the Senate Finance Committee , Mr. Dole stands to gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In short , Social Security turns out to be the high ground of the welfare state . President Reagan 's own reform commission is the reflection and the metaphor of that deep political reality . The hysteria has succeeded inshaking the public 's confidence in the system 's soundness , but not its political support . According to recent polls , nearly three-quarters of Americans under 54 worry that Social Security wo n't he there when they retire , but over 90 percent oppose major changes in the system . In all likelihood , the great 1982-1983 Social Security crisis will be remembered not as the welfare state 's Dunkirk but as its Battle of Poitiers . And before liberals join in the fashion of making " entitlement " a had word , they would do well to reflect on why Social Security is so well bolstered . By American standards , Social Security is a truly radical idea . It seems less so today only because we have grown up with it . But Social Security remains sharply at odds with the bedrock premise of pure capitalism , because it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ market , and does so as a matter of right . Social Security is perhaps our most important expression of social solidarity and of the philosophy of " social citizenship . " Everybody gets old , or hopes to , and everybody ends up on Social Security . This helps explain its formidable public support ? despite the fashionable counteroffensive of market economics . That support is not just philosophical . It reflects the plain fact that Social Security is economically superior to any alternative that most Americans could afford to purchase in the private market . Unlike a private pension , Social Security is fully portable ; it goes with you from job to job . Unlike an annuity , it keeps pace with inflation . And unlike an Individual Retirement Account , which might provide a higher rate of return for those with the discretionary income to afford one , Social Security also provides disability and survivorship protections . If you die or become disabled early in your career , an I.R.A . gives your family the nest-egg accumulated to date and nothing more . Despite the government 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run . Because the Social Security system does n't have to support hordes of insurance salesmen out of its premiums , its administrative costs are only 1.3 cents on the dollar . To realize all of Social Security 's benefits privately , one would have to buy disability coverage , life insurance , and find a fully indexed private pension plan . Few could afford it . T HE CLAIMS about the negative economic effects of Social Security are also miscast . The claim that abolishing Social Security would boost private savings rates is the subject of an excruciatingly technical and ultimately inconclusive debate among econometricians . In general the debate presumes that most of the people now heavily dependent on Social Security would otherwise have accumulated substantial savings . It 's a dubious proposition . In fact , as Henry Aaron , a Brookings economist , points out in his new book , The Economic Effects of Social Security , private savings rates in the U.S. have fluctuated within a very narrow band since World War II , a period when Social Security coverage and benefit levels were steadily rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coverage , have higher private savings rates as well . While it is true , as the critics say , that the very first generation of Social Security beneficiaries got a relatively better deal than future generations , that was by design . Getting elderly people out of the work force with assured income served the social purposes of reducing unemployment and stabilizing purchasing power . The only way to accomplish that in the 1940s and 1950s , when the system was not yet actuarily mature , was to begin paying benefits that were not entirely " earned . " Moreover , the claim that today 's workers are therefore a " gypped generation " overlooks the immense value to middle-aged workers of their parents ' financial security . Anybody with an aged parent on Social Security , rather than in the spare room , knows that Social Security prevents more " inter-generational class wars " than it creates . Social Security , almost uniquely among American social programs , is a universal program . That is the essence of its broad support . It is our strongest non-market barrier against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is what makes it such a conservative target ? and that is why liberals are so foolish when they join the handwringing about " entitlements . " Social Security is able to redistribute so much income to the poor precisely because it redistributes within the context of a universal program that provides broad benefits to the middle class . Isolating those portions of Social Security that function as an antipoverty program might make fiscal sense , but this would quickly erode the system 's entire political logic . The problem with means-tested programs is that poor people , by themselves , are seldom a popular or an effective constituency . In budgetary crunches , poverty programs are the first to feel the knife . That is why Medicaid ( means-tested ) keeps getting cut back year after year , while Medicare ( universal ) keeps sailing along . Wilbur Cohen , Lyndon Johnson 's Secretary of Health , Education and Welfare , knew better than anybody that programs limited to the poor make poor programs . He made his one great blunder when he assented to a separate medical program for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ truly needy , his budget politics prove the point beyond doubt . Public housing ( means-tested ) gets deep cuts , while the homeowner tax deduction ( universal ) is untouchable . Pensions have largely kept pace with the consumer price index , while Aid to Families with Dependent Children has fallen 25 percent behind inflation since 1972 . With rare exceptions , such as Legal Services , programs targeted to the poor tend to be invasive , stigmatizing , mediocre , and poorly defended . The State manages to treat pensioners with dignity , but it gets very snoopy with welfare recipients . E NTITLEMENT PROGRAMS , of course , do tend to outrun their financial constraints , precisely because they are universal . The political blessing becomes a fiscal curse . For liberals , the task is to restrain the fiscal excesses of Social Security without backing away from the principle of entitlement . That task presents some tricky political bargaining , but it is far from impossible . The Republicans on the Social Security commission are receptive to a bargain that would include some benefit cuts and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blame is shared equally with the Democrats . The Democrats have informally offered a plan drawn up by Robert Ball . The Ball plan would move up to 1983 the higher payroll taxes now scheduled for 1990 , but would offset Social Security taxes with a credit so that most wage earners would end up paying slightly less payroll tax then they do now . This amounts to a backdoor shift to general treasury financing , since the tax credit would reduce income tax receipts . In exchange , commission Democrats are willing to shave benefits a bit ; they have offered to postpone the annual cost of living adjustment from June to October , which would provide a one-time savings of about $20 billion , and to adjust benefits so that they do n't outrun wages . Both Republicans and Democrats support the idea of making Social Security mandatory for federal employees and for employees of nonprofit organizations , which would bring the system another $21 billion of the new revenue it needs to stay solvent between now and 1990 , when the demographic pressures will ease . Even more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Social Security commission . The entire panel seems to want to fix up Social Security once and for all . Off the record each of the members compliments the opposition for taking the issue seriously and for resisting the temptation to play politics with it . A sound , fair , and politically feasible plan for putting our most successful social program on a sound fiscal footing might look like this : Tie annual adjustments in benefits to increases in wages , not prices . Social insurance literally means that retirees are pooling their risks with the entire economy . It is unfair for pensioners to enjoy cost of living increases tied to the consumer price index , when most wage earners , at least in the past half-decade , have had to settle for less . Greenspan , Myers , and Ball ? the commission 's informal executive committee ? all agree on this key point , and other members of the panel say privately that even Representative Pepper will go along as part of a compromise package . This reform will permanently end the system 's fiscal instability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wages again outpace prices , as they did in the 1950s and 1960s , retirees will gain . Estimated savings between now and 1990 : $60 billion . Put Social Security income on the same footing as other retirement income . At present , Social Security benefits are subject to an " earnings test , " which reduces benefits by fifty cents for every dollar earned over $6,600 . This is the equivalent of a 50 percent tax for pensioners who supplement their benefits with a part-time job , while pensioners who enjoy outside income from stocks and bonds face no benefit reduction . The solution is to eliminate the earnings test ( this would help low-income retirees ) and to include Social Security benefits in taxable income , with a fairly high exemption ? on the order , say , of $20,000 . Pensioners with total incomes of less than $20,000 would pay no income tax on their Social Security benefits . Higher-income retirees , who are less needy , would have to pay tax on their Social Security benefits , just as they now must do on private pensions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something it has long sought , repeal of the earnings test , in exchange for something it strenuously opposes , taxation of benefits . It 's a reasonable trade . Estimated savings between now and 1990 : $55 billion . Extend mandatory Social Security coverage to federal employees and to employees of nonprofit organizations . At present , federal civil servants have their own retirement system . If " new " federal employees ? those with less than five years ' service ? were covered by Social Security , their civil service retirement could still continue , the same way company pension plans supplement Social Security for private sector employees . Because federal employees tend to earn higher than average wages , including them in Social Security would produce more revenue than cost . Estimated savings between now and 1990 : $21 billion . Make Social Security a partially " funded " system ? one that draws part of its income from a pool of capital . Social Security has operated on a pay-as-you-go basis only since 1972 . In its original design , it operated more like a private pension @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surplus , and the interest on that capital paid a portion of the benefits . According to Robert Myers , during the 1950s Social Security paid about one-quarter of its benefits from interest on its capital funds . Unfortunately , as the capital surplus accumulated , Congress could not resist delaying scheduled tax increases and enacting hikes in benefits , which reduced the capital surplus to a contingency fund , and eventually to nothing . As things now stand , Social Security will again accumulate a capital surplus during the 1990s , which will dwindle again after 2010 as the baby boom generation begins to draw retirement benefits . But if the reforms proposed here are enacted , and are continued beyond 1990 , Social Security will again accumulate a big capital fund ? big enough to stabilize the system well into the twenty-first century . Changing Social Security from a pay-as-you-go system to a partially capitalized one also neatly finesses the conservative criticism of Social Security as a drain on private savings . As a funded system , Social Security would serve as a new source of savings . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? available to reduce the national debt , or to purchase state and local bonds , or even to capitalize a new development bank . Fr AKEN TOGETHER , these fairly modest fiscal re . forms would stabilize Social Security . The commission has before it a menu of hundreds of other possible changes in taxes and benefits . All that stands in the way of intelligent reform is partisan politics . Key members say they will he able to agree on a compromise plan only if both President Reagan and House Speaker Tip O'Neill privately agree to support it . It makes no sense for a Robert Dole or a Barber Conable on the Republican side , or a Lane Kirkland or a Claude Pepper on the Democratic side , to bargain away a cherished principle if the bargain is to be reopened once the package reaches the President 's desk . Until now , the White House has stayed out of the commission 's way , pleased to have someone else grappling with the thorniest nettle of the political year . The outlines of a package are well within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resists the temptation to grandstand about no new taxes , and Tip O'Neill restrains his natural impulse to defend the present benefit structure to the last nickel . Depending on Mr. Reagan and Mr. O'Neill , the commission could propose a formal take-it-or-leave-it package , or it could give up and send the White House the whole menu . Ultimately , the issue will end up in Congress , since the commission has no power to legislate . It 's too early to predict the exact outlines of the eventual Social Security reform . But there is little doubt that Social Security will survive as an entitlement program ? that it will survive Mr. Reagan , Mr. Stockman , the press hysteria , and the craven parade of liberal and neo-liberal budget balancers who should know better . And its survival will reflect less credit on today 's liberals than on the foresight of an earlier generation , who were far clearer about what they stood for . 