@@326900

The Museum of Modern Art reopens after a $55 million facelift <P> By last Friday , the " month of the red eyes " was drawing to its long-prayed-for close on Manhattan 's West 53rd Street . The sculpture garden was a wilderness . White birches , still in transplantation shock , were leafing out but not in time ; stacks of unset paving stones lay everywhere , amid mounds of builders ' sand and the plastic-swaddled silhouettes of old friends : Rodin 's Balzac , the art nouveau subway entrance , a giant Claes Oldenburg mouse . All through April the museum 's governing triumvirate , consisting of its director , Richard Oldenburg , its chairman , William S. Paley of CBS , and its president , Blanchette Rockefeller , had been escorting pods and squads of journalists up and down the cinder blocks , ducking the clusters of electrical cable and skipping over the air hoses , as though the chaos and lateness did not exist or were , in themselves , some kind of artwork . But by the end of the week , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more or less pulled together : slip awry , flushed under the powder , panting somewhat , but ready for the preopening openings , the dinners , the disputes and the final arrival of the general public on May 17 . <P> There is no fonder acronym in art than MOMA , as this 55-year-old institution has long been known . One can not imagine New York City , or modernism itself , without it . More than any other museum in the world , MOMA is identified with its subject and defines its history . It was not the intention of Alfred Barr ( 1902-1981 ) , the first director and ideological shaper of the museum , to create a Louvre for something that seemed , in 1929 , as vulnerable and problematic as modern art . Nevertheless , that was what happened . One can not open a periodical without being told , yet again , that modernism is our institutional culture-a point both repetitive and inescapably true . Its official status was mostly confirmed , over the past half-century , by the steady , scholarly proselytizing of MOMA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whole museum to modernism as a culture , embracing design , photography , architecture and film , as well as painting and sculpture , had not emerged . At its origins , MOMA was intended as a constantly unfolding encyclopedia of the new . No institution can remain on that kind of cutting edge forever , and by the 1970s MOMA was muffled in its own success . All its departments had well-funded rivals in museums across the country . By 1980 modern art was an industry , involving hundreds of thousands of people . In the face of such expansion , MOMA became more preoccupied with being the guardian of a closing epoch . At the same time , the mass audience for modern art that it had helped create was causing problems that amounted , at times , to chaos .                     