@@432255

 | Fear of new anti-American troublemaking in Africa is rising sharply with word of the signing of a military pact between Sudan ? a longtime friend of the United States ? and radical Libyan strong man Muammar Qadhafi . Outlines of the agreement , announced in Khartoum on July 8 , cover only Libyan training and equipment for Sudan 's armed forces . But its mere existence rings alarm bells in the U.S. and other Western nations because of Qadhafi 's support of revolutionary violence across Africa and the Mideast . In Washington , Reagan administration officials expressed " grave concern " over the agreement . An unusually blunt warning to the new Sudanese government of Gen. Abdul Rahman Sewar El Dahab emphasized that military links with Libya " could only impact adversely on United States-Sudanese ties . " These ties have been close in recent years . Sudan was one of the few Moslem nations to back the 1978 Camp David Accords that resulted in a peace treaty between Egypt and Israel . It cooperated with the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in a secret airlift of Ethiopian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this support , the U.S. has been sending Sudan more than 400 million dollars a year in economic aid . The only African country to receive more is Egypt . Diplomats in this drab , dusty capital city see the military-aid pact as confirming a strengthening of links between Sudan and Libya that some analysts had predicted shortly after Dahab and other Army officers ousted the government of President Jafar Nimeiri on April 6 . One of Dahab 's top priorities has been steering his nation away from the previous regime 's strong pro-Western stance . A major question now is whether this will involve only a shift toward Third World " neutralism " or whether Sudan might wind up , by accident or design , in the same strident anti-Western camp as Libya and Ethiopia . Some analysts contend the new pact is the work of a minority military faction and increases chances of a backlash against a regime already losing popularity . " I would n't be surprised if there were another coup in the next few weeks , " says a Western expert . Sudan 's Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ played a key role in drawing up the military-aid agreement , has insisted it deals only with such things as defense , equipment , logistics and training . Mohamed told the official Khartoum press agency that Libya has " no intention of forming any strategic alliance with Sudan or of interfering in Sudan 's domestic and foreign policies . " Still , there is growing evidence that Qadhafi 's ambitions range far beyond a simple military-aid pact . Libya also has promised to supply impoverished Sudan with oil for the next three months , to finance a major agricultural project in the central part of the country and to help arrange peace talks between Khartoum and leaders of a bitter rebellion in Sudan 's non-Moslem southern regions . Western officials are fearful that such plans will give Libyan radicals much greater freedom to operate in Sudan , the largest nation in Africa and one of its most strategically located . Sudan borders on eight other countries , including some that are considered ripe for subversion , and the Red Sea . Taking over . Even before the new agreement was signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " as his own and expand Libya 's presence in this onetime outpost of the British Empire , reports Edward Girardet , a special correspondent recently in Sudan on assignment for the magazine . Qadhafi and other Libyans describe Khartoum as the new center of the Islamic revolution . A Libyan version of an embassy ? a " people 's bureau " paint- ed green to emphasize its Moslem affiliation ? already has been set up in Omdurman , this country 's Islamic spiritual capital just across the Nile from Khartoum . The Nimeiri government had no diplomatic relations with Libya . Qadhafi 's word . Thousands of copies of Qadhafi 's " green book , " a collection of his revolutionary doctrines , are on sale in rundown markets that often are short of daily necessities because of the country 's extreme poverty . Reversing years of deliberate isolation from Libya , Sudan recently agreed to a weekly air link between the two nations and the opening of a branch of Libya 's state bank here . Diplomats say Qadhafi 's agents have been at work among leaders of Sudan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Libya while they were in exile . These parties , now operating legally , are spending large sums of money on organization and propaganda , including newspaper advertisements . " Obviously , the Libyans will be ready to call in their debts by the time elections come around , " comments one analyst here . An immediate result of the large numbers of Libyans coming to Khartoum has been a significant increase in U.S. security precautions . Officials fear that Qadhafi 's 100 or more agents said to be operating here may try to attack American diplomats or the U.S. Embassy . On the same day the military pact was disclosed , President Reagan had named Libya as one of five nations making up " a confederation of terrorist states " that had conducted " outright acts of war " against the U.S. Also worrying American officials is the danger that any rise in Libyan influence here would add to already strained relations between Khartoum and Egypt . Concern about trouble from the Sudanese " back door " could make Cairo officials even more reluctant to improve presently chilly relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peace initiatives that the U.S. hopes will bring Jordanian , Israeli and Palestinian delegations to the same bargaining table by early 1986 . Many Sudanese are bitter over the refusal of Egypt to return Nimeiri to Khartoum to stand trial on charges of treason and murdering thousands of political opponents during his 16-year rule . The former President sought asylum in Cairo , where he was visiting on the way back from a trip to the U.S. , when the coup erupted here . Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has refused to return Nimeiri on the ground that Egypt 's Constitution does not permit extradition of political refugees . A trial of Nimeiri in absentia is expected to begin in the near future . It could become a focus of even stronger passions against Cairo . Sudan 's warmer relations with Libya emerged against a backdrop of the Dahab regime 's efforts to come to grips with a long list of woes besetting this nation of nearly 22 million people . Two of the most serious problems are closely linked ? a bankrupt economy and a two-year civil war in the south @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debts exceeding 9 billion dollars , Khartoum must act soon to win the blessing of the International Monetary Fund to secure new overseas credits and investments . Yet obtaining such outside support hinges on Sudan 's repaying the organization 113 million dollars it presently does not have . With only 8 percent of its arable land under cultivation , Sudan 's biggest hope for prosperity lies in agriculture . But without political stability , it can not exploit an obvious potential as the breadbasket of food-short Africa . The civil war in the south is a major reason for economic chaos . For example , fighting has halted work on the 220-milelong Jonglei Canal , a massive irrigation project that would bring more water to arid parts of Egypt and Sudan . Chevron has been forced to suspend its 1-billion-dollar operations in southern oil fields , depriving Sudan of 75,000 barrels a day of critically needed petroleum . Settlement of the conflict appears nowhere near , even though Dahab has agreed to re-establish a semiautonomous regional government in Juba , the southern business and political hub . He also declared the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ food plus other Sudanese and international relief . Insults across the border . Col. John Garang , leader of 10,000 insurgents belonging to the Sudanese People 's Liberation Army ? SPLA ? has rejected all offers of reconciliation . Scorning peace overtures , he levels invective at the " hyenas " in Khartoum over the SPLA radio , based in Addis Ababa , the capital of Ethiopia . On top of all the other burdens is the famine that afflicts the entire region . Relief officials list at least 4.5 million Sudanese as famine victims . Nearly 1.4 million refugees , most of them Ethiopians , have flocked into Sudan in hopes of finding food . In Khartoum , there are few illusions that any of these problems will be solved anytime soon . Instead , there is new concern that Sudan may become a cockpit of African turmoil .                     