@@492284

THE MYSTERY IN ROOM 2-A by Berton Rouech ? Illustrated by Lucian Lupinski When Tom D. Y. Chin assistant chief of the Kansas City , Kansas , field station of the Epidemiology Branch of the United States Public Health Service , and his three associates  --  George B. Paxton. an epidemiologist ; George W. Beran , a veterinarian ; and Mrs. Jennie H. Rakich , a nurse  --  pulled out of the station parking lot and headed south , they knew next to nothing about the job ahead of them . Their destination was a town of around 2,000 population called Mountain Home , the seat of Baxter County , in northern Arkansas . They knew that Mountain Home was in the grip of an epidemic . During the previous two or three weeks , 29 pupils at the Mountain Home elementary school had been stricken with what had been gingerly described as an acute febrile disease ; in addition to fever , which ranged in some cases as high as 106 degrees , the symptoms were headache , cough and prostration . They also knew that parakeets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grades . But that was all anyone knew , including the Baxter County health officer , a Mountain Home physician named Benjamin Saltzman , who had requested the assistance of the Public Health Service . " I wo n't say the diagnostic possibilities were endless , " Dr. Chin recalls . " They were merely numerous . The clinical picture seemed to suggest a respiratory infection . Still , quite a few diseases answer to that general description . The trouble could have been one of the rickettsia ! diseases  --  Q fever , for example . It could have been influenza . It could have been a fungus infection  --  coccidioidomycosis or histoplasmosis or blastomycosis . It could have been acute miliary tuberculosis . It could have been psittacosis . It could even have been typhoid fever . They all came in for a certain amount of discussion at the briefing conference we had just before we left , and , under the circumstances , one looked no more likely than the next . Except , perhaps , psittacosis . Psittacosis is a virus pneumonia transmitted to human beings by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally accepted that the only birds susceptible to that particular virus were psittacinesmembers of the parrot family . Since then , we 've learned all birds are vulnerable to psittacosis . Nevertheless , most cases of psittacosis in human beings are traceable to parrots . Particularly , these days , to parakeets . Well , a parakeet in a classroom is hardly evidence of psittacosis , but , taken with the clinical data , it was something to think about . That was largely why we had a veterinarian on the team . It was also why Dr. Michael L. Furcolow , the station chief , gave the assignment to me , instead of going himself . My special field is virology . " Mountain Home is about 300 miles from Kansas City . We what he said was a rather equivocal set of chest x-rays , his epidemic-aid request had fully covered the physical findings . I went over his pictures later . Most of them showed some cloudiness , but nothing that was n't generally characteristic of any respiratory infection . It looked a little like psittacosis . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The only other information he had was a change in the number of cases . Our total of 29 was out of date . The total number of cases now was 36 ? out of a school enrollment of 386 . " It is n't often that a public-health investigator can take anything for granted . The epidemiological discipline requires him to see and judge for himself . And the only place to start is at the bottom ? with the victim and his environment . In this case , that meant 36 children , a school and an unknown number of parakeets . Beran 's job was understood , and Paxton and I quite naturally took the children . That left the school for Mrs. Rakich . She could handle the preliminary survey there , and also give Beran any help he might need . Dr. Saltzman had his own work to attend to . But his nurse , Miss Whitmore , had a car , and , with his permission , she volunteered to drive Paxton and me around . So Mrs. Rakich and Beran kept ours . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three or four blocks from the square  --  a one-story brick building , built since the war and in good repair , with 12 classrooms , an office and an auditorium . The principal was expecting us . He and his staff were eager to cooperate in every possible way . I left him to Beran and Mrs. Rakich , and Miss Whitmore and Paxton and I pulled out . " Paxton and I spent the day with the sickest children on the list . We examined all 13 of them . The clinical picture we put together and the one we had had from Saltzman were practically identical : high fever , general malaise , lassitude , nonproductive cough , occasional chest pains , a few complaints of nausea and vomiting . In three or four cases , we found some enlargement of the liver and the spleen . Aside from that , the physical findings were essentially negative . The epidemiological picture also stood unchanged . No parties . No trips . No unusual group activities of any kind . The only environment common to all the children was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day . We had made a start . " So had Beran and Mrs. Rakich . They were waiting for us when we finally got back to the courthouse . and it was obvious that one or the other of them had turned up something interesting . They both had , in fact . Beran 's contribution was a sick parakeet . There were six birds in all . Four of them had been bought in December and given as pets to the children in four lower-grade rooms-1-A , 1-B , 1-C and 2-B . Just after the Christmas vacation , another bird was bought , and given to Room 2-C . The sixth parakeet was bought on January 24th . It went to Room 2-A , and that was the sick one . Its name was Liberace . The children named him that because he sang so prettily , but he was n't singing now . According to Beran , he was a miserable sight . Ruffled feathers . Dull eyes . Listless stance . Loose green droppings all over his cage . The other parakeets were as bright and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An autopsy might show different . Psittacotic birds are often asymptomatic . Liberace also figured in Mrs. Rakich 's report . While Beran was gathering up the birds , she had settled down in the principal 's office and checked the 36 known cases against the relevant classroom records . Her findings made interesting reading . The first child became sick on February 1 . He was followed , at intervals of a few days , by five more . Then , between February 13 and February 24 , there was an explosion-26 cases . Eight of them occurred on one day  --  February 17 . Mrs. Rakich 's report went on to break down the cases by classroom . One room-5-A  --  had had no children on the sick list . Two rooms-1-B and 1-C  --  each had one case . There were two cases in each of four rooms-2-B , 2-C , 4-A and 5-B . Rooms 1-A , 3-A , 3-B and 4-B each had three . The Liberace room-2-A  --  had a total of 14 . Mrs. Rakich ended her report with a kind of postscript . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked with the various teachers . One of them , it developed , had been sick for several days at about the time of the onset peak . Nothing serious ? no need to call the doctor . I 'll call her Miss Smith . Miss Smith taught Grade 4-A . Her room was across the hall and down a couple of doors from the Liberace room . However , she had the job of supervising the children as they got into the school buses at the end of each day . And the place she found most convenient for doing that job was at a window in Room 2-A . " I went to bed that night feeling pretty good . Miss Smith and the heavy concentration of cases in Room 2-A seemed enormously significant . Until you remembered the scattered cases in the other rooms and the five other parakeets and the teacher who taught 2-A . Why was n't she sick , too ? But Liberace was something else . if he turned out to be as psittacotic as he looked , we almost certainly had a lead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Saturday . The rest of us spent the day making house calls . Paxton and Mrs. Rakich tackled the 23 convalescent or recovered cases . I worked with Miss Whitmore . Our job was to revisit the 13 sick children we had seen on Friday and arrange for a number of diagnostic tests . In general , the nature of the suspected disease determines the kind of test . Because of the number of possibilities in this case , we had to use two kinds . One was a series of simple skin tests for antibody reaction . Each child was injected intradermally with the antigens of four of our several suspects  --  tuberculosis , histoplasmosis , coccidioidomycosis and blastomycosis . A positive reaction  --  the appearance of a characteristic induration at the site of injection  --  is evidence that the patient has , or has had , the disease in question . There is no skin test for psittacosis . For that , as well as the other clinical possibilities , a blood test was required . A blood test can be done only in a specially equipped laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service serological laboratory was the Rocky Mountain Laboratory in Hamilton , Montana . We took samples from each of the 13 children , packed them in dry ice and sent them off by airmail that afternoon , along with a note of explanation and instruction . They were to be tested for Q fever , influenza , psittacosis and histoplasmosis . The last was for insurance . In histoplasmosis , a serological examination is apt to be more conclusive than the skin test . Meanwhile , Paxton and Mrs. Rakich had made a good start on their 23 convalescent or recovered boys and girls . Not that they had anything much to report . The histories they had obtained merely confirmed the data we already had . The report of the day was Beran 's . Liberace was very definitely sick and in a very provocative way . The other birds had no visible signs of abnormality , but Liberace more than made up for that . In psittacosis , the most striking clinical manifestation is enlargement of the liver and the spleen . Liberace 's liver was considerably larger than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spleen is usually about the size of a small seed . His was as big as the end of my middle finger . " That was all that Beran could tell us at the moment . His next move was to try to isolate the psittacosis organism from the parakeet material , and that could n't be done in the field . Viruses ca n't be cultured like bacteria . They can only be demonstrated through transfer to a living host . So the place for him was Kansas City , where we have a virus laboratory . He left by bus on Sunday morning . Paxton and Mrs. Rakich spent the day with their children . My day was a series of meetings . I spent an hour or so with Saltzman reviewing our work to date . In the afternoon , at my request , we held a kind of town meeting . The group included the school board , the superintendent of schools , the mayor , the publisher of the Baxter Bulletin , the local weekly  --  all the leading citizens . I made it clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I told them what we thought . Our best guess was psittacosis . In any event , I added , there was nothing to panic about . All of the patients were doing reasonably well . They would certainly all recover . " The main reason for the meeting , however , was to broaden the scope of the investigation . I wanted to organize a schoolwide testing program . A comparison study would help us interpret the results of our tests on the 36 clinical cases . Also , since the school was obviously the focus of infection , it would be useful to have an outside group of controls . One of the grades at the junior high , for example . We 're not allowed to give a child an injection or draw a sample of blood without his parents ' permission . I hoped to convince the civic leaders that the program was epidemiologically essential and persuade them to bring their influence to bear . With Saltzman 's help , I did . By the time the meeting adjourned , the necessary consent forms had been drawn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and a company of volunteers had been recruited to handle their distribution . The school authorities let us set up a clinic in the auditorium . I could n't have asked for fuller cooperation . Or , as it turned out , for a more enlightened response from the parents . Only 30 withheld their consent . We got permission to test and bleed a total of 369 . That included 320 children at the elementary school , 48 sixth-graders at the junior high and Miss Smith . We started in on Monday morning and finished up on Friday . " Meanwhile , of course , the results of the skin tests were coming in . By Friday , we had readings on the 13 actual patients , on the 23 recoveries and on about 200 of the other pupils at the elementary school . ' And also on Miss Smith . We read the clinical-case reactions first . Every single one of them was positive for histoplasmosis . For tuberculosis , blastomycosis and coccidioidomycosis  --  all negative . Then we saw Miss Smith 's results . She gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Then the results of the general student body came in , and we began to wonder . As I say , by Friday we had seen about 200 of them  --  more than enough to provide a definitive contrast to the clinical-case reactions . But they did n't . They showed the same  --  or practically the same  --  reactions as the others . All negative for tuberculosis , blastomycosis and coccidioidomycosis . And practically all  --  nearly 90 percent  --  positive for histoplasmosis . " Well , that brought us up pretty short . We could forget about tuberculosis and blastomycosis and coccidioidomycosis . And probably Q fever and influenza as well . So at least we had narrowed the field . We had a choice between psittacosis and histoplasmosis . It had to be one or the other . But which ? Liberace and that concentration of cases in his room were certainly suggestive of psittacosis . But what about the clinical-case reactions for histoplasmosis ? They were equally suggestive . The trouble was all those other positive reactions . They had to be explained . There are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fungus infections . That 's where it differs from a blood test . A skin test will accurately reflect the presence of specific antibodies , but it has no topical value . It does n't distinguish between a current or recent infection and one sometime in the past . A blood test , on the other hand , is a diagnostic test . It is positive only during the active stage of a disease and for the following week or so . The answer rested with the Rocky Mountain Laboratory and with Beran . It was foolish to try to guess . Instead , I put in a call to Furcolow . I told him where we stood and said that , unless he had some objection , we thought we 'd come home for the weekend . " That was four or five o'clock on Friday afternoon , and I was home by midnight . I got down to the office the next day around noon . On my way to talk with Furcolow , I dropped in on Beran . He had run some preliminary tests on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was still too soon to say about the isolation studies . I got the impression , though , that he was n't very optimistic . As it turned out , we never did determine what was wrong with Liberace . Except that it was n't psittacosis . But we were morally sure of that long before Beran made it certain . I knew it almost the minute I walked into Furcolow 's office . We had hardly said hello when his secretary came in with a telegram . It was a report from Rocky Mountain on the first group of Mountain Home blood tests . It read : ALL PRECIPITIN 11 ISTO POSITIVE . PSITTACOSIS , Q FEVER , INFLUENZA NEGATIVE . " Histoplasmosis is one of about a dozen systemic diseases now known to be caused by the venerable fungus family . It is thus of vegetable rather than animal origin . All the deep mycoses , as these fungus invasions have come to be called , are relatively new to medicine ( none was recognized much before the turn of this century ) ; all are serious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States alone some 30 million people have had primary histoplasmosis , and its annual incidence here is estimated at around 500.000 cases . Although histoplasmosis is now established as a disease of nearly universal distribution , it appears to be most prevalent in the United States . Its prevalence here is not , however , uniform . There is no considerable section of the country in which histoplasmosis is wholly unknown , and outbreaks of epidemic sweep have been reported in 18 states  --  New York , Maryland , Virginia , North Carolina , Florida , Alabama , Tennessee , Arkansas , Missouri , Oklahoma , Kansas , Ohio , Indiana , Illinois , Iowa , Wisconsin , Minnesota and North Dakota  --  but it occurs with menacing frequency only in the central Mississippi Valley . In most of the states that lie in that area , its incidence ranges from 30 to 80 percent , and there are some in which it runs even higher . These are the five river states , the states that converge on the Mississippi near its meeting with the Missouri and the Ohio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The disease is endemic there . Why histoplasmosis should occur so variously is a matter of some dispute . It is obvious only that geography must be the determining factor in its spread  --  that its range reflects a physical environment hospitable to H capsulatum . Histoplasmosis , research has established , can not be conveyed from one human being to another . Nor can it be communicated to man by any insect or higher animal . It is a disease that human beings contract directly from nature by inhaling H. capsulatum spores . The specific environmental factor that controls the organism 's geographical range is less apparent . Its development may depend upon a certain type of soil ( a red-yellow podsolic soil is peculiar to much of the high-incidence area ) , it may require a certain vegetable environment ( some 50 common plants are more or less indigenous to the area ) , or it may be governed by a certain pitch of temperature and humidity . At the moment , the evidence most strongly supports the last of these hypotheses . Laboratory experience has conclusively shown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging no higher than 86 degrees and no lower than 68 degrees  --  is essential to the growth of H. capsulatum . So have observations in the field . H. capsulatum flourishes in the darkest , dampest , warmest , most snugly sheltered places . Its favorite habitats are belfries , silos and abandoned chicken houses ( probably because a constant humid heat is generated there by decaying bird droppings ) , but it also finds a home in caves , storm cellars , punky stumps and densely wooded ravines and riverbanks . Such places abound throughout the U.S. Not everywhere in this country , however , is the microclimate they provide consistently warm and damp . In the central Mississippi Valley , where the mean temperature in summer is around 75 degrees and the average annual rainfall totals nearly 50 inches , violent extremes of rain and drought and heat and cold are notably infrequent , especially in the five states that constitute the endemic area .                     