@@487758

Deluxe compensation and appointments have long been the rule for the personnel of America 's largest foundations . Yet , as chronicled in these pages last week , directors of the $2 billion John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation have broken the mold by paying themselves unprecedented fees , apparently with the full approval of the Federal and Illinois governments . It is ironic that even less of the minimal circumspection once demanded of charitable trustees has been required of the MacArthur board at a time when the Reagan Administration has pledged to shift the burden nil-many of the social and cultural programs it has cut to private philanthropies . It is also disheartening that as interpreted by the foundation board ; the Federal tax code , which allows wealthy individuals to avoid estate taxes by creating charitable trusts , was further skewed in favor of the very few . Unfortunately for the charitable interests that the MacArthur directors were pledged to serve , the dissipation of foundatiom assets did not end with payment of excessive fees . When ' the lieutenants of John MacArthur 's financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ asset  --  his company , Bankers Life and Casualty  --  they enjoyed a freedom never permitted during the old man 's lifetime . When their duty as foundation directors was to ready the company for sale , as Bankers Life directors they were slowly killing it . It need n't have happened that way . A report outlining a plan for divestiture was commissioned by the foundation and prepared by investment consultants Warburg , Paribus , Becker . Delivered in May 1979 , the report specifically recommended that the firm avoid new long-term commitments , that it beef up its short-term profits and maintain its satisfyingly predictable earnings , so as to enable potential investors to project an earnings stream years into the future . Such measures , the consultants advised the board , were necessary to insure that Bankers Life was at its most attractive to potential buyers . On May 18 , 1979 , the foundation board ( which , as described last week , had appointed five of its members ? William Kirby , Robert Ewing , Gaylord Freeman , John Corbally and Paul Doolen  --  to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate of the Northeastern University School of Law . This article was prepared , in part , with grants provided by the Fund for Investigative Journalism and the Funding Exchange/National Community Funds . the report 's recommendations as policy . Yet the Bankers Life board acted in swift and disastrous contravention of them . Rather than consolidating the company 's insurance operations , it embarked on a major expansion program , offering a half-dozen new lines of insurance . Instead of controlling costs , it doubled the aggregate salaries of its top ten officers , tripling the salary of president Ewing and awarding former officer Doolen a $200,000 bonus . The upward salary adjustments , like Ewing 's , were perhaps to be expected . Although he belonged to some of Chicago 's most exclusive clubs , the Bankers Life president was not the idle patrician typically found roosting on foundation boards . Thanks to MacArthur 's parsimony , the company brass drew salaries at the low end of the bloated scale for corporate officers . No doubt , as they scanned Bankers Life in its enormity , they were most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foundation president Corbally says today , " The simple fact is that John MacArthur ran a very cheap outfit . " Boutique Insurance The decision to offer new lines of insurance was the strange one . The company 's strong suit had always been its accident and health policies , aimed at low-income people , who paid low premiums and received low payouts . Indeed , for years John MacArthur had steadfastly refused to allow his company to venture into sexier , but riskier , areas of underwriting . " If I want to impress someone , I 'll show them my balance sheet , " he once said . But the upscale lines offered by other carriers to their more prestigious clientele appealed to the wide-eyed Bankers Life hierarchy , who resented their company 's image in the industry . After years of deference to the old man , they were ready to go for it . In theory , many of the new lines -- =which included product , automobile and casualty insurance , so-called legal services insurance , liability and medical insurance  --  might have become profitable . But they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps ten years after their inception , and , so , far too late to affect the sale of the company . Besides , several of them were unmitigated disasters , generating significant short-term losses . After three decades of steady growth , Bankers Life was losing clients and income . According to company records , between December 31 , 1978 , and December 31 , 1982 , net income dropped 16.4 percent , while return on assets fell 32.1 percent . By 1983 , Bankers Life was in the red . At that point , according to one expert 's estimate , it had lost as much as $200 million in value . As the foundation 's finance committee , Kirby , Corbally , Freeman and Edward Levi were required to keep the other foundation directors apprised of the company 's progr6s . Because they did n't and because the others failed to inform themselves , few of the outside directors ( those with no immediate link to Bankers Life ) appreciated the dangers of the company 's new course . That was a serious matter at a time when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an Internal Revenue Service requirement that foundations divest themselves of at least 80 percent of their active business holdings within five years of acquiring them . With the report of an operating loss , the outside directors were stirred to action . At the board 's request , the foundation 's in-house actuarial firm , Milliman &; Robertson , prepared an analysis of the Bankers Life operation . Its stunning conclusions were delivered on June 1 , 1983 . Among them : The following unacceptable conditions exist : 1 . Funds being expended for gains to be possibly realized over the exceptionally long-term , as well as funds directed to development of peripheral and auxiliary operations , are wasted funds which the Foundation will never recover . 2 . Management 's strategy and actions are in most situations in conflict with the single objective of the Foundation which is to obtain maximum value for its assets . A second revelation , equally devastating , was contained in a written report given to the foundation board by Warburg , Paribus , Becker two days later . Stating that the Bankers Life management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so as to create " , significant risks as to future values , " the document disclosed that of seven firms that decided against bidding for the Bankers Life insurance operation , five had notified the company 's board that the new lines of business had been a factor in their decision . A majority of those firms added that the new lines were so speculative as to render the company 's historical profitability irrelevant to their consideration . The wasting of Bankers Life was serious news , to be sure . But what made the Warburg ? report so alarming was that it revealed for the first time that the changes in business practices were scaring away purchasers ; the company 's board had always blamed a depressed market . If the finance committee did a poor job of preparing Bankers Life for sale , it did a truly lousy one of selling it . For at least three years of the five-year divestiture period , . the dual directors insisted that the company 's insurance and real estate holdings had to be sold together . Although not required by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not subject to the I.R.S. divestiture requirement ) , the posture worked to limit the prospective pool of purchasers to only those companies with an interest in both land and insurance , and the $1 billion-plus price of admission . It also failed to explore or exploit any premium that a particularly attractive property or insurance line might realize if sold separately . The committee was so wedded to an all-ornothing approach that at the board meeting of October 14 , 1982 , with more than four years of the grace period gone by , Gaylord Freeman confessed that the committee had no idea what each of Bankers Life 's subsidiaries was worth . Assuming the committee was correct in its assessment that the market was depressed , it is difficult to justify its allegiance to a lock , stock and barrel sale . Hard times would seem to demand flexible marketing and financing , not rigidity . But , at that moment , the committee was n't in any hurry . Unperturbed as 1983 rolled in , with a mere ten months standing between the foundation and a $75 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ status , it had a pretty good card up its sleeve : the United States Congress . Effortswere already under way in Washington to obtain an exemption from the five-year divestiture deadline . Rod MacArthur 's Threat On June 28 , 1983 , five months before the time limit ran out and a full year before the exemption became law , Rod MacArthur wrote a letter to the foundation board . Reciting the well-known conflict-of-interest issues and the latest bombshells about the inept management and diminished sale prospects of Bankers Life , he sought to mobilize disinterested board members ' support for three demands : the resignation of the five dual directors , a $24,000 annual fee ceiling and the hiring of outside directors and new consultants to put the company 's sale back on track . If the board did not adopt the reforms , MacArthur announced , he would sue . MacArthur 's letter had some impact . Two directors , per-/taps in anticipation of litigation , wrote letters that spelled out their positions for the record . Jerome Wiesner 's missive of July 8 reminded the directors : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , from a pumber of discussions at board meetings , and with many of Tou individually , I have been very troubled about the divestiture process ... . lAso believe that Bankers Life president Bob Ewing d resign from the board . When in the pasCI have raised my concern about his potential conflict of interest , the response has always been that it was to the advantage of the MacArthur Foundation to have Bankers Life management represented on the foundation board . Newscaster Paul Harvey wrote Corbally on July 1 . The letter captures his inimitable style : Good Morning , Jack . . . I have not always shared Rod MacArthur 's anxieties about the administration of the Foundation and our properties . Hoivever , his June 28 letter has opened my eyes to a perspective which demands our attention . I must confess to a degree of myopia , narrowly and naively trusting everybody 's good intentions . But if even a portion off ' Rod 's indictment concerning potential conflicts of interest is valid , we , the Board , have something serious to worry about . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as unworthy , yet when I recognize how much some bard members have to profit from delaying divestiture , however unintentionally , I can see- how very ugly this could be made to appear . And those of us who have received the least compensation are still going to get spattered if someday the malt hits the fan in a court of law or in the less merciful court of public opinion . . . . At an estimated $25,000 a year , Harvey was the lowest-paid director . De board voted on MacArthur 's proposals on July 14 . Wirsmllid not attend , on doctor 's orders . Despite Harvey 's appaMtrmisgivings , he joined the board in voting to reject theeforms . Rod MacArthur was the sole dissenter . MacArthur 's earlier threat of a suit , in 1979 , had proved to be only mildly persuasive , resulting in the appointment of surprisingly useless watchdogs . In 1983 it became se for alarm . News had arrived that Congress might not pass exempting legislation in time . Retroactive legislation would work in a pinch but might stir up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distasteful . And no one wanted the poking and probing that a MacArthur lawsuit would entail . The finance committee 's members had had their feedbag tied on so long that they would never be able to deny it . The outside directors had grown a bit broad in the beam themselves . Aware now of the calamitous state of affairs at Bankers Life , they realized they had no serious defense against the charge that they 'd been lax in carrying out their legally mandated oversight responsibilities . A new , larger community of interest had unfolded , out of which a consensus emerged : Sell , sell , sell . If they 'd thought about it , the outside directors might have come up with a better plan . But mellow reflection was-not the order of the day . Gripped in a selling frenzy , the foundation permitted the omnipresent Chicago businessmen ? Ewing , Kirby , Corbally and Freeman  --  to negotiate the sale arrangements , despite their ' pitiful track record . They would be assisted by Warburg , Paribus , Becker and investment bankers Lazard Freres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about their task with major-league gusto . Unfortunately they made minor-league negotiators . Still insisting , that the foundation had to sell all of the property nedrice ' , - ? nd under a looming November 30 I.R.S. divestiture ' deadline , the finance committee entered the market with its worst foot forward . Knowing of the foundation 's desperate desire to sell , potential buyers could easily dictate oppressive terms . Obviously , each dollar of the company 's falintridikelt value not claimed in the sale would be money that could not be given away for charitable purposes . But judging by the conduct of the board in the summer of 1983 , that was not a matter for rumination . Buyer 's Market After years of alleged difficulty in attracting sale prospects , the finance committee took only a short time to locate a purchaser . Considering the terms the committee accepted , it is an open question whether objective criteria were brought to bear at all . On July 27 , 1983 , over MacArthites lone objection , the board entered into an exclusive negotiating agreement with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for the sale of Bankers Life and large portions of its New York City real estate holdings . These included nineteen Manhattan office buildings , among them the Gulf &; Western tower . As dimwitted marketing gambits go , negotiating exclusively with one interested company is pretty impressive . By definition it restricts the number and quality of offers an anxious seller will receive because it prevents him from dealing with other parties , who might drive up the sale price . And so it was . First Winthrop capitalized on the ' foundation 's vulnerability , offering a comparatively trifling $700 million . That was bad enough . But it was in its particulars that the Winthrop tender really smelled . In its final form the Winthrop offer was a . highly leveraged buyout , providing only $44 million in cash , an amount the foundation , already strapped for liquid assets , could ill afford to accept . A large portion of the remainder was to be paid to the foundation under a twenty-year subordinated note by a newly formed shell corporation whose only asset would be Bankers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  and it had to earn record profits to do so  --  the shell could n't make its payments to the foundation . In that event , under certain circumstances , the foundation could be forced to lend Winthrop up . to $88 million from its charitable funds . And , incredibly , the agreement permitted Winthrop to back out of the deal up to six months after its completion and return the company to the foundation . It was a fire sale . Nevertheless , in a report to the foundation board on September 6 , the finance committee vigorously defended the exclusivity agreement and proposed to extend it through October 13 , six weeks before the divestiture deadline . Imagine , then , the outside directors ' surprise when , on September 8 , they learned that on August 2 the Belzberg family , the Canadian owners of the First City Capital Corporation , had offered to pay $730 million in cash for the same properties .                     