@@325006

Laid-back David Letterman tosses a late-night comedy salad <P> Hi there , night owls ! Have we got an extravaganza for you tonight ! If you 're thinkin ' of goin ' to sleep , forget it . You wo n't forgive yourself if you miss . . . the man from the Potato Museum ! Later on , you'II meet the guy with the Worm Farm-yes , a colony of live worms to enthrall you tonight ! And as if that were n't enough-and you 'd better believe it will be-we have an investigative report on . . . Celebrities and Their Dry Cleaning ! More Stupid Pet Tricks ! An in-depth profile on Alan Alda , the Man and His Chinese Food ! And right after this word from one of our several sponsors , we'II place a phone call to Mrs. David Nelson in Loomis , Neb. , who 's going to tell us all about her social club , the Porkettes , and their Make-It-with-Lard Cherry Pie Bake-Off ! I mean , we 're gon na have more fun tonight than humans should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hey , this is Network Television ! <P> <P> It is ? At first glance , second gasp and third giggle , it seems like a 4-H show gone considerably askew . Since its debut six weeks ago in the post-Carson slot on NBC , Late Night with David Letterman has been winning fans and increasing its ratings with a tossed salad of celebrity interviews , low-key comedy and just about every uninstitutionalized eccentric it could find in the Lower 48 . This recipe makes for the liveliest , least predictable talk show since Fernwood 2-Night in 1977 . But Fernwood was a scripted show-a deadpan , dead-on satire of smarmy MCs and their desperately cheerful , no-talent guests . Late Night is different : a chatcom whose mixture of the real and the surreal keeps the viewer agreeably off-balance . It deals in the brand of humor that recent Late Night Guest Gloria Steinem described as " found humor . " Most talk shows demonstrate only that famous people are boring ; Late Night means to prove the contention of Head Writer Merrill Markoe that " most people are intrinsically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , slim and laid-back-indeed , almost supine , like a Perry Como on mescaline-Letterman , 34 , responds to his odder guests with the wary smile of a farmer who has just opened his door to yet another shingle salesman . The cockeyed parade passes in review , and Letterman gets laughs merely by squinting at the audience and , once in a while , spitting a thimbleful of wry through the gap in his front teeth . He speaks in a voice as gracefully modulated and wickedly bland as that of a hip , small-town disc jockey reading a mortuary commercial . " I like to call as little attention to myself as possible and still be funny . " He seems to have been created for and by television , working within a narrow band of emotions , charming viewers with his unflappable attitude rather than with quick reactions , political satire and confrontation comedy . He wears well , like Hush Puppies.                     