@@331272

When Edgar Bronfman , chairman of the Seagram Co. , flew to Moscow in September as president of the World Jewish Congress ( W.J.C. ) , he was allowed to travel in his private jet , a relatively rare privilege for a Western visitor . At Moscow 's Sheremetyevo Airport , he was received cordially by Kremlin officials . Bronfman 's stated objective was to ask the Soviets to lift emigration restrictions for Jews who want to leave the Soviet Union and to allow religious freedom for Jews who wish to remain . Earlier this month Bronfman made another visit to Moscow , and last week sources familiar with the talks confirmed that he has been serving as a conduit in tentative negotiations between the Soviets and Israelis , whose diplomatic relations were broken off by Moscow following the 1967 Six-Day War between Egypt and Israel . The highly secret purpose of these talks , say these sources : to engineer the airlift of possibly thousands of Soviet Jews to Israel . <P> The complex scheme , which involves the Soviet Union , France , Poland and Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet Communist Party Congress in late February . The plan is to move the Soviet Jews first to Poland and then airlift them to Israel . In this way they would be prevented from attempting to emigrate directly to the U.S. or other Western countries . Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres told TIME during a visit to Geneva last week that " the Soviets have always complained that those allowed to emigrate go to the U.S. instead of Israel . Well , I agree that it is in the interest of the Soviet Union as well as my own country that they go to Israel . " Peres , however , was cautious in his comments on the negotiations , saying only that Bronfman " got no concrete assurances whatever in Moscow . " The possibility of an airlift was looked upon skeptically at the U.S. State Department . In Moscow , diplomats from Western and Arab countries characterized reports of a pending airlift as " wishful thinking . " <P> Even so , the following scenario has been confirmed by sources in the U.S. who have been close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , was Peres ' brainchild . When Bronfman visited the Soviet Union in September , he reportedly carried with him personal messages from Peres . One source with knowledge of the Bronfman visit insists that the communications indicated that if the Soviet Union were to release a significant number of Jews and renew diplomatic relations with Israel , it could perhaps have a larger role in Middle East peace negotiations . If the Soviets delivered the Syrians to the conference table , Peres allegedly implied , the Israelis might return part of the Golan Heights to Syria .                     