@@494620

WHY SPY ? In the year of the spy , the case that probably will be remembered the longest is that of Jonathan Jay Pollard , the civilian analyst working for the Navy who is accused of spying for Israel . It stands out , and deservedly so , because it is so incomprehensible . There 's nothing new or difficult to understand about Soviet or Chinese espionage in the U.S. But the Pollard affair challenges many assumptions . The FBI arrested Pollard on November 21 outside the Israeli Embassy in Washington , where he apparently had gone seeking protection . The next day , two Israeli scientific attaches , one in New York and one in Washington , flew home suddenly and unannounced . The State Department did not even learn of this departure until several days later . It then expressed " dismay " that Israel had refused the U.S. access to these attaches . According to leaks from Israel , the Israelis " ran " Pollard under the direction of Rah Eitan , a shadowy and legendary Israeli agent ( he helped capture Adolph Eichmann @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Yitzhak Shamir , and was head of a quasi-independent agency for gathering scientific information under Begin , Shamir , and the current prime minister , Shimon Peres . It appears that in the latter capacity Eitan decided to use Pollard . Israel 's coalition government responded to these disclosures with dismaying slowness . For several days , the first reaction was no reaction : an expression of shock and consternation , as if the affair had been perpetrated by some third party . Finally , on December 1 , Secretary of State Shultz and Prime Minister Peres worked out a deal : the Israeli Cabinet issued an apology , promised to dismantle the unit responsible , and pledged not to do it again . The State Department accepted the apology , and appears as eager as Israel to put this embarrassment behind it . There is more than embarrassment at issue . But let us be clear exactly what more . The U.S. has discovered enormous damage from hemorrhagic leaks to the Soviet Union and China through the Walker spy ring , and the newly discovered Pelton and Chin affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damage to U.S. security interests from Pollard is minuscule . None of the information ( much of it apparently about the military disposition of the Arab countries surrounding Israel ) had anything to do with American security , and none was to be turned over to nations hostile to the United States . The difference between Pelton and Pollard is the difference between harm and offense . The harm caused by Pollard is small , the offense great . How great ? After all , " friendly countries spy on friendly countries " all the time , former CIA directer Richard Helms said on ABC 's " This Week . " What 's more , he added , they all know it . They spy on each other because no ally will share all its information with its friends . But the offense in the Pollard case is not so much the spying as the method of spying . Allies collect information on one another in two main ways . One is called national technical means : information picked up by satellites or other technical devices . The other is human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , many of whom , everyone knows , are there to gather information . In this context , the U.S. has an enormous advantage over its allies . It has the world 's most sophisticated network of satellites and communications interception technology . A current rumor in the Israeli press is that Pollard may have been asked to spy because the U.S. appeared to have information about the highest-level decision-making within Israel , and Israel wanted to find out how the U.S. had penetrated Israeli communications . Whether or not this is true , the general principle is true . Both sides gather information on the other through various means . Israel has few technological assets . And so , thought someone , Israel must compensate with a human agent . But this someone was not a terribly deep thinker . It is one thing to use your own agents in another country to gather as much information as legally possible . It is another thing to recruit a foreign national for the purposes of betraying his nation 's secrets . The second is an inexcusable breach of trust between allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be daunted by , such an elementary and fundamental distinction ? It is a wonder that in its 40 years Israel has developed such an extraordinarily skilled military and such an extraordinarily inept politics . But in a sense the two are related . Israel 's existence is guarded by Israel 's military , or ? perhaps more accurately ? by its military mentality : a willingness to act decisively , relentlessly , and often at great risk , to secure higher ground . For 40 years that mentality has greatly rewarded Israel , and therefore has been greatly rewarded by Israel . Much of Israel 's leadership comes out of the military high command . In the political culture of Israel , the result is not an authoritarian state of mind ? Israel 's polity hovers as close to anarchy as any Western democracy ? but an operational state of mind : define an objective , identify the means , go after both until success . The world of politics , and particularly diplomacy , is radically unsuited to such thinking . Diplomacy demands subtlety , particularly when dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tank academies . And Rah Eitan , certainly , never took the course . The result is the Pollard affair : operational thinking gone wild . ' TWO YEARS AGO , someone ? probably Eitan , though 1 it is not yet clear if anyone higher up was involved ? decided that it was important for Israel to obtain some information that the U.S. intelligence services refused to share with Israel . And to obtain it , he was willing not just to spy , but to use an American citizen for the spying . What kind of information could possibly have been worth the risk and the betrayal ? Israel and the U.S. share large amounts of information . Israel gives the U.S. information on the Middle East , and enormously useful data on captured Soviet equipment or battle-tested Israeli countermeasures against Soviet equipment . The U.S. , in return , provides much satellite and electronic reconnaissance . But not all . Information on the military capacities and plans of countries friendly to the United States and potentially hostile to Israel ( e.g. , Egypt and Jordan ) is routinely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a counterterrorism expert , and perhaps he had access to information about terrorism that , for still obscure reasons , the U.S. supposedly withheld . And perhaps there is some truth to the story leaked out of Israel that he was also trying to find out how the U.S. was getting such high-level information about Israel . Perhaps he was working on an American Pollard in Jerusalem . For Israel this would be vital information . But compared to the offense to the United States and to the American-Israeli relationship , it amounts to nothing . The relationship with the United States is , quite simply , the most important political fact of Israel 's life . Apart from the Israeli army , there is nothing that protects Israel 's existence more than American friendship and feeling for Israel . To jeopardize such a relationship is political stupidity of criminal magnitude . But the Pollard affair is not just a badly calculated cost-benefit analysis . It betrays a profound incomprehension of the nature of America 's telationship with Israel . The U.S. supports Israel both out of interest and out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an ally by turning a citizen against his government is to see that relationship as based on nothing but interests . It is to argue that all is cynicism , each party merely uses the other , so why not use the other slightly more than house rules allow ? This logic actively undermines the moral relationship between America and Israel . The rules of that relationship are not just rules of convenience . They form the structure of a political and moral intimacy rare in the relation between nations ? a structure that can hardly sustain bad faith and betrayal . The rule between any allies must he : if you want to gather information , put up an antenna and send out your agents . Do n't break laws , and most of all , do n't recruit your ally 's nationals . In the past Israel has taken particular care not to recruit foreign Jews as spies , because suspicions of dual loyalty , though rarely expressed , are omnipresent . For the operational mind behind Pollard , the price of undermining the civic standing of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the operational level , the Pollard affair appalls . The man himself is boastful and inept , an Inspector Clouseau of spies . In the end , in pursuit of marginal national security objectives , the operational mind betrayed an astonishing'ineptness in both political calculation and moral reasoning . T HE GOVERNMENT of Israel issued an apology , which the U.S. has accepted . Neither government wants the affair to he dragged out indefinitely , since it advances the interest of neither nation involved . The FBI may not even have intended to apprehend Pollard so publicly . Often when such things happen between allies , the spies are sent home and stern reprimands are issued through private channels . This may have been a bungled affair on all sides . The Reagan administration may never have intended a public scandal , particularly one that could bring down the moderate Peres government . The coalition government appears to be working frantically to keep the affair from getting out of hand ? that is , from implicating higher-ups . Some former Israeli intelligence officials believe that such an operation never could have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political echelon . On the other hand , other intelligence officials deem it impossible that anyone at that level of political responsibility would have authorized such a lunatic scheme . We may never know . But even so , Israel 's high political leadership stands indicted . Either the senior political leaders , wrote the Jerusalem Post , " did not know what was happening ? in which case they were horrendously derelict ? or they did know , and in that case were horrendously reckless . " We have profound sympathy for the Peres government . But we think it would he a mistake to declare the Pollard issue now closed . Even if the two governments wanted to hush up the affair , the free press and independent judiciary of democracies will not permit it . Apologies , even sincere apologies , are not enough , and attempts to place the blame as low as possible are unlikely to succeed . Better to let all the heads roll as quickly as possible . Release all the information that will dribble out in Pollard 's trial and in investigative reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fall where they may . " Then the Pollard episode may finally be relegated to the annals of operational zealotry and remembered as a unique and bizarre violation of the relationship between two very close friends .                     