@@432216

@# Southern Arizona seems like great place to put a solar horn . With all that sunshine , how could it fail ? That 's what a client mine thought when he showed me his plan to build an energy-efficient house - in that area . Though the layout of the house was otherwise well-conceived , the massive south-facing Trombe wall running the length of the house was inappropriate for the local climate " With such mild winters , " I told him " all you really need are a few south-facing windows to heat your home . Your real challenge will be to keep your house cool during the summer and a Trombe wall wo n't help you there . " All too often , home builders , contractors , and even some house designerbecome infatuated with a particular design technique and neglect to ask whether it is suitable for the local environment . A few years ago it seemed that " everyone " across the country was building solar homes . Now the trend looks to be toward superinsulation . Ithere a superior design for all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contractors have finally abandoned the practice of building the same kind of house in Alaska as in Florida . Choosing an energy-efficient design requires not only the knowledge of the latest tech-  | ques , but an understanding of how each design feature interacts with different climates . A year ago I began research into the performance of several energy efficient house designs in different climatic conditions . My analysis deals with general strategies for house design and does not consider local situions that would make a particular design impractical or too costly , such excavating for an earth-sheltered home in rocky soil . For the sake of simplicity , I avoided analyzing a hybrid house configuration in which several energy-saving strategies are employed . To develop the optimal mix of techniques , the builder of an energy-saving me should first determine the best - general approaches for a particularsite ; then he should find out whether a combination of strategies would lead to an even better solution . The accompanying map illustrates recommendations for energy-efficient house design strategies in different parts of the continental United States . Boundaries between regions should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform equally well . Let 's look at several general designtechniques , how each interacts with different climates , and the areas in which each is most appropriate . Digging in There are several factors that contribute to the efficiency of earth-sheltered houses . First , they are airtight . Second , the soil reduces the seasonal temperature fluctuations to which the house is exposed . A third , less important , factor is that the soil provides some thermal insulation , though not much compared with fiberglass or even wood . Although earth-sheltered homes can work in many climates , they are perfect for localities with cool winters and long , hot summers . In those areas , the soil may remain at 60 to 70 degrees F year-round . Waste heat from people , appliances , and lights keep the home comfortable , making heating loads negligible . Consequently , heating and cooling systems may not even be necessary . Jan Nicholsen , a resident of central Arizona , has just such a house . " Outside temperatures here fluctuate between 13 and 110 degrees F during the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ near 65 degrees F. As a result , our earth-sheltered home is always comfortable ? and it does n't even have a backup heating or cooling system . " The greatest disadvantage of earthbermed houses is their initial cost . " Of the three major designs , that is , passive solar , superinsulated , and earthsheltered , the latter designs are generally the most expensive , " says Chuck Eberdt , an instructor of energy-efficient housing techniques in Seattle , Wash . " Certainly , eliminating the heating and cooling systems , as may be possible in some situations , can help make them more cost-competitive . " On the map I 've designated much of the South as earth-sheltered territory . Passive solar homes in this region perform well in the winter but have cooling loads almost as great as those of conventional homes during the summer . Superinsulated homes perform better in the South during the summer than do solar homes but still can be expected to have greater cooling loads than those of earthcovered structures . Going solar Solar homes can work in almost any climate if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glazing area to admit sunlight . However there 's no question that a cold , cloudy climate is the worst for passive solar homes . In fact , the least-favorable part of the country for passive solar homes is probably the eastern end of the Great Lakes region . In general , as one proceeds northward on the map , insulation must be added and the amount of glazing and thermal mass increased to counter the colder weather and the shorter winter days . Solar homes are not necessarily the wisest choice in warm , clear locations either . Certainly , solar energy can heat a home during the winter , but the solar home will have a much higher cooling load in the summer than an earth-sheltered or superinsulated one .                     