@@321509

The U.S. ponders Nicaragua 's conciliatory gestures <P> " They are vastly different from the I statements they were making some six months ago , " said Secretary of State George Shultz . He was talking about the conciliatory tone of recent pronouncements by the leftist Sandinista government of Nicaragua . But perhaps more important , the same thing could be said about Shultz 's own comments last week . When asked at a press conference about the new Sandinista approach , the Secretary said , " I welcome that . Of course , what we want is for a reality to be put behind the rhetoric . So naturally we want to probe and find out what is there . If Nicaragua is genuinely moving in the right direction , that is fine . " <P> Although the U.S. remains skeptical of Nicaragua 's intentions , at least on the surface there are signs of movement in the long-frozen relations between the two countries . Shultz 's new softer tone was prompted by a series of announcements and a few specific actions by the Sandinista regime that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Managua government said that it plans to hold democratic elections in 1985 , and that the long electoral process will begin next month . It announced a limited amnesty for Nicaraguans who fled the country after taking part in fighting or other " illegal activities " against the government since July 1979 . If they return , it promised , they will be able to take part in the election and in land-reform programs . <P> More specifically , the government granted amnesty to 307 Miskito Indians who had been jailed for counterrevolutionary activities and invited some 70,000 Indians who had been driven by the government from their long-held tribal lands to return . " We recognize that we 've committed arbitrary acts against Nicaraguans of Miskito origin , " said Minister of the Interior Tdmas Borge Martinez in a rare apology . Sandinista officials have for months privately confessed their gross mishandling of the Miskito issue . Borge also met with editors of the daily La Prensa and promised that its criticism of the Sandinista government would not be censored , as it has been in the past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to buy scarce and expensive newsprint , the shortage of which brought La Prensa to the brink of shutdown last week . The Sandinistas have also sent home some 2,100 Cuban technicians , teachers and other workers whose presence in Nicaragua was a primary cause of concern to the Reagan Administration . An undisclosed number of Cuban military advisers remain . <P> Officials in Washington had tended to dismiss most of these moves as propaganda ploys . They noted that the Sandinista decrees specifically rule out any participation by counterrevolutionary guerrilla leaders in the electoral process as well as by anyone who had invited " foreign intervention " in Nicaragua . That , of course , meant that the varied factions of armed contra insurgents , most of whom have been fighting the government with ill-concealed CIA support , would be left out in the cold . Washington also says it considers the promise of elections in 1985 all too vague .                     