@@487889

Becoming a Heroine is a marvelous book . Like Elaine Showalter 's A Literature of Their Own and Patricia Meyer Spack 's The Female Imagination , it represents the best of contemporary feminist literary criticism : it 's relaxed , lively , perceptive and illuminating . Need one add that by " feminist " one only means that it takes the concerns of women seriously ? For it is hard to imagine a sensitive reader of either sex who would not find Brownstein 's book a treasure . What makes the book so unusual and so provocative is that it aims to connect literature with life by showing how women readers were influenced by certain important English novels of the past : Villette , The Egoist , Daniel Deronda , Portrait of a Lady and Mrs. Dalloway , among others . All these books , whether written by men or by women , have at their center a heroine whose life is circumscribed by society 's image of what an ideal woman -- an exemplar , as Brownstein calls her  --  should be . The action of the book is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earthly reward , a rich husband , or be seduced and die of it . " The fierceness with which these heroines defend their chastity is practical . It is their only trump card in a game where Norma Klein 's latest novel is Wives and Other Women ( St. Martin ' s-Marek ) . Y Oricer cartoon : the castaway , the caveman and the prosaic commuter ? freedom and happiness are seen as attainable only through the approval and love of " a good man . " Brownstein contends that novelists like Richardson and Charlotte Bronte , by portraying the struggle of their heroines with compassion and psychological insight , vindicated the actual lives of women . " To want to become a heroine , " she states , " liberates a woman from feeling a victim . " The heroine 's fate is limited by the fact that it is only by linking hers to a man 's that she " defines her singularity . " But by her choice of a husband she " controls her life , shapes her self , makes her happiness . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " be herself and yet be complementary to a man . " One might question some of the notions that form the foundation of Brownstein 's thesis without denying the power and originality of much that she says . " Enjoined from becoming generals and emperors , " she writes , girls " tend to live more in novels than boys do . " Why the present tense ? Surely today , the sort of girl Brownstein has in mind  --  the sort of girl who reads the books discussed here  --  no longer sees her options as limited to marriage . Most of the teen-age girls I know are as hopeful of becoming generals and emperors  --  or , at any rate , doctors and lawyers and writers  --  as are their brothers . Life may prove them overly ambitious , of course , but that 's another matter . From the point of view of the young woman reader , a great deal of heroine-centered fiction at least seems to be lagging behind real life . One of Brownstein 's most interesting ideas is that fiction teaches us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to read novels . " Becoming a Heroine weaves back and forth between detailed analyses of Emma and The Egoist and autobiographical descriptions of how a Jewish girl from Queens found nourishment and escape in books about people who " understood delicate and complex webs of feeling . " Growing up , Brownstein was encouraged to read fiction by her father , who regarded novels as " women 's things . " He read Gibbon and Churchill . At Barnard College in the 1950s , she goes on to tell us , the choice of a husband ( or , for the more up-to-date , a man to lose one 's virginity to ) was still the central concern of most women students . The autobiographical material is charming , almost novelistic , but in the end it 's a bit of a tease . After arguing that a woman 's choice of a husband is the all-important key to the quality of her life and even to the nature of her character , Brownstein tells us nothing about the man she chose and how the choice affected her . Perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using one 's life as material and keeping peace in the family . The omission truncates the book peculiarly , for by offering so many insights into her childhood and education , Brownstein comes to interest us in herself as a heroine . When she slams the gate and turns back to purely literary concerns , I felt as frustrated and curious as if someone had whisked Daniel Deronda out of my hands before I 'd finished it . Having said this , however , I should add that Brownstein 's careful discussions of the novels are brilliant . She manages , by skillfully providing biographical touches , to cast new light on several authors . Few men have written well from the viewpoint of women ; those who have frequently do so by crossing that mental gulf which makes men see women as alien creatures . Richardson said of himself , " a bashful man has a good deal of the soul of a woman . " I would question Brownstein 's assertion , in her description of Mrs. Dalloway , that Virginia Woolf was unable to achieve " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ended in his being Natasha . " Surely , in novels written around and after the era of Mrs. Dalloway , character  --  male as well as female  --  is perceived as more diffuse and inward-turning than had been the case in the nineteenth century . Tolstoy 's adorable , mindless gamineturned-housewife strikes the modern reader not as a real , complex woman , imagined by an author who has escaped the self , but as the subtly distorted fantasy of a man with very stereotyped ideas about what qualities are appealing in a woman . More instructive is Brownstein 's view of Jane Austen as the quintessential sister . Having never married , Austen 's primary relationships were with her beloved only sister , Cassandra , and with her several brothers . Brownstein contends that Austen 's view of her characters was a sisterly one as well : she softens the traditional view of the rake , for example , by seeing him as a sister would  --  with a more indulgent , compassionate eye . George Eliot , on the other hand , who lived with a man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , observing her characters with detached affection rather than passionate warmth . Particularly intelligent is Brown-stein 's examination of the sexual life of her heroines , a life rarely openly described , but always central to the plot . Her analysis of the relationships between Austen 's heroines and their fathers leads her to conclude that , for Emma and Elizabeth Bennet , marriage means moving from a celibate , affectionate rapport with an adored father to a richer connection with a man . By marrying , Emma " chooses to be no longer worshipped , no longer aloof from the sexual life and lot of most women . " The men with whom Austen 's heroines end up sharing their lives also come , by virtue of that sharing , to redefine their image of women . Darcy , " by learning to love a witty woman , " comes " to alter his standards of womanly excellence . " Through satire , " traditionally the weapon of . the party out of power , " Austen is able to express the complexity of her heroine 's moral and emotional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " ( Perhaps Austen was aided , too , by the vision that even her admirable heroines were essentially flawed . " Pictures of perfection , " she wrote , " make me sick and wicked . " ) Jane Austen is the only author Brownstein treats in depth ; she provides fascinating commentaries on each of her novels . One senses that Brownstein gives Austen so much attention not only because of Austen 's greatness as a writer but because , of all the writers considered , she is the only one who found for her characters a happy way out of the classic heroine 's dilemma . The usual fate of these heroines is pretty bleak . Clarissa Harlowe , after being raped , dies . Gwendolyn Harleth , hoping to find freedom and joy in marriage , finds nothing but misery with her cold and sadistic husband . Isabel Archer , who begins by seeing life spread out beautifully before her , makes a critically wrong choice of husband and dooms herself , perhaps permanently . Adultery , the way out of unhappy alliances for heroines in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not seen as an alternative by the English writers Brownstein considers . Brownstein ends with a brief discussion of modern novels about women , but it is too brief to bridge the gap be- , . tween the past and what has happened to fictional heroines since Mrs. Dap-way gave her celebrated party . I suspect , though , that Brownstein is overly optimistic when she states , " Today we read novels about women without apology . " The sad fact is that today novels written from the point of view of women ( usually these novels are also written by women ) are read mainly by women . Novels written from the point of view of men ( usually written by men ) are read by everyone . There is still a ghetto for " women 's fiction . " And the women novelists who are seriously reviewed are still predominantly those who write , at least half the time , from the point of view of men ? A. G. Mojtabai , Anne Tyler , Nadine Gordimer , Ann Beattie . Brownstein is right that the great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worthy . But I do n't think most men have ever been convinced that choosing a husband  --  or , for that matter , a wife  --  is as intrinsically interesting a subject as fighting a war . What a pity , for , all of us . A footnote : Books like Becoming a Heroine often end up being published by university presses . Cheers and bouquets to Viking , then , for having the courage to offer Brownstein the wider readership she deserves . ?                     