@@432301

 | As Washington surveys bleak prospects for the postelection Philippines , it can find at best continued instability , at worst grave damage to American interests in the Pacific . For most of this century , the U.S. viewed the Philippines as a secure outpost , bought with the blood of American troops during the Spanish-American War and World War II . Now , with its society in crisis , the island nation poses strategic problems to the U.S. potentially as great as those presented by the fall of the Shah of Iran and the government of South Vietnam . President Ferdinand Marcos , ill and losing control of the political tide , is besieged by enemies and a growing Communist insurgency . Events unleashed by the political storm could lead to the loss of American installations at Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air Base , largest in the world . Marcos 's opponent , Corazon Aquino , calls , as Marcos does , for renegotiation of the bases agreement with the U.S. when it expires in 1991 . The greatest long-term danger , however , stems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insurgency after the February 7 voting . American analysts set out three scenarios for the future In the worst case , which the odds now favor , Marcos wins through election fraud and rejects reforms . The insurgency might with time topple his government and install a Communist regime . The Reagan administration has tried to avoid public favoritism , saying it could work with whoever is the victor . But some officials in fact have a preference . They believe U.S. interests would be best served by an Aquino victory that might restore credibility to the government , undercut the insurgency and revive business confidence . Other Americans assume that a change in the Presidency would simply put another self-serving wing of the Philippine elite in power . But , for the time being , Washington is content to lengthen its distance from Marcos . The administration argues that Marcos can not be brought to heel by using U.S. aid as a club , although even some Republicans disagree . Senator David Durenberger ( R-Minn. ) insists that Washington should withhold some of the $267 million it provides annually . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as a rallying point for opponents . And within five years , the rebels could  | well be more than a match for government forces . Historical comparisons are rarely precise . But the position of Marcos is close enough to that of the ailing and authoritarian Shah to be haunting . Marcos 's government , oblivious to history , plunges ahead on the same uncompromising course that doomed U.S. interests in South Vietnam . As in Iran and Vietnam , visible alternatives for the U.S. are unappealing . Marcos faces a genuine threat in the candidacy of Aquino , widow and political heiress of Benigno Aquino , the opposition leader murdered at Manila 's airport in 1983 . While she remains an underdog , Aquino 's exuberant campaign receptions hint that the well-oiled Marcos machine is vulnerable . Crowds of more than 200,000 have turned out to cheer her . Marcos 's rallies , by contrast , have been smaller and often stocked with government workers . Spectators at one rally in Manila 's port area claimed they were paid to attend . The end of pro-Western government in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shift traumatically American military deployment in the Western Pacific . In the last two decades , the Soviet fleet has become capable of projecting its power around the globe , not least in the Pacific . Airfields and port facilities at Vietnam 's Da Nang and Cam Ranh Bay have given Moscow an important strategic toehold in Southeast Asia . For the U.S. and its allies , alternatives to the bases in the Philippines leave much to be desired . Thailand , where America already has a limited military presence , is judged unsuitable for a greater one , partly because of its location , partly because of the risks of repeating the Philippine experience . The islands of Saipan , Tinian and Guam , U.S. controlled , lie 1,500 miles east of the Philippines . Even less attractive for a major installation is the Micronesian state of Palau , where the U.S. has signed a new agreement providing access for its military forces . Political considerations rule out expansion of U.S. bases in Japan or building of new ones in Australia , and the cost to American taxpayers would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Across East Asia , U.S. allies view the drama here as a test of the limits of American power . Japan , central to U.S. interests , looks to the U.S. to guard the strait through which most of its raw materials flow . Members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ( ASEAN ) maneuver to contain Vietnamese ? and thus Soviet ? influence in the region while depending on the U.S. for strategic protection . There is no talk yet about the col- lapse of new Asian dominoes beyond the danger to the Philippines itself . But that idea alone embraces the thought of Clark Air Base and Subic Bay possibly ending up as Soviet bases , just as the U.S. bases in Vietnam are now in Soviet hands . So far , there is little evidence of Soviet support for the NPA . But even the lesser trauma of the U.S. exit from the Philippines , apart from a Soviet role , would be viewed worldwide as a colossal American failure . And in these matters , the perception of failure is reality . It can not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. in the former colony that it made independent on July 4 , 1946 . But some analysts argue that any hope for creating a model of decolonialization was doomed by American mismanagement . Long before Marcos arrived on the scene , the United States conferred power on a cor rupt elite rather than creating a broad democratic foundation . When Ferdinand Marcos entered Malacanang Palace in 1965 , he was hailed as an Asian John F. Kennedy . A bold social reformer , he undertook to modernize the Philippines through an ambitious public-works program . But as he destroyed the old elite , he began to create a new one in his drive to consolidate power . His base of support shifted from the masses that chose him to a network of cronies whom he rewarded with government jobs and lucrative business monopolies . Democratic institutions were reshaped to his own design . That produced in turn a clamor among radical youth for a turn to the left , leading to bloody street riots and inevitable clashes with police . Terrorism rose . Marcos responded in 1972 by imposing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national emergency , when his term ended . Burdened by chronic mismanagement , debt and recession , combined with a stifling concentration of political power , the Philippines was sinking deeper into crisis as President Reagan took office in 1981 . But unlike many previous crises around the world ? most notably in Iran ? Washington saw this one coming and tried to adjust its course . Reagan 's Asia hands recognized quickly that the murder of opposition leader Aquino in August , 1983 , marked the beginning of the end for a once stable , though harsh , allied regime . That one act came to symbolize all the abuses , human-rights violations and unaccountability associated with almost two decades of Marcos 's rule . It also got the attention of the U.S. Congress , an institution acutely sensitive to any involvement that could tempt a President to use American  | troops . With that , any hope within the administration of treating the Philippines as business as usual evaporated . As the political fabric of the islands continued to unravel , a steady flow of high-level U.S. visitors ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R-Nev. ) ? delivered repeated warnings to Marcos . The message : Make sweeping economic , military and political reforms or face ultimate rejection . There was no direct threat to cut American support or void the mutual-security treaty that binds the two countries ? at least , Marcos says there was none . President Reagan kept his distance personally , avoiding mistakes such as Vice President Bush 's overexuberant praise for Philippine democracy in 1983 . The U.S. guiding theory now seems to be that , if Marcos falls , the United States must be in a position to do business with his successor . For his part , Marcos has spurned U.S. advice , clinging to his old ways and making no more than cosmetic changes . Typical of his unyielding behavior was his handling of the Aquino affair . The outcry at home and abroad finally led him to appoint an independent commission to investigate the murder . The panel concluded that Aquino 's death resulted from a high-level military conspiracy . But Armed Forces Chief of Staff Fabian Ver and 25 other soldiers were all acquitted after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure , Marcos reinstated Ver , his cousin and former driver , as chief of staff . Economic conditions alone in the Philippines would be enough to sink most free-world leaders . Nearly half the country 's 56.8 million people live in poverty . A high birth rate generates 700,000 more potential workers each year for an economy already beset by massive unemployment . Philippine productivity has fallen 10 percent in just two years , in part because of competition-stifling sugar and coconut monopolies that Marcos awarded to friends . These two key industries employ half the Philippine work force . The sugar industry has been controlled by Roberto Benedicto , a former fraternity brother of the President 's . The " Coconut King " is Eduardo Cojuanco , godfather of Marcos 's son . At the heart of the problem , says Asia scholar Lucian Pye , is that unlike other authoritarian leaders in East Asia , such as those in Indonesia and South Korea , " Marcos did n't create the sort of institutions that would make the economy work . He only built a patronage system . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military officers , may have been Marcos 's undoing . Laments Jaime Ongpin , head of the nation 's biggest miningand-construction conglomerate , " Marcos destroyed all the checks and balances . He mangled the Constitution , and he 's got the legislature and Supreme Court in his pocket . " Ongpin , whose brother Roberto is Marcos 's Minister of Trade and Industry , has become , along with a number of other business leaders , a top adviser to Corazon Aquino . The hope of U.S. officials is that such disaffection someday will congeal into a third force with the potential to undercut the Marcos system on the one hand and the Communist guerrillas on the other . Elections here tend to be decided by what the capital 's cynics call the " three G 's " ? guns , goons and gold . The old " vote early and vote often " axiom advocated in U.S. machine-style politics may be an ironic part of America 's legacy in the Philippines . For Marcos , that legacy may provide one more victory . But the political tides ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strong man . Even if he wins at the polls , Marcos will have lost his countrymen and , perhaps , his alliance with Washington , at great cost to everyone concerned .                     