@@487704

President Reagan , who speaks of local autonomy as if it were one of the Ten Commandments , is suddenly pushing big government . In 1984 , he pledged that Federal authority would not be imposed on state and local governments ' emergency evacuation plans for areas around nuclear power plants . Now he has issued an executive order giving just such power to the Federal Emergency Management Agency , the old " duck and cover " Civil Defense Agency . The trouble with local autonomy , it turns out , is that people wo n't behave the way the nuclear establishment wants them to . They used their political clout to shut down the Shoreham plant on Long Island , New York , and the Seabrook plant in New Hampshire , insisting that evacuating large numbers of people ? themselves ? in the event of a major accident is impossible . Anyone who has ever driven the Long Island Expressway knows this makes perfect sense . But we are talking money here , not safety . Those co-conspirators , the nuclear industry ' and the Department of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the 1990s . So are President-elect George Bush and his newly appointed chief of staff , John Sununu , who zealously promoted Seabrook while Governor of New Hampshire . Three Mile Island and Chernobyl may be remembered at the local level , but in Washington they are just wispy mishaps . The pro-nuclear cause was further advanced by a second , equally ominous , executive order signed by the President : It permits the Federal government to take over a nuclear plant in case of a national security " emergency . " Nobody in or out of government seems altogether clear on just how broadly " national security " will be construed . Chances are , though , that it will at least include meetings of Mothers Against Nuclear Power in the church basement . When the Bush League boys take the field in January , John Sununu will serve as playing coach . The three-term New Hampshire Governor is notoriously uncomfortable on the sidelines . He ran his small but strategically placed state like an owner-operated business : He centralized power in his own hands , computerized the whole @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drove Republicans as well as Democrats to distraction . The right-wing Manchester Union Leader used to call him " King John . " His fellow Republicans among New Hampshire 's elected officials are not solid supporters ; both Senator Gordon Humphrey and Governor-elect Judd Gregg blame Sununu for President Reagan 's recent order transferring command over nuclear power plant evacuation plans from local to Federal control ? a last chance to save Sununu 's pet installation at Seabrook . Sununu 's presence in the first wave of George Bush 's appointments seems something of an anomaly . He looks out of place against the gray expanse of mandarins , bureaucrats , holdovers and insiders that already colors the Cabinet . But if there is any precedent for the Sununu aberration it is none other than Dan Quayle , a loose bazooka of a different sort whose nomination confounded Washington wisdom and said more about Bush 's idiosyncracy than his predictability . Of course , John Sununu is no Dan Quayle . " Dr. " Sununu ( he likes his honorific , which he earned in mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future Vice President is famous mostly for bringing down the curve in his college classes . " John is the smartest man in the world , " a New Hampshire state representative said . " Just ask him ; he 'll tell you . " But like Quayle in the campaign , he may well cause more trouble than he 's worth . Just by his appointment , he has antagonized many in the Bush circle who feel that he is a usurper ( exit Craig Fuller , the Veep 's chief of staff since 1985 ) , an interloper and , worst of all , a provincial . Dissension in the White House , of course , is something of a blessing for those of us who fear that a more efficient Administration means only that bad policies will be applied more efficiently . But Sununu 's particular penchant for troublemaking gives cause for much concern . Like Quayle , he represents the hard right of the Republican Party ? Mario Cuomo calls him a " radical conservative " ? but Sununu is not aligned with the wacko wing that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the electronics-and defense-driven business boom that has transformed the state during the past two decades . His constituents are the techies and entrepreneurs who have streamed in as refugees from high-tax , high-welfare states ? particularly Massachusetts . Sununu is farther out on the right side of the political spectrum than Michael Dukakis is on the left . In Sununu 's scheme of things Dukakis is the essence of everything that 's wrong with liberalism . And therein lies Sununu 's attraction for Bush . Sununu campaigned against Dukakis a year ago , when the Massachusetts Governor was still a dwarf among the Democratic candidates . He figured that Bush would need him in the Republican primary and he went to bat for the beleaguered Vice President after Senator Robert Dole 's victory in the Iowa primary . " John bailed Bush 's ass out of the fire in the week between Iowa and New Hampshire , " a state legislator recalled . " He owes him big . " Not only did Sununu stump for Bush , he leaned on the media and the business community for favors to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claiming victory on election night , Bush singled out New Hampshire for special thanks ; what he meant was , thanks to Sununu . Sununu was active behind the scenes in Kennebunkport last spring when the Bush team plotted to define ? and destroy ? Dukakis . After all , Sununu had been watching his liberal neighbor for years . He was not dazzled by the Massachusetts Miracle ( in miraculous terms , New Hampshire is superior ) ; he spotted the potential problems Dukakis would have explaining Boston Harbor and Willie Horton ; and most of all , he understood how to talk dirty politics to the new class of white suburbanites who felt threatened by everything Dukakis stood for ? as defined by Sununu . Whatever else Sununu will do in the White House , he will extend the campaign against Dukakis and Dukakis clones , preparing the way for Bush 's second term and continuing to discredit the Democratic opposition . He does not distinguish between ideology and competence . His appointment signals just how serious Bush is about organizing power . Let the gray guys in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be in the office of Bad King John . Northern Light Toronto " G eorge Bush wants a kinder , gentler country . It 's Canada . " So read one anti-free trade placard before the November 21 election . In the end , Prime Minister Brian Mulroney was re-elected after a campaign that turned into an emotionally charged referendum on the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement that was signed in January , ratified by the U.S. Senate and still awaits the approval of the Canadian Parliament . Yet for Americans to interpret the victory of Mulroney 's Progressive Conservatives as a mirror image of their own recent history would be to misapprehend alarmingly the fundamental distinctions between the two countries . In its form , content and results , the Canadian election was markedly different from the recent U.S. presidential race . Of the 75 percent of eligible Canadian voters who cast their ballots , the majority came out against Mulroney and free trade and in favor of either John Turner 's Liberals or Ed Broadbent 's left-of-center New Democratic Party . The Tory majority shrank , the Liberals more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the N.D.P. achieved its heaviest ever representation . Even before free trade began to monopolize the agenda , the Canadian campaign was issue-laden  --  and progressive in tone . Government-subsidized day care , the environment and abortion were all central topics . The televised debates were substantive discussions of policy differences . No room here for " What is your favorite book ? " or " How would you react if your spouse were raped and murdered ? " It was through the debate format that John Turner managed to make free trade an inescapable issue for voters . Many Americans , even on the left , were surprised and perplexed by the vehement Canadian reaction against the deal , by the fear of becoming more Americanized . What Americans failed to grasp was that most Canadians actually believe they live in the better society . The audacity ! And Canadians define the qualitative difference between the two systems as being not merely cultural or economic but ideological . As Professor Stephen Clarkson explains , " Canadians know that we have better social programs , a better public education system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is because our government has been more interventionist . " The most effective argument against free trade was that it would insure , if not a loss of sovereignty , at least a shriveling of Canada 's robust welfare state ? to the depleted levels of the United States . Mulroney 's response to these charges illustrated just how much to the left Canada 's political center of gravity lies in comparison to liberal-fearing America . He did not contend that closer economic ties to the United States would open up new and better alternatives to the outdated welfare state . Instead , he presented himself as the protector of the welfare safety net , arguing that free trade , far from harming social programs , would strengthen them by increasing revenues . Mulroney won because these claims assuaged the fears of enough voters . He was also helped by a last-minute media blitz , backed by the private sector ( including several U.S.-owned multinationals ) , which outspent the grass-roots coalition of anti-free trade groups by about 10 to 1 . In addition , a number of companies attached letters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salary cuts if free trade did n't go through . It has , of course , crossed the minds of many Canadians that Mulroney doth protest too much his love of the welfare state . Inescapably , the approval of free trade will signal dramatic economic and social changes in Canada . Yet Canadians have demonstrated that they are unwilling to submit to any willful tinkering with their welfare state . On social issues , Mulroney 's political terms of reference in this campaign were to the left of Michael Dukakis 's . George Bush may try to add a fifty-first star to the American flag , but he will find the red maple leaf more difficult to obliterate than he imagines . MEREDITH LEVINE Meredith Levine is a Toronto-based freelance journalist . Palestine Agenda T he nineteenth session of the Palestine National Council , formally titled the " Intifada Meeting , " was momentous and , in many great and small ways , unprecedented . There were fewer hangers-on , groupies and " observers " than ever before . Security was tighter and more unpleasant than during the 1987 P.N.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had its own brutally suppressed Intifada , so the presence of several hundred Palestinians and at least 1,200 members of the press was not especially welcomed by the Benjedid government , which paradoxically needed the event to restore some of its tarnished revolutionary luster . The three-and-a-half-day conclave also accomplished more than any Palestinian meeting in the post-1948 period . Above all , it secured for Yam-Arafat his place in Palestinian and world history . None of the approximately 380 members came to Algiers with any illusion that Palestinians could again get away simply with creative ambiguity or solid affirmations of the need to struggle . The intifada 's momentum and its ability to have created a clear civil alternative to the Israeli occupation regime necessitated a definitive statement of support by the P.N.C. This required an unambiguous claim for sovereignty over whatever Palestinian territories were to be vacated by the occupation . There also had to be an equally unambiguous statement on peaceful resolution of the conflict between Palestinian Arabs and Israeli Jews , based on U.N . Resolutions 181 ( partition ) , 242 and 338 . In short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphatic transformation : from liberation movement to independence movement . Jordan 's recent withdrawal of claims for the West Bank made the need for transformation urgent and compelling . Everyone gathering in Algiers knew that this profound step was Arafat 's : first to define , then to persuade us to take , then finally to choreograph politically . When I arrived , he handed me the Arabic draft of the declaration of statehood and asked me to render it into English . It had been written by committee , then rewritten by Mahmoud Darwish , then , alas , covered with often ludicrously clumsy insertions and inexplicable deletions . Darwish later told me that the Old Man had struck the phrase " collective memory " because , we opined , he took it as poetic . " Tell him it has a serious and even scientific meaning , " Darwish implored me ; " maybe he 'll listen to you . " He did n't , and I did n't listen when Arafat wanted other , mistaken phrases inserted . Perhaps the oddest thing about this P.N.C. ? with its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two main documents ( the declaration of statehood and the political resolutions ) in public debates for hours on end without a piece of paper before us . After the opening ceremonies on Saturday , the Council divided itself into two committees , the political and the intifada . Arafat had the texts memorized , and Nabil Shaath , brilliantly adroit chair of the political committee , had them before him . All relevant discussion took place in the riveting atmosphere of that committee , with speaker after speaker sounding off on what after all was the most significant political moment in Palestinian life since 1948 . Words , commas , semicolons and paragraphs were the common talk of each recess , as if this were a convention of grammarians . The heart of the debate was articulated by George Habash and Abu lyad ( Salah Khalaf ) , the first an opponent of the by now well-known substance of the political program , the second Arafat 's key supporter and one of the main leaders of Fatah . Habash 's express reservations concerned the clear acceptance of 242 and 338 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us simply as " refugees " but also because they contain an implicit pre-negotiating recognition of Israel . This , Habash said , was going too far too soon ; there had been agreement that such tough issues as recognition , 242 , borders , etc. , would be handled at the international conference . Why , Habash asked , must we go forward on everything before the conference ? He spoke passionately , saying without hesitation that he and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine wished to remain in the P.L.O . no matter what the outcome or the disagreements . To which , in a superbly meandering and yet fascinating speech , Abu lyad said that decisions had to be made now , not only in the face of the discouraging realities of the Israeli elections but because our people needed an immediate , concrete statement of our goals . What clinched it for me was the logic of Abu Iyad 's thesis that decisive clarity was necessary principally for ourselves and our friends , not because our enemies kept hectoring us to make more concessions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the political program had been passed by a large majority in the political committee , and immediately afterward the whole P.N.C. was reconvened in plenary session . Habash and supporters fought each sentence almost word by word on the crucial 242/338 paragraph , which was voted on in different forms half a dozen times . The ungainly paragraph that resulted shows the effect of those battles , although the substance remains unmistakable . At one point Arafat stood up and recited the entire program from memory , indicating where the clause , sentence and paragraph breaks occurred , so that there could be no mistake about meaning , emphasis , conclusion . For the first time in P.N.C. history , voting by acclamation was n't going to be enough ; Habash had insisted on precise tallies , which emerged to his disadvantage : 253 for , 46 against , 10 abstaining . There was a sad nostalgia to what he represented , since in effect by voting against him we were taking leave of the past as embodied in his defiant gestures . The declaration ceremonies that closed the meetings were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past there could be no doubt whatever . To declare statehood on the basis of Resolution 181 was first of all to say unequivocally that an Arab Palestinian and an Israeli state should coexist in a partitioned Palestine . Self-determination would thus be for two peoples , not just for one . Most of us there had grown up with the reality ( lived and remembered ) of Palestine as an Arab country , refusing to concede anything more than the exigency of a Jewish state , one at our expense in the loss of our land , our society and uncountable thousands of lives . As we met , a million and a half of our compatriots were under brutal military occupation , fighting tanks and fully armed soldiers with rocks and an unbending will . For the first time also , we implicitly recognized a state that offered us nothing but the empty formulas of Camp David or the openly racist threats of " transfer . " The declaration of statehood spelled out principles of equality , mutuality and social justice far in advance of anything in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not the territories specified in the 1947 U.N . resolution . All of us felt that since Israel has never declared its boundaries , we could not declare ours now ; better to negotiate the question of boundaries with Israel and a confederal relationship with Jordan directly . There was no doubt , however , that we were discussing the territories occupied in 1967 . Secondly , there was absolute clarity in speaking of a peaceful settlement to the conflict . " Armed struggle " does not appear in the binding resolutions to the political program . Central to those resolutions is a long and awkward sentence endorsing an international peace conference based on 242 and 338 . The language surrounding acceptance of the U.N . resolutions raises no reservations about that acceptance but simply states the obvious . Representation by the P.L.O . on an equal footing with other parties , the aegis of the Security Council , the implementation of 242 and 338 , the centrality of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict , the inalienable rights of the Palestinian people ? all these are mentioned as the context , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepting . This was crucial because 242 and 338 say nothing about the political actuality of the Palestinian people , which in 1967 seemed scarcely evident . Thirdly , the rejection of terrorism ( also affirmed in the declaration ) emphatically distinguishes between resistance to occupation , to which Palestinians are entitled according to the U.N . Charter and international law , and indiscriminate violence against civilians by states or by individuals and groups . Note that there exists no all-purpose definition of terrorism , one that has international validity and impartiality of application . Also note that Israel has always arrogated to itself the right to attack civilians in the name of its security . Finally and most important , all the resolutions clearly intend willingness to negotiate directly . There are no disclaimers about the " Zionist entity , " or about the legitimacy of Israeli representatives . All the relevant passages about peace , partition and statehood in the 1964 Palestinian National Covenant are flatly contradicted by the 1988 P.N.C. resolutions . All the refusals , attacks and insults heaped on the Council 's results , both by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " signify consternation . Clearly , the mort Palestinians take responsible and realistic posltibns , the less acceptable we become , not just because Palestinians want peace but because Israelis do n't know what to do when peace is offered to them . There is a dispiriting continuity here between the early days . of Israel 's existence , when Ben-Gurion refused peace with the Arabs , and the all-out rejection trundled out today by Likud and Labor alike . The point is not that the Council 's documents are perfect and complete but that they must be interpreted as everyone in Algiers intended  --  as a beginning that signals a distinct break with the past , as an assertion of willingness to make sacrifices in the interests of peace , as a definitive statement of the Palestinian acceptance of the international consensus : A few days before the Algiers meeting Ariel Sharon appeared on Italian television vociferating about the need to kill Arafat . That no comparable sentiment was expressed in Algiers about an Israeli leader testifies eloquently to the real difference now between Israeli and Palestinian leaders . These @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worse , and assassinations and full-scale political war will intensify . For once , however , the record is unmistakable as to who is for peace , who for bloodshed and suffering . But our campaign for peace must be joined . What I can not understand or condone is how the U.S. media  --  quite unlike that in the rest of the world  --  has internalized the rejectionism promulgated by the Israeli and U.S. establishments . Far from reading the texts as they were meant to be read , commentators persist in suggesting that whatever was said in the texts could not , by definition , be enough . Why is Israel not asked whether it is willing to coexist with a Palestinian state , or negotiate , or accept 242 , or renounce violence , or recognize the P.L.O. , or accept demilitarization , or allay Palestinian fears , or stop killing civilians , or end the occupation , or answer any questions at all ? Perhaps the media will break their silence , as Palestinians already have . EDWARD W . SAID Edward W. Said , a Nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council .                     