@@494107

Living though I do in a military environment , I have n't yet had to confront the question of accepting women into the armed services . For the British forces , though four percent female , remain entirely masculine in ethos and the servicewomen themselves show no sign of wanting it otherwise . They seem happy to wear a distinctively feminine uniform , to preserve their separate women 's corps , and to continue to perform noncombat tasks . It was a considerable surprise , therefore , to discover from Helen Rogan 's illuminating investigation of American service life how nearly complete is the integration of the two sexes in the U.S. armed forces and ment programs and spending has increased , but that antipathy is less ideological than pragmatic . It is based on concerns about the programs ' impracticality , and their failure to meet the goals for which they were created , along with worry about increasing government deficits and inflation . Fourth , the problems of the country are severe enough , the public alienated enough , and the presidency demystified enough , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the grounds that things ca n't get worse ? than they have been during much of the past . ( Polls shortly before the election showed that 30 percent of the voters would have supported Anderson if they had thought he had a chance to win . ) In the current political period , the danger for conservative Republicans is to attempt to read more than this conclusion from the 1980 results . The danger for liberal Democrats is to attempt to read less than this conclusion . ALAN BARON Alan Baron is publisher and editor of the Baron Report and editor of Opinion Outlook . how anxious some women soldiers are that the remaining barriers should be dismantled . There are American women who really do want to fight , men who support their case , and as yet no clear legal grounds for excluding them from combat . As Helen Rogan recounts , the women derive their case from the Equal Rights Amendment of 1972 , which only the failure of the requisite number of states to ratify has prevented from passing into law . But since August 1981 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because of the strong emotions the issue arouses within the service . American male soldiers , it seems , experienced something akin to biological shock at the idea of sharing a foxhole with a woman buddy . The emotions of all American servicewomen , whether for or against the integration of combat units , have , however , been equally aroused by this reaction . Very few would be willing ever again , they told Helen Rogan , to settle for the separate and unequal status occupied by their British sisters . Y ET THE BRITISH were the first to enlist women , during World War I , and they have been by no means behind other Anglo-Saxon nations , themselves pioneers in this respect , in accepting that women had the right to legal equality with the other sex . If their military women continue to accept a subordinate role , what is it which prompts their American sisters to reject it ? Is it a national difference ? Or is it something about the way military men treat women who come within their ambit , perhaps more pronounced on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which explains the contrast ? Ignorant as I was of the context in which women have served , I thought it might be useful to dig about in the literature of female military service , such as it is , in an effort to understand this new impatience . I began with a little book , published in 1942 , called She Walks in Battledress , by Anthony Cotterell ? a journalist 's account of the women 's services in Britain during World War II . And as I read , I began to understand . Historians are used to decoding ? indeed , that 's the fashionable way for them to describe to each other what they do : translating the metaphor of a former age into that of our own . But how the devil , I asked myself as I leafed with increasing disbelief through the pages of the book , do you translate this sort of stuff ? In a mixed anti-aircraft battery , there are 229 women and 189 men ( including officers ) . Roughly speaking , the men do the shooting and the women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather a pride in being treated as men 's equals , and they are extremely loyal . There is a strong element of hero-worship about their attitudes , the same kind of quality which makes women in a factory come out on strike when the foreman is fired . Wheeauiouw ! ! ! , as Tom Wolfe might say . Granted , this was written before the Sex Discrimination Act and the Employment Protection Act , but it could have been written before the sailing of the ark . It might certainly have come from a Victorian outpost of empire : substitute " white " for " black " and " native " for " women , " and you 're back in Bengal , circa 1857 . No wonder there was a mutiny . Among women , that is . The Indian mutineers had other things on their minds . Caste , for one , and status for another . Theirs was a mutiny against change . Women have been mutinying for change . And if , less than 40 years ago , the very center of the male preserve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the servants ' hall and the dub powder room , then almost everything about the women 's movement becomes understandable . Men may even have been lucky to have escaped a little Kanpur somewhere along the line . Imagine what Ulrike Meinhoff might have wrought if she had hated the opposite sex more than the capitalist class . There would have been blood on the billiard table at Boodle 's . A ND YET does n't Kanpur explain just a little the reluctance with which armies admit women to membership of the club ? Recall the events : Kanpur was one of the earliest centers of mutiny in 1857 . Mismanagement of the defense soon forced the British officers and sergeants , with their families , to surrender to the sepoys , on the promise of safe conduct out of the city . Most of the men were then killed by treachery , and the women and children imprisoned . At the approach of a relief force , a party of butchers entered their prison and hacked them to death . The bodies , about 200 in number , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were disinterred , the evidence of the outrage " roused British manhood in India to a pitch of national hatred which took years to allay " ? a contemporary euphemism for a wave of indiscriminate revenge against Indian men everywhere in the Kanpur district . In the nature of things , most of the victims were innocent , because the guilty had fled . But the avengers probably did not care . For the story was that the women in the well had been raped before death . The story was false . But it was likely to be believed because , lurking in the folk memory of all soldiers , was the knowledge that rape was all too often the lot of women in the aftermath of a siege , or of any military operation , in fact . It was one of the reasons why soldiers left their wives , if and when they had them , at home when they departed on campaign . But , traditionally , private soldiers were too poor to marry . Governments would not meet the expense of maintaining a married army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the military life . A few hardy or lovesick souls consistently found ways to follow their men into the field : by the end of the 18th century the British Army actually allowed two or three wives per company of a 100 men " on the strength , " though they were expected to support themselves by doing the company 's laundry . When widowed , which they frequently were , they commonly remarried on the spot . There is a famous story of a sergeant provoking a widow to tears by proposing to her on her return from the cemetery . When he apologized , she explained that they were tears of self-reproach , for she had accepted a corporal on the march back , " a much less good match . " The story comes from Victorian India . But it harks back to an earlier age , when celibacy was the soldier 's accepted lot . Hence the outrage at the Kanpur rumors . India being regarded as pacified , the army had adopted the style of garrison life where marriage , official or unofficial , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they had subjected the army 's " pure " women to the ravages of war ? and so dishonored the army itself , by a sort of sexual Pearl Harbor . Rape among the " followers , " the Indian equivalent of the baggage trains which have followed armies time out of mind , would have caused nothing like that reaction . For " impure " women were as much a part of military life as knapsacks or flogging . Where they came from we can not now even guess , but presumably they were driven to combine prostitution with vagabondage by a degree of poverty then chronic , which we moderns can not even imagine . Authority accepted their presence as inevitable , but savaged them when outbreaks of venereal disease attacked the investment which a healthy army represented . Medical advances in the 19th century offered an alternative to the whip and the branding iron , which was to install healthy prostitutes in official brothels . As late as the 1950s , the French Foreign Legion maintained its own in Indochina , staffed by girls of the Algerian Ouled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the siege of Dien Bien Phu . Nursing might be thought a traditional role for women in armies . But until Florence Nightingale made it one , the career was thought no more respectable in military than civilian hospitals . The Nightingale revolution , indeed , violated two taboos : those against women associating professionally with the sick and with armies . And , despite legend , Florence Nightingale 's example was slow to take effect . The British nurse corps was not established until 1881 , 20 years after her work in the Crimea ; the American not until 1901 . It was really World War I which changed attitudes on a wide scale . Patriotic enthusiasm then brought volunteers in large numbers to staff the emergency hospitals which the flood of casualties called into being , and made military nursing an accepted calling . The casualty flood , by depleting the pool of manpower from which replacements were drawn , also initiated the moves which were eventually to make women soldiers . The British were the first to be hard pressed enough to ask for female volunteers to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War II prompted even the chauvinist Reich to follow their example , which was imitated , though for feminist reasons rather than those of necessity , by the United States . Waves , Wacs , Spars were living evidence of the advance women had won in the most mature democracy in the world . And the survival of the women 's service into the peace further testified to it . E LSEWHERE , in societies crucified by the war , women were drawn across the combat barrier by a stark shortage of men . They served as tank crew , machine gunners , and fighter pilots in Stalin 's army ; 25,000 of them were killed in action among Tito 's partisans . And in wars of national resistance they were to fight also , as some Israeli and Vietnamese women did . Wherever the necessity could be avoided , however , armies held out against their participating in any but an ancillary role . We know , or if we do not Helen Rogan explains , why the United States Army was the first to lower the barriers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which could only be made good by expanding the enlistment of women . The Equal Rights Amendment threatened changes the Army believed it could forestall only by offering women equality in everything but the combat commitment . Hence the integrated ? or almost integrated ? Army . If the Army jibs at the last fence , it may not be for the reason women suspect . There are physiological reasons why men are more suitable for combat than women , however irritating women may find it to be told that . There are undoubtedly cultural reasons , about which some soldiers are frank . But whatever the male guilt about rape , prostitution , and undignified marriage ? the fates , all too commonly , of women in the orbit of armies in the past ? it is not really those things which inhibit of combat to the opposite sex . Their resistance derives not from a sexist but an empirical position . And it is this : experience has taught soldiers that it is given to few to order others to their deaths . The capacity to do so depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by all the evidence , completely absent from females . " Men idealize women more than I thought they did , " one of Helen Rogan 's lady soldiers ruefully conceded . And why should they not ? If the world is less a nasty place than it might very well be , that is because one whole half of the human race is unwarlike . There is something infinitely sad about a minority of that half trying to make themselves otherwise . Vice la difference !                     