@@321006

Its pyramidal glass roof juts proudly into the sky , 157 ft. its splash of gaily colored panels shimmers in the sun 's bright glow . As architecture , the new National Aquarium in Baltimore is striking ; as a scientific and educational showcase , it already ranks among the nation 's best . <P> Perched on Pier 3 at the eastern end of the harbor , the aquarium-city-owned and built without federal funds-was begun in 1976 . Although Congress did not contribute funds for its construction , it nevertheless designated the rising structure a national aquarium in 1979 . By July its three huge tanks were filled with almost 500,000 gal . of salt water ( most of it synthetic , since the genuine briny from the Inner Harbor does not have enough salt to sustain many marine creatures ) and were ready to receive the first of some 5,000 fish , mammals , birds and amphibians that the aquarium now contains . A hoped-for completion date of July 4 was not met , but last week , amid fish-shaped kites , an appearance by Roy Rogers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Executive Director James Kepley , 38 , a muscular , red-bearded marine biologist : " Working toward this day has been a perpetual high for 3 years . " <P> Designed by Peter Chermayeff , 45 , chief architect of Cambridge Seven Associates , the building improves upon concepts the firm used in 1970 for Boston 's successful New England Aquarium . Chermayeff describes the layout as similar to a symphony , with a linear structure following an " ABA " rhythm . The exhibits constitute the A elements , or as Chermayeff puts it , " something to read , confront , evoke a response . " Long escalator rides from one floor to another through a dramatically high-ceilinged central space provide the release , or B elements . The building begins with a low-key introduction to water-large , blue bubble-tubes at the entrance-and after a long , steadily mounting crescendo ends on a sort of coda of quiet contemplation : a globe , 8 ft. in diameter and cut in half , frames the exit , graphically demonstrating the fragility of the oceans in relation to the earth 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a serious problem , and I did not want that to happen here . " <P> The aquarium 's orchestrated splendors include plenty to justify the quote from the late anthropologist Loren Eisely that is lettered on a plaque at the start of the exhibits : " If there is magic on this planet , it is contained in water . " Suspended majestically over the central space is a 63-ft. skeleton of a finback whale donated by the New York State Museum in Albany , where it had been on display from the 1890s to 1978 . The dolphin pool , or " tray , " is visible from almost every vantage point in the building , its rippling surface broken by the frothy play of four bottle-nosed dolphins . Recorded sounds of surf , sea birds , sea lions and even snapping crustaceans can be heard on the escalator rides .                     