@@295134

The anti-Soviet attitude of the Reagan Administration is causing dismay in the Kremlin . During a two-week visit to the U.S.S.R. , TIME Diplomatic Correspondent Strobe Talbott talked with many Soviet officials about the new U.S. position . A summary of their views : <P> There is nothing muted or polite about Moscow 's alarm and impatience with the new Administration . In a series of interviews , Soviet observers have lashed out sharply not just against the Administration as a whole but against individuals in key positions . Says Georgi Arbatov , the U.S.S.R. 's chief America watcher and a member of the Communist Party Central Committee : " The people who have come to power are more ideological than almost any in the past . Many of them hate us blindly . I 'm not necessarily talking about the top level , but at the next level there are biased zealots , with rather low intellectual capacities at that . And the whole disarmament field has been turned over to people like Eugene Rostow , Rowny , Perle and Burt. * It 's a bit like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this guy Ernest Lefever . The whole thing is tremendously Orwellian . I do n't know how close these people are to the President . As for Secretary of State Alexander Haig , some Europeans talk about him as the only politically literate , experienced and dependable man in the U.S. Government right now . I just do n't know . If they 're right , then we 're really badly off . Step by step , almost everything Haig has said and done has been to destroy what small amount of trust remains . " <P> The Soviets seem far less hopeful than they were at the outset of this Administration that Reagan will end up , like earlier postwar conservative Republican Presidents , presiding over better Soviet-American relations than liberal Democrats . Says Svyatoslav Kozlov , a retired general who now writes on military affairs : " Our experience with Dwight Eisenhower and Richard Nixon suggests that there may still be hope for avoiding a complete breakdown , but the paradox of our better relations with Republican Presidents is by no means predestined to be repeated with Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party official , agrees : " The Nixon model is , in theory , still not excluded . But you Americans say Reagan is different from his predecessors in that he will fulfill his campaign promises-including , presumably , the most anti-Soviet ones . " <P> So far , the Soviets seem to accept what many Reagan and Haig aides privately admit : the new Administration 's means and goals for managing the relationship are still taking shape and , in some cases , are still under debate . As a foreign ministry official points out , " Even the one initiative in recent months that we have welcomed here-the lifting of the grain embargo-was motivated solely by domestic political considerations . It was potentially important for your relations with us , yet the decision was made in a foreign policy vacuum . We 're waiting to see how that vacuum is finally filled . "                     