@@325509

Botha wins mixed support for constitutional reform <P> Afrikaners call it broedertwis , a fight between brothers . For months the once close-knit tribe of mainly Dutch-descended whites who control South African politics had been locked in a nasty family feud that centered on the " Battle of the Bergs , " two special by-elections in the Transvaal region . At rallies for the candidates of the ruling National Party , Prime Minister Pieter W. Botha was jeered by hecklers supporting opponents in the far-right Conservative Party who accused him of plotting to " give away " white domination of the government to blacks . Losing his customary composure , Botha shouted back . As tempers rose , fistfights routinely broke out among factions in the crowds . <P> The single issue in the hysterical campaign was Botha 's controversial plan , announced a year ago , to modify South Africa 's rigid apartheid laws by giving limited voting rights to Asians and " coloreds " ( people of mixed race ) . Last week the white voters finally delivered a complicated message . In his first election @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year to form the new Conservative Party , former Cabinet Minister Andries Treurnicht soundly defeated Nationalist Candidate Eban Cuyler in the heavily Afrikaner district of Waterberg . But that apparent repudiation of Botha 's planned reforms was offset by a National Party victory next door in the equally Afrikaner district of Soutpansberg , where the Prime Minister 's close ally , Manpower Minister Fanie Botha ( no relation ) , narrowly beat the Conservative candidate . <P> The results add up to a qualified victory for Botha . Some National Party supporters had been deeply concerned that they might lose in both of the rural conservative constituencies . The split result came as a relief , but it showed nonetheless that Prime Minister Botha had lost many votes to the right . In a third by-election , in Pretoria 's suburb of Waterkloof , the Nationalists overwhelmed both the liberal Progressive Federal Party and the Conservatives . For Botha , it was welcome evidence of his continued appeal among urban whites . Still , Treurnicht 's success was a clear signal that Botha can expect vehement resistance from right-wingers to any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enfranchisement of Asians and coloreds , declared the deputy leader of the Conservatives , Ferdie Hartzenberg , was " a recipe for conflict . " <P> Botha 's controversial " power sharing " proposal would scrap South Africa 's current parliamentary system . Under a new constitution drafted by Botha , a Gaullist-style President would exercise sweeping powers , while South Africa 's 2.8 million coloreds and 900,000 Asians would be granted limited representation according to a formula that would keep final legislative control firmly in white hands . Excluded entirely from the process would be South Africa 's 20 million blacks . Under the government 's longstanding " homelands " policy , they would continue to be forced to accept artificial citizenship in largely inhospitable " autonomous " black states , far from white population centers.                     