@@487770

If there was a winner at the seventeenth session of the Palestine National Council , held in the Jordanian capital from November 22 through 29 , it was not Yasir Arafat . It was Al Fatah , the guerrilla group Arafat helped found twenty-five years ago . While Arafat did achieve a personal triumph in Amman , it was the Central Council of Al Fatah , on which he sits , that held the annual meeting of the Palestinian parliament-in-exile despite pressure from Syria ( which allegedly included threats against delegates and their families ) and the decision by two rebel groups , the National Alliance and the Democratic Alliance , to boycott the meeting . Al Fatah 's inner circle decided to convene the council in early November , when it became clear that Syrian President Hafez al-Assad had no intention of halting his campaign to Scott MacLeod is a freelance journalist based in London who has written on the Middle East for the New Statesman . depose Arafat , whom he despises and perceives as an obstacle to his goal of controlling the P.L.O . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Syrian-occupied Lebanon , echoed Assad 's views . It includes followers of Col. Said Musa ( nom de guerre , Abu Musa ) , who seceded from Al Fatah , and members of Ahmad Jibril 's Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command , which has strong Libyan backing . While the National Alliance 's absence was a foregone conclusion , the role the leftist Democratic Alliance would play was uncertain . Its principal component groups are George Habash 's Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and Nayef Hawatmeh 's Democratic Front . While the two men agree with the National Alliance 's complaint that Arafat has become dictatorial and that he was wrong to abandon armed struggle , they remain neutral in the feud between him and Assad . Habash and Hawatmeh still regard Arafat as the symbolic leader of the Palestinian movement and do not think he should be deposed . Also , they feel that for the sake of unity the P.L.O . should not become a Syrian puppet . In June , Al Fatah and the Democratic Alliance signed the Aden-Algiers Agreement , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and called for a meeting of the National Council . Arafat 's populist instincts told him he would have sufficient support at the session to win approval of his leadership and his program . But Habash and Hawatmeh were unable to sell the agreement in Damascus , where they are based , and compelled by Syria , they withdrew their promises to attend . Faced with the dilemma of whether to hold the meeting without Habash , Hawatmeh and the National Alliance , Al Fatah decided to press ahead . That was a watershed in P.L.O . history . No longer would small factions retain a veto over policy , as they had in the past . If Al Fatah continues to follow the principle of majority rule rather than decision by consensus , the result may be a P.L.O . steered by the moderate views of the mainstream members rather than those of the radicals , who held sway during the late 1960s and early 1970s . There is no doubt , however , that the seventeenth session was dominated by Al Fatah , which pushed through several measures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course . The delegates approved a subtly worded political platform giving the National Council 's fourteen-member Executive Committee , chaired by Arafat , wider latitude in making concessions in exchange for a Middle East settlement that would satisfy at least some aspirations of the Palestinian people . Al Fatah also won acceptance of a significant resolution regarding Egypt . Only twenty-one months earlier , delegates to the sixteenth session had passed a resolution tacitly calling for aid to " patriotic " groups in Egypt opposed to the Camp David process endorsed by President Hosni Mubarak . Understandably angered , the Egyptian leader retaliated by torpedoing the P.L.O . ' s plan to open a radio station in Cairo . But in Amman , the National Council reversed its position and endorsed Arafat 's December 1983 trip to Cairo , calling it an important step toward " strengthening relations , " and every top official in attendance went on record in support of closer ties with Egypt . Another important resolution authorized the Executive Committee to continue talks with Jordan 's King Hussein aimed at developing a joint strategy for a Middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ element of President Reagan 's September 1982 peace plan for the region . At the time , Arafat made some halting , ambiguous moves in that direction , but he abandoned his discussions with Hussein in April 1983 under pressure from Syria and the P.L.O . dissidents who , a month later , launched an armed uprising against him in Lebanon . By reaffirming Arafat 's leadership and passing resolutions he favored , the council session did provide him a personal victory of sorts . But it came at the price of a concession to demands for more collective leadership . Even the Fatah inner circle had become disenchanted with Arafat 's high-handed Lone Ranger style , as evidenced by its Central Council 's 10-to-1 vote to censure him in 1983 for going to Cairo . The final decision on whether to hold the meeting rested with the Fatah leadership rather than with Arafat alone . " If any one of us in the Central Council , for example myself , had not wanted the P.N.C. to be held , it would not have been held , " Al Fatah 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told me . " In reality , and on a deeper level , Arafat knows he can not proceed on his own . " The leadership that emerged in Amman is controlled by Al Fatah and thus is more homogeneous than in the past . Still , it could succumb to the paralysis of will that has previously stalled the P.L.O . leadership . The Executive Committee 's first test will come with its handling of the factionalism in the organization . The Palestine National Council , which is the P.L.O . ' s governing body , directed it to seek a reconciliation with Habash and Hawatmeh , as well as with President Assad . The danger is that the task may be so consuming that the committee will become bogged down , delaying diplomatic moves toward a Middle East settlement . Al Fatah has already expelled the leaders of the National Alliance as traitors , but dealing with Hawatmeh and Habash is a different matter . They are popular figures , founding fathers of the armed resistance against Israel ; and they have important ties to Marxist regimes and movements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money , prestige and arms . Nor can Syria be ignored , though some in Al Fatah wish that it could . It is the only frontline state that permits Palestinian guerrillas to operate on its territory , albeit under close supervision and only in Syrian-controlled Lebanon . According to Khalaf , Al Fatah will make no concessions to Damascus , and Habash and Hawatmeh may be asked to move their headquarters out of that city if they wish to regain their former prestige within the P.L.O . Four seats on the Executive Committee have been kept open for them should they desire to return to the fold . " The ball is in their court , " Khalaf says . As for future peace efforts , King Hussein told the delegates that he stands ready to help . In a speech that was remarkable for its candor , the King signaled Jordan 's willingness to play a more active role in achieving a Middle East peace agreement . " The picture is bleak , " he said . " Things appear difficult at the moment . " Regretting the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he said it was time to be flexible and cast aside outworn slogans . Hussein called for Jordan and the P.L.O . to draft a joint peace initiative aimed at recovering the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip . While his proposal for an international peace conference in which the P.L.O . would be a full participant pleased the delegates , they bridled at his endorsement of U.N . Security Council Resolution 242 . The P.L.O . opposes the resolution because while it calls on Israel to return the occupied territories , it does not recognize the Palestinians ' right to a separate state , which continues to be the organization 's chief objective . While favorably inclined to resume talks with Hussein , P.L.O . leaders also see the possibility of playing the " Egyptian card " once diplomatic ties are restored . Hussein 's decision to become the first Arab head of state to restore diplomatic relations with Egypt increases the chance for a more moderate Arab approach to negotiations with Israel and the United States . Whether Arafat and the regrouped P.L.O . will make sincere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on opportunities provided by those two countries . In the last go-round , in late 1982 and early 1983 , when Hussein was earnestly pursuing the Reagan proposals , Washington did little to assure him that Israel would be forthcoming with concessions if he took the enormous risk of announcing his intention to negotiate with Israel on the P.L.O . ' s behalf . Menachem Begin 's Likud government , it should be recalled , rejected the Reagan plan the day after it was announced . At the time Arafat and Hussein broke off their talks , the pace of Jewish settlement of the West Bank continued unabated and Israeli troops still occupied a third of Lebanon . Later in the year , the Reagan Administration upset the Arab nations by signing a strategic and military cooperation agreement with Israel . By proposing an international peace conference , Hussein has adopted an idea first advanced by the Soviet Union , and rejected by the United States and Israel . That he should do so is but the latest expression of Arab disillusionment with Washington . ?     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       