@@480239

IN NEW YORK . 3,330 delegates to the Democratic party convention are picking tip their credentials for the circus floor of Madison Square Garden . They are arguing about bow to count nineteen million primary votes . In the District of Columbia , up by Rock Creek Park , about 4,700 delegates to the sixtieth annual convention of the American Society of Associa-. tion Executives ( ASAE ) are checking into the new , ultramodern Sheraton Washington . Inside , the Sheraton has a marvelous similarity to the sets of the space odyssey movie 2001 : all chrome , bright steel , shining vinyl , and the bright basic colors of futurism . The 5,100 ASAE delegates repre. sent 2,300 national and international business , professional , and trade orga. nizations ; nearly 16,000 association officers ; and even after duplicate memberships have been filtered out , upward of thirty million members of business associations who pay dues . Of the two syndicates , the ASAE appears to be the larger party ? it has more voters , anyway , than the Democrats . ABC-TV alone has 600 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but not one network commentator is present at the ASAE convention to interpret to millions the significance of a new coalition . Never mind : The ASAE operating budget is $6.6 million , but the combined operating budgets of ASAE member associations approximate $6 billion a year . Some claim the expense runs to $10 billion annually : even at $6 billion . ASAE aggregate expenses run six times the total annual national budget to operate both houses of the Congress and their staffs . More votes , plus more money , eventually equals more political clout . In pursuing their own interests , ASAE associations can say they are also promoting the general welfare , just as the Democrats claim to be a consortium for varied interests . Hence , the Democrats can say without contradiction that their party will be unified come election day . despite squabbles at the convention . In contrast , ASAE delegates have few problems with political unity ? they 're for Reagan . They 're fed up , they say . They 're mad , especially at the bullies from the IRS . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say . They 'd like to dismantle the executive branch of government , and they 're going to learn how to do it . Their rhetoric is curious because they talk much about revolution , about revolt , about a general strike against the elitists who interfere with private choices . Like other radicals , corporate America does not appear to have given much thought to the day when the glorious revolution finally comes , when at last the state apparatus must wither away . Maybe the first thing to do will be to subdivide . But they 're convinced there is a big change approaching in the Eighties . The theme of the sixtieth annual ASAE convention is " Turning Point , " represented in the ASAE 's brochures and agenda by the geometry of a M ? bius strip ? a continuous curved plane , joined in a loop , so that its opposing surfaces have neither an outside nor an inside . A MObius strip has no turning point because it is a surface ; but geometric symbols aside , the effects of the ASAE 's convocation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a convention of association executives who schedule meetings of association officers who call meetings of business and professional executives . 0 THE EXTENT that the business of America is business , and the business of business is meetings , the statistics of the meetings business are staggering . Each ASAE delegate to the ASAE national convention represents an association that will subsequently schedule an average of forty meetings each year ? something on the order of 400,000 subsequent assemblies . Most of these are small and can be fit into a local Holiday Inn ; but many are huge and need all of Chicago 's available rooms reserved ten years in advance . According to Virginia M. Lofft , editor of the industry 's leading trade journal , Successful Meetings , the annual trade-association , professional , and corporate meetings include : 112 million out-of-town trips , 643.483 corporate meetings , 9,436 national and international shows and conventions , 37,821 state and regional meetings ; about 30.7 million in combined attendance , and about $15 billion in total expenditures ? an amount exceeding the entire national budget for the U.S. Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for educational and business purposes , and thereby qualify as tax-deductible expenses , provided complete records are kept . No matter which way these assemblies are viewed as thir-ty million plates of chicken salad , or as articulated political constituencies ? they are major economic forces to the cities in which they convene , whether the city happens to have a Republican or Democratic machine . Consequently , at the ASAE convention in Washington , 555 slick trade-show booths in four exhibition " halls , " totaling nearly 100,000 square feet , are staffed by nearly 1,000 pitchmen and women who exhort ASAE delegates to hold their next caucus in New York , Acapulco , San Francisco , or Grand Rapids , Michigan ? which says it has a " Blueprint for Success . " Elko , Nevada , promises a successful meeting , too : if the sheepherders are n't in from Wyoming that month , Elko might be a purty slick place for an executive of a small association to schedule a meeting . Necessarily , the big associations have to go where the city , stale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups such as the National Association of Independent Insurance Agents , the National Association of Real Estate Boards , the National Association of Home Builders , the American Bankers Association , the Chemical Manufacturers Association , the American Home Economics Association , the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists , the National Association of Life Underwriters , the Small Business and Independent Trades Association , or the Proprietary Association ? the manufacturers of over-the-counter , or patent , medicines and cosmetics . In turn , these 10,000 constituencies are begininng to coordinate their political activities as well as their economic interests not only with their member corporations , but also with the political efforts of the corporate association represented by the National Federation of Independent Business , Inc. ( the small businesses ) , by the National Associations of Manufacturers ( the big industrial combinations ) ; by the Chamber of Commerce of the United States ; by 100,000 members in a broad middle hand ; by the Business Roundtable ? a secret list of select Fortune 500 giant conglomerates ; and by the American Society of Association Executives . James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is credited with his association 's spectacular fifteen-year growth from an insignificant association of associations in 1965 that could fit into two rooms in the Dupont Plaza , to an increasingly confident organization capable of wielding political swat . E XACTLY WHAT 'S to be done , however , is not entirely clear . The great impetus for the ASAE 's growth came during Washington 's extraordinary multiplication of regulatory activity under the Republican administration . Under the Carter administration ASAE-connected coalitions have been effective at blocking legislation or regulations they opposed ? in some cases , even dismantling agencies under a Democratic administration whose powers were extended under Republican supervision . Although ASAE members like to rage at Nader 's activists , ASAE-connected coalitions have joined Nader 's lobbyist to deregulate an industry . At the ICC , shippers joined " Nader 's raiders " to oppose trucking corporations and unions who were extravagant supporters of Nixon . A lobbyist for the Nader-sponsored , ten-member Congress Watch organization , Nancy Drabble , guesses that if corporate lobbyists , with combined staffs in the thousands , ever start to learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formidable group . " So far , ignorance has been industry 's strength . Civics was never a long corporate suit . Education in the arts or history was thought to be nice , but hardly practical in what was imagined to be the real world . Consequently , marketing executives are easily confused by the intricacies of politics . As soon as the Civil Aeronautics Board gave up supervising free airline tickets , a consortium of airlines anxiously consulted with ASAE executives to determine if contractual restrictions could be used to replace the government regulations that the " free enterprise system " sorely missed . Typically , most corporate executives still believe lobbying is a nineteenth-century art ; something like cash-and-carry at the appropriate Congressional office ? variations on the FBI 's Abscam ; or they believe that the free market can be maintained by hiring battalions of corporate lawyers to file gargantuan lawsuits that will take years , perhaps decades , to argue . Yet it has recently occurred to corporate officers that there may be more pragmatic ways to do business than retaining a Wall Street law firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to a Democratic Supreme Court . I N THE PAST , every progressive lawyer who faithfully attended Democratic committee meetings had lurking in his heart some secret ambition . He might have hoped to run a big oil company , at least for a year or two : either by regulating it , if the lawyer was a conservative , or by nationalizing the bastards , if the lawyer was a closet socialist . These were Walter Mitty dreams , but they brought men and women into government . If , by circumstance , these dreams were n't realized , the party assured the faithful a judgeship ? through which symbolic fines could be assessed against old enemies . Now , corporate executives sense that on the balance sheet perhaps the merger might be worked out the Department is a superb national lobby for local power companies harassed by state public service commissions . In effect , the national argument about the results of industrialization ? stuck at dead center since William Jennings Bryan and the Populists frightened Wall Street in 1896 ? has been resolved . That 's what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reindustrialization " ; that 's why Reagan is being charged with programs that hark back to Bryan 's opponent , William McKinley . The slanders of Reagan carry a sliver of truth to them , but obscure a more important change ? and one that has already occurred . What was once a democracy of competing regional for horizontal ) interests ? the industrial Northeast , for example , in shifting alliances with the agricultural West and South ? has O-ready been reorganized into vertical economic syndicates , independent of geography ? for example , dentists , doctors , hospital associations , insurance companies , and drug companies work . ing together for organic goals . Meanwhile , 2,000 ASAE associations have established offices in Wash . ington . To get the very best advice on agency and legislative questions for all associations , ASAE consults with two law firms ? which , in turn , may provide advice , not only to many ASAE constituent associations , but also to any association 's individual corporate members , who , in turn , have their own national law firm with D.C. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were added to Washington 's population . ASAE 's two local law firms are Patton , Boggs &; Blow , and Webster &; Chamberlain . Patton , Boggs &; Blow is registered as a foreign agent for four clients , and a registered Congressional lobbyist for thirty-two domestic clients . The PB &B; partnership includes sixty-five attorneys , approximately 180 in staff including tax accountants , and ASAE 's special counsel , " Superstar Lobbyist " Thomas Hale Boggs , Jr. , credited with cutting the Chrysler deal in only three months for a reported fee of a mere $300,000 . Tommy Boggs is widely known , but according to PB &B; counsel , William J. ' Tiff ' Colley , the best lobbyists are invisible . The manners and nuances of lobbying are exquisite . If a lobbyist calls upon a senator to add or delete just a phrase or two from a pending bill , and if the lobbyist talks about the weather until it is the senator who brings the pending matter up , then the lobbyist is only providing information at the senator 's request , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national interest . Hence , no lobbying has taken place , and therefore no registration is necessary . If the association happened to contribute to the senator 's campaign through one of the association 's PAC committees , such a contribution would be coincidental , unrelated , and perhaps even unknown , to the lobbyist actually seated at the senator 's desk , discussing a few minor changes in wording . Bill Colley , however , advises ASAE members to coordinate their goals . In some cases , it has been terribly embarrassing for lobbyists to convince a senator of the " hard facts " at issue , then have the senator discover that the same association has contributed , through its PAC , to the senator 's election opponent . Estimates of the number of men and women working in Washington at the art of lobbying ? including lawyers , association executives , public relations " communicators , " and technical experts ? now total about 60,000 , or roughly 100 for each elected official . During the past ten years , the trade has seen a spectacular influx of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over abstract differences but get what they want in prac tical detail ? just a phrase deleted here , a sentence added to a bill there . Because it hardly matters any longer whether Democrats or Republicans are in power , it is all those disorderly details that need their immediate attention . " Having an impact on government , " as lobbying is called , has created a building boom for office space across the Potomac River in Virginia and in downtown Washington , and simultaneously created scores of restaurants that will accept American Express . There has to he someplace to lunch and talk jobs . Most resumes for workers in the profession cite previous government experience , but claiming political insight has its disadvantages . A survey at the ASAE convention asked members to rate the most respected and despised occupations . The results showed doctors continuing as the most respected profession . Ranked from the bottom up , ASAE members rated politicians as the occupation most held in contempt , followed in disdain by lawyers , used-car salesmen , and then prostitutes . Respected or not , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of government power , nobody ever wants to leave town . " They stay to lobby or lay . " O N FRIDAY , at about noon , as I arrived in the apple greens and glossy chromes of the lobby lounge in the Sheraton Washington to register for the ASAE convention . I was met by young ac-tresses from Central Casting , Inc . They were offering champagne from trays to welcome the ASAE delegates . Their costumes were breathtaking : they were " diplomats , " they said ; black tails , gray vests , back ascots , black fishnet pantyhose running from high-heeled slides all the way to V-cut briefs . Twenty-fire Marlene Dietrichs from The Blue Angel . " Yes , " said Candy with a mischievous smile , " we 're am-bassadors . We just forgot our pants . " SUNDAY , AUGUST 8 A FTER AN early breakfast , the 1980 ASAE general opening session convenes . The starlets reappear , costumed as plantation belles , tiny waists cinched in above big hoop skirts , long white gloves , twirling parasols . With wide smiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in exaggerated Scarlett O'Hara drawls . They guide us along corridors that lead into the vast Sheraton Washington ballroom . I have the feeling I 'm in a Vegas hotel , without clocks , without time or space , every corridor and room interchangeable with every other , and I have long since lost my sense of direction . So has everyone else . Central Casting supplies Ariadnes in hoop skirts to navigate the labyrinth . While 3,000 delegates wait in their seats , Chuck Mangione 's big band runs through its convention book , including plenty of trumpet solos with riffs , and the theme song from ABC-TV 's coverage of the 1980 Winter Olympics , " Give It All You 've Got . " The lights of the hall are dimmed , the platform 's stage still empty . I can barely read the name of the man on my left . His badge identifies him as the delegate of the Association of Independent Colleges and Schools . We exchange handshakes , as pilgrims would . Chuck Mangione 's band finishes up on a trumpet flourish , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bud Meredith calls his constituents to order . Meredith reviews his organization 's spectacular growth . The ASAE is at a turning point , he says , and the new ASAE national headquarters , two blocks from the White House , " is in the world 's greatest power center , and we 'll serve this nation well by organizing and releasing the awesome strength of America 's voluntary might . " He warns his troops that their new influence carries heavy responsibilities " to our free society and our constitu ents . " The ASAE pledges to realize its responsibilities to the very fullest ? with government , educational institutions , and the media . He announces awards for the professor who wrote " Elites in the Policy Process " and " The Organizational Society " Accompanied by trumpet fanfares and applause as they step from behind curtains across the back of the stage , the stars of " Agronsky and Company , " syndicated talk show of the Washington Post and Newsweek , will join two ASAE representatives for a panel discussion . Here , ladies and gentlemen , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for CBS ; Robert A. Roland , ASAE sec retary-treasurer and president , the Chemical Manufacturers Association ; Tommy Boggs , superstar lobbyist , partner , Patton , Boggs &; Blow , and special counsel to the ASAE ; George Will , biweekly columnist for Newsweek ; and Martin Agronsky himself . Will you welcome them , please , is what Meredith 's prepared script said . Kilpatrick , Will , and Agronsky were each paid $3,500 to appear : Rent a medium , $10,500 for the package . The ASAE has scripted Agronsky 's questions , but Agronsky and company will only consent to ASAE 's opening topic . The panel discusses whether special interests , taken in the aggregate , compromise an organic public interest . Kilpatrick thinks it 's a shame that conservatives do n't have their own version of Jane Fonda . Applause . He notes , however , that there 's a certain amount of hypocrisy in business about regulation : most industries want regulation for themselves , but free enterprise for everyone else . Will observes that corporations are not usually in the business of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well admit it . In his opinion , business is not adversary enough in its opposition to government . The ASAE 's Roland does n't believe corporations should worry so much about being labeled as special interests . With the data , and a forceful presentation of the facts , they can usually work out some kind of " partnership " with government . Agronsky murmurs it may be too early for that . Boggs makes an ingenious case for Chrysler : his client got in trouble , he says , because it was the first automobile company to anticipate the trend for small cars , and Chrysler was the biggest producer of small cars . Chrysler was ahead of its time , he says , in meeting the competition from German and Japanese designs . Boggs 's theory startles : come the revolution , will it be the duty of the Petrograd sailors to work out a partnership with Detroit 's banks ? Will notes that we appear to be headed toward a semisocialized economy anyway ? in automobiles , steel , textiles . Competition from the socialized exports of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the United States . The delegates are quiet . But Will has one pragmatic suggestion : When giant corporations fail , and must be bailed out by national tax-monies , as a disincentive the chief executive officers should be paid salaries no higher than the highest civil-service grade . Lee laccoca would have to give up his six-figure pay and take what a GS-18 gets ? about $47,500 . The convention applauds Will . Agronsky asks his panel who will be elected in November . All but Boggs plump for Reagan . For each mention of Reagan , there is widespread applause in the hall . When Boggs says Carter can make it , somewhere in the hall someone applauds , but briefly . Will does a take : shading his eyes from the spotlight , he spins his chair searching the convention floor for the lone Carter fan . General laughter . Kilpatrick says : " It was a waiter . " Laughter . Applause for Kilpatrick . After more analysis of election prospects , Agronsky and company exeunt . The first general session of the ASAE convention breaks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seminars in the Sheraton Washington 's interchangeable smaller meeting rooms . T THE Legislative Update seminar -- attendance about 30-ASAE 's ambivalence to the press begins to surface . But Reagan is described as a media star . A panel discusses ASAE 's concern with Federal Election Commission restrictions on what ASAE member publications can say : the FEC is contradicting their First Amendment guarantees to publish their opinions . To court the consent of Congress , ASAE associations hire public-relations " communicators , " organize " grass-roots " campaigns , churn out press releases from PACs , seek support from small weekly newspapers as well as huge publishing conglomerates . Yet during the ASAE 's convention I learned from Bud Meredith that the media was entirely controlled " by you liberal Eastern Establishment types . " Simultaneously , I learned that the press were generally " free-loaders , " often deliberate liars , inevitably inaccurate . untrustworthy , and biased . At one seminar , Mark Schultz , regulatory affairs attorney for the Chamber of Commerce of the United States , says plainly that the only reliable press would be company house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has gone too far in attempting to balance its coverage of the news . The enmity for the media at the ASAE convention , whether displayed or concealed , was eerie . It was a hostility comparable to the perverse anticlericism that might be found in Mexico or France ? where bishops must he officially scorned as an article of national faith , although nearly every citizen wants his life blessed by private confession and his burial certified in hallowed ground . Beneath these odd contradictions , there runs a consistent element of revolutionary dialectic . A suggestion to sovietize Chrysler is entirely compatible with suggestions that each corporate syndicate be trusted with its wholly self-owned Pravda . Depending upon variations in revolutionary visions about the great days to come , all radicals agree the press must be brought under control . By doing so , the realities are thought to be manageable . Regardless of what a Chamber of Commerce spokesman might think , by instinct ASAE president Jim Lowe would argue vigorously for a free press . Now in his early fifties , Lowe is attractive , makes his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and appreciates new ideas . He was an infantry platoon leader with the Seventh ( Hourglass ) Division in Korea , and still carries a crack commander 's assuredness in his men . He knows them by their first names ? without having to check the name-tags . Within twenty minutes in the Sheraton lobby , he can skim hellos to two dozen delegates . Because he walks and talks his perimeter restlessly , he knows by intuition and at a glance where his attentions are actually required , and when he can get by with just a salute and a smile . With fifteen years experience as president of the ASAE , he 's unafraid of his command 's problems , or inspection by the press . Lowe came to the ASAE from an association division of the Chamber of Commerce . When he took command of an association of associations . he knew it could be retrained into a potent force but that he would have to show ASAE constituent members how they could succeed . He put on conventions that were demonstrations of howto put on conventions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publishes a trade magazine , Association Management , which other associations can try to imitate . He shows his members how to recruit , how to scale dues , how to make money , how to form PACs , how to lobby . The ASAE 's operating budget for its own activities rose from near bankruptcy to $6.6 million a year , and its budget includes only about $200,000 for direct lobbying ? its member associations do the rest of the job . Lowe has taught his troops not to be afraid of failure . He teaches that managers fear criticism and change , but leaders do not : " Leaders take chances . " He has extracted The Prince and The Discourses , he says , for the lessons Machiavelli can provide . The revolution in the ASAE 's attitudes , led by Jim Lowe , occurred during the years that the liberals were reconstructing Congress . The great committee barons , who held power by their seniority , were sent away . The power of legislative barons was distributed through hundreds of subcommittees . Simultaneously , the attractions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's law in politics , distinguished men quit because seniority no longer mattered . Some quit in disgust . Their places were taken by many who were merely ambitious . While ASAE 's Jim Lowe accumulated experience from fifteen consecutive years in office , the lawmakers came and went . " I knew all the great ones in their day ? Sam Rayburn , Lyndoneven Joe Martin , " says senior lobbyist Maurice Rosenblatt . " In the Senate , what we 've got left now is Russell Long and ninety-nine fox terriers . " MONDAY , AUGUST 9 w 1TH A dixieland band playing , the ASAE 's 1980 Exposition opens at 11:15 A.M. Usually , ASAE delegates sit in their assigned seats as obediently as Republicans do ; but in the Sheraton exhibition halls , the aisles are as jammed as the Democratic convention in Nev , York . where the Kennedy forces are losing the rules fight . At booth 913 the Greater Portland Convention and Visitors Association is giving away five-ounce cans of genuine volcanic ash from the Mount St. Helens eruption , May 18 , 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , clean , green , livable city , and a convention city , too : 9,000 hotel rooms , two convention centers , a new airport , ten major airlines , sports , nightlife , and dining . " Ski year round on Mount Hood while watching Mount St. Helens erupt . " The patronage of ASAE members is also solicited in a dozen booths along Canada 's long aisle . Genuine Canadian Mounties are standing by . A pretty twenty-year-old girl is snapping a shoeshine rag over the cordovans of a fat , cigar-smoking man seated in the stand . I can see what her T-shirt says : " Montreal ? Home of Champions . " There are a great number of insurance exhibitors . Here 's how it works : Suppose your association buys a package of life . health , or casualty insurance : and just suppose , for a moment , you have one million members . The premiums collected annually by the association might be enough to buy the insurance company . There are ways for an association to spin-off the insurance company as a " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the IRS for the association 's inurement income as a 501 ( c ) ( 6 ) tax-exempt corporation . Give us a call . Here 's our card . In booth 2411 , Gil Eagles , " World 's Fastest Hypnotist " is giving a demonstration of magic and mind reading . He covers his eyes with eight strips of criss-crossing masking tape . On top of the tape , his assistant cinches a blind-WASHINGTON fold . Eagles calls for volunteers . They letter personal questions on scraps of paper . Blindfolded , the magician reads their questions and suggests answers of hope and assurance a very classy act . Give us a call . Here 's our card . Upstairs in one of the ASAE 's educational caucus seminars continuing above the exhibition hall , Dr. R. L. Noran , identified in the ASAE 's program as " Parapsychologist and Master of ESP , " is working the same mind-reading act as Gil Eagles and his wife are doing from an exhibition booth . As an educational benefit for ASAE members , Dr. Noran is showing delegates How @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ESP and Biofeedback , an Added Edge to Innovative Decision Making . Actually , says ASAE president Lowe , Dr. Noran 's act is , in part , a tryout , tied in with the theme of ASAE 's midwinter convention in Chicago in February 1981 : " ASAE is Magic and the Mag-ic is You . " TUESDAY , AUGUST 12 A T NINE IN the morning , D.C. 's Metro busses have been hired to transport ASAE delegates to the Constitution Hall of the Daughters of the American Revolution . Constitution Hall is a very classy act . The ASAE 's Tuesday theme is " A Salute to Patriotism . " The featured speaker is going to be Dr. Henry Kissinger , for a reported fee of $15,000 . Dr. Kissinger is said to be a magician with a crowd that wants to see America strong again . According to the ASAE program , in recent years the global balance has been shifting against us . " It is time for a turning point not only in the reality of what we are as a country but in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my seat in DAR hall , the United States Marine Band is playing . I try out the reality-perception theme in my notes the other way around : it is a MObius strip ? it has no inside or outside and can be read either backwards or forwards . The Armed Forces Color Guard presents the colors . All stand for " The Star-Spangled Banner " and the Pledge of Allegiance . Exeunt color guard , and a big hand for the Marine Band . The ASAE 's new chairman , Mort Doyle , president , International Snowmobile Industry Association , gives a fine speech " redefining patriotism , " then introduces Dr. Kissinger as a student of Metternich , " who understands power in its total frame of reference . " Dr. Kissinger sees the United States in great danger ; but at the same time , a window of opportunity is open . Foreign policy , he believes , should not be debated during elections . Applause for Dr. Kissinger and his geopolitical theories supporting a strong , military America . Then , ASAE delegates march from DAR hall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Over There , " " I 'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy , " " Give My Regards to Broadway , " " It 's a Grand Old Flag . " The Metro buses of the District of Columbia whisk ASAE delegates back to their educational seminars . WEDNESDAY , AUGUST 13 T HE ASAE 's Washington convention is winding up . In New York , Teddy has spoken well , but Carter has kept con-trol of what remains of the party . At breakfast in the Sheraton Washington , the actresses from Central Casting , Inc. , appear in costumes as " Fruits of the Loom " : there 's a pretty slice of melon ; there 's red-headed orange , a blonde carrot , a brunette pea . At the ASAE Annual Business Meeting and Closing lunch , the starlets reappear again , this time red , white , and blue , as " Uncle Sam . " Two male models play the parts of donkey and elephant ? symbols of the great democratic system 's old parties . In educational seminars I 've learned that there 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that publicizing an association 's accomplishments is " vital " ; I 've heard that getting members interested in politics is important , and how " to win your external political battles . " I 've been instructed in the legal registrations of " grass-roots lobbying " ; on how to create a political-action committee within the law ; on why Executive Order 12044 . March 1978 , now makes it possible for well-organized and well-informed corporations , business , and professional organizations to write their own regulations in " partnership " with the agencies that regulate their conduct , and sometimes even in secret . I 've learned about coalition lobbying and team lobbying , and how the Mars Bars coalition defeated . not only the FTC , but a coalition of furious Congressional wives . I have a price list from the Honorable Dan H. Kuykendall , former member of Congress . His brochures describing his " consulting services " : his fee for creating and supervising a PAC ? $600 a month ; his fee for a " PAC and regulatory oversight , " $4,000 per month . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce that a group identified as " we " had formed a coalition more than a year ago . " We " consisted of 250 select corporate and association leaders . As if cartooning Sinclair Lewis 's It Ca n't Happen Here , " we " divided its party into working groups , drafted position papers , then coordinated its political objectives " so we could speak with one voice . " Such aggregations made in common cause are natural to democracy , and healthy reactions to the petty tyrannies of capricious government . But from delegates and chairmen alike talk of revolution , of Machiavelli and syndicalist theory , appeared to be proposing a substitution for boisterous democratic institutions ; a " partnership , " it was frequently called , between a disorderly government and gigantic , irresponsible corporations and their apparat of associations . Amid such vast forces , the individual would be required to serve as a patriot , but detached from any sustaining community ? isolated , atomized , terrified , but willing , as if to get relief , to march . As the ASAE convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feel watching a superb skater whose arabesques , mohawks , swooping spread eagles were carrying the performer farther and farther out on a newly frozen pond , staked near its center with a hand-lettered sign : " Thin ice . " At one point during the convention , I had remarked to John Vickerman , the ASAE 's government affairs chief , that in contrast to the Democratic party convention in session in New York , the ASAE 's coalition seemed to be an assembly of what " Boss " Tweed had once called " the party of landlords . " As Tweed had analyzed it , " come election day , sooner or later . the Republicans will discover that there are bound to be more tenants voting than landlords . " Vickerman 's answer was conclusive : " It 's not a matter of votes . "                     