@@487765

he debate over whether the Constitution should I be construed as the framers " intended " il lustrates the way in which this Administration shapes public controversies to hide its true goals . It sounds like a problem of lofty constitutional significance , but it 's really part of an extensive campaign to diminish Americans ' constitutional rights by weakening the courts ' protection of them . The Administration 's strategy was launched this summer , when Attorney General Edwin Meese 3d tore into the Supreme Court before the American Bar Association . He questioned the Court 's sixty-year-old " incorporation doc  --  trine , " whereby key provisions of the Bill of Rights , like freedom of speech , press and religion , and various rights relating to criminal procedure are made applicable to state and local officials through the Fourteenth Amendment . Characterizing the doctrine as " constitutionally suspect , " " intellectually shaky " and " politically violent , " and criticizing the Court for deciding cases on policy grounds rather than on constitutional principles , he called for a " jurisprudence of original intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , charging that some judges are engaged in " a form of chameleon jurisprudence , changing color and form in each era , " and that a focus on " ' concepts of human dignity ' has led to some remarkable and tragic conclusions . " Insistence on the " original intent " ? is politically astute : a certain group of people drafted our Constitution , and to understand what they wrote , it seems reasonable to look to what they intended to accomplish . This apparent reasonableness masks a hidden agenda , however , which Justice William .1 : Brennan Jr . spotted . In a speech at Georgetown University in October , he pointed out that upholding " constitutional claims only if they were within the specific contemplation of the Framers in effect establishes a presumption . . . against the claim , " for it locks us into an era when our notions of liberty and morality were much less developed . In 1787 capital punishment for horse theft , burglary and counterfeiting was not uncom  --  mon ; states had established churches and seditious libel was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is now so sacred that even Meese finds it politic to praise it , in 1866 Herman Schwartz is a professor of law at the American . University Law School in Washington and a consultant to People for the American Way . the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment approved of seg  --  regation in schools and transportation , the poll tax , anti-miscegenation statutes and laws denying blacks the right to serve on juries . Soon after , in 1873 , the Supreme Court allowed Illinois to deny women the right to practice law . Meese has cited the Dred Scott decision as a " tragic conclu  --  sion " of looking primarily to " concepts of human dignity . " He failed to mention that Chief Justice Roger B. Taney " read blacks out of the Constitution , " as Meese describes it , not on some " concepts of human dignity " but on an elaborate analysis of the framers ' intent . In sentiments often echoed by Meese , Taney wrote : i . No one , we presume , supposes that any change in public opinion or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the words of the Constitution a more liberal construction in their favor than they were intended to bear when , the instrument was framed and adopted . On the other hand , the historical record shows that the framers of the Fourteenth Amendment had no objection to racial preferences and affirmative action . The Freedmen 's Bureau Act , also adopted by the Thirty-ninth Congress , was bitterly opposed because , as one senator complained , it " gives them blacks favors that the poor white boy in the North can not get . " Obviously , Meese does not , try to justify school segrega  --  tion or antimiscegenation statutes today , and certainly not racial preferences , even if the framers did approve of them . But if there is discretion to choose which intentions to honor and which to reject , by what criteria are those choices to be made ? Except by exercising a contemporary moral and prac tical judgment , how can one reject the framers ' views on some things but not on others ? Meese evades those questions by distorting the historical record . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framers of the Fourteenth Amendment accepted school segregation , he asserted in his November 15 speech that Plessy v. Ferguson , which upheld segregation , violated their intent . . A clear intent , however , is often hard to find . In the first place , what people in earlier eras meant when they used cer  --  tain words , whether in a constitution or a law or in written or oral discourse , can rarely be grasped without a sophisti  --  cated understanding of . the social and legal context of the time . The term " construction , " for example , meant some  --  thing to an eighteenth-century lawyer quite different from what it means today . Also , the historical materials are often confusing and incomplete . The record of the debates during the Constitutional Convention of 1787 is not a verbatim transcript but a compilation of notes by many people , char  --  acterized by editor Max Farrand as " carelessly kept , " sketchy , incomplete , often inaccurate and , in James Madi  --  son 's case ; revised thirty years after the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those in any other discipline , are constantly being revised . Twenty-five years ago , Leonard Levy wrote that the framers did not intend the First Amendment to repudiate the very repressive common law of seditious libel : His conclusions became the accepted view . Recent research , however , has led him to recognize a much greater acceptance of vigorous expression in the late eighteenth century than he had originally found . Should the Court 's decisions change with each shift in the winds of scholarship ? 1 Uncertainty as to the framers ' intent results from more than the paucity of evidence or inadequate scholarship . Cir  --  cumstances have changed so much since the late eighteenth and mid-nineteenth centuries that there is no way of know  --  ing how the framers would respond to today 's problems . As Justice Sandra Day O'Connor observed in Wallace v. Jaf  --  free , which considered the constitutionality of Alabama 's requirement that schoolchildren observe a moment of si  --  lence , there was no public school system in 1787 , and " it is unlikely that the framers or ratifying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the public schools . " That holds ? true for almost every major problem the United States faces today as a postindustrial interna  --  tional power of 235 million people , far different from the small , weak , fragmented society of the eighteenth century . Ultimately , courts must depend for their historical re  --  search on the competing lawyers , whose skills and financial resources vary . Because lawyers will almost certainly manip  --  ulate what they find ( historian Alfred Kelly has dubbed this " law-office history " ) , the judges , who are not trained historians , will have , to decide between clashing , often distorted , versions . Even if we could reliably discern the framers ' intentions , why should their view govern ? They did n't adopt the Con  --  stitution . They only drafted it ; the state conventionsadopted the Constitution . And an even larger group adopted the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amend  --  ment  --  two-thirds of both houses of Congress and three-fourths of the state legislatures . Why are n't their views , in all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if we are to look to the framers ' intent at all , we should consider primarily how they wanted their product to be construed . Here , the record is quite clear : like most seventeenth- and eighteenth-century lawyers , they generally believed that only the text and structure of a constitution or law should be considered , not the subjective views of the draftsmen . Madison , for example , deliberately had publica  --  tion of his notes on the Constitutional Convention delayed until after his death , explaining that " as a guide to expound  --  ing and applying the provisions of the Constitution , the de  --  bates and incidental decisions of the Convention can have no authoritative character . " The insistence on original intent also conceals a class bias . In November , Richard Epstein of the University of Chi  --  cago , The Wall Street Journal 's favorite legal theorist and one of the Administration 's chief advisers , wrote that both Meese and Brennan were wrong : judicial activism is appro  --  priate , but only to protect property rights or to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , should strike down zoning ordinances , historic-preservation and rent con= trol laws , collective-bargaining and minimum-wage laws and , indeed , the entire New Deal . " If I am right , " pro  --  claimed Epstein at a conference last spring , " the New Deal was wrong . " Contrary to what Justice Oliver Wendell . Holmes said in 1905 , Epstein insists the Constitution does create a laissez-faire society , based on John Locke 's theories of property rights . In this view , the Founding Fathers in  --  tended to lock future centuries not just into a late  --  eighteenth-century mindset but into a seventeenth-century view designed to protect the English propertied classes . A pro-property bias is also reflected in Meese 's , sugges  --  tion , in September , that the independence given by Congress to more than a dozen Federal regulatory agencies since 1890 is unconstitutional , a view obviously drawn from Epstein 's attack on the New Deal . Again peering into the framers ' minds , Meese asserted that they had not intended that the agencies should be run independent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's views would place the agencies that regulate business under much greater Presiden  --  tial control . We live on the threshold of the twenty-first century and must solve today 's problems in accordance with today 's perspectives and values . There has indeed been a continuum in our way of doing things since 1787 , and it is reflected in longstanding customs and ways of thinking , in a gen  --  eral adherence to legal precedent , as well as in our fidelity to core ideas and values in the Constitution . As Meese has rightly said , " Those who framed the Constitu  --  tion chose their words carefully . " But the words they chose are rarely precise or confining , for the drafters wanted to ac  --  commodate what Thaddeus Stevens in 1866 called the " ad  --  vancing progress of a higher morality , " future usage and in  --  terpretation . That is how higher law was interpreted in the pre-Revolutionary period and the way it has been through  --  out our history . Although Madison , for example , thought that the establishment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ twenty years later he approved the sec  --  ond . The constitutional text had n't changed , he explained , but a " construction had been put on the Constitution by the nation which , having made it , had the Supreme right to declare its meaning . " This is equally true for the varying meanings of liberty that our courts have developed not just over twenty years but over almost two centuries , and that the nation has fully accepted . The campaign to diminish the judiciary 's role in protect  --  ing individual rights has adopted another argument based on history : a claim that the judiciary was not originally in  --  tended to be the primary protector of individual liberty . In October , Bruce Fein , a former Justice Department official and the source of many of Meese 's notions , told a television audience that the Founding Fathers " sought to protect our liberties by separating , out power in a variety of ways in  --  cluding the judiciary . . . . It was primarily by requiring a whole set of coalitions coming together @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protected . " Elsewhere he has written : " The first place to get resolution or redress would be in your legislative offices or in your executive branch offices . The judiciary should be there only to police the outer perimeters which legislators and executive officials have in formulating policy . " That view turns the Constitution on its head and is historically insupportable . In the first place , if the framers relied on the separation of powers to protect in  --  dividual liberties , there was no need for the Bill of Rights . Second , Fein 's view ignores whatever reliable history we have . There is little disagreement among scholars that the Constitution was intended to curb what Thomas Jefferson called " elective despotism . " Equally clear , eighteenth-century Americans were accustomed to courts annulling legislation in the name of a fundamental higher law , whether unwritten or written , drawn from such sources as the Magna Carta , English common law and Dr. Bonham 's Case , in which Sir Edward Coke declared , " When an Act of Parliament is against common right and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it and adjudge such Act to be void . " The English Privy Council struck down laws applied to the American colonies that were inconsistent with higher authority , and James Otis and John Adams challenged searches and the Stamp Act because they violated natural rights ) Furthermore , state constitutions contained , bills of rights , and in the pre-Constitution period , several state courts held laws unconstitutional . In Massachusetts slavery was ruled unconstitutional in 1781 because it was inconsis  --  tent with a clause in the state 's Declaration of Rights that " all men are born free and equal . " Courts in Rhode Island , North Carolina , Virginia , New Jersey and elsewhere also held statutes unconstitutional , which in some cases re  --  sulted in legislative attempts to punish the judges . Both supporters and opponents of the Constitution as - sumed that the courts would protect individual rights . Jef  --  ferson once wrote to Madison , " In the argument in favor of a declaration of rights , you omit one which has great weight with me , the legal check which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The acceptance of the need for such a curb is at least part of the reason that Chief Justice John Marshall 's assertion of the Court 's power of judicial review in Mar-bury v. Madison  --  in 1803 , during one of the most bitterly partisan periods of our history  --  met with no protest . Reliance on the elective branches of government for the protection of individual liberty is a contradiction in terms . The Bill of Rights was created to protect individuals and minorities against the popular will . As Alexander Hamilton wrote in The Federalist Number 78 , the Constitution imposes " certain exceptions to the legislative authority " in order " to guard the rights of individuals from the effects of those ill humors " that can oppress the minority or " injure . . . the private rights of particular classes of citizens by unjust and partial laws . " In introducing the Bill of Rights in the First Congress , Madison noted the fear of " abuse of the ex  --  ecutive and . . . the legislative power , " and stressed ' that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts against the minority to which they might otherwise be in  --  clined . " One hundred and fifty years later , Justice Robert Jackson noted this in West Va . State Bd. of Ed. v. Barnette , saying : The very purpose of the Bill of Rights was to withdraw cer  --  tain subjects from the vicissitudes of political controversy , to place them beyond the reach of majorities and officials and to establish them as legal principles to be applied by the courts . Emphasis added . For that purpose , an institution insulated from politics is necessary , which is why the courts were given the primary responsibility for protectirig the liberties estab  --  lished by the Bill of Rights and why Federal judges were given life tenure and immunity to legislative reduction of their salaries . There is also a strong whiff of hypocrisy about this right-wing argument that we should rely on the legislature and the executive to protect individual rights . This Administration has opposed almost every legislative effort to promote civil rights and civil liberties for anyone but white males . Two years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no'w it is lobbying against the effort in Congress to overturn the Court 's ruling in Grove City College v. Bell , which allows recipients of Federal funds to practice discrim- , ination . In the courts , the Administration urges restrictive interpretations of legislation , as in Thornburg v. Gingles , a Voting Rights Act case now before the Court . And in their administrative capacity , the Reaganites have narrowly con  --  strued Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act , which bans discrimination against the handicapped ; has unsuccessfully tried to deny the Internal Revenue Service the ' authority to bar tax exemptions for segregationist schools ; and is seeking to gut Executive Order 11246 , which requires Federal contractors to adopt affirmative action plans  --  to cite a few examples . Except where the protection of individual liberties is con  --  cerned , Meese and his right-wing allies are all for judicial ac  --  tivism . Meese has criticized the Supreme Court for refusing to strike down an act of Congress that requires state and local officials to honor the Fair Labor Standards Act . The Administration has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; one Reagan appointee , ' appeals court Judge Richard Posner in Chicago , has been so zealous in complying that even lawyers sympathetic to business have criticized him . In the areas of civil rights and criminal law , the Adminis  --  tration has consistently urged the Court to issue sweeping rulings in cases that could have been decided on narrow fac  --  tual grounds , such as Grove City and U.S. v. Leon , in which the Court created a large " good faith " loophole in the rule excluding evidence obtained by an illegal search . Meeie 's public effusions on criminal law are part of another right-wing strategy against the Court . This summer , he assailed as " infamous " the decisions in Mapp v. Ohio and Miranda v. Arizona , which exclude illegally obtained evidence and require police to warn suspects of their right to remain silent , respectively . This is certainly popular stuff , but it is also quite dishonest . The one area in which - the Justices have given the Administration just about everything it wants is criminal procedure . The Court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has done everything short of that . The attack on the Court is obviously designed to paint it as being soft on crime so that its decisions in other areas , - such as abortion and church-state relations , will lose public support . An independent judiciary is indispensable to the mainte  --  nance of individual rights . Following the U.S. example , Israel , Germany , Greece , Italy , Austria and others have adopted judicial review as a necessary safeguard for individ  --  ual liberty . One of the first targets , therefore , for those who would destroy or weaken liberty is the judges . The Founders knew that , for in the 1780s Rhode Island and other states had tried to punish judges who found state laws unconstitutional . Meese and his cohorts on the right know it , too , and they are guiding themselves accordingly . q                     