@@299035

" When we began , everyone said we could not get the Soviet Union out , " exults David Balsiger , national executive director of the Ban the Soviets Coalition . " But we did it against great odds . We were responsible for them dropping out . " Balsiger is like the rain maker who , after a downpour happens along , claims credit for it . Nevertheless , the buzz and bother stirred up by his group seemed to give credence to the security concerns that the Soviets used as an excuse for staying home . Peter Ueberroth , president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee , pulls no punches when he talks about Balsiger 's organization . " I called them nutty , " he said , referring to a remark made last month , " and did n't offer an apology . I would consider an apology if they rename their group the Coalition to Hurt Athletes or the Coalition to Play into the Hands of the Soviet Union . " <P> Balsiger , 38 , began his crusade last fall , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He claims 165 affiliate groups and organizations ; he says that 35 of them insist on anonymity . Among the confederates listed by the coalition are a communications firm run by right-wing Publisher Richard Viguerie and the Elderly Korean-American Association of Orange County . Balsiger 's group planned to organize demonstrations near 100 Olympic sites and to distribute 500,000 leaflets . A small squadron of propaganda planes was to buzz the city , each pulling a banner having 5-ft. - high letters , with exhortations like STOP THE GENOCIDE IN AFGHANISTAN or REMEMBER KAL 007 . The coalition planned to rent billboards to encourage Soviet defections ( " Wish to defect ? Telephone ... " ) , and some 500 " safe houses " in the Los Angeles area were said to be ready to receive the defectors . <P> The Soviet press wondered why the U.S. Government declined to do what the Kremlin would not hesitate to do : simply dispatch the pesky protesters to some remote place for the duration of the Games . Indeed , many foreigners do not quite understand that U.S. civil liberties protections would rule out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an untoward affinity , even close links , between the L.A. protesters and the U.S. " ruling circles . " Last week the Reagan Administration emphatically denied any affiliation . Balsiger had dispatched several letters and Mailgrams to White House Deputy Chief of Staff Michael Deaver last winter , urging that the Administration discourage the Soviet Olympic contingent from attending ; in early January Deaver sent back a standard , innocuous reply , explaining that " the U.S. will welcome athletes from all nations . " The only other connection , almost as tenuous , was a speech last March in Los Angeles by Assistant Secretary of State Elliot Abrams to the Baltic-American Freedom League , a member of Balsiger 's coalition .                     