@@493959

White House Watch A Closing Chapter Three predominant impressions emerged in mid-December from a reporter 's inquiries and the responses at the Carter White House . The abject gloom that followed the November election defeat had dissipated and had been displaced by a modest measure of cheer . Jimmy Carter , sharing and doing what he could to encourage the recovery of spirit , at the same time suffered from a profound and crippling sense of helplessness . His assistants , high and low , suffered from a sense of aimlessness , a feeling that they were stuck until January 20 with attendance at a prolonged funeral . The gist of remarks by four assistants who see something of the President every working day conveys the overall impression : " After the first few days of disappointment , the President and we sort of got out of that fairly quickly . There 's been enough to do since then to keep him busy and interested in things that are going on , not just his own preparations for his own transition . " " All of us , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I 'm not being cavalier about that . But he , like most of us , has put that aside . That chapter is closed . We are onto the present and the future and there 's not a lot of preoccupation with the result of the election . " " The President is very quiet , a nd he does n't have his normal bounce . But he 's certainly on top of things , responding to our memos and keeping busy . " " The President 's mood is one of stoic acceptance , still a high sense of responsibility , and worry about what 's going on . " The worry , according to the assistant last quoted , has to do with the recent jump in prime interest rates and the dire predictions of the President 's own and other economists . It 's in this area that the se n of helplessness surfaces . Carter is said to feel that sethe increase in prime interest rates from 141/2 percent on election day to 21 percent on December 17 confirms his campaign warnings that Reagan rhetoric @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is said to feel also that he as the outgoing President can do nothing to stem the inflationary course and that , if only he 'd been reelected , he at least could have slowed the rise as he thinks he did last spring with his economic revitalization program , his talk of budget stringency , and the like . Reagan and Reagan 's people are setting the tone now , he is said to groan , and look what 's happening . A note of sardonic and human satisfaction along with genuine concern is evident in this kind of White House talk . It 's akin to the muted satisfaction that the President and his people draw from recent Reagan gaffes and transition difficulties . A report that Nancy Reagan had told somebody she wished the Carters would vacate the White House residence before January 20 so that she could begin redecorating the mansion simultaneously angered and pleased the Carter folks . The gaucherie angered them , the damage done to the image of Reagan grace pleased them . When Carter was quoted saying flatly that Mrs. Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that he 'd said she said she had n't said it . Rosalynn Carter , reporting that Nancy had telephoned her to deny the story , also took care to say that Mrs. Reagan said she had n't said it . Carter people firmly believed that she had said it and , to boot , had hinted to White House usher Rex Scouten that she 'd like to start redecorating the family rooms while the Carters were still in residence . A columnist 's joysome prediction that the Reagans would bring " a little class for a change " to the White House infuriated press secretary Jody Powell and irritated his colleagues because it seemed to them to deny Rosalynn Carter the credit she indeed was due for presiding gracefully during her and her Jimmy 's four White House years . Reports and evidence that the Reagan transition operation was overstaffed , overly expensive , and poorly controlled contributed to the chortles and dour wisecracks at the White House , At a staff meeting Carter joined in the chortling for a while . Then he got serious and admonished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the gossip about Nancy Reagan 's impatience : " Look , this is a silly little thing and you people calm down . We 've got a good transition working here and we ca n't allow something like this to poison the atmosphere . " Carter put a lot of effort and telephone time into lobbying for the passage of several administration bills that he and his assistants had n't expected to get through the lame duck session of Congress . Among the successes were an Alaska lands bill , safeguarding more than 100 million acres of wilderness from despoliation ; a trimmed-down measure to diminish the dumping of dangerous chemical wastes ; and a joint resolution that promotes congressional budget discipline and helps Carter put together a tight fiscal 1982 budget , Much of his working time went into that budget . The President heard the last of department and agency appeals from budget director James T. McIntyre Jr . ' s stringent hold-downs on proposed spending and authorization the week of December 15 . As Carter began doing in 1979 , he left most of the grubby detail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ official calls " the big numbers and the major policy decisions . " Carter expects to embody in the new budget some of the steps he 'd take now to minimize inflation and interest rates if he were going to be in charge next year . Even this is projected in knowledge that the Reagan administration will reshape the submitted budget . McIntyre had his first meeting with Reagan 's budget director , Representative David Stockman , and two former Republican budget officials on December 16 . So far the preliminary budget transition process has gone more smoothly than it did in 1976 . McIntyre thought he 'd devised a way to avoid the tensions that arose in 1976 from the Carter transitionists ' demands for advance and confidential budget information that the Ford budget office refused to provide . The defender of budget sanctity in 1976 was deputy director Paul O'Neill , now Reagan 's senior budget transition official under Stockman . McIntyre planned to offer Stockman and O'Neill what technicians call an updated " current services budget . " It projects what present federal programs will cost if there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures , the Reagan budgeters should be able to determine what they can and want to do with the current , swelling 1981 budget outlays and begin planning their 1982 revisions . COME OF Carter 's time , and more of his assistants ' J time , goes into preparing the record of the Carter administration . The President , staff chief Jack Watson , and former counsel Lloyd Cutler ( who has resumed private law practice but works part time for Carter ) have been discussing and collating the rules that will govern access to the Carter papers after they are stored , temporarily in Atlanta and later in a Carter presidential library . Senior assistants and office heads have been asked to compile summaries of their major endeavors , problems , and accomplishments . The reports are submitted to Watson , who has also asked each federal department and agency head to submit a similar report . All of them become parts of the Carter presidential papers . Several national archives employees stationed at the White House are taping interviews with Carter staffers , who are asked to focus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into their relationships with the Carters , Jimmy and Rosalynn , when that 's appropriate . The Carters are not being taped , on the assumption that they 'll save their stuff for Carter memoirs . The taping , which started in 1978 with departing assistants , will have embalmed the recollections of some 200 staffers by January 20 . The archives staff began this exercise in oral history in 1974 , during Nixon 's final months , and did n't resume it under Ford . The Nixon staff inter- views are sequestered by law , with other Nixon records . The Carter tapes will be added to the Carter library files and , it 's hoped , will be transcribed some day at the library . Twenty-six requests for retrospective interviews with Carter are on file with Jody Powell and his chief deputy , Ray Jenkins . Powell on December-16 had n't mentioned the requests to Carter , in the belief that he was n't ready as yet to think back over the four years and might not be ready for it before he goes home to Plains after Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daughter Amy , and son Chip will do that temporarily over Christmas . Carter will fly on New Year 's Day to the Sugar Bowl football game in New Orleans . He did n't do anything like this on his three previous New Year 's Days in office , and he really is n't much of a football fan . So why 's he doing it ? Georgia and Louisiana teams are involved , but that circumstance was n't really compelling , either . " He just wanted to do it , " Powell says . It will be a presidential trip , at public expense , probably Jimmy Carter 's next to last trip on Air Force One . The last flight will take him home to Georgia and retirement . Several other Carter people ? Hamilton Jordan , na. tional security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski , public hi-son director Anne Wexler among them ? began hay . ing their farewell says in interviews . The most interest . ing of these exercises was in a speech rather than an interview . Stuart Eizenstat , the President 's assistant for domestic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Club in Washington to what the Democratic party ought to do that it has n't been doing if it is to recover from the November disaster . His speech also was in effect , though not in direct statement , an outline of much that in Eizenstat 's view the Carter administration should have done and did n't do . Among the specifics : reform the party reforms of recent years " so that every Democratic congressman , senator , and governor " is a delegate to national conventions and has a role in writing the party platform ; shorten the presidential primary season ; limit political action committee contributions to congressional campaigns and remove the limits from national committee contributions ; give the party 's congressional leadership a major role in formulating party policy . The most interesting observations , the ones bearing on Carter administration doctrine and performance , were essentially philosophical : the party must advocate " noninflationary balanced growth " and " reject a no-growth philosophy " ; it most shift from " consumption- oriented stimulus policies " to policies emphasizing labor and industry productivity ; " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protecting consumers and helpless citizens . Any careful listener could hear what Eizenstat was saying without quite saying it : the Carter administration did some of this , but not enough with enough emphasis . Coming from the senior domestic adviser to a President who 'd never shown much concern for his party , except when he needed its nomination , the speech deserved more notice than it got . Eizenstat sent advance drafts to many Democratic figures . Senator Edward Kennedy did n't respond . His sister , Eunice Shriver , telephoned Eizenstat with enthusiastic praise . John White , outgoing chairman of the party 's national committee , said he 'd endorse the recommendation that elected Democrats be convention delegates . Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and defeated congressman John Brademas praised the speech in calls to Eizenstat . Four Carter cabinet members and campaign chairman Robert Strauss appeared on the dais with Eizenstat and applauded him . Preferring not to involve Carter directly , Eizenstat did n't show him an early draft . He sent him one of the final copies prepared for the press the night before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ note of thanks , without comment . Copyright of New Republic is the property of New Republic and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listsery without the copyright holder 's express written permission . However , users may print , download , or email articles for individual use .                     