@@333554

Prevailing fashions in architecture , being fashions , tend to change course at just the moment they become mainstream doctrine . The effect ( although not the intention , usually ) is to make outsiders and stylistic slow learners scramble to catch up . Thus today , as the giant architectural firms have begun routinely gussying up their new high-rise towers in pseudoantique brica-brac  --  fake Corinthian columns , pediments and pyramidal tops  --  the cutting edge has glided past . As postmodern cliches become ubiquitous , in other words , the movement is becoming passe . <P> The mid- ' 80s shift in the consensus among cognoscenti has just been made especially clear . This is the season of " 40 Under 40 , " architecture 's cliquish , roughly once-a-decade ( 1941 , 1966 , 1976 and this year ) initiation rite , in which several dozen younger Americans were declared the best and the brightest of their generation in a recent exhibition at New York City 's International Design Center . Although the Architectural League of New York started the tradition , Interiors magazine was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wound up on the list himself ) oversaw the selection process . The last time a new 40 was named , in 1976 , postmodernism was just revealing its jolly don 's face to the world . The newly anointed 40 ( 54 men and women , in fact , eight of whom are 40 or older ) tend strikingly in a different direction : stripped-down , scrupulous , refined but seldom fancy , unafraid of ornament but almost never giddy . There is an unabashedness about construction and materials , but this lightly worn constructivism is a matter of instinct , not doctrine . Much of the new generation 's architecture recalls the best buildings of the 1910s and ' 20s , buildings on the cusp between the neoclassical and the modern  --  early , excitingly unsettled modernism , before assembly-line imitation gave austerity a bad name . The work of the younger generation , then , may be backward-looking , but its inspirations are antiquity and the early 20th century , not the 18th and 19th centuries . Quaintness does not excite . <P> The up-and-comers ' neomodern bent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final 40 : Philip Johnson and Robert A.M. Stern . Grandmaster Johnson , 80 , is the most notorious ex-modernist in the world ; Stern , a sort of architectural Ralph Lauren , specializes in exactly the sort of direct 19th century-style borrowing that his younger peers are eschewing . This year 's " 40 Under 40 " honors list is the third that Stern , 47 , has helped compile ( and the first of the three on which he has not appeared ) . Being named is no guarantee of a successful career , obviously , but a remarkable number of today 's most celebrated architects are 40 Under 40 alumni from 1966 . They include Gunnar Birkerts , Michael Graves , Charles Gwathmey , Hugh Hardy , William Pedersen , Hugh Newell Jacobsen , Richard Meier , Charles Moore , Giovanni Pasanella , James Stewart Polshek , Jaquelin Robertson , Der Scutt , Stern , Stanley Tigerman and Robert Venturi.                     