@@487685

ACT I : A Banqueting Hall in Beijing : Smarting from the cruel portrayal of himself in ABC 's docudrama The Final Days , RICHARD NIXON arrives and toasts his hosts by singing " Still Crazy After All These Years . " LI PENG and DENG XIAOPING sing traditional Chinese anthems of greeting ; Li vows earnestly to stamp out corruption and inflation in his recitative , " Follow the Capitalist Road . " In a nearby tavern , reporter NICHOLAS KRISTOF and THE NEW YORK TIMES CHORUS sing the rousing drinking song , " It 's Business as Usual in Beijing . " ACT II : A Country Club Just Outside Shanghai : AL HAIG and HENRY KISSINGER have just arrived ; the President 's brother , PRESCOTT BUSH , offers a song of welcome , " There 's No Ventures Like Joint Ventures . " Al and Henry stroll admiringly around the golf course that Prescott has built ; they join in on the choruses of Nixon and Deng 's duet , " We 'll Get By With a Little Blood Between Friends . " ACT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chorus of STUDENTS and YOUNG WORKERS sing the universal dirge , " Do n't Forget to Remember . " Nixon pretends not to hear . From the windows of the U.S. Embassy , the voice of FANG LIZHI is heard , singing " Stand By Me . " A few AMERICAN TOURISTS timidly take snapshots of the Gate of Heavenly Peace ; a KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN VENDOR dispenses Hot &; Spicy Drummettes to a crowd of SOLDIERS , who hum " The Colonel Sanders March . " Nixon 's motorcade departs , showered with lotus petals by young DANCERS from the Beijing Opera . Later , at the airport : Nixon stands atop the aircraft steps , arms outstretched ; Deng Xiaoping bids farewell with the aria , " When Your Arteries Harden/Do n't Worry , Old Friend . " Nixon replies with his closing aria , " The Show Must Go On . " HUD/E.P.A . SLUSH FUNDS THE WHITE HOUSE CONNECTION MURRAY WAAS On September 17 , 1982 , President Ronald Reagan made a campaign appearance in Flemington , New Jersey , on behalf of Republican Congresswoman Millicent Fenwick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Senate seat . Appearing at the San Gennaro festival in Flemington , Reagan interrupted his prepared remarks to tell the crowd he had " an announcement that will surprise all of you . In spite of all our cutting back , the Department of Housing and Urban Development has agreed to supply public funds for 125 units of elderly housing at Park Place in Ewing , New Jersey ! " Then , turning toward Fenwick , Reagan joked , " If you do n't elect her as Senator we 'll take it away . " Six days later , Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Anne Burford and New Jersey Republican Governor Thomas Kean jointly announced that the E.P.A . had awarded six grants to clean up hazardous waste sites in New Jersey . The timing of these announcements was not a coincidence , of course ; nor did they have anything to do with legitimate policy objectives . They were examples , rather , of how the Reagan Administration used E.P.A . and HUD grants as a political slush fund . Despite the recent housing scandal and an earlier one involving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends remains a largely untold story . In 1983 Rita Lavelle , an the agency 's S1.6 billion Superfund program , was the E.P.A . in charge of c ? ? ' ( 7/ 11111 I assistant administrator of 0 ( 6 EDITORIALS . German Questions T he retreat of the neo-Stalinist regime in East Germany before an aroused citizenry puts the German question , again , on the historical agenda . To be sure , it was always there , but cynical politicians and their captive " experts " ( German and non-German ) preferred to table it . They used a multiplicity of devices , all of them disingenuous and most of them dishonest , to depict the postwar settlement as eternal . In 1952 the Adenauer government refused Stalin 's offer to exchange reunification for German neutrality  --  while proclaiming an unalterable wish for reunification . American and allied leaders have ritual-ized demands that the Berlin wall come down , secure in the conviction that it would remain standing , and that they need not renounce West Germany 's 495,000 troops and 1.2 million reserves , or NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The most recent ( and most fatuous ) instance of this cold war mind-set is George Bush 's recent New York Times interview . He declared himself unfazed by the prospect of German reunification , making it clear that he thought this meant the incorporation of the Democratic Republic by the Federal Republic . After all , he said , Chancellor Kohl had telephoned him to assure him that West Germany was not I neutralist . A Gallup poll reported that same day in West Germany showed that a majority of the respondents favored denuclearization and that over 40 percent of West Germans wanted to leave NATO . Now that the issue is posed , most of the responses are marked by anxiety , disorientation and ignorance . Many Western Europeans fear the economic power of a reunified Germany . The French in particular seem unable to put 1914 and 1939 behind them . Memories of Nazi depredations , evoked by the actions of noisy revanchists on the German right , also disturb the Czechoslovaks and above all the Poles . By contrast , the Soviet Union 's political elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ useful to recall that West Germany ( even with the East added ) is not a superpower but a middle-sized one , its prosperity dependent on economic integration with the rest of Europe . What is new in German history is that a majority in West Germany ( and now , apparently , in East Germany as well ) is committed to parliamentary democracy and political pluralism . A majority of the people in both states are decidedly unmilitaristic . West German draft boards are overflowing with applications for alternative service , and the East German opposition has made antimilitarism a major theme . Fantasies of an aggressive Germany are precisely that , fantasies . The Germans can not be denied the rights of national self-determination we so loudly demand for others . That much said , a majority of Germans in East and West are skeptical about the desirability or necessity of immediate reunification . The opposition in East Germany wants the democratization of state socialism . The West Germans do not wish to ret their welfare state swamped by millions of new arrivals from the G.D.R . West Germany @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union to pressure East Germany to introduce reforms that could stabilize that state . West German President Richard von Weizs  --  cker has said that the future of the German nation need not involve one state . The German nation lived , after all , for a large part of its history in separate states . West German Minister for Foreign Affairs Hans-Dietrich Genscher has a larger view . Drawing on ideas also developed by Willy Brandt and the Social Democrats and now espoused by the Christian Democrats too , he thinks the German problem can be solved only in a Europeanized Europe . That is , it can be solved when Europe 's two halves detach themselves from their respective superpowers and become more autonomous , as well as ever more interrelated in culture , economy and politics . The West Germans ( and interestingly the French ) have taken the lead in a large European aid package for Hungary and Poland . Kohl has offered large amounts of economic aid to East Germany on the condition that it undertake serious reforms . As these steps are taken , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear weapons on German soil . The eventual withdrawal of the superpowers from Germany could be negotiated with the Germans and the other Europeans , East and West . The " utopian " goals of the peace movement are , increasingly , matters for political realists . The U.S. foreign policy-makers , as usual , limp querulously behind events . They would do well to recognize that the Germans ( and the other Europeans ) have taken the measure of America 's reduced circumstances and that their patience with the obsolescent ideological goods purveyed in Washington is exhausted . Rebukes to the Germans for their " nationalism " from those who openly avow an American world mission evoke ridicule . The American public would profit by ridding itself of demonic images of Nazism reborn . The Germans are more likely , in the end , to resemble the Swedes . Fetal Position p resident Bush has no consistent or principled position on abortion . He never has . Recent history shows that he sways with the political winds . This was demonstrated again when he vetoed Federal funding of abortions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ronald Reagan , Bush had no absolute opposition to abortion . As Reagan 's running mate , in 1980 , he adopted the position that abortion was permissible only to protect the life of the mother . Otherwise , abortion was the taking of a human life and therefore unacceptable . The rights of the " unborn " superseded all other rights for Bush . As Vice President , Bush , supporting Reagan , was opposed to the Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion . As presidential hopeful at the 1988 debates , Bush implied that , although he had not thought about it very much , if abortions were made illegal he probably would have to treat women who get abortions as criminals . Then he shifted his position again , saying he did not mean that women should be treated as criminals but rather as victims . Doctors should be treated as criminals . ( Perhaps Bush thinks that only men are doctors , and therefore rational and accountable . Women on the other hand are merely victims . ) Most recently , when asked whether he would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abortions for poor women in cases of rape or incest , he responded affirmatively at a press conference : " I 'm not looking for any conflict on this . I 'm not going to change my position any . But let 's see how those negotiations come out . . . . but I have not changed my position . " One wonders which position he was speaking of . When asked if he might accept a compromise he stated flatly that a compromise was out of the question . Then again , he also said that there might be some room for flexibility . He explained a bit . " The conference language may be able to avoid a veto on my part " if the criterion for abortion funding were changed from rapes " promptly " reported to rapes reported in forty-eight hours . His reason : to prevent women from using false claims of rape to finance their abortions . If this still is n't clear , Bush now says that his only concern is to protect the taxpayer . It is an issue of overseeing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether you can control them . " He wants to stop the potential abuse by women of federally fmanced abortions , " women who falsely asserted they have been raped in order to get the government to pay for their abortions . " So now we finally have it . Bush will veto publicly financed abortions for rape and incest victims because he assumes that women he about rape and are cheats . Forgotten is his position on the rights of the unborn . Bush 's waffling , and now his stonewalling , wo n't work . He has shown himself to be opportunistic and shallow ; standing firm at this point only makes him look inept . He is caught in a bankrupt position . ZILLAH EISENSTEIN Zillah Eisenstem is chair of the department of politics at Ithaca College . Her most recent book is The Female Body and the Law ( University of California Press ) . Plutonium Con T he Galileo space probe was launched on October 19 amid controversy over its highly toxic payload of 49.25 pounds of plutonium , which provides heat and electricity for its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " October 2 . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration claimed there was no substitute for plutonium as a power source on projects such as the Galileo mission to Jupiter . But government-authorized studies recently released to us under the Freedom of Information Act show that scientists under contract to NASA regarded solar energy as a feasible alternative for Galileo and for other space probes as well . In the weeks preceding the Galileo launch NASA stuck to its claim that there was no alternative to plutonium for these missions . In a " Safety Fact Sheet , " for example , the agency said , " Because other power alternatives are too massive or too weak . . . the RTG plutonium-powered generator is the safest , most efficient and effective power system . " However , studies conducted for NASA by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory of the California Institute of Technology contradict NASA 's claims . One of the laboratory 's reports says , " Based on the current study , it appears that a Galileo Jupiter orbiting mission could be performed with a concentrated photovoltaic solar array power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . concentrated solar arrays ( CSA ) are a potentially viable alternative to RTG 's despite the difficulties posed by the Galileo mission . " A diagram accompanying the report shows a CSA to be a system of mirrors on " wings " attached to the space probe . The mirrors focus sunlight onto photovoltaic cells , which convert it to electricity . The electricity charges batteries on the probe . Another document stresses the high cost of the kind of RTGs used on the Galileo probe and which NASA plans to utilize on a series of future space probes . This analysis says , " Historically , the cost of the fuel for an RTG power sourcehas been ' subsidized ' by DOE Department of Energy , resulting in a relatively low RTG cost to NASA . . . . Existing estimates of the RTG fuel costs range up to $3,500 per thermal watt . If NASA is required to assume these costs or a significant portion of them , the RTG cost per mission could be prohibitive within the context of a constrained budget . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low cost solution for powering a number of far earth missions . " When told of the reports Representative George Hochbrueckner of New York , a member of the House Science , Space and Technology Committee , which oversees NASA , was shocked . " NASA has been telling us over and over again that there is no alternative to plutonium  --  and now this . Why did we have to undertake the tremendous risk with plutonium in light of these reports ? " he asked . " We took a big risk with Galileo and we happened to be lucky . Now we have to make sure we do n't undergo an unnecessary risk again with future probes . " Future NASA missions include the Ulysses probe , to be launched next year , which will establish a north-south orbit of the sun . It will carry 25.6 pounds of plutonium . In 1995 , the Comet Rendezvous Asteroid Flyby , or CRAF mission , will pursue a comet and penetrate an asteroid belt . In 1996 the Cassini launch will explore Saturn and its moon Titan . Like Galileo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Challenger-type space shuttle and to carry 49.25 pounds of plutonium . Michio Kaku , professor of nuclear physics at the City University of New York , who for years has advocated using solar energy and other alternative sources of power on the Galileo and related space probe missions , said when informed of the reports , " NASA officials deliberately concealed information from the American people . " He asked , " Why have they been lying to us ? Why were they insisting that there were no alternatives to plutonium when alternatives were  --  and are  --  available and viable ? It 's because they have a hidden agenda for the RTGs : use in a future Star Wars system . " Indeed , starting in the mid-1990s , the government plans a series of launches of nuclear devices in space for military purposes , including orbiting nuclear reactors that would provide the power for the Strategic Defense Initiative . According to Kaku , solar energy could be problematic for military use in space . The " flower-like " solar collectors would be sighted easily by radar , making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these small nuclear power packs reduces the radar image . " Facing budget constraints , NASA , he said , also sees a " bonanza " in joining in military plans for the nuclearization of space . " The military wants all kinds of nuclear power packs up there , including those energized by hydrogen bombs . That 's why there 's plutonium on Galileo . Galileo is the tip of an iceberg . " KARL GROSSMAN AND JUDITH LONG Karl Grossman , a journalism professor at the State University of New York , College at Old Westbury , is the author of Cover Up : What You Are Not Supposed to Know About Nuclear Power ( Permanent Press ) and Power Crazy ( Grove Press ) .                     