@@486964

In the context of deepening economic difficulties and a unique series of intense foreign crises , the Reagan Administration has been attempting to articulate a global military and political strategy that would match American resources , interests and priorities with potential threats to U.S. power around the world . Its recent Middle East peace proposals seem to have been formulated as part of that effort , but even if they were to be taken seriously in the region they would do little to establish credibility for a government that has produced a great deal of rhetoric but has been unable to guide important developments in any critical area of the globe for several years . Reagan 's foreign policy problems began the moment he took office . In his relations with Congress  --  which has been steadily whittling away at Presidential power over foreign policy since 1973 ? he has been forced to concede to pressures from both its liberal wing ( on Central America ) and its conservative wing ( on Taiwan ) . Instead of creating a definable and loyal constituency on the Hill , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each issue as it arises . Moreover , at a time of economic and budgetary troubles , Congress has shown itself to be increasingly unwilling to accept the President 's none-too-plausible justifications for rising arms expenditures and preparations for military intervention overseas . Compounding the President 's problems has been a bitter , protracted ideological fight within his own Cabinet and among his initial right-wing allies . The Administration has sought ways of translating its conservative ideology into policy , but its rhetoric and dogmatic assertions have not provided real answers to the problems of the complex world , in which U.S. imperialism now finds itself . Out of the present global disorder has come nothing more than an indecisive American foreign policy that reveals the grave Made-i quaci  --  s in the American right 's confrontation with reality . The dominant international development of the past months has been the dissolution of the formal and informal alliances the United States laboriously constructed over decades . There would seem to be few , if any , means for Washington to re-establish control over the centrifugal forces now pulling apart the world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United States were irrevocably recast when Washington sided with Britain over the Falklands , shattering the Rio Pact and any hope for united action to deal with leftist movements throughout the hemisphere . Yet the reticence with which Washington came to London 's support also profoundly alienated tiritish official and public opinion , inflicting more damage on the " special relationship " than any other recent event . With the Soviet pipeline and other trade disputes last summer , crises of confidence and conflicts of interest have created a deep gulf between the principal NATO members and the United States that will not be quickly healed . The events in Lebanon gravely endanger the patiently constructed web of American influence in the conservative Middle Eastern states just at the time when the victorious Iranian Army is in a position to revenge itself on the Gulf states that funded the Iraqi invasion of its nation . And in Asia the de facto American alliance with China has undergone a profound deterioration scarcely welcome to a harriediWashington . These political setbacks make American military strategies for these regions increasingly untenable , and from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been trying to learn the extent of the Administration 's foreign commitments . Administration spokesmen responded originally that the old " one and one-half wars " doctrine  --  being able to fight simultaneously one general war and one substantial local war  --  was now dead . A greater American commitment was required , they said , asking for the addition of 5200 billion to the Pentagon budget over the next four years in order to upgrade U.S. military capabilities . Since that time the Administration 's attempts to articulate its position have been convoluted and essentially contradictory , leaving open the possibility of multiple , interventions but also taking into account the fact that this is militarily and economically unattainable . The Pentagon 's 1983 budget request last February directly confronted this problem , making Western Europe our first priority , then the oil routes from the Persian Gulf , followed by Africa , East Asia and Latin America in no order of importance . Although the United States has primarily been preparing to fight a war in Europe or the Persian Gulf , the Administration 's intentions extend farther . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the United States would not in principle forgo intervening anywhere in the world lest the Russians enter that vacuum . Hence the Pentagon argues the need for the capacity to strike everywhere  --  including , for example , the possible dispatch of U.S. " assistance " to Thailand in the event of a Vietnamese invasion . Because an effective military response to every local conflict is a technical and economic impossibility  --  and because that allows events rather than policies to define priorities  --  the Reagan Administration has come up with a new doctrine of " horizontal escalation . " Quite like John Foster Dulles 's 1954 doctrine of " massive retaliation " at the " time and place " of U.S. choosing if the war resumed in Korea , horizontal escalation means that should Russia attack a nation the United States considers vital , American forces might respond elsewhere where Soviet forces are vulnerable : a war in South Asia , for example , might lead the United States to attack Cuba . The Navy is the key proponent of this doctrine ; the other military branches have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political than military , the most obvious being that it does not provide a means for dealing with autonomous revolutionary forces , which take orders from no one . Moreover , the doctrine subverts the Pentagon 's policy of priorities insofar as it states that if Russia attacks a nation that is important to U.S. interests  --  for example , oil-rich Iran  --  the United States might attack , say , a much poorer Cuba in retaliation . In effect , the doctrine not only fails to solve Washington 's military problems but actually deepens them by threatening to increase the number of local wars . Since logistical preparations for local conventional wars in even a few places would take many years to accomplish , the Reagan Administration in May began minimizing horizontal escalation as a solution to the problem of fighting local wars . On May 21 , Reagan 's national security adviser , William P. Clark , leaked the news of a still-secret Pentagon plan , which will be the basis for military budgets until 1988 . It projects the perfection of a second-strike " massive retaliation " nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrent . The Pentagon plan , which has received National Security Council approval , would enable the United States to " survive " the first round of a nuclear exchange and retain the capacity to launch nuclear attacks against remaining Soviet targets . While Administration leaders have taken great pains to deny reports that this is a scheme to win a protracted nuclear war , they have admitted they are planning to produce technology capable of inflicting a decisive second strike . Such talk is intended to force the Soviet Union to increase its arms spending , thus further weakening its economy , but it seems unlikely the Administration 's confidence in strategic war is shared by the military and defense establishment . The debate over strategy will certainly continue so long as an infallible military policy at an affordable price eludes the Reagan Administration . The Administration 's foreign policy deliberations have not been helped by the limited talents of its major spokesmen . Weinberger , Clark and Secretary of State George Shultz have little diplomatic or military experience , and this has greatly increased the role of Congress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get along with his superiors even when he disagrees with them , but his academic , business and government background equips him to deal only with foreign economic problems . To make up for his deficiencies , Shultz has sought advice from conservative establishment-oriented Soviet experts ; six of them met with him in August to consider general policy issues . Among them was President Ford 's deputy assistant for national security affairs , William G. Hyland , and in an influential analysis published last year ? Soviet-American Relations : A New Cold War ? ( Rand Corporation ) ? he revealed the kind of counsel Shultz is receiving . Hyland argues that d  --  tente is dead and that the Western and Soviet spheres are becoming increasingly divided and internally unstable . Given the strains on both Soviet and American resources , Hyland sees the need for greater unity in the Western bloc to exploit the vulnerabilities within the Soviet system the events in Poland have revealed . Yet at the same time , Soviet military power is growing , posing a larger threat to the United States than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in effect , there is an even greater challenge to overcome . Experts such as Hyland do not solve such dilemmas , but it is important that they are making the government aware of them . U.S. foreign policy during the first two years of the Reagan Administration has been uncertain and hesitant , as a conservative government , seeking ways of translating its ideology into policy , has found itself more and more constrained by its domestic economic commitments . So long as the economy is in bad shape , that foreign policy will also be under conflicting and increasingly inhibiting strains both from Congress and from important domestic political elements . The real problem facing the United States now , however , is comprehending the nature of the world and the growing constraints on its resources for confronting international crises . It is precisely the autonomous economic and political trends that have upset great power relations since 1950 that are shaping the world today , posing new difficulties that can not be solved by conflict or accommodation with the Soviet Union and China , defying the well-laid plans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accelerating dissolution of American alliances in Latin America , Europe and the Middle East has created nationalist movements of rightist or religious complexion , with which the United States must cope along with leftist elements of every type . The events in Lebanon today are but one example of this . The social and political forces of the non-Communist world are being reshuffled into new combinations . Against these mercurial trends , America 's search for a coherent global strategy appears increasingly pathetic . Ultimately , it seems likely that President Reagan will end up presiding over four years of a further decline of American power in the world . ?                     