@@294939

Life in the fashion fast lane is a farrago of pomp and perspiration , champagne and missed meals , glamour and 1 hour workdays . To interview Supermodel Brooke Shields for this week 's cover story , TIME Show Business Correspondent Martha Smilgis tracked the high school sophomore through two weeks of stroboscopic contrasts , from a film festival in the Philippines to Rome , where Shields starred in Valentino 's spring-summer showing . Along the way were elegant dinners of suckling pig and mango pudding with President Ferdinand Marcos at Malacanang Palace in Manila , a cruise with Mrs. Imelda Marcos on the presidential yacht , and a celebrity-studded evening at Valentino 's Rome apartment . Smilgis , a former reporter at SPORTS ILLUSTRATED and writer at PEOPLE , has interviewed hundreds of celebrities from John Travolta to Sophia Loren , but she puts Shields among her most challenging assignments . Says Smilgis : " It is very difficult to interview a 15-year-old . Most people you interview do n't have a mother helping them answer your questions . " On the flight to Rome , Smilgis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ algebra homework . Smilgis , who grew up in Hollywood and majored in political science at Berkeley , finds that the top models have a lot in common with star athletes . Says she : " Very few of them are narcissistic , and most treat their looks as prized tools , much the way a pitcher views pitching arm . " Smilgis should know : she pitched the S.I . softball team to a 15-1 season in 1975 . <P> Back in the U.S. , TIME Correspondents James Wilde and Janice Simpson and Reporter-Researcher Georgia Harbison prowled the studios and salons of Manhattans fashion world . For his look at the way models live , Wilde went roller-discoing with Supermodel Apollonia , brunched with British Model Rachel Ward at the Plaza Hotel 's Palm Court and interviewed Louise Roberts , who every week combs through as many as 200 applicants to the Eileen Ford agency to come up with one or two who might have a modeling future . " Normally I work the streets , " Wilde says . " This job was like being let loose in Cartier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course . " <P> Harbison interviewed agency executives and bookers to learn how the business has changed . Says she : " There is a lot more money involved now , and that means a lot more pressure . Eileen Ford summed up the difference in her models in three words : ' They can count , ' " Says Simpson : " I always thought that all a model had to do to look beautiful was put on pretty clothes and stand in front of a camera . But after this behind-the-lens view of the business , I know that something far more important is involved-very hard work . "                     