@@494080

El Salvador 's tailspin . The Bloodbath Beckons The murders of six prominent opposition leaders and four North American missionaries in El Salvador during the past two weeks have demolished the Carter administration 's strategy for averting open civil war in that country . The first massacre , carried out by the extreme right in apparent cooperation with government security forces , claimed virtually the entire leadership of the Revolutionary Democratic Front , a broad coalition of left and center-left opposition groups . The victims were the men upon whom Washington had staked its hopes for a negotiated settlement to El Salvador 's deepening political crisis . The last chance for political compromise died with them ? a consequence that was probably their executioners ' intent . There is strong evidence that government forces also were complicit in the recent murders of three Catholic nuns and a lay missionary , two of whom were raped before being shot in the head . Publicly , the State Department will say only that there are " indications " of involvement by government forces ; privately , US officials say the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fiscal year 1981 economic and military aid pending the outcome of an investigation into the deaths of these four Catholic women is the first sanction the Carter administration has levied against the Salvadoran government , the first crack in a year-long policy of support . Though the suspension is partial ( fiscal year 1980 aid already " in the pipeline " will not be affected ) , it represents a tacit admission that the regime in San Salvador is not the moderate reformist government portrayed in Foggy Bottom 's press releases . A year of diplomatic cajoling and $90 million in foreign aid have not managed to force the Salvadoran government into the centrist mold envisioned for it by Washington . Even US officials now concede that the government 's security forces have been responsible for much of the violence racking the nation ? a reality they steadfastly had refused to acknowledge heretofore , though the murders of the past fortnight are only the most recent and dramatic crests in a wave of right-wing violence that began to swell after the US presidential election . At this point , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salvador 's tailspin into civil war . Ronald Reagan 's staunch anti-communism , his attacks on Carter 's human rights policy , and his advisers promises of increased military aid have convinced the right in El Salvador that they will have a friend in the White House . They feel they no longer need to curry favor with Jimmy Carter . The day after US investigators questioned senior Salvadoran military officers about the missionaries ' deaths and warned them that the rightist offensive must come to an end , those same officers removed the one remaining progressive , Colonel Adolfo Maja no , from the five-member gov-erning junta . As the incoming administration surveys the ruins of Carter 's policy , it should be wary of the facile conclusion that the policies of reform and human rights produced the chaos in El Salvador . The Carter administration could not stem the rising tide of violence because it never was able to translate its reformist rhetoric into reality . In October 1979 the right-wing military government of General Humberto Romero was ousted by a coalition of progressive military officers and civilian leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government became the first test case in Washington 's grand design for stability in Central America . By rallying moderates to the cause of peaceful reform , the Carter administration hoped to engineer incremental change , dissipate popular pressures for revolution , and thereby avoid " another Nicaragua . " Unfortunately , divisions within the Salvadoran officers corps prevented the October government from carrying out its promises . Right-wing officers resisted every significant reform ; progressive officers refused to risk the unity of the armed forces by challenging their right-wing brethren . The result was governmental paralysis . In December the civilians within the government confronted the officers , demanding the resignation of key conservatives and the implementation of promised reforms . The officers refused , the civilians resigned , and the government moved sharply to the right . But the policy of the United States did not change . After refusing to weigh in on the side of the reformers during the December crisis , the Carter administration professed to see no significant difference between the governments of October and January . The flow of economic and military aid continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government of mod-erates beset by extremists of both the left and right . The moderation of the January government always has been more chimerical than real . Its policy of " reform with repression " has been far more repressive than reformist . Over the past year , the most ferocious campaign of violence El Salvador has seen in half a century has taken the lives of 9,000 people ? the vast majority of them killed by government security forces . THET HE GOVERNMENT did manage , however , to two reforms : the nationalization of the banks and the much touted agrarian reform , both undertaken reluctantly last spring as the price of continued US support . Phase One of the agrarian reform nationalized large , mostly uncultivated plantations . Implemented by the armed forces , Phase One provided convenient cover for a military campaign against peasant political organizations in the countryside . Phase Three , the " Land to the Tiller " project ( modeled on its South Vietnamese predecessor ) , gave sharecroppers ownership of their land . How many illiterate peasants are aware of the decree even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heart of the reform , would nationalize the profitable coffee plantations , which constitute the core of the landed oligarchy 's accumulated wealth . It never has been implemented , and US officials admit privately that it will not be any time in the foreseeable future . The triumph of repression and the failure of reform in El Salvador are traceable to the fact that the appearance of power and the reality of power do not coincide . Though the de iure government includes civilians from the conservative wing of the now splintered Christian Democratic party , real power lies with the armed forces . Within the officers corps are three political tendencies : the progressives , who overthrew Romero in October 1979 ; the right , which dominates the current regime ; and the ultra-right , which is linked to the infamous death squads . Since July the progressives have been stripped of their commands , and several of their leaders have been assassinated . When the leadership of the Revolution-ary Democratic Front was murdered , the most prominent progressive , Colonel Majano , slipped quietly out of the country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He returned a week later , only to be removed from the government . Rendered powerless , the remnants of the progressive officers group now is debating whether to leave the army , perhaps to join the left . The ultra-right within the officers corps advocates a war of extermination against the communists , by which they mean those who favor any sort of reforms . When the agrarian reform was announced last spring , the ultra-right began assassinating members of the government and twice tried to overthrow it . But as the regime itself has moved to the right over the past six months , the death squads have returned to their traditional practice of murdering peasants , trade unionists , and clerics . The balance of power now lies with the right-wing officers who blocked the reforms of the October government , but have been willing to preside over more limited reforms at the insistence of the United State , Their principal objective is the military defeat of the left , and as their meager enthusiasm for reform has waned , an unholy alliance has evolved with the ultra-right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserves deniability . While it may be true that the present government can not control its own security forces or the death squads , the dr lade government of right-wing officers can ; it is simply unwilling to . When Major Robert D'Aubuisson attempted to overthrow the government from the right last May , he was arrested and then released . Another abortive plot in July was headed by the vice minister of defense ; no action was taken against him either . Dozens of Christian Democrats have resigned from the government over the past year and the one common theme in all their letters of resignation has been the unwillingness of the military high command to control ultra-right violence . Until now , the Salvadoran government has maintained the charade of a " rogue military " for international consumption . The current wave of violence by the ultra-right and the removal of Majano from the junta suggest that the rightist officers now may be prepared to drop this masquerade in order to get on with their war against the left . If this is the case , the Christian Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a development would not represent a coup against the government from the right , rather it merely would be the culmination of a coup that has been occurring by degrees from within the government since last December . Arrayed against the regime is a broad spectrum of ideologically diverse groups which the United States has portrayed as a " Pol Pot ' left ? a phrase which represents a true triumph of public relations . In fact , the left opposition includes the Catholic church , a middle-class center-left , the grassroots " popular organizations " of the urban and rural poor , and four guerrilla armies . The Revolutionary Democratic Front unites the social democratic center-left with the popular organizations , some of which originally were organized by the church and whose ideology can best be characterized as a homegrown amalgam of Marxism and liberation theology . The Farabundo Marti Front for National Liberation unites the four guerrilla armies , which span the ideological spectrum of Marxism from Trotskyist to Castroist to orthodox Marxist-Leninist . The left 's greatest weakness is its heterogeneity . Ideological conflicts between the Revolutionary Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have made it impossible for the left to forge the sort of cooperation necessary to launch a frontal assault on the regime . It is difficult , however , to assess the US claim that the left has lost support since July . Internal problems unquestionably have used some erosion of support , but the intensification of repression also has decimated the left 's cadres , making massive public demonstrations more difficult and more dangerous to stage than they were a year ago . The political violence that has polarized left and right in El Salvador has left the Carter administration efforts to construct a centrist solution in rubble . The edifice , which never progressed much beyond the facade , crumbled not because Carter tried to engineer social reform but because he thought it could be built without a foundation of popular support . In the final analysis , Carter 's policy failed because the United States could not bring itself to abandon its traditional allies on the right , and never could muster the influence to f orce these guardians of the status quo to break decisively with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be settled by force of arms . Either the right will triumph by reenacting the bloodbath of 1932 when 30,000 died in the suppression of a peasant revolt , or the left will win by defeating the armed forces on the battlefield . Neither eventuality will be pleasant for the United States . The sort of government that would follow a guerrilla victory will depend upon how protracted the conflict is . At best it would resemble Nicaragua , but it could be much worse . The guerrillas in El Salvador are more radical and less predictable than the Sandinistas , and if the left triumphs by force of arms , the men who hold the guns will hold the power . Ideally the interests of the United States would be served best by so e sort of negotiated settlement between the center-mright within the government ( e.g. , the Christian Democrats and progressive officers ) and the center-left within the opposition ( e.g. , the Revolutionary Democratic Front ) . This is the sort of solution the Carter administration was trying to construct when the ultra-right assassinated the Revolutionary Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution now gone , the choice in El Salvador may come down to a choice between fascism and communism . It is not much of a choice for US policy-makers . If Ronald Reagan pursues the policies his advisers have outlined for El Salvador , he will increase military aid , abandon the quest for reform , and subordinate human rights concerns to the war against the left . Apart from the moral issue of whether the United States ought to finance the tort of bloody crusade the right envisions , this policy has considerable costs and major risks . Economically and strategically , Mexico is the most important country in Latin America for the United States . Any expanded US military role in El Salvador will immediately antagonize Mexico , which opposes current US policy and is sympathetic to the left . Mex- ico , which sees Central America as more properly its own backyard than ours , simply does not believe the neo-domino theory being purveyed by Reagan 's advisers . An expansion of our role in El Salvador also would threaten our ' relations with Venezuela , Panama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have supported our policy thus far . Even our North Atlantic allies are on record opposing such a policy . In an unabashed alignment with the Salvadoran right , Guatemala and Honduras are the only regional allies the United States would have . There is also real danger of regional war engulfing all of Central America . Guatemala has threatened to intervene in El Salvador if the left appears to be winning . The Guatemalan left certainly would escalate its internal war under such circumstances , and it is difficult to imagine Nicaragua standing by . If Nicaragua should become embroiled in a regional war , it would have no choice but to ask for Cuban aid , and Cuba would provide it . In assessing the real and potential costs of the policy Reagan 's advisers suggest , one must remember that massive arms transfers may not succeed in pacifying El Salvador . Arms transfers surely will call forth an esca lation of arms shipments to the left from its international allies , thereby increasing the level of violence but not necessarily ending the current military stalemate . A dissent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warns that the left 's strength already makes it " highly unlikely " that the guerrillas can be defeated without a protracted war . The danger , then , is that the United States will find itself drawn progressively deeper into a military conflict that will be brutish but will not be short . Are we to purge ourselves of the " Vietnam syndrome " by once again enlisting on the side of a morally bankrupt government that has no popular support , by incrementally escalating our commitment and investing incr prestige until we convince ourselves that a defeat for the Salvadoran government is a defeat for the United States ? As Ronald Reagan contemplates the ways in which he hopes to transform America over the next four years , let him recall the fate of Lyndon Johnson 's Great Society when Johnson 's presidency became entangled in the jungles of Vietnam .                     