@@324313

The Democratic fight ahead <P> The document was thick and windy , roughly 40,000 words of predictably partisan rhetoric . There was a perfunctory apology : " After four years in office , we Democrats have not solved all America 's problems . " But as it emerged from a 158-member committee in Washington , the Democratic platform for the 1980 presidential election blamed most of the country 's problems on Jimmy Carter 's predecessors : " Eight years of Republican politics that left this nation weak , rudderless and divided . " The Republicans were handily accused of causing inflation , unemployment , continued dependence on foreign oil and even the current recession . <P> For the most part , the document reflected the views of Carter 's partisans on the platform committee . Senator Edward Kennedy 's forces , outnumbered by almost 2 to 1 , were defeated on all their major platform goals , including a huge antirecession program to create 800,000 jobs . <P> Kennedy counterattacked in an angry speech to the Service Employees International Union in New York City . He promised a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the convention in August . With rhetoric that rolled with the nostalgic cadences of his brothers in the 1960s , Kennedy declared that " the jobless do not have seats on the committees of the Democratic Convention , but my campaign does . The families without adequate health care and winter heat do not have floor passes to the convention , but my campaign does . The farmers who have lost their livelihoods do not have a place on the podium or a microphone under a state banner , but my campaign does . And we will speak for all of them . " Warned Kennedy : " There surely is a right-wing threat , but we will not defeat it by tilting toward it . Too many Democrats may choose the genuine article . Too many may not vote at all . And others may turn to an independent candidate who seems responsive to their needs . " <P> In addition , Kennedy intends to urge adoption of an " accountability rule " that would require the Democratic presidential nominee-all but certainly Carter-to state in writing any reservations that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least three planks in the plat form could embarrass Carter . One is a commitment to an is sue he would rather have avoided : civil rights for homosexuals . The platform not only pledges to protect people from discrimination based on " sexual orientation , " but also calls for Government action to achieve this goal . The second is a departure from Carter 's commitment to nuclear power . The platform promises that " as alternative fuels become available in the future , we will retire nuclear plants in an orderly manner . " On the third troublesome plank , the drafters brushed aside an attempt by Carter sup porters to soft-pedal the abortion issue . The platform now flatly opposes " any constitutional amendment " restricting the 1973 Supreme Court decision on abortion . That could be the most divisive plank of all , particularly if Republican platform drafters follow Ronald Reagan 's lead in endorsing just such an amendment .                     