@@327681

The debate over political bias in the press is as old as newspapers themselves . For years right-wing critics have complained that the U.S. news media are a bastion of anti-Establishment liberalism , while left-of-centers charge that ownership by corporate conglomerates has turned the country 's newspapers and TV networks into profit-hungry servants of the Establishment . Rarely , however , does the debate get down to cases . What would happen , for example , if a radical socialist went to work , politically incognito , for some of the nation 's most prestigious newspapers ? <P> That is the question raised by the extraordinary confession of veteran reporter A. Kent MacDougall . Writing in the Monthly Review , an obscure socialist magazine ( circ. 7,000 ) , MacDougall declares that during his 24-year career as a reporter for the Wall Street Journal and the Los Angeles Times , he " helped popularize radical ideas " as a " usually covert , occasionally openly anti-Establishment reporter . " A journalism professor at the University of California , Berkeley , since 1987 ( he is now on sabbatical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ security of tenure finally enabled him to reveal himself as a " closet socialist boring unobtrusively from within ( ( the ) ) bourgeois press . " His epitaph : " Eugene V. Debs may be my all-time favorite American and Karl Marx my all-time favorite journalist . But my employer for a decade was the Wall Street Journal . " <P> MacDougall was quickly singled out by conservative critics as living proof of the press 's alleged liberal slant . " It shows once more how easy it is to % hoodwink our media elite , " wrote Reed Irvine , chairman of the right-wing pressure group Accuracy in Media ( AIM ) . The conservative weekly Human Events said MacDougall 's revelations will no doubt " raise concerns about the ability of Marxist agents to penetrate the mainstream media . " The Wall Street Journal issued a statement expressing its outrage . " It is troubling , " said the Journal , " that any man who brags of having sought to push a personal , political agenda on unsuspecting editors and readers should be teaching journalism at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tongue was firmly in cheek when he implied in his articles that he had pursued a secret agenda . The point of the article , he says , was to debunk radical misconceptions about the daily press . " Rigid- minded right-wingers and rigid-minded left-wingers have a lot in common , " he adds . " I wanted to knock down the conspiracy theories by pointing out that individual reporters can get across a lot of uncomfortable truths to the public . " <P> Whatever his motivation , MacDougall 's shadowy career does reveal something about the limits of ideological bias in the mainstream media . MacDougall stresses that his beliefs merely influenced the types of stories he tried to pursue . " I was first and foremost a journalist , " he says , " and I stuck to accepted standards of newsworthiness , accuracy and fairness . "                     