@@494616

One of the most serious charges that can he leveled against any country 's policymakers is that , the war having been won , they have somehow managed to lose the peace . Thus they stand accused not only of making nonsense of their nation 's sacrifices , but also of creating dilemmas with which following generations have to contend . It was precisely with the hope of establishing a " just and lasting peace " that Woodrow Wilson promulgated his 14 Points near the close of the First World War ; yet the harsh realities and sordid bargaining at the Paris peace conference produced instead a flawed settlement that satisfied neither victors nor vanquished ? and which , indeed , helped to drive the German people along the path to National Socialism and into the second great conflagration of this century . This is not to say that Wilson , Lloyd George , Clemenceau , and their acolytes " caused " the Second World War , any more than Bismarck 's annexation of Alsace-Lorraine in 1871 caused the First World War . Still , the fact is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on quite rational grounds turns out later to have unforeseen consequences . And however much talented and sophisticated planning staffs " plan " for the future , history has a way of playing tricks on such predictions . A an illustration of this point , the reader need look no further than these two distinct but related studies of United States-Japanese relations since 1945 . As Michael Schaller points out in his very good work The American Occupation of Japan , American military and political advisers did not fashion their plans for the future of East Asia in a vacuum , but hammered them out in the context of their own ideological and strategical concerns . There still remained widespread hopes of preserving China as a pliable client-state , despite Chiang Kai-shek 's unimpressive contributions to the final victors ' . There were hopes , too , of replacing the old European colonial empires in southeast Asia with new regimes , which would look to Washington and be friendly to the free-market capitalist system . As for Japan itself , the planners felt that it should not only be occupied but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basis for aggression . According to one of his Occupation aides , General Douglas MacArthur flew into Tokyo with the intention to build representative govern ment. entranchise women , tree political prisoners , liberate tarnlers , establish tree labor unions , destroy monopolies , abolish police repression , liberate the press , liberalise education and decentralise political power . What eventually became the dominant consideration in the minds of these decision-makers was a tear of growing Communist influence in the Far East . The rushed Soviet occupation of Manchuria , the heated quarrels in Europe , the increasing gains made by Mao Tse-tung in China , and the nationalist unrest throughout southeast Asia all threatened the fond American vision of refashioning the Orient in accord with the political and economic principles of the Founding Fathers . Equally important , as Schaller ( following earlier scholars like Akira lrive ) points out , many of the older conservative elite in Japan itself , and especially the businessmen running the giant zaibatsu , shared this fear of communism in Asia , and used that argument to slow down the radical economic and social reforms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation ? on the debatable grounds that such measures would lead to domestic uncertainty and instability . This did not , of course , prevent many changes from being made in Japan 's constitution , its political forms , and so on . But by 1947 , with the Cold War at its height , and many in Washington convinced that their strategy of containment also included ( to use Forrestal 's words ) putting " Japan , Germany , and other affiliates of the Axis .. . back to work , ' ' the pressures to break up the zaibatsu had been replaced by the desire to boost Japanese productivity and wealth as soon as possible . Such a course of action would not only make Japan into a stable pillar of a global anti-Russian coalition , but also reduce the costs of American aid . O NE MAJOR problem with this change in strategy , however , was that the Japanese economy had earlier been heavily dependent upon trade with the rest of Asia ; vet Washington specifically forbade the resumption of commercial ties between Japan and China when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region , moreover , was profoundly suspicious of renewed Japanese economic penetration . At this stage in its postwar development , Japan was not ready to compete in European and American markets , and therefore relied upon United States foreign aid until the Korean War brought hundreds of millions of dollars of orders for Japanese goods and services . Toyota , notably , was on the point of foundering when the first American orders for trucks arrived . In all sorts of other ways , too , the Korean War rescued the Japanese economy , and set it in the direction of producing heavy-industrial and high-technology goods . These orders did not significan .. v slow down during the 1950s , and by the time of the Vietnam War , Tokyo could not only supply the American military with various services , but had also broken into Western markets with its high-quality , low-priced products . The decline of American prestige in Asia following that war , and the recognition of China by the United States , were also useful for Japanese business , which was at last able to reenter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was better to lose a world war than to win One . Long before Japanese products challenged and then overtook their American counterparts across the globe , the final irony in this tale appeared : if Japan was indeed a bulwark against Communist influence in Asia , then surely ? so it was argued at the State Department , the Pentagon , and elsewhere ? it ought to be pressed to make a contribution to the defense of the capitalist order of which it was a part . Although this line of reasoning seemed utterly logical , it openly contradicted the original American war aim of demilitarizing Japan , and of course totally flouted MacArthur 's antiwar prohibitions . It is therefore interesting to see that as early as 1948 the Joint Chiefs of Staff were urging the re-creation of a small Japanese army ; and that when Dulles attempted to press this idea upon the ' Tokyo government during his visit of June 1950 , Prime Minister Yoshida neatly retorted that both Japanese public opinion and the " peace constitution " imposed by the United States quite forbade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upon American power for its security . I IS this critical issue of " burden- ' . sharing " in the field of defense that is at the heart of Edward Olsen 's much slimmer but equally valuable study . Although irritatingly sell-advertising at times , the author usefully focuses on the extraordinary imbalance that now exists within the complex **25;3014;TOOLONG relationship between this country and Japan . An expert on Japanese and East Asian affairs , he is able to trace the way this problem has evolved from ' Tokyo 's viewpoint as well as from Washington 's , and to offer detailed evidence of what the Japanese are saving to each other about the steadily growing American pressure to shoulder a larger share of the defense burdens . Even so , it will disturb many readers of this hook to learn of Prime Minister Nakasone 's blunt March 1983 statement that " Japan will defend itself by its own efforts , but will use U.S. forces a hundred percent in an emergency . This will make the defense cost cheaper . " Quite so . A THE beginning of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its global defense role , Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain appealed to the self-governing Dominions to lend a hand in imperial defense , warning that " the Weary - Titan staggers under the too-vast orb of its own Fate . " Although the circumstances of Britain in 1900 and the United States in 1985 differ in many respects , there does exist a basic similarity in this desire to shift at least some of the costs of collective defense to the " free riders " in the system . At the same time , it is essential to a laissez-faire . democratic , political wayof-life that such a shift be accomplished by negotiation and agreement , not by compulsion . And although Olsen argues that Japan must be persuaded to contribute more to the defense of Western interests in Asia , there is no certainty that the suggestion will be carried out . At the moment , at least , it is extremely convenient for Japan to spend only one percent of its GNP on defense , to concentrate its own massive foreign trade earnings and home savings ratio upon investment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GNI ' ( an amazing indictment of the Soviet system ) , and to enjoy the commercial benefits of its own Lenhoi Ile ' a viko ( " omnidirectional peaceful diplomacy " ) . As Olsen points out , a Japan that would spend , say , three percent or four percent of its GNP on the armed forces and he willing to enter into a series of regional defense pacts could he of enormous use to a globally overextended America . It is in this direction that Mr. Reagan will undoubtedly keep pressing his good friend Mr. Nakasone. liut even if the current Tokyo administration can disregard the economic reasons for keeping defense spending low , it is going to have a very difficult time persuading the Japanese public to agree to such a change of policy . Conceivably , the occasional " shock therapy " that Olsen advocates will do the trick . But the fact that many of Japan 's encouraging noises to Washington on this issue of " burden-sharing " are swiftly followed by reassurances to domestic pacifist opinion suggests that the " omnidirectional " diplomacy of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modifications . It is equally important for American diplomatic strategy to take into account that a strong revival of Japanese military power would be greeted with alarm and horror by most of this country 's other friends in East Asia and the western Pacific . If President Marcos of the Philippines had special personal reasons for bluntly declaring in 1982 that he was " distrustful of the Japanese , " his sentiments are shared by politicians in Malaysia , Indonesia , the two Koreas , and further afield . To those states , trading with Japan is one thing ; living under the shadow of a rearmed ' Tokyo is another . In China , too , there is a profound mistrust of a possible revival of Japanese militarism , as exemplified in the recent controversy over history textbooks concerning Japan 's expansion in the 1930s . And since it is against the Soviet Union ( about which Olsen says only a little ) that the buildup of Japan 's defense forces is primarily directed , it is altogether likely that there would be forceful reactions from Moscow . Assuaging these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese themselves- while encouraging Tokvo to invest more in defense is going to be an extraordinarily difficult challenge to an American diplomacy not usually credited for its agility . F INA1.1 , Y , since American-lapa Ill'se relations have changed so profoundly over the past four decades , it is worth looking ahead another 40 years and asking the question ( even if we ca n't , 1 nswer it ) of whether the revival of lapin as a great military power would be unequivocally in Washington 's interests . The problem with this course for Japan -- tripling its defense expenditures and agreeing to assume certain regional responsibilities , yet still remaining a compliant junior ally of the United States ? is that it is an ideal scenario , and in the real world those rarely exist . Moreover , as Schaller 's book demonstrates , even in the late 1940s the Japanese were showing that they could get the Americans to serve Tokyo 's interests more effectively than their Occupation overlords were using Japan to realize American needs . There is little in the past record of both countries to indicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well past the Russians ' and probably NIA-NI close to this country 's , and when its high-technology industry ( adaptable for military and space purposes ) may he far superior to today 's superpowers ' ? it will be easier for Washington to " manage " Japan , with its traditional strengths of social cohesion and cultural self-awareness , than it has been over the past 40 years . Indeed , all logic of the shifting interests of egotistic nation-states points to the opposite conclusion . Disraeli used to quip that a week was a long time in politics . To American governments , keen on quick results , 40 years is therefore an impossibly long period , although these two excellent books remind one of how quickly time whether the circles now pressing Japan to turn its plowshares into swords have considered the consequences , not merely for this administration 's diplomacy and strategy , but also for that of its successors .                     