@@336142

Their stated mission was to educate , not to interfere . But the State Department advisers who traveled to Central America last week had more in mind than a polite review of the peace accord that five Central American nations , including Nicaragua , signed in Guatemala City in early August . U.S. officials admitted that their goal was to slow progress on the peace plan , which , as far as the Reagan Administration is concerned , should never have been adopted in the first place . Said a U.S. diplomat : " It 's like trying to put the brakes on a runaway train heading downhill . " <P> The Administration also tried to regain the offensive back home . After weeks of thrashing about , one minute backing the peace process , the next claiming unwavering support for the contras , Washington tilted strongly toward the rebels last week . On vacation in California , President Ronald Reagan issued two pledges of continued support for the contras ' war against the Sandinista regime in Nicaragua . He broadcast a morale-boosting message that was beamed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three days later Reagan met with contra leaders in Los Angeles . In Washington , officials criticized the Sandinistas , issuing statements of support for imprisoned Nicaraguans who had embarked on a hunger strike and finding fault with Managua 's attempts to comply with provisions of the peace accord . <P> If the U.S. diplomatic maneuvers looked a bit flat-footed , Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega Saavedra seemed to execute several deft pirouettes . He announced that three exiled priests could return to Nicaragua and hinted that the Roman Catholic Church 's radio station might be reopened within 90 days . Some Central American officials speculated that Ortega was merely trying to embarrass the Reagan Administration ; others argued that with Nicaragua 's economy a shambles , Ortega was genuinely bent on procuring peace . Whatever the case , on the public relations front , conceded a U.S. official , " the Sandinistas have certainly done much better than we have . " <P> The White House was attempting to recover from a series of miscalculations that could doom the contra effort for good . In early August , Reagan startled members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-sponsored by Democratic House Speaker Jim Wright . According to State Department officials , Reagan had intended to present the Sandinistas with a proposal that they could only reject , then ask Congress for new contra funding before the current aid expires on Sept. 30 . But the scheme went awry . Three days later , when the Presidents of El Salvador , Costa Rica , Honduras , Guatemala and Nicaragua met in Guatemala City to discuss a homegrown peace proposal , the Central American leaders allied with the U.S. felt compelled to sign their version . " What were we supposed to do ? " asks a Honduran official . " Be the only ones not for peace ? " One major difference between the two pacts : the Reagan-Wright plan calls upon the Sandinistas to negotiate directly with the contras , while the Guatemala accord does not .                     