@@492204

word has the feel of history about it . It is an old-fashioned word . It evokes images of Revolutionary heroes , of sturdy colonists marching across a village green . Jefferson , Adams , Washington , Hancock , Paine , Warren , Revere  --  those are the names we associate with the word " patriot . " The New England professional football team is called the Patriots , and the team 's logo , painted on every player 's helmet , is a cartoon figure of an 18th-century colonist crouching over a football . That improbable pairing of symbols illustrates the modern , public tendency to think of a " patriot " in antique terms . It is a word peculiarly frozen in a single historical context . But if the label is relegated to the Revolutionary past , the kind of men and women it describes is not . A patriot is one who loves his country and who shows it in a significant way . By that definition , contemporary America is still a land of patriots , of men and women whose lives demonstrate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generations , theirs is a muscular , active patriotism that goes far beyond flagwaving and Fourthof-July sentimentality . They do not simply say they love America ; they do something about it . Richard M. DeVos is the prototype of the modern American patriot . He is a Michigan businessman , the president of Amway Corporation , an energetic and eloquent promoter of Americanism throughout his career . But the DeVos reputation for patriotism is much older than his involvement in party politics . For two decades , he has beat the drum for America , making hundreds of speeches before civic clubs , business groups and at colleges and high schools and conventions of all descriptions . His theme is always the same : " America is a great place to live . It 's not a perfect land , but its the best there is ; and it is ours , so let 's be proud of it and work to improve it . " While the message itself is not unusual , DeVos delivers it with exceptional forcefulness . Whether he 's speaking to corporate executives or Boy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with what they think , how they feel . He cajoles , he roars , he reasons calmly , he exhorts  --  in short , he communicates with his listeners , and often , in the words of the Green Bay Gazette , he " moves from one standing ovation to another . " Michigan Congressman Guy Vander Jagt , who represents the Grand Rapids district in the House of Representatives , is an admirer of the DeVos style . He recently entered the text of a DeVos speech  --  an award-winning address entitled " Selling America " ? into the Congressional Record , commenting : " Rich DeVos is truly one of the great ' salesmen ' of America . Even more exciting than his business success is his dedication to the principles that have made this a great nation and his enthusiastic efforts to ' sell ' America . DeVos does not see this land through rose-colored glasses , ignoring our faults and difficulties . Rather , he points to our virtues and emphasizes those qualities that make America the greatest place in the world . ? ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amway Corporation , which manufactures and markets household products from its home office in Ada , Michigan . DeVos and Jay Van Andel , friends and partners since high school , began Amway in their basements in 1959 and have built it into an international company with more than a million independent distributors who market $1.4 billion worth of products worldwide each year . The two partners still own Amway and serve as chief executive officers on an equal basis , and the company is the base from which both men promote their views on political and civic issues . ( Van Andel recently completed a term as national chairman of the United States Chamber of Commerce . ) Amway 's growth from its modest origins to its present size and vitality has made the DeVos-Van Andel story something of a legend in entrepreneurial circles and has given the two partners considerable clout and public visibility . Amway has , in the past few years , acquired Mutual Broadcasting System , major radio stations in New York and Chicago and hotels in the United States and the Caribbean . DeVos and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a diverse lineup of periodicals ranging from Reader 's Digest , which called them " Amway 's amazing Dutch twins , " to the radical Mother Jones magazine , which dubbed them " the Godfathers of the New Right . " They are themselves the best evidence that the American system still gives its citizens an opportunity to move from obscurity into the powerful elite in a single generation . Born in 1926 , the son of a salesman , DeVos grew up in the Dutch-American community in Grand Rapids . He was a child of the Depression , from a fairly typical workingman 's home in which everyone worked hard . " I peddled newspapers , worked in a gas station , that sort of thing . No big deal . Everybody did it . We may have been poor , but we certainly had no sense of being put down . We were no poorer than anybody else in those days. - The elder DeVos gave to his only son a relentless optimism about life in general and the business world in particular . " He was always positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he always wanted to be in business for himself . He kept saying to me , ' You should get into business for yourself . ' So from the time I got home from military service , we never really discussed getting a job . I do n't ever recall thinking about a job or who I should work for . I was fortunate to have a greater partner and a good friend in high school . It was just a question of getting into business for ourselves and finding the business we were going to be in , so we moved in that direction with a positive belief in our abilities to do great things . My father said , ' You 've got to do better than I have done . You 've got to be a greater achiever . You 're going to have to be a better man so you can do far greater things than I have ever done . ' " DeVos went directly from high school into the Army Air Corps and from there into the business partnership with Van Andel that led eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fortunes have changed in those years , the DeVos patriotic emphasis seems to have been always present . Even when his business was small and virtually unknown , DeVos committed much of his time to speechmaking on the blessings of being American . Then , as now , he regarded the survival of the free-enterprise system and that of his own business as inseparable . Like the president of any billion-dollar corporation , DeVos ' time is his most valuable commodity , but he gives it generously to his advocacy of the American system . " I guess I will always be a small businessman at heart , " he told a convention crowd recently . " The small businessperson , of course , is the entrepreneur , the builder , the guy willing to take a chance to do something differently and better , cheaper or faster . This country achieved its greatness because of small-business men and women , and I am concerned that we maintain the climate which made it possible for me and for millions of others to start a business and to build it .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system . . . this land . . . and I am prepared to defend all of it in any forum at any time ! " DeVos " ' forum " is not always the speaker 's rostrum . In 1975 , he expressed his views in a book which was simply titled Believe ! The book sold hundreds of thousands of copies , made the Top Ten bestseller lists of such papers as the Chicago Tribune , the Long Island daily , Newsday and the publishing trade magazine Bookstore Journal . One reviewer called it " an inspirational classic , " and it remains a steady seller in paperback seven years after its release . In 1981 , DeVos was the subject of a full-length film based on the book and bearing the same title . Produced by Gospel Films , Inc. , the documentary movie features DeVos as a spokesman for the principles of God , country and fellow man . As he did with the book , DeVos refused to accept payment for his work on the film . " This is not a film about my life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no more important than yours . It is , rather , a film about some of the things I believe in . I hope you find it of some value . " According to Gospel Films , the movie is being shown free of charge to junior and senior high school audiences throughout North America and is doing brisk business in schools and in other public-service showings . Those who know DeVos best insist that his patriotism is more than just rhetoric , that it is woven into the fabic of the man , as much a part of his private expression as of his public pronouncements . One friend recalls spending a July 4 evening with him a few years ago at a small dinner party in a village in Denmark , with only a few friends present . DeVos spoke spontaneously at the dinner table that night of the country he loved , as eloquently as if to an audience of 8,000 rather than of eight . The evening ended with a hearty rendition of " God Bless America " by everyone around the table , the guest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For him , the Fourth of July is more than just a day for shooting firecrackers . His patriotism is an affair of the heart . Noel Black , an Amway official who came to the company in 1970 , recounts his first memory of the offstage DeVos : " I remember very well , in my first year at the company , standing out by the wing of the airplane one night , preparing to board , and DeVos saying to me , Noel , no business will prosper unless it has a mission larger than itself . You ca n't merely manufacture " widgets " and expect that by itself to be rewarding . There must be a cause ; and the cause we have in our business is the preservation of free enterprise and individual freedom . The two are inseparable . Free enterprise can not exist in the absence of free people . That 's the cause we 've got to keep working for ! ' " The dual role of businessman and patriot is a combination with rich precedent in American history . The ferment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was largely the work of merchants , and the specific issues which triggered the war with England were economic ones . Many of the patriots of that day were businessmen , like DeVos , who insisted that America should be a land where their businesses could operate freely and who were willing to take time from their own private concerns to work for that kind of freedom . But it is not only businessmen and politicians who have a stake in our country 's affairs . The United States has a tradition of patriotic expression from a broad spectrum of its population . There are true patriots in every occupational group , including those unknown in Paul Revere 's day . If a patriot is indeed one who loves his country and does something about it , then surely America 's greatest resource is its wealth of true patriots , who show the flag in completely dissimilar ways . Bob Hope has probably spent more Christmases away from home than any other man alive . His USO tours of American military bases during the holiday season are a hallmark of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ star when he began entertaining troops in 1941 . Throughout World War II , Hope and his four-man show visited a military base every week , broadcasting a " live " radio program to the home front . They visited every major combat area in Europe and the Pacific , were strafed by German dive-bombers in Sicily , survived a crash landing of their disabled plane on a New Guinea beach and stayed after the fighting was over to entertain occupation forces in Japan and Germany . The Hope Christmas tours began in the early 1950s and eventually played to millions of GIs . The entourage always included glamorous starlets and dancers , sports celebrities and the biggest names in show business . Hope personally recruited his costars for the trips , and the roster of those who have traveled with him is a Who 's Who of the entertainment industry . To homesick soldiers and sailors , stuck in remote areas far from home at Christmastime , the arrival of Bob Hope was more than just two hours of jokes and music ; it was a visible reminder that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hope , of course , has received scores of awards for his tours . " I 've got a roomful of plaques and awards for the shows we 've done , " he says , " and I 've also had my share of criticism , flak and hostility from some who have accused me of being a ' war lover . ' But I do n't mind the flak , and I do n't feel I owe anybody an apology . The cheers and the applause outweighed all the slings and arrows . We went there because there were kids there who needed a show . And television gave us a chance to show the faces of thousands of kids in combat areas to the families back home , to prove to them that their kids were alive and not too skinny and , best of all , still capable of laughter . " Another entertainer who does more than just talk about his love of country is Charlton Heston . Though he and Hope may disagree on specific issues , they share a common willingness to give time to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hollywood 's leading men for a quarter of a century . Best remembered for his roles in epic films set in Bible times ( Ten Commandments , The Greatest Story Ever Told and Ben Hur , for which he won an Academy Award ) , Heston has also played Andrew Jackson , Thomas Jefferson and a dozen other figures from American history . Heston has always spoken his mind , always taken an active part in governmental and civic projects . This year , he made news by objecting publicly to what he regarded as inappropriate support of El Salvadoran guerrillas by Ed Asner , current president of the Screen Actors Guild . ( Heston was SAG president . from 1965 to 1971 . ) His own political activism goes back 20 years . He has lobbied in Congress on numerous occasions , has traveled to Africa and Asia " as a pitchman for American culture . ' and twice toured military bases in Vietnam during the war there . In 1970 , he was urged to run for the U.S. Senate by a group of Democratic politicians in California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ calendar has been so filled with political duties that he once lamented , " Fm not an actor anymore ; I 'm an activist ! " Heston 's respect for the traition of orderly dissent is illustrated by his leadership of a delegation of entertainers who marched in the history-making civil-rights demonstration in Washington in the spring of 1963 . Calling themselves " The Arts Group , " the Hollywood contingent met to plan its trip . Heston reflects , " It became clear that some were primarily hooked on the drama of a civil-rights demonstration , not on making it work . Our meetings were studded with rousing speeches about chaining ourselves to the Jefferson Monument and lying down on Pennsylvania Avenue . ' No we wo n't , ' I said . ' Not if I go . We live in a country where we have the right to do this , and we 're going to do it the way it says in the book . ' " And so they did . Heston noted in his journal : " It shows the strength of this country when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such thousands , with such dignity and happy determination . I know of no other such country in the world ! " In the same pattern of active involvement is Theodore Hesburgh , a man of quite different views . Hesburgh has been president of the University of Notre Dame for 30 years , the longest tenure of any president of a major U.S. university . Called " the most powerful priest in America " by England 's Manchester Guardian , Hesburgh has survived the campus turmoil of the 1960s , led his school through Continued on page 124 the decade of student alienation and dissent , changed Notre Dame from an all-male to a coed institution and quietly made it into one of America 's educational showpieces . The miracle , perhaps , is not that he has done all this , but that , while doing it , he has maintained such a vigorous role in the broader public arena . He was chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights , has been a long-time trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation , served on the President 's Commission on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nations Conference on Science and Technology for several years and , in 1981 , was named chairman of the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy . Hesburgh is not merely a name on all those letterheads . He devotes 100 days per year to public-service commitments and travels nearly 100,000 miles away from campus annually . Notre Dame students once tweaked their president for his frequent absences by printing a picture of an empty chair , rather than a presidential portrait , in the school yearbook . Hesburgh says he did n't mind that gesture , insisting that his off-campus interests , while helping the nation , also benefit Notre Dame . With the school 's track record since 1952 , who can argue ? He retires as president this year and is expected to devote his time almost entirely to civic projects . While Hesburgh expresses his commitment to America in a constant flurry of civic activity , another famous citizen , in the neighboring state of Ohio . feels he serves his country best by avoiding the public stage . He is Neil Armstrong , the astronaut who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pilot of the Apollo 11 space mission . Armstrong was one of four of the original 30 astronauts who was not a military officer when he joined NASA in 1962 . He had been a civilian test pilot , flying X15s , and when his space travel ended , he became a professor of engineering at the University of Cincinnati . When Armstrong and his moonmates returned to Earth , they were instant global celebrities . They made a roundthe-world tour for the State Department , visiting 28 cities in 25 countries in 38 days , and were hosted by the Queen of England , the Pope , Marshall Tito , the Kings of Belgium and Norway , Generalissimo Franco , the Shah of Iran , the Emperor of Japan and dozens of other heads of state . Armstrong toured Vietnam soon afterward with Bob Hope , who recalls , " Even the cast and crew looked on him with a kind of awe and wonder  --  oh , wow , the reception he got ! All I had to do was introduce him , and the whole audience would stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing ovation I clocked was four minutes : the longest was 12 ! " But when he left NASA , Armstrong also left public life , feeling strongly that it was his duty to withdraw quietly rather than to commercialize and exploit his space travel . In so doing , he passed up the personal wealth he could have commanded almost automatically . His fellow astronaut Michael Collins explains : " Neil told me once , ' I know I could make a million dollars in personal appearances on the outside , but I just want to be a university professor and do my research . ' Neil is not a PR man , " Collins says . " He seeks a life of altogether different fabric than that of a huckster . He has great balance and perspective . ' Love of country calls for different types of behavior from different people in different circumstances . Armstrong met his own unique challenge . When the honor roll of American patriots , past and present , is called , thelist will include a high percentage of immigrants . Those who come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both and often become America 's most ardent cheerleaders . Since 1975 , for example , our National Symphony Orchestra has been led by Mstislav Rostropovich , considered by many to be the greatest living cellist and one of the world 's leading symphony conductors . Rostropovich was and is Russian to the core , and in the 1950s and ' 60s was among the most celebrated performers in the Soviet Union . He is the recipient of the USSR State Prize , the Lenin Prize and the coveted title of People 's Artist of the USSR . That was before his political discontent became an issue with Soviet authorities . When it did , the cellist abruptly became a nonperson in his native land . The tension between him and the Communist regime was intensified when he sheltered author Alexander Solzhenitsyn at his Moscow dacha . Solzhenitsyn was exiled , and a few years later , Rostropovich followed him to the U.S. Unlike his literary friend , Rostropovich has taken to his adopted land with an enthusiasm that endears him to Americans . He gives himself generously to charities and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and still has found time to make his Washington , D.C. , orchestra into a top-flight organization . He admits to being homesick for Russia , but exults in the newfound artistic freedom America offers . ' ' At home , Ministry of Culture makes every plan for me , " he told a Time reporter . " Here I am absolutely free . For artists , that is an incredible feeling . Americans have this sense of freedom ... and in America I am feeling the same way ! " That freedom to perform where and when one wishes is important not just to musicians , but to athletes as well . Arthur Ashe is a professional tennis player whose decisions about when and where to play have frequently had political overtones . Consistently , he has earned a reputation as one whose love of country takes priority over big purses and personal plans . In a generation plagued with self-indulgent athletes , Ashe is respected as much for his continued from page 124 selflessness as for his tennis . Ashe became a top-ranking tennis player in the mid-1960s . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collegiate championship in both singles and doubles . He won the U.S. Open in Forest Hills in 1968 and the Wimbledon singles title , the Holy Grail of tennis , in 1975 . He was among the world 's top ten players for 15 years , before retiring after a heart attack in 1979 . But it was as a Davis Cup player that Ashe best demonstrated his principled approach to sports . He first played on America 's Davis Cup team in 1963 and throughout his career made it his first loyalty , often passing up more lucrative matches to represent the United States in that international series . He played Davis Cup tennis until 1978 , setting an American record for singles victories ( 27 ) , and often urged his reluctant fellow stars to play for the Davis Cup . Ashe has always displayed a strong sense of patriotic duty . He went directly into the U.S. Army after college in 1966 , when he was the number two ranked player in the country . It was as an Army lieutenant in 1968 that he won the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was the year of the Mexico City Olympics and the black-gloved anti-American protest there by sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos . Radical black leader Stokely Carmichael personally called on Ashe to boycott the 1968 Davis Cup competition , but Ashe refused and led the American team to its first championship in five years . Ashe is a sensitive and thoughtful citizen who can disagree with the policies of the U.S. government while still affirming his love for America . He has denied conventional political labels . He played exhibitions and visited troop hospitals in Vietnam and toured Africa at the request of the State Department . While denouncing publicly the South African government 's racist apartheid policy , he brought interracial tennis to that land despite threats andwarnings not to go . He has always been his own man . The patriotism of Arthur Ashe , like that of Rich DeVos and others , is not a passive , sentimental emotion . It consists of a tough loyalty to America and a will to express that loyalty when and how it counts . In too many quarters , patriotism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of our national life . Not so , say a multitude of modern Americans like DeVos . This country is still worth beating the drum for , they say , and they intend to keep at it . A bright young Congressman from suburban Philadelphia , Jim Coyne , has seen the DeVos brand of Americanism at work and is impressed with what it can accomplish . " DeVos is the kind of guy , " he says , " who shows that being patriotic is not old-fashioned . He has a young , aggressive , modern patriotism . It 's the kind of feeling about America that will get us into the 21st century . When you watch a guy like DeVos bring together all that talent and energy , you realize that patriotism like his will never grow old . " ' X Abraham 's running career ended , not long after Liddell 's , as a result of a broken leg suffered in the 1925 Amateur Athletic Association Championships . While no longer able to actively compete , Abrahams nevertheless remained involved in sports for the remainder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Board and the Amateur Athletic Association . In addition to his career as a lawyer , he also was employed part-time as a sports correspondent for the Sunday Times for many years and as a popular radio sports commentator for the BBC , until his death in 1978 . An interesting footnote to the suc-cess story of Chariots of Fire is that , after it was completed , 20th-Century Fox  --  one of the major investors in the $5.6 million film  --  felt that it was not commercial enough and , therefore , would have no market value in the United States and Canada . The stu-dio sold its rights to market Chariots in North America to Warner Brothers , which in turn , because of the movie 's religious nature , contracted Cal-ifornia-based I nspira-tional Films  --  a pro-moter of religious films  --  to help generate interest among church leaders and groups in the U.S. and Canada . Inspirational Films managed to do just that , by distributing discount tickets to churches , schools and youth groups . Said Ken Bliss , president of Inspirational Films , of the film @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a film that confronted the serious issues of moral choice and spiritual commit-ment . Audiences have shown that they 're ready to investigate the reali-ties of faith as it relates to daily life . " At this writing , Chariots of Fire is still playing to packed movie houses across America , and , says Paul Palmeri , a regional director of Inspirational Films who assisted in the promotion efforts of Chariots , " Of the many films I have promoted , I have never worked on a more magnificent film than Chariots of Fire. - Palmeri admits he never expected Chariots to win four Academy Awards ( Best Picture , Best Original Screenplay , Best Original Score , Best Costume Design ) , although he thinks it deserved them . " This film shows that there is a marketplace for these kinds of films . " IC                     