@@480726

Adapted from " Getting Real About Getting High : An Interview with Andrew Weil , M.D. , " by Richard Goldstein , in the September 30 Village Voice . Weil is the author of The Natural Mind and Chocolate to Morphine : Understanding Mind-Active Drugs . Weil teaches at the University of Arizona College of Medicine . How would you describe the current situation ? People are very concerned over crack , which is a legitimate worry . But surveys show that , overall , the use of illegal drugs has declined . So I think the current drug panic is , for the most part , politically motivated . Some of it is because elections are approaching . Some of it is to divert people 's attention from issues that are more serious , like the state of the economy and the environment . Some of it is generated by the news media , which have learned that fearmongering sells programs and papers . But the media are always titillating , and there are always serious problems that people are trying to hide . Why did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ago , but not in as extreme a form . I think it has been going on for most of the century . There was anti-opium paranoia eighty years ago , a lot of it motivated by prejudice against the Chinese . There was anti-cocaine hysteria around the time of the First World War which was motivated by prejudice against blacks . There was anti-tobacco hysteria in Europe and Asia in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , when some countries tried to prohibit its use by the death penalty . That did n't work ; if anything , it hastened its spread . Whenever a new intoxicant comes into a culture , it evokes this kind of response . Usually , the people who take up a new intoxicant are the " deviants " ? the subcultures and ethnic minorities and outsiders . Are drugs more prevalent in America today ? I think we 've always been a drug-ridden society . There probably were as many psychoactive drugs in use 100 years ago as there are today . But there was no crime associated with drugs . They were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to drop out of society , or to act out anger or aggression against authority . I think all of those features of the drug problem are creations of our anti-drug policies . The more we pass stiffer penalties , the more we produce the very thing we want to change . Our approach ? trying to use criminal law to deal with drugs ? has made them more attractive and has made worse forms of them come into existence . Wars on drugs never work . Their end result is to stimulate interest and curiosity on the part of people who otherwise would not be interested . They also , I think , encourage drug taking for negative purposes , such as to act out anger and resentment against authority . This is especially the case when information is presented in a hypocritical manner , as is happening now . The anti-drug legislation that Congress recently passed does not deal with tobacco . The government continues to subsidize tobacco addiction , and cigarette smoking is one of the worst forms of drug abuse in this culture . Cigarettes are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most flagrant example of drug pushing , since most tobacco is pushed on teenagers , who are lured by advertising into thinking it 's cool to smoke . If you want to talk about the death penalty for drug pushers , start with the executives of tobacco companies . But the argument against illegal drugs is that they produce violent , antisocial behavior . Look , at the outside , there are maybe 300 deaths from crack a year . That 's not good , but how many deaths are there from cigarettes a year ? Something like 350,000 . How many instances are there where somebody on crack has committed an act of violence ? I do n't know . But compared to the number of acts of violence committed by people under the influence of alcohol , it 's insignificant . What is the pharmacology of crack ? How dangerous is it ? I do n't think it 's a good drug . First of all , I do n't think it 's wise to refine cocaine from coca leaves . Certainly it 's not a good idea to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you should chew coca leaves ; I think that 's safer . Why is it any safer to chew coca leaves ? Because their cocaine content is very low , so you 're taking it in a highly diluted form , combined with other substances that moderate its effects . Also , when you chew coca leaves , the cocaine gets into your bloodstream and brain very slowly . It 's not just the drug , or the dosage , but the manner in which you introduce it into the body . There 's an enormous difference between letting a small amount of cocaine diffuse slowly into the bloodstream and putting much larger amounts of cocaine repeatedly into the lungs and brain . ( That 's also why tobacco ? in the form of cigarettes ? is addictive . Nicotine is a very strong drug , stronger than cocaine in terms of its effects , and the manner of introducing it into the brain enhances its addictiveness . ) Because of our policies , coca leaves have disappeared from the market ? they 're bulky and nobody wants to smuggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's profitable to smuggle this drug in a highly refined form . And it 's profitable to find ways of using it to get its maximum pharmacological power . You 're suggesting that if there were a more open environment for drug use , people would , as a consequence of having more choice , choose substances that are better for them . They might . Especially if they were educated . I 'm not arguing for a more open drug situation ; that would have to go hand in hand with real drug education . What passes for education today seems like a thinly disguised attempt to scare people away from the drugs we do n't like by exaggerating their dangers . In this country , as in most other societies , a small number of drugs are defined as good , and the rest are banned as evil . That leaves our culture very uneducated about the benefits and risks of psychoactive substances . So let 's talk about an alternative way of educating young people about drugs . 1 think the alternative is to be objective about all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tobacco , and caffeine along with the dangers of crack , marijuana , and PCP . I think grade school students should learn about the nature of addiction . It 's not just a drug problem : people get addicted to sex , food , athletics . Most people get caught up in addictive behavior . And you need to teach about that as well . I think there are two basic strategies . One is to teach people to satisfy their needs without using drugs at all . I strongly encourage that . But , realistically , a lot of people are going to use drugs because they take you where you want to go with no work . So I think it is important to teach those people how not to hurt themselves . In your books , you discuss the concepts of set and setting . Please define them . Set is the expectation , both conscious and unconscious , of what a drug will do , and setting is the environment in which a drug is used , both the physical environment and the cultural environment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drug , at least as important as pharmacology . For example , I do n't see anything intrinsic about PCP that makes people violent . I think it is likely to do that in certain sets and settings . The majority of people who use PCP are prone to violence , and often take the drug out of anger and frustration ? to get messed up . In that context , it 's very likely to cause violent behavior . How would you design a curriculum for high school students that would be realistic about drugs ? First , they would learn how set and setting modify the effects of drugs . Then you could talk to them about problem sets and settings : the idea of taking drugs to get out of bad moods , for example , or taking drugs when you 're bored , as opposed to using them for positive reasons . For example , many people use drugs as an excuse for social interaction , as we do with coffee . Many people have used drugs for religious experience . I would look at traditional cultures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would encourage people to find non-drug methods of satisfying their needs . In your books you also talk about forming a relationship with a drug . Define a bad relationship . Addiction is one example . Unconscious use of a drug is another ? that is , not knowing what it is or not knowing that you 're using a drug . Using it so frequently that you 're impairing your health or your social or economic functioning , or so frequently that it 's lost a desired effect . What would you teach a teenager about heroin ? That its addictive potential is very great , that its physical harmfulness is not , that its addictive potential is increased by putting it into the body in very direct ways , that the consequences of addiction to heroin are terrible in terms of limitation of freedom ? and that 's a serious issue ? and that all addicts think they can avoid addiction at the beginning . Is it true that heroin is not more addictive than cigarettes ? Cigarettes are more addictive than heroin . So if you taught young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I would say that you should never smoke a cigarette . I think if you want to experiment with tobacco , you should put some in your mouth and chew it to see what its effects are , and then you can decide if you want to use it or not . But it is not reasonable to smoke a cigarette to see if you like it or not , because the risk of addiction is too great . How would you reduce the incidence of drug-related crime ? If drugs were legalized , there would be no drug-related crime . How do you know that ? Most of the crime associated with drugs has to do with their enormously inflated price , which is a direct consequence of their illegality . People have to get the money to buy them , which often involves committing crimes . But the pharmacological effects of many drugs work against violence that 's certainly true with heroin , and probably with marijuana .                     