@@487714

The death of James Baldwin diminishes us all here at The Nation , but it is a loss to the larger community as well . Not only the black community out of which he rose and for which he was such an elo-quent and prophetic voice ; not only the shifting , vital literary community of writers and readers ; but a world community of all races and nationalities bound together by the act of a solitary soul touching others through the written word , even after death . The Nation benefited from Baldwin 's membership on our editorial board , and perhaps we once helped him slightly in the best way a young writer can be helped  --  by printing hisfirst published piece ( " Maxim Gorky as Artist , " April 12 , 1947 ) . Assessing America 's literary debt to its native son is a matter for more extended reflection , and we shall be publishing a longer essay on Baldwin in an upcoming issue . In the meantime , let us end with his own words , from the precociously talented review he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for further and honest exploration of those provinces , the human heart and mind , which have operated , historically and now , as the no man 's land between us and our salvation . " Cry Haiti T he verdict of the Reagan Administration and Congressional architects of a " bipartisan " Haiti policy is that a retrograde minority in the Haitian Army suddenly joined with Tonton Macoutes and other " civilian " thugs to kill thirty-four people on Election Sunday , November 29 . Actually , scores more innocents were shot or hacked to pieces in a killing spree recorded by hundreds of international observers and journalists , corroborating what Haitians had been telling the world for twenty months . The Duvalier system was being managed , not dismantled , by the National Governing Council , or C.N.G. , and the U.S.-supported army was doing much of the killing and was actively complicit in the rest . U.S. Haiti policy has failed not because of the junta 's betrayal of trust but rather because a series of miscalculations since February 1986 emboldened the " reformist " army to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old system of privilege enforced by terror ? Duvalierism without Duvalier . Before the flight of " Baby Doc " in February 1986 , the Reagan Administration repeatedly " certified " to Congress that his presidency-for-life was " liberalizing . " Once he was gone , the majority of Haitians demanded significant institutional reforms , including an end to security force abuses and the establishment of an independent judiciary . But the United States merely encouraged the Duvalier-appointed junta to pledge early elections , doubling economic assistance and renewing military aid . The apparent goal was to induce cooperation in stemming the tide of Haitians fleeing to southern Florida and to promote " stability , " an elusive notion in a land where poverty makes change the only certainty . U.S. policy badly miscalculated popular outrage at the C.N.G. and the incompetent politicians rooted in the past . Washington still seems ignorant of the strength and importance of the unorthodox alliance of community , youth and church groups that orchestrated Operasyon Dechoukaj , the Creole name for the peaceful , nonideological and largely leaderless movement that swept away the Duvaliers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wall from the moment the army started shooting down peaceful demonstrators in March 1986 , and certainly when the junta 's only credible civilian quit in protest . Instead , it looked the other way as the army declared all-out war on the electoral process . Two presidential candidates were murdered . The generals refused to protect the independent electoral commission ( C.E.P. ) and blocked essential funding for it , including some provided by U.S. taxpayers . When the C.E.P. headquarters was torched on November 3 , the United States again noted that there was no proof of any army involvement . This reaction dismayed Haitians , since the two-hour shooting and arson binge took place within five blocks of Haiti 's largest police and army barracks . The C.N.G. is wondering what it can get away with next and has announced that it will replace the C.E.P. and hold an election on January 17 under military tutelage . The Reagan Administration has registered few objections , further exposing C.E.P. members to death threats . The spectrum of democratic forces composing the National Front for Cooperation , and their presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the election , had forged an impressive anti-C.N.G. alliance with the three other leading candidates , as they demonstrated in the general strike of December 7 and 8 . Yet the United States has failed to make even the faintest overture to the alliance , and has ignored pleas from center-right candidates for immediate trade sanctions and a freeze on multinational lending . While the Administration has ended all " nonhumanitarian " economic assistance and called a symbolic halt to military aid ( which has already been delivered ) , it has refused to endorse widespread calls for a complete arms embargo . The one thing that Haiti does not need is U.S. or multilateral intervention . This idea feeds resurgent anti-American-ism and provides pseudonationalistic grist for the vicious mill of the extreme right . Talk of intervention is simplistic , and simplistic thinking has already given the criminals of the C.N.G. one chance too many . MICHAEL S HOOPER Michael S. Hooper , a lawyer , coordinated a six-week-long election observation mission to Haiti . Uncle Tom Sawyer T he choice of Eugene Sawyer , a conservative black alderman , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the progressive , multiracial coali- tion that briefly dominated Chicago politics died with Harold Washington . It was a diverse and uneasy coalition that supported the Mayor in the past five years . Only ten , maybe twelve , of the City Council 's fifty aldermen shared Washington 's interest in both minority concerns and reforms having little to do with race . Black members of the machine chafed under Washington 's rule , grumbling that their precinct workers were not getting the jobs or grousing that the administration was funneling funds to some local development organization not of their choosing . They were checked by Washington 's immense popularity in the black community , where asophisticated electorate viewed even the slightest betrayal of the Mayor as a betrayal of all black Chicago . By law , when a mayor dies in office the City Council chooses an acting mayor , who serves until a special election can be held ( in this case , probably in March 1989 ) . It chooses a man whose machine credentials appealed to many within the black caucus and much of the Council @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the people behind his candidacy . Who elected him ? Six black aldermen allied with the Council 's white conservative faction . One of the two whites serving as Sawyer 's intermediaries to the white machine faction was the chief anti-Washington spokesman during the Mayor 's first term . Although Sawyer wound up with more than half the votes of his fellow aldermen , the antimachine forces almost prevailed . Thousands of Washington supporters descended on City Hall to voice their anger ; thousands more phoned the black aldermen still indicating support for Sawyer . Their presence was felt ; six black aldermen bolted from the Sawyer camp before the final vote . At a last-minute meeting that included the Council 's black caucus , the city 's four Latino aldermen and white progressives , Sawyer agreed to postpone the vote and seek black unity . Yet Sawyer capitulated after meeting with the whites backing his candidacy : Now or never , they told him . Talk of black unity was forgotten once the Council meeting began . All expectations are that Sawyer will run for re-election in 1989 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , paving the way for the return to power of a regressive white politician . The obituaries on the Chicago machine were premature , it turns out . At the time of Washington 's death , the question dominating Chicago politics was how radically he would change the face of city government now that he had finally overcome an ugly and underhanded opposition that denied him a chance to govern . Tragically , we will never know the answer to that question . GARY RIVLIN Gary Rivlin is a staff writer for the Chicago Reader .                     