@@295730

Octavio Paz , 68 , is one of Mexico 's most distinguished avant-garde writers , critics and poets . He is best known for The Labyrinth of Solitude ( 1950 ) , a classic work that has explained Mexico to foreigners , and to many Mexicans , for more than a generation . In the following piece for TIME , Paz assesses Mexico 's complex , often tortured relationship with its overpowering northern neighbor . <P> The border between Mexico and the U.S. is political and historical , not geographical . There are no natural barriers between the two nations . The Rio Grande does not separate , it unites . But the sameness of the landscape only accentuates the social and historical differences . They are most visible ethnically and , above all , economically . The wealth of the U.S. and the poverty of Mexico are usually expressed in social and political terms : development and underdevelopment , the policies of American expansionism and Mexican defensiveness . This opposition is real enough , but the true difference is more profound . It has been apparent since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was New England and Mexico was called New Spain . <P> To cross the border between the two countries is to change civilizations . Americans are the children of the Reformation , and their origins are those of the modern world ; we Mexicans are the children of the Spanish empire , the champion of the Counterreformation , a movement that opposed the new modernity and failed . Our attitudes toward time clearly express our differences . Americans overvalue the future and venerate change ; Mexicans cling to the image of our pyramids and cathedrals , to values we suppose are immutable and to symbols that , like the Virgin of Guadalupe , embody permanence . However , as a counterbalance to their immoderate cult of the future , Americans continually search for their roots and origins ; we Mexicans search for ways to modernize our country and open it to the future . The history of Mexico since the end of the 18th century has been the struggle for modernization . It is a struggle that has been frequently tragic and often fruitless . To ignore this is to ignore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the continuous zigzag of its political system . <P> From the beginning , Mexicans have been aware of the material and psychological differences that separate them from Americans . And from the beginning , the interpretation of these differences has ranged from blind admiration to an equally blind repulsion . During the 19th century , Mexican liberals saw American democracy , not without reason , as the archetype of modernity . This led them to adopt the American political system . Their attempt failed , in part , because Mexico for three centuries had been a Roman Catholic monarchy ; neither its people nor its leaders had experienced the great spiritual , political and economic revolution with which modernity began . We wanted to leap from a traditional society to a modern one , but we lacked the bourgeois and middle classes , and the intellectual and technical elements that had made change possible in Europe and the U.S.                     