@@487916

An appraisal of The , French Lieutenant 's Woman should , I think , begin with the book . John Fowles , an ingenious and widely informed man with a gift for mimicry , set himself the task of writing a credible Victorian novel explicitly from the viewpoint of the 1960s . Its narrative is virtually a distillation of the great nineteenth-century . fictions , particularly those of Trollope and Thack ' eray , but also of Dickens . It is keenly aware of money and social position , and of the opposing tugs of moral duty and emotional inclination . The hero , Charles Algernon Henry Smithson , a young man of high principles , handsome appearance , excellent prospects and no vocation to lend him ballast , allows himself to become inextricably compromised by the conflict in his heart between an obligation to the suitable young lady he has agreed to marry and a passion for an enigmatic woman of sullied reputation  --  that siren who repeatedly obsesses the splendid young heroes of Victorian fiction . Among the characters supporting this central drama are a monstrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eaning but subservient vicar , a wise , compassionate doctor whose bible is Darwin 's The Origin of Species , a hunting and drinking champion of the county aristocracy , a stern businessman ( father of the wronged young lady ) , eloquent lawyers , dissolute clubmen , a rascally manservant  --  in short , familia company for anyone who has visited i the town houses , county seats and tidy , cottages of Victorian fiction . And , enthusiastically adopting the habit of those earlier novelists of speaking from time to time in their own voices , Fowles chats persistently with his readers on an impressive variety of subjects  --  social , political and ethical  --  that are suggested to him by the development of his tale . On two occasions he even goes so far as to introduce himself directly into the action , disguised in whiskers and emitting a faint , not unattractive scent of brimstone  --  a pleasantry that seems to hark back a century earlier to Laurence Sterne . The ruminations are , of course , those of a lively , acquisitive twentieth-century mind , fortified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the uncertainty principle that seems to color every corridor of contemporary thought and that would have appalled the proficient Victorians . The French Lieutenant 's Woman , thus , is an engaging , impish work , in which the proceedings of the text are tested and challenged by their inventor . At the same time , the book does more to stimulate one 's appetite than to satisfy it . At least , I found it so . Fowles has devised a model Victorian plot , but plot was not what principally engaged the Victorians ; they invested their genius in character . Fowles knows this and has taken pains to get his characters right . They are entirely typical of their literary milieu , except that the Victorians , save occasionally when hard-pressed by the deadlines of serial publication , did not traffic in types . Their greatness lay in displaying the individuality of men and women who , with few exceptions , remained within the bounds of a sternly conventional society . Like his predecessors , Fowles at times confesses an inability to control his characters or to foresee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confession only calls attention to the puppet strings . I think that as he wrote he may have realized he was setting his boots in rather large footsteps . The book gets out of breath in the later chapters , running faster and ending fairly exhausted in a conjurer 's trick of alternate conclusions  --  one ambiguously happy , the other as equivocally sad  --  that are played out in the Chelsea Embankment house of Dante Gabriel Rossetti . For all his advantages of hindsight , and not to ndervalue his gifts of wit and imaginaion , Fowles has invited himself into company where he can not shine , but must be content to sparkle . The demanding job of translating this long and quirky novel into a film script of the usual two hours was given to Harold Pinter . He began ( I am guessing at the process ) by throwing out a great deal of inessential or technically awkward material : extended trips taken by Charles to the Continent and America ; a night in Haymarket Square among the Victorian whores ; visits to the estate of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old man remarries ; a subplot involving the fortunes of the manservant ; the double ending among the Rossettis , etc . At the same time , Pinter introduced a new scene , that of Charles and a friend engaged in the esoteric game of court tennis , for no reason that I could see except to indulge the public 's weakness for picturesque antique data of a some4vhat snobbish character . Pinter must then have turned to the matter of Fowles as the persistent commentator on , and occasional participant in , his own chronicle . The author is by far the strongest character in the book , but he could scarcely be allowed to dominate the film  --  a voice off-camera forever interrupting the visual flow of the work . So Pinter banished him and substituted a somewhat similar bifocal device from the theater : the play within the play . As the picture opens , a camera crew and actors are seen on a gray , stormy shore , setting up the first scene of The French Lieutenant 's Woman . " Action " is called , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his fiancee , Ernestina Freeman ( Lynsey Baxter ) , on his arm , is seen approaching the long , curving quay of Lyme Regis . At the end of it , buffeted by wind and waves , stands 01 Sarah Woodruff , gazing out to sea , yearning , if is said , for her faithless Frenchman . Charles approaches to warn her of the danger , they exchange a long glance and the plot begins to move . Very soon thereafter it is established that Charles and Sarah are played by an actor and actress respectively named Mike and Anna , who are not only costars but also lovers . And it turns out that they have commitments elsewhere  --  he to a wife and children , she to a certain Philip , who speaks with a French accent . Thus the picture develops along parallel tracks set a century apart , cutting back and forth with no warning , past and present often blending without a break one into the other . This is a little cute , but entertaining  --  a sort of popular adaptation of Brecht @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Irons  --  under Karel Reisz 's pungent direction , derive some wit from their stereoscopic roles . Of course the device can not explore the many areas that attracted Fowles , but it does concentrate effectively on the issue of how couples then and now might be expected to handle the dilemma of divided love and loyalty . The modern pair handle it better , perhaps because they are less transfixed by guilt . Also because , as Streep and Irons play their double parts , they are more immediately vivid ( they actually seem taller ) when impersonating Sarah , and Charles ; but as Anna and Mike they are warmer , more approachable and quite free of the spastic gestures of conventional melodrama . No doubt unintentionally , Pinter 's own characters call attention to the rather wooden quality of Fowles 's lovers . The film , like the book , is more a trick than a tragedy , but because it presumes less , it more nearly succeeds . It is also very handsome and sumptuously performed . In the last few years , film makers , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly lacquered movies that seize on some episode or legend from our fathers ' or grandfathers ' day to exploit distinctions and the convenience of well-trained servants . The Great Train Robbery was a good example of the species . In these works , period accuracy is somewhat ostentatiously observed , large sums being spent on extensive recreations of the opulent past . We luxuriate in this atmosphere , and rue our rougher lot . There is more than a little of this dreamy opiate in The French Lieutenant 's Woman . I mentioned the court tennis bit , but the whole film puts a polish on the Victorian past  --  and for that matter on the film actor 's present . These fashion parades are a sort of con game , seducing us by our nostalgia for top hats , crinolines and champagne flowing like lager , but I do n't object if the story moves along with the hansom cabs . In the present case , that of Chariots of Fire , it failed to transport me , perhaps because the facts on which it is based can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Colin Welland , recalls events leading up to and including Britain 's triumphant participation in the 1924 Paris Olympics . The particular stars of that meet were Harold Abrahams ( Ben Cross ) , a Jewish undergraduate at Caius College , Cambridge , and Eric Liddell ( Ian Charleson ) , a Scottish son of missionaries and himself a soldier of the Lord . Both young men are exceedingly fleet of foot , both have wills of iron and both repeatedly assert that they speed around tracks for rewards that surpass the pleasure of amassing cups and medals . Abrahams is bent on proving himself as true an Englishman as any Anglo-Saxon in the land . His passion , second only to track , is for Gilbert and Sullivan , and he has been so fortunate as to win the affections ; of a little maid from school who is possessed of a good voice , a-pretty face and a title . Liddell is persuaded that by running rapidly he gratifies God , who takes particular pleasure in seeing him break the tape . I was surprised that a devout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if the Almighty is indeed a sports fan , he would presumably delight in a victory by any . o His flock . The two men race against each other only once , Liddell winning by a stride . Abrahams , roused from despair by his sweetheart , vows to assert his supremacy in a return match . He hires a private coach to help him gain the essential split second , a move that causes senior members of the university ( Sir John- Gielgud and Lindsay Anderson ) to call him in for a chat on the true meaning of the word " amateur , " and to exchange with each other genteel anti-Semitic comments after he indignantly rejects the suggestion that there is something ungentlemanly in his quest for excellence . ( Other runners in the film are to be seen flourishing cigars and cigarettes , presumably in deference to the amateur spirit . ) Abrahams is exceedingly touchy on the question of his Jewishness , and there are a few other religious slurs in the film to suggest that he is justified , though his friends , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ totally uninterested in his origins . The scene with the university worthies is one of the few dramatic encounters in the film ( I except the races , which are merely exciting ) . Another occurs when Liddell discovers that his Olympic event is to be run on the Sabbath and flatly refuses to participate . The Scot 's scruples are so damaging to Britain 's hopes that the Prince of Wales is called in to reason with him , but the crisis is overcome only when another runner offers to swap events . The obvious climax of the story  --  a second test between Abrahams and Liddell  --  does not occur because it did n't occur , the rivals having taken quite separate roads to Olympic glory . I grew weary of Abrahams 's hot-eyed obsession with victory and of Lid-dell 's smug righteousness . England 's playing fields may have been the cradles of heroes , but somehow these men seem too self-concerned to get very far in that ine of work . I diverted myself by admiring the toy-like locomotives , the velvet Cambridge lawns , the snatches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectacle of rosy-faced youths flinging their boaters into the air . Hugh Hudson directed his large and handsome cast with a sustained vivacity that went in no particular direction . ?                     