@@486753

When Lane Kirkland , president of the A.F.L.- C.I.O. , spoke at a civil rights march in Washington last August , he sounded almost like Jesse Jackson . " We have fought too long and hard to turn back now , " Kirkland said , as he reiterated the labor federation 's commitment to affirmative action for minorities and women . That verbal commitment , however , is being put severely to the test in the firefighting service throughout the United States . The International Association of Fire Fighters , an A.F.L.-C.I.O. union with a membership of 177,000 men and women , is on a crusade against affirmative action . Almost all the consent decrees established from 1975 to 1985 and designed to integrate fire departments by race and sex are now under attack . No organization in the United States has activated more " reverse discrimination " suits than the I.A.F.F. It was the union that helped finance the litigation for white firefighters in Birmingham , Alabama , an action that led to the Supreme Court 's stunning decision in Martin v. Wilks on June 12 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Five 's declaration of open season on affirmative action , the I.A.F.F. Executive Board sent out a directional memorandum encouraging its white-run locals to try to overturn consent decrees in their respective cities . It is now common practice for the I.A.F.F. to collect dues from its membership , including minorities , to finance lawsuits and campaigns against minority programs . Paul Rockwell , formerly an assistant professor of philosophy at Midwestern University in Texas , is a writer living in the San Francisco Bay area . The union 's assault on African-Americans has become especially ugly in the past few years . When black firefighters were elected in 1988 to the East Cleveland Executive Board , the International 's president , John Gannon , simply declared the outcome " null and void . " There are approximately 13,000 black firefighters in the United States , but not one African-American is on the national Executive Board of the I.A.F.F. Moreover , the white , male-run union is directly implicated in racial and sex-based hostilities in Miami , Boston , Toledo , San Francisco , Oakland ? in fire departments in every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 700 employees in the Miami Fire Department in 1964 , high tide for the civil rights movement . In 1965 the city hired its first black firefighter . It took two more years to hire the second . Six years later the department brought in a third . At that rate it would have taken more than a century to desegregate firefighting in Miami . The period from 1965 to 1975 was the decade of voluntary desegregation in most institutions , but by the mid-1970s it was obvious that without specific goals , timetables and quotas , the white old-boy network would never be dismantled . Only after the International Association of Black Professional Fire Fighters ( I.A.B.P.F.F. ) organized a local coalition , picketed City Hall and waged a series of battles in the courts did things begin to change in Miami . After a thorough investigation in 1977 a Federal District Court concluded that for nearly five decades the city of Miami had systematically excluded blacks and other minority groups from employment and advancement . The courts subsequently approved a consent decree that required the city to hire blacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general population . But the price of progress in America is high for African-Americans . In Miami the black recruits were constantly watched , harassed and reminded that their jobs depended on the mercy of white men . Their own union , I.A.F.F. Local 587 , made a living hell for the new firefighters , who became objects of racial slurs , jokes and physical threats . In 1986 the black firefighters association made the record of discrimination public , forcing the city to commission an investigation which a year later concluded that " racial and gender-based discriminatory practices and conduct are systemic within the Fire , Rescue , and Inspection Services . " The I.A.F.F. refused to accept reforms . Instead it retaliated . All sixty-two of Miami 's black firefighters were expelled starting in May 1988 . After having paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in dues , black firefighters lost their insurance , health benefits and bargaining rights . In his letter of dismissal , Don Teems , president of Local 587 , stated that " the nature of the mis-conduct is the acquiring and continuing membership in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the I.A.B.P.F.F. , to which the majority of black firefighters in the country belong , is a rival labor union . It is not , any more than the N.A.A.C.P. , A.C.L.U. or NOW are labor organizations . Romeo Spaulding , the association 's president , describes the group , which formed in 1970 , as a " fraternal organization committed to the recruitment , retention and promotion of women and minorities . " Local chapters sponsor softball teams , give fire-prevention classes , organize programs to cut down false alarms in the inner cities and conduct voter registration drives . The unprecedented mass expulsion in Miami , which was backed by the International leadership , was an attack not only on minorities but on the political rights of all union members . In essence the union has made opposition to affirmative action a condition of safe membership . ? Boston . Here the situation is particularly bizarre . Consider the case of the affirmative-action impostors , the Malones . It is hardly news when two fair-haired , fair-complexioned brothers with Irish names are found in the Boston Fire Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the Malone brothers , identical twins , were kind of special . They got into the Fire Department through affirmative action , under a consent decree that provided for the recruitment of women , Latinos and blacks . Approximately 22 percent of the Boston population is black , compared with 15 percent of the Fire Department . There are no black district chiefs or department chiefs , and in the entire force there are only five women . The Malones failed to pass their first Civil Service firefighting test in 1975 , but they reapplied in 1977 and this time listed their race as black . The impostors worked for ten years in the department before their scam was uncovered . The appearance of the Malones on a public list of black applicants for promotion proved too embarrassing for the Fire Department supervisors . The Boston Black Professional Fire Fighters Association called for a formal investigation , which found a number of other whites who had misused affirmative action by identifying themselves as members of a minority group . During the investigation two white firefighters who had classified themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the force , but not without a long fight in court . The Malone case goes beyond two individuals , beyond the other whites who claimed to be Latinos . The issue is the complicity of the I.A.F.F. and city officials in subverting affirmative action . As City Councilor Bruce Bolling asked , " How could twins with Irish names , Caucasian features and no black identification from any perspective get into the force and stay on without collusion ? " Indeed , it had been common knowledge among white firefighters ? even a source of gleeful jokes  --  that the Malones had effectively disrupted the operation of affirmative action in Boston . When the case became public , the I.A.F.F. leadership refused to denounce this sabotage . Members of Local 718 actually took up a collection to assist the Malones in legal defense . And after the two were dismissed , the Local launched a reverse discrimination suit against Boston minority firefighters . ? Toledo . In March of this year a macho fire chief , William Winkle , was given a twenty-day suspension , a minor penalty , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During a closed meeting of officers Winkle had spelled out her telephone number : " 245CUNT . " Winkle was a known bigot , with a record of vilifying African-Americans , Jews and women throughout his rise in the ranks from lieutenant in 1971 to fire chief in 1980 . In 1982 the Toledo City Manager , David Boston , published an internal report cataloguing Winkle 's vile behavior . At one time , it recorded , Winkle had stated his admiration for Adolf Hitler , saying " The only mistake he made was not throwing niggers in the oven too . " In response to a television news story , he had once yelled , " Yeah , nigger , the only rights you got is a three-quarter-inch Manila hemp rope . " Winkle was also caught pressuring subordinates to fire a black firefighter . His personnel department once altered records of white applicants to help move them ahead of minority candidates on the hiring list . Double standards have been common practice under his reign . When a black female firefighter informed her division chief she was pregnant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her vacation and sick leave . On the other hand , a pregnant white firefighter who was on probation was transferred to a desk , given light duties and received pay while on maternity leave . Although City Manager Boston read the dossier on Winkle , he refused to take action against him and even tried to soften the criticism . In a note attached to the internal report , Boston wrote : " Several allegations of racial bias or attitude were determined to have in fact taken place . . . . While I do not approve or condone such attitude or behavior , it should be understood that at that period of time such comments were not uncommon within the fire division . " The Toledo Fire Chiefs Association , which represents twenty-one battalion and deputy chiefs , also refused to rebuke Winkle , taking a " neutral " stance . For its part , I.A.F.F. Local 92 never protested Winkle 's blatant abuse of the union 's membership , thereby abetting the harassment of minorities and women . Today the white supremacist Winkle continues to head the Toledo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a chapter of the I.A.B.P.F.F. , recently formed a coalition with the participation of the Y.W.C.A. , NOW and the N.A.A.C.P. The coalition is putting pressure on the City Council to fire Winkle . LeRoy Williams , president of the N.A.A.C.P. 's Toledo branch , said , " We 're not going to support with tax dollars racist and sexist behavior by someone who is unresponsive to the public trust . " The I.A.F.F. , which curried favor with Winkle throughout the years that he rose to power , has kept its distance from the popular coalition . Jim Dugan , president of Local 92 , admitted that Winkle had caused problems for the union but just kept saying , " He was an extremely good firefighter . " ? San Francisco . When the first African-American entered the city 's Fire Department in 1955 , he found feces in his bed . Last year two firefighters , one black and one Asian-American , found swastikas on their desks . According to Greg Brooks , a writer for the Sun Reporter , Fred Postel , a white firefighter who trained minorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for helping " the niggers and women into the department . " Now thirty-four black firefighters are seeking damages totaling $7 million for years of racial harassment . In 1987 the editors of I.A.F.F. Local 798 's newsletter were caught perpetrating " white-outs " of blacks in photographs of meritorious firefighters . In one case the image of Charles Johnson had been deleted from the published photo , and the omission was discovered only because the I.A.F.F. censors had failed to cut out his legs . White-outs and other forms of disrespect are commonplace in firefighting journals . The I.A.F.F. 's paper , International Fire Fighter , looks like a whites-only paper . In the June-July 1989 issue there is not a single African-American or anyone of discernible color among seventy individuals photographed . ? Oakland . Across the bay from San Francisco there are currently 472 uniformed firefighters in the department . Latinos make up less than 3 percent , women less than 2 percent . In a city that is 47 percent African-American , only 25 percent of the force is black . The department resembles a baseball team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eight are black ; there are no black battalion chiefs , and only one black is an assistant chief . Nine firefighters are women , and there is one female lieutenant on the entire force . While the majority of black firefighters live in the city that they serve , the entire Local leadership commutes into Oakland from distant , predominantly white areas of Marin and Contra Costa counties . In October , I.A.F.F. Local 55 filed a reverse discrimination lawsuit to stop Oakland from hiring thirty-five women from the current eligibility lists . The union entered the suit on behalf of applicants who are not members of the union . Richard Logan , indefatigable president of the Oakland Black Fire Fighters Association , denounced the Local leadership for misuse of union funds . " Local 55 , " he said , " is representing white males who are not even members of our union over our own dues-paying members , violating union bylaws . " Members of the Oakland Black Fire Fighters , the Asian Law Caucus , Filipinos for Affirmative Action , California Women in Fire Suppression , United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently met to consider forming a community coalition in defense of affirmative action . East Bay trade unionists consider Local 55 a " fifth column " in labor ranks and are calling on the Central Labor Council of Alameda County to take a stand against I.A.F.F. policy . In a recent interview with the Oakland Tribune , Local 55 president Steve Splendorio said he is eager to represent minorities , women and all members of his union . But many dispute his claim . At a press conference on October 9 , Bonnie Cox , a white firefighter , said angrily : " Local 55 has done nothing to recruit and maintain women members . When women came on , Local 55 did not welcome us . They took a **26;2983;TOOLONG attitude . It is very rare to see Asian or Hispanic or women firefighters in Oakland . You 're an oddity in a city of minorities ! " W hat is taking place in Oakland is part of a pattern throughout the United States . Women and minorities are underrepresented in firefighting service , and while the minority populations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced or canceled . Many fire departments in the country might be fully integrated today if it were not for the union 's obstruction in the recruitment and promotion of minorities . To be sure , the I.A.F.F. is concerned about its image and is eager to retain its position within the A.F.L.-C.I.O . In the wake of mounting criticism from rank-and-file firefighters , the International organized civil rights conferences in 1987 and 1988 . The Executive Board invited well-known speakers from outside the fire service but deliberately excluded the largest , most active minority organization in firefighting , the International Association of Black Professional Fire Fighters . The leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. are fully aware of the racist practices of the I.A.F.F. Two years ago Clarence Williams , then president of the black firefighters ' association , wrote Lane Kirkland : " Most Blacks in America have given strong and almost unconditional support to the labor movement , its issues and candidates . . . . However , many of the labor unions that we support with our membership , money , votes , personal time and commitment are guilty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be instrumental in perpetuating their own suppression . . . . Blacks , minorities and women who are already union members expect the AFL-CIO to advocate on their behalf when their local union does not . " What is the choice for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ? The I.A.F.F. 's record makes it plain . The presence of a " white brotherhood " in the federation degrades the entire labor movement . The mass firing of black members from Local 587 in Miami , the nullification of elections that produce minority winners , the collection of union dues to finance lawsuits against minority programs , the long record of collusion with city administrations to obstruct affirmative action  --  these are legitimate grounds to expel the International Association of Fire Fighters from the biggest labor federation in America . ?                     