@@494680

THE NEW REPUBLIC DECEMBER 29 , 1986 SCHOOL FOR SCANDAL The arms-to-lran scandal is progressing nicely . The affair has prompted all sorts of comparisons to Watergate , which may yet prove valid . It is hard to see how the third-rate burglary and the Nixon White House 's cover-up constituted a more serious breach of public trust and violation of democratic institutions than the present scandale . But the seductive analogy between today 's scandal and yesterday 's is fundamentally misleading . The current affair may be similar in magnitude to Watergate , but it is different in nature . In Watergate , the investigators ' chief task was to unravel a White House cover-up . The crime that had prompted the cover-up ? the break-in at Democratic National Committee headquarters ? was fairly well known . The question was " What did they know and when did they know it ? " This time , though , the investigators ' chief task is to unravel the administration 's deeds . The original offense itself , not just the cover-up , is the systematic subversion of democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an integral part of everything Lt. Col. Oliver North did on behalf of the Reagan administration . The lesson he and his helpers appear to have learned from Watergate was to preserve " deniability " at each stage of their covert maneuverings . " Deniability " is why North recruited former government types who knew the undercover ropes but no longer had any formal relationship with the government . And it is why everyone involved has a cover story or superficially plausible post hoc rationalization . To cite just one example of the deniability game , North recruited billionaire H. Ross Perot to pay ransom for the release of a hostage in Lebanon . North did this at a time when the United States had a firm policy against ransoming hostages . The money was apparently supposed to go directly to the hostage-takers in Lebanon themselves , not to so-called " moderates " in Iran , so there can be no defense that this was part of some grand geostrategic design . Butthe administration and its defenders argue that this particular enterprise did n't violate the anti-ransom policy since the funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takers will be deterred by the knowledge that Uncle Sam will never break down and pay them good taxpayers ' money ? only mere private-sector lucre . In the case of an after-the-fact cover-up , you want to know who ordered it . The investigatory trail leads up . But we are not yet after-the-fact . It would be premature to say that we know the nature and extent of all the covert operations the Reagan administration has been running beyond the reach of democratic government . Furthermore , while the integrity of democratic institutions is the responsibility of the president and his chief advisers , it is n't their exclusive responsibility . It is the responsibility of their subordinates in the bureaucracy , too : ambassadors , assistant secretaries , military officers , intelligence gatherers . This scandal is not dismaying because so few people directed it ; it is appalling because so many people seem to have participated in it . Yes , the independent counsel and congressional committees must find out what various top White House , CIA , and Cabinet officials knew and when they knew it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Donald Regan , and others are lying . But an equally important task is to dig down into the lower strata of the government ? deep into the ranks of 011ie 's Army . What did North and officials below him do and when did they do it ? In what ways was the basic institutional framework of our government ignored or undermined , by whom , exactly , and when ? The whirl of revelations in recent weeks has created a kind of sensory overload . Many more questions have been raised than it has been possible to keep track of , let alone answer . Therefore , let us distinguish three separate issues . The first is the policy question of whether or not it was wise to sell arms to Iran in order to gain the release of the hostages and establish better relations . Not many people think this was a good idea , but this is where the administration is making its stand . The new " mistakes were made " line , first articulated by George Bush and later grudgingly taken up by Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ got us into the arms deals . You can argue with the results , the argument goes , but give us credit for having our hearts in the right places ? and permit us to move on . This limited mea culpa deflects attention from the two other much more controversial parts of the scandal : the funneling of profits from the arms sale to a bank account in Switzerland en route to the contras ; and the broader covert network organized by North and others in and connected to the administration . There is still plenty of mysterious activity in all three areas that needs to be investigated . The transfer of funds . We still do n't have a clear account of exactly how the money was sent from the Iranian arms purchasers to the bank account in Switzerland . We do n't even know how much money it was . Attorney General Edwin Meese says the contras got between si0 million and s30 million . The contras say they never saw a dime . So much of the cash may have gotten skimmed by various middlemen . One @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't talking , is retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard V Secord . He and North are the only figures in the transfer known to have had dealings with both the Iranians and the contras . The - private-  aid network . The top U.S. military adviser in El Salvador had intimate knowledge of the " private " supply effort for the Nicaraguan contras being run out of llopango air base . He has " deniability " : he was ( it is claimed ) only an observer , not a supervisor . The Eugene Hasenfus types who worked in the air supply effort say he was , at least , an observer with influence . What was the role of U.S. Ambassador Edwin Corr ? He reportedly helped pay for repairs to the San Salvador house where the crew members lived . Did the State Department office that was supposed to supply non-lethal aid to the contras play any role ? It can not account for 60 percent of the money Congress gave it . And what happened to the money Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams asked the Sultan of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was legal for Abrams to solicit humanitarian aid . But does he know for sure whether the money went only to buy non-lethal materials , not arms ? If he does n't know , why does n't he ? The policy itself . Finally , there is still a lot we do n't know about how the idea of dealing arms to the Iranians for hostages was hatched and approved , and about how the arms were delivered to Iran . Did the legal authorization come , as it seems to have , after the shipments had already begun ? If so , who sent arms first ? Why was the policy tried , apparently halted , and then restarted without the consent of top officials at the State and Defense departments ? And what was the bureaucratic pipeline through which the arms secretly moved from U.S. stockpiles to the Middle East ? There is one area in which the committees would do especially well to avoid following the precedents set in the Watergate period . The Senate Watergate committee granted limited immunity from prosecution to various White House witnesses in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ similar deal for North and for former national security adviser John Poindexter ? both of whom have already pleaded the Fifth Amendment at closed-door hearings of the Senate Intelligence Committee and at an open session of the House Foreign Affairs Committee . But why rush to surrender the option to punish wrongdoers ? North and Poindexter say they will tell the whole story at " the appropriate time . " Meanwhile , others involved in the affair will start talking . North and . Poindexter will soon have plenty of incentive to talk ? if only to defend themselves in court . By taking the Fifth now , they hope to take advantage of the understandable eagerness of Congress to obtain a full account of what happened . Congress should n't fall for it . One of the greatest virtues any investigator can have is patience . NOTEBOOK REVENGE OF THE IDIOTS : We knew when we ran that headline on our cover , " The Idiocy of Rural Life " ( December 8 ) , that we 'd get an excited response from the heartland , and we have n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trouble you can get into this way . A magazine in India called the Deccan Herald published anarticle early this month with the similarly inspired headline " Mohammed the Idiot . " The article had nothing to do with the founder of Islam ; it was about a boy named Mohammed . This distinction , however , was lost on 5,000 Moslems who tried to burn down the magazine 's offices . In the ensuing riot , four people were killed and nearly 50 were injured . As we went to press , the rioting spread to several cities and the death toll had hit 17. - PAT AT BAT : In the great Washington parlor game of the moment ? making lists of Reagan officials who ought to resign or be fired ? it 's time the name of Patrick J. Buchanan was put into play . It 's one thing for the White House communications director to call for conservatives to rally ' round the president . It 's another to say , as Buchanan did in a Miami speech December 9 : " If Colonel North ripped off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the contras , God bless Colonel North . " If Colonel North did this , he violated the law and trampled democracy . Does President Reagan believe this deserves divine blessing ? " I have reason to believe that the President of the United States is not displeased with his controversial director of communications , " says Buchanan . Unless the president approves of American tax dollars being used to " communicate " a message of contempt for law and democracy , Buchanan needs to be given reason to think otherwise .                     