@@494222

S.A.T.s ARE N'T SO SMART High school students are n't the only ones who nervously await their S.A.T . scores . Their parents are also anxious to find out the magic numbers , to confirm hopes or fears for their young scholar 's future . This year the press too expressed unusual excitement when the scores were reported . It was big news that the national average had risen for the first time in eighteen years ? by two points in verbal skills , to 426 , and one point in math , to 467 ( on a scale that ranges from 200 to 800 ) . The press was n't interested in the numbers for what they might predict about future college choices and careers , the way parents and kids are . Instead , editors weighed in with views on what the figures revealed about the present state of high school education . " The rise in test scores , " The Washington Post wrote , " is ... a reliable sign that young Americans are learning more of what they need to know to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The public schools are clearly paying more attention to teaching skills , discipline and quality control . " Further good S.A.T . news ? that the 100-point gap between black and white students ' scores had narrowed ? gave the Post another opportunity to effuse : This year 's good news can be attributed to important recent changes in the country 's approach to secondary education . There has been a marked return to required courses in place of electives , a reaffirmation of the value of science courses and a renewal of mandatory foreign language teaching in these grades . The folly of laissez-faire grammar and reliance on oral rather than written reports has been exposed . All our children are being better prepared to take these tests and go on to college . That is certainly a lot to read into an ever so slight rise in S.A.T . scores ? especially since those scores first acquired their unique status precisely because they were not supposed to reflect past achievement but instead to predict future academic performance . ( It 's the aptitude test 's less prominent partner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high school accomplishments in specific subjects ? fourteen of them , ranging from American history to Latin . ) Clearly , the editors ' claims about dramatically improved conditions in our schools , especially in the black and poorer ones , are mostly wishful thinking . But their assumption that the S.A.T . is in fact yet another exam that reflects the quality of the schools students happen to attend , rather than a transcendent test that measures some ambiguous " aptitude " they possess , is both realistic and constructive . It does n't imply that the scores are meaningless in themselves and only serve to perpetuate social inequalities ? as does the more familiar charge that the test is culturally and racially biased . Instead , the assumption suggests that the scores ? which declined in the 1960s when less advantaged , mostly minority students joined the pool of S.A.T . takers in greater numbers , and which continued to decline until this year 's creep upward ? can tell us something helpful , and perhaps hopeful . They do n't prove that those test-takers are irremediably inferior academically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attend have been persistently worse than average ? a fact to be addressed , not accepted . Hopeful or not , the assumption that the S.A.T . and achievement tests are similar would have been vehemently denied in 1926 , when the aptitude exam was introduced in an effort to give ill-educated but bright students a fairer chance in college admissions . And six decades later , the Educational Testing Service ( which now produces the college extrance exams ) and the College Board ( which administers them ) still defend the S.A.T . ' s unique status , although no longer in quite such clear-cut terms . Where the exam used to be credited with assessing stable intellectual qualities relatively unaffected by school experience , the test booklet now takes care to say that the S.A.T . " is not a test of some inborn and unchanging capacity . " As Rex Jackson of E.T.S. explains , the test " measures intellectual skills learned through both formal and informal educational experience ? skills that are exercised and further developed through application to school work in a variety of academic subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers continue to insist , however , that the S.A.T . has distinctive value . Specifically , E.T.S. maintains that it is a better predictor of academic performance than achievement exams ( although only in conjunction with high school grades , not independently ) , and that it is less closely linked to " a particular course of study " ( although it is tied to " educational experience " ) . Claims as hedged as these are too subtle to be appreciated by newspapers ' editorial writers , who go right ahead and attribute the recent rise in S.A.T . scores to specific curricular changes . And E.T.S. 's two assertions may in fact be even more tenuous than they sound . According to the statistics and analysis in Christopher Jencks and James Crouse 's article in the spring 1982 issue of The Public Interest , the S.A.T . is not more reliable than achievement tests in predicting college success . ( Others have been skeptical about the S.A.T . ' s forecasting validity , even on its own merits ; ever since the College Board claimed the S.A.T . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a Nader report countered with a 3 to 5 percent figure , the numbers have seemed suspect . ) Nor is the S.A.T . more independent of prior schooling , the authors maintain . " There is as much school-to-school variation in vocabulary , reading comprehension and arithmetical reasoning scores that is , in aptitude scores , " they 've found , " as in scores on conventional secondary school achievement tests . " So much , it appears , for the S.A.T . ' s special status . But the debunking suggests certain lessons . Why not , Jencks and Crouse propose , replace the aptitude test with achievement exams ? ( In contrast to prospective college TEST-PREP PANIC The S.A.T . used to be a student 's worst ordeal with standardized testing . No longer . Increased competition for placement in professional schools has magnified the importance of a whole battery of standardized exams : LSATs , MCATs , GMATs , GRES , and about a dozen others covering admissions to everything from law to veterinary graduate programs . Mature men and women attach the same significance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ marks . And they 're rarely ashamed to admit spending big bucks in the search for higher scores . Test anxiety has spawned a whole new industry , Of the more than 350,000 who take the LSATs , MCA " ls , and GMATs every year as a requirement for admission to law , medical , and business schools , about a third are taking commercial coaching and cram courses at $50 to $4004 a shot . Stanley Kaplan Educational Centers , the test-prep front-runner with more than half the market , has tripled its business over the last three years , and others have emerged to meet a blossoming demand . Kaplan has become a household name on college campuses across the country , far more famous than the presidents of our more august academic institutions . A decade ago , most test-takers were n't even aware of the prep courses . Kaplan , who got his start in the late 1930s as a private tutor for the S.A.T. , had fewer than twenty branches nationwide in 1970 ; today he has more than 110 . Prep courses used to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Now they 're completely respectable . " Everybody sort of brags about them , " one recent Radcliffe graduate concludes . " It 's sort of a status thing . " A stampede effect has set in . Even those whose test anxiety might be outweighed by more substantive qualifications ? good college grades and good scores on previous standardized tests ? are paying the pipers . " We used to get bright students coming to us asking , ' Should I take a course ? ' " says Dorothy Clark , a pre-law consultant at the University of Maryland . " Now it 's a matter of telling them which one . ' " Test-takers claim , of course , that they are going to coaching outfits to improve their scores on what they consider to be all-important exams . It 's not clear that their confidence is well founded . A 1979 Federal Trade Commission report , which concluded that those coached for the S.A.T . scored twenty to thirty points higher than their fellow test-takers , " opened the floodgates for us , " says Kaplan . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group ( those who take prep courses are more likely to come from higher income backgrounds and should perform better on the tests regardless of preparation ) , and data for the LSAT was too marginal to reach a similar conclusion . In any case , the incremental gains that grad school applicants might expect from a Kaplan course are unlikely to make the difference between acceptance and rejection . Although competition for placement in professional schools is intense , and test scores do play an important role in the admissions process , the small differences do n't mean nearly as much as students think they do . The LSAT , perhaps the most heavily weighted standardized test , is now scored on a scale of 10 to 50 to help minimize minor score differentials . Business school admission officers have always placed more emphasis on interviews and work experience than on numbers . Medical schools use the MCATs primarily as a grade validator . Nonetheless , Stanley Kaplan alone prepares 40 percent of MCAT takers . As Bob Jones of the Association of American Medical Colleges observes , " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ why they 're so worried about the tests . " The anxiety is n't entirely self-induced . The testing establishment ? the Educational Testing Service , its affiliates , and college pre-professional advisers ? is hardly discouraging students from resorting to the coaching gurus . Concerned about the large profits of the commercial services ( Kaplan alone grossed $22 million in 1981 ) and about the problem of equal access , they are trying to come up with their own competitive alternatives to the test-prep outfits . Eager to placate criticism , the test-givers now offer extensive compilations of sample test material available at minimal cost ; at least one , the Law School Admissions Council , has considered developing a videotape series . Countless colleges and universities provide their undergraduates with test aids , if only a sample test administered under simulated conditions . But the funding for sophisticated review courses just is n't available , and the commercial operations are n't worried about their new competitors . " We welcome them to try , " says Stanley Chess , director of Bar-Bri Professional Testing Centers , " but we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Characterizing his outfit as a poor man 's private school , and cringing at the mention of " business , " Stanley Kaplan states firmly , " We may improve test scores , but in the process we also hone a student 's skills . It 's an education like any other . " The skills , however , are good for only one thing : taking standardized tests . And although students may come across mention of Dante or Aristotle among Kaplan 's sample questions , they are taking his courses for only one reason , and it has nothing to do with the traditional motivations for learning . They are thinking only of numbers , money , and success . " Sensing shrinking economic opportunities , they desperately clutch at every rung , wanting to ' make it , ' " laments Barbara Lerner , who writes frequently about standardized testing . " But their efforts are essentially misdirected : instead of fretting so over test scores , they should he more worried about their level of real competence . " And if test-takers ca n't contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own brains more and save money by trying thick volumes with titles like Barron 's MCAT Guide and Inside St rategies to the LSAT , all priced at under $10 and available in every college bookstore . Coupled with a little self-discipline ? to be expected of our future lawyers , doctors , and corporate executives ? these should provide more than enough in the way of preparatory material . " If a student is willing to work himself a hit , " said one university pre-law adviser , " it 's all there practically for free . " PETER SPIRO students in most other industrialized nations , who all take achievement tests , only 20 percent of American applicants who take the S.A.T . also sign up for one of the College Board 's achievement exams . ) Since both kinds of tests seem equally mediocre at predicting future academic success and equally bad at screening out the effects of past educational ( to say nothing of general socioeconomic ) disadvantages , there 's little to choose between them as far as colleges are concerned . But high schools , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on achievement tests : college admissions exams that explicitly measure mastery of the secondary school curriculum , instead of abstract " brains , " might encourage greater diligence on the part of students and more rigor on the part of schools . IT 'S PERHAPS UNREALISTIC to expect that shifting the emphasis from aptitude to achievement tests can contribute so dramatically to transforming attitudes in high schools , but there 's reason to think it can help . The common objection that achievement exams , unlike aptitude tests , will merely encourage circumscribed , test-tailored curricula has rarely seemed less persuasive than now . After all , the S.A.T . itself has spawned more and more special courses : assorted cram classes in school and out , and more recently and notably , the proposal of the National Association of Secondary School Principals for a preparatory program ? a series of workbooks , computer programs , and videotapes for the 1.5 million high school students who take the S.A.T . every year ( see " The Prep Masters " by Peter Spiro , page 13 ) . The claims for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convincing : since the S.A.T . supposedly presumes no specific prior knowledge , it 's only sensible for prep courses to emphasize test-taking skills rather than mastery of subject matter . Preparation for achievement exams , by contrast , takes place within the standard curriculum and is likely to require more sustained and substantive study . For example , where S.A.T . takers hurriedly memorize long lists of " S.A.T . words " ? heavy on the multisyllable ones ? students taking the English Composition achievement test are presumably reading books in their classes , surely a better way to build a usable vocabulary . Not only do achievement exams measure , directly or indirectly , the basic math and verbal skills the S.A.T . tests ; they also assess more specialized knowledge . There 's a chance that a renewed emphasis on achievement tests might even contribute to reviving the venerable and valuable American expectation that education can advance equality of opportunity , rather than impede it . The reign of aptitude tests has regrettably only reflected inequality of conditions in our schools , and perhaps even indirectly reinforced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The return of achievement exams just might help inspire higher hopes .                     