@@332960

Pope John Paul II began his reign eight years ago , at a time when theologians and laity alike were openly questioning some traditional teachings of the church . Since then the Vatican has attempted to restore a sense of doctrinal discipline ; it removed renegade Swiss Theologian Hans Kung from his teaching post at the University of Tubingen in West Germany and silenced for a year Brazilian Franciscan Leonardo Boff , an advocate of Marxist-tinged liberation theology . Last week Rome moved against an American priest who has openly questioned the church 's stance on sexual morality . Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger , head of the Vatican 's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith , revoked the license of the Rev. Charles Curran to teach theology at the Catholic University of America because of the priest 's " repeated refusal to accept what the church teaches . " The Vatican 's long-expected crackdown on Curran made it clear that the Pope will not tolerate open dissent on the part of those who claim to be the church 's teachers . But some Roman Catholics were alarmed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ letter to Curran  --  that is , an attempt by Rome to place more and more of its official teachings beyond dispute . <P> At a Washington press conference last week , Curran insisted that the church , not he , " ultimately should change its teachings " and vowed to fight to retain his position at the university . Archbishop James Hickey of Washington , the chancellor of the university , has set a Sept. 1 deadline for Curran to decide whether to appeal through the school 's own grievance procedures . <P> A tall , spare man who normally dresses in nonclerical clothes , Curran , 52 , is probably the best-known Catholic moral theologian in the U.S. today . The author of 16 books and a popular teacher , he has openly questioned the church 's stance on contraception , abortion and extramarital sex . Broadly speaking , Catholic teaching holds that these acts are immoral in themselves and can never be allowed . Curran contends that there may be occasions when they are permissible . He also believes Rome should ease its ban on remarriage after divorce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divided . Some Catholic liberals , like the Rev. Richard McBrien , chairman of the theology department at the University of Notre Dame , argued that the move would have a chilling effect on theologians , many of whom might leave Catholic colleges for teaching posts at non-Catholic schools . But conservatives hailed the move . James McFadden , lay editor of the conservative monthly Catholic Eye , compared Curran 's position with " working for IBM and damning computers . " <P> Rome readily acknowledged Curran 's charge that he had been singled out . A Vatican official said it was the " length and breadth and depth " of Curran 's dissent that caused him to become the first American to lose his teaching license . In 1968 , for example , Curran organized 600 U.S. academic and church professionals to endorse a statement taking issue with Pope Paul VI 's condemnation of contraception in the encyclical Humanae vitae.                     