@@336057

Rising abruptly from the eastern Nevada desert , snow-capped Wheeler Peak has long been a regional attraction . Visitors began arriving in 1885 , after Rancher Absalom Lehman discovered vast limestone caves in the neighboring foothills . Swinging a sledgehammer to cut paths through forests of stalactites and stalagmites , Lehman then led candlelight tours through the caves for a dollar a head . After President Warren G. Harding declared the caves a national monument in 1922 , Manager Clarence Rhodes rented them out for weddings , dances and initiation ceremonies for the Knights of Pythias , who frolicked in clouds of sulfurous smoke wearing costumes . <P> Last week , beneath the majestic 13,060-ft. mountain , Nevada Governor Richard Bryan and former Senator Paul Laxalt , along with other dignitaries , dedicated the surrounding 120 sq . mi. of wilderness as Great Basin National Park , the country 's 49th . Named by Explorer John C. Fremont , the area known as the Great Basin stretches across northern Nevada , touching California , Oregon , Utah and Idaho . Once an inland sea , it was formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upward into mountain ranges . The relatively small national park contains nearly all the Great Basin 's ecosystems , from desert to arctic-alpine tundra , encompassing 3,000-year-old bristlecone pines , glacial lakes and one of the continent 's southernmost permanent ice fields . As recently as 10,000 years ago , bowl-like cirques in the park 's mountains were sculpted by glaciers , which left in their wake gray carpets of rock known as taluses . <P> Federal agencies have managed the area since 1932 , but efforts to make the caves and neighboring mountains into a national park were frustrated by local ranching and mining interests . Great Basin Park , however , is good news for nearby White Pine County , a dusty patchwork of small towns , ranches and mines . Indeed , merchants from Ely ( pop . 7,000 ) convinced Nevada 's congressional delegation last summer that the park was desperately needed . For decades , Kennecott Copper Corp. , which provided thousands of jobs at an open-pit mine near Ruth , had argued that the mountains might be mineral rich . By 1980 the mine was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The new park , they hoped , would bring paying guests for hotels , restaurants and other services . Conservation suddenly began to look like good business . <P> At Laxalt 's urging , the Reagan Administration , normally cool to such environmental overtures , went along . One reason : Laxalt helped negotiate " multiple use " privileges for cattle grazing and valid mining claims . Even so , it will take years for the new park to become fully operational , says Superintendent Al Hendricks . Hiking paths are barely marked , roads often too bumpy for cars , and campsites have no potable water . Rangers are still taking inventory of plant and animal life , charting soil types and reviewing mining claims . The public has taken a role in park planning through a series of town- hall meetings . Among the suggestions : erecting campsite fences to keep out cows and banning fat-tired all-terrain bicycles from trails .                     