@@494264

The American musical has become the El Dorado of the Broadway theater ? that lost paradise of total gratification where artists and backers once disported on golden meadows to the sound of ringing cash registers . A character in 42nd Street elegizes musical comedy as " the most beautiful words in the English language , " but there 's a mournful , obsolescent ring to those words now , as if they were already being cycled into archaic language . Once hyperbolized as " our greatest native art form , " the American musical has fallen into disrepair , and the success of Andrew Lloyd Webber 's glitz machines only heightens the miserable condition of our own maladroit contraptions . Just as the Japanese and Koreans have surpassed the United States in the mass-produced technology first created by Henry Ford , so the British have usurped the only theatrical form ever invented ( or respected ) on Broadway . The glories are all in the past , which may account for the spate of musical theater histories in the current publishers ' lists . It may also account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offerings , whether revivals or new works . How many American musicals today take place in the present or deal with issues even remotely meaningful ? It is no accident , as the Marxists used to say , that the remake of Cole Porter 's Anything Goes opened at the Vivian Beaumont in the same week as the stock market crash . First produced during the Depression , it helped then to avert American eyes from the bread lines , the apple stands , and the pin-striped bodies hurtling out of corporate windows . The new revamped pro-who gives lamplit intimacy to the party scenes and crisp cold to the ride home , has lighted Huston so that her somewhat horsey face ? which I liked as was ? resembles Degas . She looks beautiful in a genteelly reconciled way , and she acts , in the last scene particularly , with a grip on the part that grips us , that inspires hopes about her future . Setting Anjelica Huston on her way as an extraordinary actress may prove to be one of the prime legacies that John Huston left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide us with the same insouciant distractions . Equipped with a new book by Timothy Crouse and John Weidman , based on an original script by Guy Bolton , P G. Wodehouse , Howard Lindsay , and Russel Crouse ? and dominated by Cole Porter 's enthralling music and lyrics ? Anything Goes still possesses that enchanting quality of total irrelevance that made it so appealing in the ' 30s . If anything , it is even more irrelevantly appealing today , set in the luxury-class quarters of an ocean liner when , in our own age , cruise ships exist mainly to carry tourist groups to the Caribbean for duty-free shopping , and populated with types who vanished from popular culture soon after Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers stopped dancing the carioca . Anything Goes functions as a voyage through the high seas of the past in the interior of a time boat , the theatrical equivalent of two hours spent watching reruns in a repertory movie house . Under Jerry Zak 's shrewd direction , it 's an artful reconstruction . Tony Walton 's sets and costumes alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Memorabilia . Ornamented with the round silvered curves of Art Deco , the S.S. American cruises the silver seas sporting a white piano bar , a redwhite-and-blue smokestack , and a ship 's orchestra performing on the top deck . As for the characters , they are off the streamlined Art Deco rack as well ? a Yale alum drinking his way across the ocean , a goofy gangster posing as a minister , a square British lord , dowagers anddebutantes , camera-toting reporters in checkered coats , long-legged chorines in flared sailor pants and high heels , the hard-boiled siren Reno Sweeney making out with all available males , the feckless hero Billy Crocker wooing his rich lady love in disguise and ending up with both the girl and a zillion dollars . Fox-trots up and down the gangways , choral tap dances that rattle the decks , gypsy turns and tangos , production numbers by the entire crew and officer staff ? Anything Goes recapitulates everything you ever remembered from the halcyon days of the Astaire-Rogers shipboard romances . The only ones missing are Eric Blore and Edward Everett @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Crouse-Weidman revamping improves on the jerry-built original , but the jokes are feebly dependent on the incompatibility of British elegance and American slang ( " Bring me my tea and step in it " ) , and the plot remains a crude comedy of disguise and misunderstanding . Still , the books for these musical comedies were never more than scaffolding for songs , and Porter 's songs retain all their melodic surprise and lyrical wit . It 's odd to be reminded that such classics as " I Get a Kick Out of You , " " You 're the Top , " " It 's Delovely , " " Easy to Love , " " Blow , Gabriel , Blow , " or even the eponymous " Anything Goes , " much less the 11 other superb numbers , were once show tunes ? not just because they have all achieved an enduring independent life , but because today our musical comedy hits are fortunate to feature one memorable song , not to speak of 17 . Porter 's songs emerge out of nowhere in Anything Goes ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and mood , rather than plot requirements ? but they represent the essence of the show . The orchestra , under the bright direction of Edward Strauss , plays these tunes smartly , and they are well sung by virtually everyone in the cast . Patti LuPone , especially , brings a sharp energy to the role of Reno Sweeney , her red velvet slack suit and auburn hair handsomely framing her generous , slightly cruel mouth . And Howard McGillin is an attractive Billy Crocker , though he dances like a four-letter man at the senior prom and his baritone range does n't easily accommodate the countertenor tones he 's often forced to produce . All in all , Anything Goes is a pleasant pastime for those who have the time to pass . If I sound a bit resistant to its charms , well , I 'm getting a little older and my time is somewhat limited . The talented pair who brought forth Sunday in the Park with George have now created another musical . It 's called Into the Woods and is playing at the Martin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lyrics , and James Lapine , who wrote the book , are both highly sophisticated gentlemen of considerable wit . But I looked in vain for the animating impulse behind this new work , apart from the desire to collaborate on a new conversation piece . Anything Goes , and other ' 30s musicals , exist to showcase wonderful tunes . Into the Woods does n't have much to contribute in the way of music ? it is Sondheim at his most tuneless and doggerel , trying his hand at nursery songs ? so I suppose we 're meant to be satisfied with the concept . Still , the evening lacks conviction , the concept seems forced . I sat through this thing , fidgeting in my seat , a witness once again to the will trying to do the work of the imagination . Into the Woods is structured in two acts ? the first a fairly conventional rendering of familiar fairy tales , the second a mordant commentary on the afterlife of its characters , with a glance at Bruno Bettelheim 's Freudian analysis of fairy tale and myth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychiatric material was first evident in Twelve Dreams , his theatricalized version of a Jungian study about a young girl tortured by prophetic dreams concerning her own premature death . But this sort of commentary is invariably thinned , and slightly vulgarized , on the Broadway stage . As in Sunday in the Park with George , which followed a stunning first-act tableau with a self-conscious Chromolume coda , the overintellectualized conclusion of Into the Woods is an excrescence on material that is the more powerful the less it is explained . The Grimm fairy tales have already been sensitively adapted to the stage in Paul Sills 's Story Theater , not to mention the Philip Glass-Robert Moran-Arthur Yorinks opera The Juniper Tree , both of which , through simple fidelity to the source material , allowed its deeper meanings to resonate . The Juniper Tree , for example , with its account of stepmother infanticide , parental cannibalism , beheadings , resurrections , and reconciliations , contains enough mythical material to fill a dozen psychiatric casebooks , a slew of religious and classical mythologies . But its power lies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Sondheim-Lapine adaptation , on the other hand , even in its relatively straightforward opening act , lacks innocence , as if a couple of urban intellectuals were remembering their childhoods through a haze of cocktail parties and couch sessions . Into the Woods starts with projections of the first pages of two familiar Grimm Brothers tales , " Cinderella " and " Jack and the Beanstalk , " plus one , " The Baker and His Wife , " invented by Lapine . Along with the tales of " Rapunzel " and " Little Red Ridinghood , " these are then woven into a consecutive narrative through the device of a witch who exhorts the Baker to seek objects ( Jack 's beans , Rapunzel 's locks , etc. ) that will cure his wife 's childlessness . In the dark woods , very little is permitted to remain implicit . The Wolf in " Little Red Ridinghood , " for example , is a fully sexual animal , complete with a hint of genitals , and when he devours her ( " a full day of eating for both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Too often the stories are show-busied up with winks and smirks ( " I 'm afraid I was rude , now I 'm being pursued , and I 'm not in the mood , " sings Cinderella ) , while the characters seem drawn more from musical comedy ? Jack from Big River , Ridinghood from Annie , the Baker 's Wife from Oklahoma ? than from the pages of children 's literature . Still , the first act at least retains a semblance of respect for the conventions of fairy tales , including the happy endings . In the second act , however , Grimm turns grim , as Lapine and Sondheim demonstrate what happens to such people afterward , when their wishes are granted . The wife-swapping Prince ( " I 've been raised to be charming , not sincere " ) is unfaithful to Cinderella , Rapunzel becomes a screeching nag , the Baker 's wife is killed , and when the Giant 's widow comes to take revenge for the murder of her husband by Jack , the whole world turns nuclear , bathed in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trees are blasted , the woods are ashen ? punishment , apparently , for the participation of fairy-tale characters in the sexual revolution . Cinderella and Ridinghood find each other in the mist to sing " You Are Not Alone , " a song reprised by the Baker to Jack , though minutes before he was going to feed him to the Giantess . In this world , one suspects , consistent motives are less important than plugging the ballad , even one suspiciously reminiscent of " You 'll Never Walk Alone . " At the end , everyone pairs off , regardless of their previous relationships , and the blasted woods return to their former dark glory . We are left with the musical moral : " Careful the things you say /Children will listen , " which may be a warning against reading anything to kids at bedtime aside from health manuals or mail-order catalogs . Tony Straiges 's leafless bowers and vine-encrusted scoop are a handsome complement to the production , though the setting seems a little derivative for such an original stage artist . Bernadette Peters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powder-puff pout under the obligatory warts and frizzle ; Robert Westenberger is a stalwart Prince , and Kim Crosby 's Cinderella has the naive beauty and innocent grace one seeks in vain throughout the rest of the show . It is not the fault of Chip Zien or Joanna Gleason as the Baker and his Wife that they come on like Chico Marx and Ado Annie , or of Tom Aldredge that he is featureless in the part of the Narrator ( in Story Theater , at least , narrators are allowed to transform into characters ) . The actors are stuck in a world where urban cynicism alternates with nostalgic sentiment , where show-biz tinsel glitters on the bark of fairy-tale trees .                     