@@432171

 | In art , politics is back in fashion . A performance artist dresses up as a vicious Uncle Sam to criticize American treatment of the Third World . A painter shows missiles tearing across the sky . In cities throughout America , moreover , hundreds of artists have banded together in " Artists Call " to protest U.S. intervention in Central America . " If we can simply witness the destruction of another culture , " say the organizers of Artists Call , " we are sacrificing our right to make culture . " This winter the group is sponsoring performances , demonstrations and exhibits " to raise consciousness , to raise money , and to make visible artists ' outrage . " Museums and critics , in turn , are paying much more attention to artists such as Nancy Spero and Leon Golub , who have worked for years with politically charged subjects . The New Museum in New York , which is particularly sensitive to the pulse of contemporary art , recently organized an exhibit of apocalyptic art and will soon present a show called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington is now exhibiting " Dreams and Nightmares , " which surveys both the utopian and dystopian visions in the art of this century . This interest in politics has been stimulated by several things . The nuclear arms race , the coming of the year 1984 , the approach of the third millennium and the death of American soldiers abroad have all played a part . So has the unraveling of the late modernist conviction that the proper business of art is art ? not politics or storytelling . Today some artists make activist art with a clear-cut political message . Others make art that , while less overtly political , partakes of the same cultural jitters . These artists often create apocalyptic works about urban violence or sudden nuclear disaster . Apart : What do modern artists do well , and what badly , when it comes to politics ? No answer is possible without first mentioning the peculiar position of artists in society . Western culture likes to celebrate , attack and ignore artists for standing slightly apart ? for being outsiders . ( Most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) The perspective of the outsider , a legacy of modernism , grants the artist moral prestige but not power . It also makes him uneasy : he envies the more central position that , for example , a shaman might hold in a traditional culture . Over the years , some artists have retreated into a very personal art ; others have turned art into a lofty formalist preserve : still others have attempted to transform society itself . Not surprisingly , the outlook of this last group is critical and visionary . The Hirshhorn exhibit , organized by Valerie Fletcher , displays their art very well . Earlier in Id Saatchi Collection this century , many writers and artists were infused with optimism about the future of both man and art ; science and the industrial revolution , they thought , would establish a brave new world . With some important exceptions , such as the biomorphic imagery of Wassily Kandinsky , the work of these artists evokes science and the machine : the shapes are usually geometric , the colors are often primaries . The Italian futurists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The artists of the Bauhaus proudly made the machine part of their esthetic . In the early days of revolutionary Russia , artists hoped to ally art with social change , the better to transform the character of man himself . The Hirshhorn Museum has constructed a remarkable model of Vladimir Tatlin 's legendary but unbuilt monument to the Third International . The monument , which would have contained three slowly revolving chambers and been almost as tall as the towers of the World Trade Center , has hardly any right angles . It is a diagonal propelled into the sky ? a cannon shot into the future . Confronted with the Great Depression , the Stalinist terror and the rise of fascism , rr this faith in a utopian future weakened . The machines that would once have saved the world now threatened to destroy it ; men were becoming mechanical monsters . The geometric flavoring , which had seemed a premonition of clarity and order , became , to an artist like George Tooker , a way to portray the hard edges and nightmarish uniformity of future society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utopians seems much better than that of the dystopians . Why ? For one thing , it is much more interesting visually . There may also be something about the utopians ' approach to their subject that led to good work . Their art , for example , is usually abstract , a fitting response to what is a state of mind rather than a place . The painting of a visionary like  | Mondrian ? studied , lucid , austere ? possesses a spiritual rightness that no amount of formalist analysis can quite capture . What 's more , the art of such a painter does not seem self-admiring or merely personal . It avoids those flaws by being part of a larger social vision ( as earlier art was allied to religion ) , whether that vision is Tatlin 's utopian communism or Mondrian 's theosophy . Power : In their pictures of faceless robots or nuclear holocausts , most of the dystopian artists do not display these qualities . Without a varied and profound world view to provide a foil , as Michelangelo 's fresco of the creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his vision of hell , their art seems much too small a thing to take the measure of the world 's end . It 's just art ; or , worse , an attempt to get power by choosing an impressive subject . The Hirshhorn could not include the best expressionist artists , for they had the tact and taste not to portray overblown blueprints of social horror but to concentrate on a more private anguish . Or they remained more abstract . In the New Museum show , organized by Lynn Gumpert , Katherine Porter 's painting stood out by seeming somewhat remote ? by hinting at apocalypse through a touch of barbed wire and a rough and beautiful sun . There is often too much self-congratulation in the blame some apocalyptic art assigns to politicians or nuclear weapons . The best artists , far from being pure , are well acquainted with the devil : they are able to portray effectively the very real love of violence , death and cruelty that resides , along with some good , in most human hearts . They know that it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flaws in man himself . The same easy superiority dimin- ishes most activist art . It is not hard to pillory the Pentagon ; it requires something more to demonstrate how an ordinarily kind soldier can do something cruel . At its worst , activist art traps meaning into a simple message : it makes the words more important than the song . At its best , such art , like a good billboard , can be fresh and startling ; it endows abstract political thought with sensuous immediacy . Political art can also effectively expose other , more hidden forms of power ; in some performance work , for example , the power of money , fashion and celebrity , which underlie the art world , is brought to the surface . To be great , however , political art must have visual profundity ; and it must , paradoxically , transcend politics . Goya 's " The Third of May " is not simply a protest against the French occupation of Madrid , nor is Picasso 's " Guernica " merely an attack on the fascists : each is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men , to account . Some people deplore the moral presumption of artists . They have a point . The behavior of artists , individually , is no better than that of other people . With some exceptions , their work follows the fashions of the art world as closely as a pin-striped executive follows a corporate line . Their political views , historically , have often been foolhardy . If most artists do not deserve their moral prestige , however , they still enrich political life . They have a way of keeping an eye on the simple , all-important things . They insist , for example , that nuclear weapons kill teal people , anoint sometimes overlooked by those who recognize how complex the issue of nuclear disarmament has become . It seems helpful that , in the wings , artists are waving flags ? not just designing them .                     