@@492457

54 " You are willing to waive the den-tures ? " Then Hiss made his second big mistake . He walked over to Chambers , shook his fist at him , and said , " May I say for the record at this point that I would like to invite Mr. Chambers to make these statements out of the presence of this committee , without there being privileged for suit for libel . I challenge you to do it , and I hope you will do it damned quickly . " The critical factor in breaking the case , however , was the charade about Chambers ' teeth . Before that , along with other members of the committee , I had a nagging doubt that Chambers might have made a study of Hiss ' life and concocted the story about him because of some grudge , or as Hiss had implied , because he was either a pathological liar or mentally and emotionally unstable . But now , although we still were not sure that Chambers had told the truth about everything , and particularly about Hiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew that Hiss had lied about not knowing Chambers . He had , in effect , been bitten by Chambers ' teeth . It was a self-inflicted wound . ? After Hiss had admitted he knew Chambers after all , although under another name , he was damaged  --  but not fatally . No criminal charges had been leveled against him , and without further developments the case would have faded away . Three unlikely peoTHE // pie were responsible for keeping the case alive : Hiss himself , the editor of the Washington Post , and Hiss ' lawyer . Hiss did himself in by challenging Chambers to make his charges in public . On August 27 , when Chambers appeared on " Meet the Press , " Ed Follaird  --  a reporter of the Washington Post  --  pressed Chambers to do just that . Chambers categorically stated , " Hiss was a Communist and may still be . " Three weeks passed without Hiss ' backing April ' 86 up his threat to bring a lawsuit if Chambers made his charge publicly away from the privilege of a Congressional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effect , should " put up or shut up . " Hiss could ignore attacks by his enemies , but not from his friends . He sued Chambers for libel . Hiss ' lawyer took Chambers ' deposition . He pressed Chambers over and over to produce some documentary evidence to back up his charge that Hiss was a Communist . Chambers declined to do so . ( He told me later that at that point he was reluctant to reveal the involvement of Hiss and other members of the ring in espionage . ) Hiss ' lawyers then deposed Esther Chambers . They cross-examined her so ruthlessly that Chambers later told me that they made her cry . Chambers was now convinced that Hiss and his lawyers were determined to destroy him and that he had no choice but to produce papers and microfilms clearly demonstrating that both Hiss and he had been involved in espionage . He went to New York and retrieved typewritten papers , some notes in Hiss ' handwriting , and rolls of microfilm he had given his wife 's nephew ten years before as " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him after he left the party in 1938 . To the amazement and consternation of Hiss ' attorneys , Chambers produced the typewritten papers and the handwritten notes at his deposition . Hiss ' attorneys were flabbergasted , because they honestly believed that Hiss had been telling the truth in denying that he had ever known that Chambers was a Communist . The papers were turned over to a representative of the Justice Department , who swore everybody to silence with the risk of criminal prosecution for contempt of court if he talked publicly about the papers . Two weeks later , I saw a United Press dispatch in a Washington newspaper indicating that the Justice Department was ready to drop the Hiss-Chambers case for lack of evidence . Bob Stripling and 1 drove up to the Chambers farm . We showed Chambers the dispatch . He looked out the window and shook his head without saying a word for at least a minute . Then he turned to us and said , " This is what I have been afraid of . " He related that he had turned over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tell us what was in the documents except to say that they were a real " bombshell. " 1 asked him if the assistant attorney general , Alex Campbell , had these documents in his possession , and if it were completely up to Campbell , if anything was done about them . Chambers replied , " No , I would not be that foolish . I have another bombshell in case they try to suppress this one . " Without knowing what he had , I said , " You keep that bombshell . Do n't give it to anyone except the committee . " When we returned to Washington , I signed a subpoena duces tecum for all evidence that Chambers had . The next night Chambers led our investigators into his now famous pumpkin patch and gave them the rolls of microfilm he had hidden there . The key point is that the pumpkin papers would never have come to light and Hiss would never have been convicted had it not been for the actions he , the Washington Post , and his lawyers took in his dent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor leaders , and members of the media honestly felt that the Communist model of the Soviet Union or China might be the best and the fastest way to economic progress for newly independent countries in the Third World . That is not the case today . Why ? Sixty-five years ago a starry-eyed American newspaper reporter , Lincoln Steffens , returned from the Soviet Union and wrote , " 1 have seen the future , and it works . " Today , the world has seen that future , and it does n't work . It does n't work in Eastern Europe . It does n't work in the Third World  --  Cuba , Nicaragua , Ethiopia , Angola , and Mozambique are economic disaster areas . Most significant , it does n't work in the Soviet Union . The only economic success stories are in non-Communist countries . I refer not just to the more publicized economic miracles of Japan and Germany , but to such countries on the rim of Asia as Korea , Taiwan , Singapore , Malaysia , and Thailand  --  all poised for an economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We even see it today in espionage . Those Americans who have recently been charged with spying for the Soviet Union have almost without exception participated in such activities for money , and not because they believed in the Communist system . Hiss and the other members of the Hiss-Chambers espionage group did not do what they did for money . True believers who had lost faith in the American system , they felt that Communism was the wave of the future . ? ? ? The most moving moment of any hearing I have ever attended as a member of the House or Senate came at the end of a long , seven-hour day , August 25 , 1948 . It was the first televised Congressional hearing . ( I regret that it was not the last . ) Hiss had testi fied for almost five hours . Chambers had testified for more than two hours . As he neared the                     