@@487898

In a previous article in The Nation , using documents made available through the Freedom of Information Act , I reported that Yale University had cooperated with the Federal Bureau of Investigation in probes of alleged Communists on campus beginning in 1949 and continuing into the 1950s see Diamond , " God and the F.B.I . at Yale , " April 12 , 1980 . Did a similar arrangement exist at Harvard ? F.B.I . reports ob- ' tained under the F.O.I.A. suggest that it did . Let me say that by " arrangement " I mean an official policy of cooperation , whether informal or explicit , overt or covert . F.B.I . activity in Harvard Yard does not of itself indicate the existence of such ra relationship ; the activity could have gone on without the knowledge of university authorities  --  or , indeed , in the face of their opposition . Even if some university personnel cooperated with the F.B.I. , they might have done so out of personal motives , such as an attempt to curry favor , the hope of forestalling an investigation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ duty , rather than in accordance with official university policy . The distinction is crucial . For the documents reveal that the F.B.I . did recruit a number of informants at Harvard and that it engaged in such a wide variety of activities there that the question of whether such cooperation followed university policy inevitably arises . A few examples of the F.B.I . ' s entree into Harvard Yard will illustrate what I mean . A March 12 , 1953 , memorandum from the SAC ( Special Agent in Charge ) in Boston to F.B.I . Director J. Edgar Hoover in Washington , D.C. , headed " Harvard College Observ-atory/Information Concerning " reported a ( Continued on Page 405 ) ? Harvard ( Continued From Front CC ? ver ) telephone call from someone at the observatory who wanted to meet with an F.B.I , agent in order to provide him with " information of interest to the Bureau . " A special agent , " who acts as liaison agent at Harvard , was assigned to interview name deleted . " At that interview , the informant gave the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which stated , " Someone in the Observatory is distributing or attempting to distribute sizable quantities of Communist literature , real red propaganda an investigating committee would love to ' pick up . " The F.B.I . report continued : name deleted expressed extreme annoyance at this and stated such activities , if made known to an investigating com- mittee , would add to the woes of Harvard University officials especially in the light of the projected HCUA House Comthittee on Un-American Activities , or HUAC investigation among members of the Harvard University faculty . He added he " well realized Harvard was on the spot " and requested SA name deleted to discuss the matter with name deleted , the original complainant , Who was greatly concerned about the matter . The requested interview was held and reported to Washington . What the episode reveals , of course , is that two employees of Harvard , in their zeal to protect the university from embarrassment at the hands of a Congressional-committee , thought it best to report the " real red propaganda " to the F.B.I . The episode @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were following universitypolicy . In another letter , dated December 31 , 1948 , the SAC in Boston Wrote to Hoover : .. it is believed desirable that contact be established with a responsible person or persons within the Russian Research Center in Order to have an indication of the Programs being developed and perhaps have available for:review purposes results of these programs . . . . Accordingly ? the- , Bureau is requested to advise what information they sic may have in its possession relating to the background of the above-named individual name deleted and authorization is requested to establish contact with him which contact can be commenced on a pretext basis , developed and expanded providing the circumstances warrant and justify such expansion in the light of Sigmund Diamond is Giddings Professor of Sociology and professor of history at Columbia University . his interest and availability of information relating to this project . The potential informant had earlier " stated that he would be pleased to be of assistance or cooperation- with the Bureau whenever his services might be desired . " Still another incident : On August 17 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extensive report on the Harvard Russian Research Center , based largely on interviews with informants , to Hoover . On page 2 , the first half of the first sentence of the third paragraph has been blacked out , but the rest of the paragraph reads as follows : . . . while the intention of the Carnegie Foundation was to set up a strictly private research institute , they also wanted a more personal contact with United States government agencies . One of the jobs of Clyde Kluckhohn director of the Russian Research Center is to obtain pertinent information requested by government departments and , within- limits , shape the research program of the Center to the needs of the United States . He cited as an instance of this application sic the State Department would communicate with him to suggest they were short in certain aspects of Soviet activity . Kluckhohn would then suggest to a graduate fellow at the School that he might do a thesis on this particular problem , making no mention to him of the fact that the State Department was also interested . Subsequently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the attention of the State Department : This is ' perhaps getting closer to the bone , for the report intimates that Kluckhohn himself may have been one , of the F.B.I . ' s sources . Even if that Were the case , howevec , it does not prove that it was Harvard policy not to tell scholars that the subjects on which they were working had been suggested by the State Department or some other government agency . " - Ir- onetheless , the foregoing examples , a few among many , clearly establish that the Bureau was interested in'obtaining information at Harvard in unob.A .. trusive ways . It is equally clear that the Bureau had sources at the.uttiversity from whom it regularly obtained information . ' Confirmation of this is provided in a report dated July 28 ; 1954 , in which the Boston SAC referred to " information , provided the Boston Division by other individuals having Harvard Corporation appointments " from which " it appears , that Dean Bundy is insisting that former Communist Party , members , who now have Harvard Corporation appointments , shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ account of their activities in the Communist Party and shall at the same time identify all individuals known to them as participating in activities of the Communist Party and its related front organizations . " Still another docUment , a ten-page report on the Russian Research Center dated April 12 , 1949 , contains many deletions , in order , the F.B.I . says , " to protect the name and information concerning the activities pertaining to a confidential source reporting information to the F.B.I . on a regular basis , the release of which would lead to the source 's identification . " ( Emphasis added . ) Again , we have a confidential informant who provided information to the F.B.I . " on a regular basis . " The documents thus establish that the F.B.I . was , interested in Harvard and that it had a variety of sources on campus supplying it with information . But were the connections between the F.B.I . and Harvard similar to those . at Yale , that is , institutional arrangements about which the rest of the country was ignorant ? - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ SAC to F.B.I . headquarters suggest that there was indeed some kind of understanding between Harvard and the F.B.I . that had been in effect even before the first of these reports . One document in this series , dated June 19 , 1950 , a heavily censored memorandum from the Boston office to . Hoover marked " Personal and Confidential , " deserves to be quoted at length because of what it reveals and the tone in which it is written : three lines deleted asserted that while the Harvard University authorities were desirous of cooperating with the Bureau , and while the Bureau 's interests and those of the university were identical , there was a constant fear that some independent agency of the government might assert itself in connection with the Bureau 's records and thus cause embarrassment to the University in its cooperation with the Bureau . It is noted that as a result of half-line deleted on this date , arrangements have been completed for a most cooperative and understanding association between the Bureau and Harvard University . name deleted stated that it was his judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internal security problems , were ' most distasteful and obviously some action was necessary in order to correct them , but he felt that in most instances the methods utilized in order to effect the correction were not in good taste , and tended in some instances to destroy the real effectiveness of the work done . He asserted that information came to his attention some time ago with respect to a condition involving immorality and homosexuality among State Department employees and he felt that some action should have been taken by the State Department some time ago , with respect to this matter . He asserted , however , that he did not believe that a Senate Investigating Committee was the proper method to be used in order to bring about a correction of this condition . He did not offer any suggestion as to what methods might be utilized in this respect . entire paragraph deleted As indicated previously , name deleted has been most cooperative in his contacts with the Boston Office and this information is provided the Bureau for information purposes with the request that no dissemination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hyperbole on the part of the Boston Field Office  --  an overstatement of the magnitude of its relationship with Harvard  --  the memorandum strongly 4if suggests that many people at Harvard had more confidence tin the F.B.I . than in Congressional committees ; that some kind of " arrangement " existed between the university and the F.B.I . for the sharing of information ; that the F.B.I . was pleased by this display of cooperation , and that Harvard would be embarrassed if some " blundering independent agency of the government " ? a Congressional investigating committee , perhaps  --  were to reveal the university 's " cooperation with the Bureau . " ( Recall that similar sentiments were expressed in the F.B.I . report on the Harvard Observatory , quoted preciously . The writers of a number of other letters reached the same conclusions . ) At Yale , we know , cooperation with the F.B.I . reached at 4 least as high as the provost and the secretary of the university . And H. B. Fisher , the school 's " liaison officer , " boasted of supervising relations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have and are using Yale records and files and faculty for background and information concerning Yale men . " We can not be certain whether or not Harvard attained a similar degree of cooperation until the F.B.I . releases the remainder of its documents and Harvard releases the first of its . But we do haVe a few clues as to who some of the informants were . In response to a suit I filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against F.B.I . Director William Webster , the Bureau has submitted affidavits setting forth its reasons for making deletions from documents it released to me and for withholding certain documents entirely . The bulk of the deletions were made to protect informants , and the F.B.I . describes most of these informants as confidential sources " reporting information to the FBI on a regular basis , the release of which would lead to the sources ' identification . " Thus , the F.B.I . indirectly confirms that these informants provided information on a " regular basis , " information so " sensitive " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need-toknow " basis , even within the Bureau itself . Is it possible to identify these informants more precisely ? In explaining why one document was withheld from me in its entirety , the F.B.I . states that it " was outside the scope of plaintiff 's request because it pertains to an invitation from Harvard graduates to the Director , " and my F.O.I.A. request sought correspondence from Harvard employees . But my request was not for correspondence relating to Harvard employees but for all documents bearing upon the relations between Harvard and the F.B.I . during a certain period . The F.B.I . says that the information it provided me covers only Harvard employees . We may assume , then , that all the confidential informants referred to in the documents were Harvard University faculty or staff . Moreover , some of them held important positions in the administration . On February 9 , 1949 , the Boston SAC sent a memorandum to Hoover concerning the Russian Research Center . The letter referred to an earlier one , dated December 12 , 1947 , which had contained " information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . " Since the earlier letter , the staff of the center had " greatly expanded " : It is believed that the results of the work of the international program and the Russian Research Center can be made available to the Bureau officially through a contact with words deleted at Harvard University , who has on occasion indicated his respect for the Bureau 's work and his understanding for its many and varied interests in connection with internal security matters . It appears that a presentation of the Bureau 's desire to be informed on such matters to words deleted personally would make available the current programs and results of research work of the Center on such basis that the interests of the Bureau would not be revealed to the personnel of the particular program and in that way no possible embarrassment could possibly come as the result of any inquiries being directed in an attempt to obtain material outlines and other items of interest in connection with this matter. , - Accordingly , the Bureau is requested to consider the advisability of authorizing this office to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal basis to determine his reaction to the suggestion set forth above . On March 9 , 1949 , Hoover notified the Boston SAC that the Bureau " is considering the suggestions which you have set forth . . . and you will be informed as to the final decision in the matter at a later date . Until then , it is requested that you take no further action . " On May 11 , Hoover wrote to the SAC : " From a review of the material submitted . . . it is not believed necessary that you contact the President of Harvard University , James B. Conant , to secure any further material . " Until all of the parties make all of the relevant documents available , we can not be sure that the person whose name has been deleted from the Boston agent 's letter of February 9 , 1949 , was indeed President Conant , but from the evidence we have , it remains a nagging possibility . Conant was a member of an educational policies commission , set up under the auspices of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " American Education and International Tensions " on June 9 , 1949 . The report recommended that Communists " should be excluded from employment as teachers . " Dwight D. Eisenhower , who was then president of Columbia University , Conant and their associates on the commission concluded that the exclusion of Communists from the teaching profession , far from being an " abridgement of academic freedom , " in fact " would serve a contrary purpose . " The report stressed , however , that teachers should not be called Communists " carelessly and unjustly . " Such charges , " with their usual accompaniment of investigations , book-burning , and efforts at intimidation , " would seriously impair the efficiency of the school system if they became " too violent , frequent , and widespread . " On college campuses throughout the country , the issue of investigations of faculty members  --  by Congressional committees or otherwise  --  was becoming more heated . Was the N.E.A. commission articulating a national strategy in which universities would cooperate with the F.B.I . to forestall the intrusion of Congressional ' investigating committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but such was the policy at COnant 's Harvard  --  and at a number of other universities as well . -1 vidence to support this conclusion emerged at a meeting on December 8 , 1954 , of representatives of seven universities and two attorneys for the schools with members of the staff of the Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation . Harvard was represented by McGeorge Bundy , the dean of the faculty of arts and sciences . Minutes of that meeting , prepared by one of the attorneys , were sent to members of the " Listening Post , " an informal committee of university officials . According to the minutes , the meeting was devoted mainly to statements by the university spokesmen on how they were handling " loyalty " questions involving present and prospective faculty members . The points raised during the meeting were summarized in the minutes as follows : ( 1 ) No member of the Communist Party nor anyone subject to " Communist discipline " would knowingly be retained as a faculty member . ( 2 ) Invoking the Fifth Amendment in response to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dismissal , but it did provide grounds for investigating an individual 's fitness to teach . ( 3 ) These probes should be conducted by faculty members or others responsible to the university . ( 4 ) Any derogatory information received by the university " is a basis for an investigation of some sort . " ( 5 ) None of the universities had a regular investigating staff ; rather " they obtain such information as they can from Governmental investigating agencies but find this is of limited usefulness because of the refusal of such agencies to disclose sources . " ( 6 ) Academic tenure should not protect a faculty member - subject to Communist discipline or one who refused to be " completely frank " with a university investigating board . ( 7 ) A number of , investigations had led several universities to refuse to renew the contracts of nontenured faculty members and to dismiss faculty members with tenure . Other investigations were still in progress . ( 8 ) ? Scholarships and fellowships would not be given to known Communists . The university spokesmen agreed that in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the investigative procedures used by their schools as a result of a greater awareness of the problem of Communist infiltration ; they also agreed that some of their recent difficulties would not have occurred if " present-day investigative proi , cedures had been in effect " earlier . These new procedures the spokesmen insisted , must be continued to guard against subversion , and to retain public confidence " in the integrity of the universities and of the teaching process . " One of the members of the joint committee staff said that a law requiring all present and prospective faculty members to take an oath that they were not members of the Communist Party or under its discipline would be useful because it " would bring the FBI and the Department of Justice into operations which the universities now have to undertake . " Others present , however , argued that both the Department of Justice and the F.B.I . " are not today following up and prosecuting cases which the universities have already handed over to them under existing law . . . " ( I am @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Central Files in Low Library , where this document may be found . ) Since many universities refuse to release documents relating to this period , it is difficult to reach conclusions from the F.B.I . material obtained under the Freedom of Information Act . But it is better to raise questions about the available evidence than to keep the book closed on this dark chapter in the history of academic freedom , as many would like to do . When I began my research , I believed , like most people , that the universities were powerful sources of opposition to McCarthyism and that the F.B.I . was an unwelcome visitor on campus . Indeed , I envisioned a besieged university , surrounded by walls that an insidious enemy was trying to breach in order to penetrate the sanctuaries of decency , a metaphor that still dominates our view of higher education in the late 1940s and the 1950s . Available F.B.I . documents do not warrant the conclusion that university administrations during the McCarthy period were eager partners with the F.B.I . But partners they were , of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not adversarial ; the sanctuary did not have to be penetrated . The relationship was symbiotic . Each tried to get from the other what it felt it needed to survive . The F.B.I . needed victims to appease the politicians , just as Aztec priests needed sacrifices to propitiate their gods . To the universities , cooperation with the F.B.I . served to stave off what was considered a more dangerous knownothingism on the part of Congressional committees , Thos who , like Alexander Meiklejohn , rejected the purge , both. - philosophically and politically , were rare ; more common were the James B. Conants- , who held themselves aloof from the witchhunters but followed a notion of realpolitik  --  based in part on the conviction that Communism posed a mortal threat to their institutions , in part on their desire to safeguard them  --  that required them to go part way With the purgers in order to justify not going all the way . The F.O.I.A. documents show that the relationship between Yale and Harvard  --  and no doubt other universities  --  and the F.B.I . was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was institutional in character ; officials in high places made policies on the basis of which ubordinates exchanged information with the Bureau . Whose same documents show a powerful effort by both parties to conceal their ties . Yet the universities did not avail themselves of the argument used by so many at the time  --  that they were simply doing their patriotic duty . Was this because they were uneasy about violating academic and professional norms  --  that the real sponsors of research projects should not be concealed , for example ; that the openness required of a scholarly organization is different from the dissembling required of an intelligence-gathering api that using political criteria to purge the faculty runs contrary to the idea that appointments and tenure should be made solely on the basis of competence ? For the universities to have concealed what they did is disturbing enough , but it can probably be explained by the passions  --  and fears  --  of the McCarthy period . What is harder to understand is why many universities still draw a veil over activities that took place more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the position they took then was wrong , it was understandably wrong . Is the revelation of historical facts more dangerous than the continuing concealment of the truth ? On December 9 , 1977 , fifty years after the execution of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti , Harvard University opened the papers of former President A. Lawrence Lowell , who had headed a commission that concluded that the two anarchists had received a fair trial . On the same day , the Harvard University Gazette announced that the university had decided to retain its rule barring access to Harvard Corporation records for a period of fifty years after their deposit . This means that the files relating to the McCarthy period will remain closed until the next century . I have asked President Derek Bok to give qualified scholars access to this material , but he has refused to do so . He also denied me permission to quote from his letters to me , but I can quote from my letters to him . On April 24 , 1980 , I wrote President Bok : The judgments of - history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case and therefore to get on with the business of living . May I appeal to you , in that spirit , to open the Harvard archives to qualified scholars ? In so doing , you would be rendering a service to your university , to your calling , and to your country that would entitle you to  --  and assure you of  --  the admiration and respect of all those who place morality above expediency . The most disturbing thing about the cooperation between the F.B.I . and the universities is not what it reveals about the past but the persistence into the present of a myth about that relationship  --  a myth that distorts our knowledge of what we were and what we are , of what we once did and of what we can do , a myth that both the Bureau and many university officials continue to cultivate . Compare , for example , the ringing conclusion of Prof. Seymour Lipset 's study of education and politics at Harvard : . . . as McGeorge Bundy once explained of Harvard , " the extraordinary freedom . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal commitment to the ideal of excellence , " than by anything else . with the chilling report of the SAC in Boston to J. Edgar Hoover : It is noted that as a result of half line deleted on this date , arrangements have been completed for a most cooperative and understanding association between the Bureau and Harvard University Twenty years ago , Otto Kirchheimer wrote : " . . . one might nearly be tempted to define a revolution by the willingness of the regime to open the archives of its predecessor 's political police . Measured by this yardstick , few revolutions have taken place in modern history . " Kirchheimer 's gloomy conclusion seems to be in need of some revision . It has not taken a revolution to pry from the government 's political police at least some of its secrets , only passage of the Freedom of Information Act . But the passion for secrecy that Kirchheimer found characteristic of political regimes seems , at least in this case , as strong as ever in some of our private universities . ?    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        