@@432026

 | LONDON : A Sense of Outrage Just at a time when the U.S. is looking to Western Europe for help in countering intransigence in Iran and Soviet aggression in Afghanistan , two key American allies ? Britain and France ? are embroiled in a bitter economic wrangle . Senior British officials , normally circumspect , privately criticize France as " bloody and obstructionist . " A member of the Cabinet , hitting France where it hurts , describes French wine as " overpriced and overrated . " Another ranking official accuses France of being " the only country in Europe that has not accepted the rules . " The feud stems from Britain 's entry into the nine-nation European Economic Community ? the Common Market . To the British , money is the big issue . Britain has the third-lowest per capita income in the Common Market . Only Italy and Ireland have less . But it is supposed to make a contribution of nearly 2.9 billion dollars to the organization in 1980 ? more than five times what wealthy West Germany is to hand over ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Margaret Thatcher considers that unjust , and most Britons strongly share her sense of outrage . How much a country gives the EEC has little to do with wealth . Payments go mainly for farm subsidies under the EEC 's Common Agricultural Policy . France , whose agriculture is notoriously inefficient , is the principal beneficiary . No settlement . When the EEC met in Dublin in November , it offered Britain about 800 million dollars in relief . But Thatcher flatly rejected it , saying she would not " settle for one third of a loaf . " A meeting scheduled in Brussels at the end of March was called off when it became clear that neither London nor Paris would compromise . The EEC budget is not the only issue that divides the two countries . Last fall , France halted imports of British lamb to protect its own , more expensive , product and ignored a ruling by the European Court to end the ban . French President Valery Giscard d'Estaing further aggravated the situation by suggesting that Britain sell its North Sea oil to Common Market members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferred with Thatcher in London . He not only declined to mediate the dispute but is said to have argued for a compromise deal along lines similar to those proposed by Paris . Average Britons hold no love for France . As they see it , j their taxes are being used to subsidize what they call " butter mountains " and " wine lakes " there . At the same time , the high cost of products from Western Europe adds about 5110 a year to their food bills . Though not an ardent supporter of a politically unified Europe , Thatcher wants Britain to stay in the Common Market . But she may withhold payment of about 2 billion dollars in value-added taxes to the EEC . There is doubt , however , whether the Prime Minister reflects the wishes of her people by insisting on staying with the EEC . Many Britons agree with a Labor Party spokesman who says : " We have seen the future , and it does not work . " PARIS : Tempers Running High French reaction to Britain 's cry for economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Tough luck . " With presidential elections next year , French politicians are more concerned with domestic issues than with Soviet adventurism in Asia , U.S. woes in Iran or British complaints against the EEC . They are not about to rock any boats , particularly the farmers ' boat . Vocal opposition . French farmers fear that a change in the Common Market 's agricultural policy would hit them where it would hurt them the most ? in the pocketbook . And they know how to voice concern . In Calais , they burned an effigy of British Prime Minister Thatcher to protest Britain 's protest . In Strasbourg , they burned a British flag . In London , a group of visiting French farmers clashed with police near the House of Commons . Although French feelings against the British are running high , top-level people in Paris are taking it in stride . Comments one government official : " Every six months , someone says there is a crisis in the Common Market and that it 's about to split apart . In another six months , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The popular weekly Canard Enchaine summed up complaints about the French ban on British lamb imports this way : " We now know the English burned Joan of Arc , not because she heard voices , but because she kept sheep . " Paris agrees that London should be given some relief within the EEC , but intends to drive a hard bargain to gain concessions for French farmers . In a recent poll , 86 percent of the French public favored Britain 's leaving the Common Market . So President Giscard can ill afford to give in to " the Iron Lady , " as Thatcher is sometimes called here , and expect to be re-elected in 1981 . Consequently , he is pushing for a package that ties any reduction in British payments to the EEC to a fuller sharing of Britain 's North Sea oil and fishing rights with Common Market members and to restraints on lamb exports . Nevertheless , France is well aware that Britain is not without bargaining power . Because the British must import most of their food , any significant drop in trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French farmers . Giscard wants to win the battle of the budget but not at the cost of forcing Britain from the Common Market . The present economic dispute masks an even more important difference between Paris and London . Giscard believes in a strong , united Europe and hopes to see it play a role in world affairs independent of the two superpowers . Thatcher , however , favors an active partnership with the United States to stop the expansion of Soviet power . France is counting on Britain 's gradually moving away from the U.S. and becoming more European in its outlook . But critics say Paris can not seriously go about resolving major international differences until it can handle the smaller problems . And at the moment , France seems more concerned with the price of lamb than a united Europe .                     