@@333259

TIME 's coverage of dissidents in the Soviet Union goes back nearly 60 years to a 1927 story that reported on Leon Trotsky . Though " excommunicated from the party , " TIME wrote of the man who was later assassinated in Mexico on Joseph Stalin 's orders , Trotsky " is the leader of the opposition and is uncompromisingly outspoken in his criticism . " Since then , and particularly over the past two decades , TIME has reported at great length on the activities of other Soviet citizens who have publicly protested the Kremlin 's brutal rule . This week we return again to the subject with a lengthy excerpt from a soon-to-bepublished memoir by Elena Bonner , who lives in exile in the closed city of Gorky with her husband , Andrei Sakharov , the Nobel-prizewinning physicist and spiritual leader of the Soviet dissident movement . Bonner 's son-in-law electrified the Frankfurt Book Fair last week with the news that despite repeated Soviet efforts to destroy Sakharov 's own memoirs , they have been preserved , are now in the West , and will eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed , as were TIME 's previous excerpts from books by Henry Kissinger , Jimmy Carter , Alexander Haig , Theodore H. White and Soviet Defector Arkady Shevchenko , by Executive Editor Ronald Kriss . " Before we choose a book to excerpt , " says Kriss , " we always ask : Does it enlarge our knowledge of history ; does it give us new insight into the way our world works ? " Bonner 's book combines both deeply personal and broadly historical elements . Says Kriss : " It is a story of two people living in terrible isolation , but also waging a heroic fight against a vast and monolithic state system . The title has it right : Bonner and Sakharov are Alone Together . " <P> Senior Writer Otto Friedrich mined some 7,500 words from the book 's 272 pages to produce the compelling story that appears in this week 's issue . For Reporter-Researcher Sally Donnelly , the task of verifying the story was made even more challenging by the fact that the author could not be reached . Donnelly , who majored in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ struck by the relentlessness and brutality of the KGB . " But in their own way , " she notes , " Bonner and Sakharov are every bit as relentless in fighting the system . " Friedrich agrees : " It is a story of a fearless woman of indomitable character . It could be a story of a woman against the sea , against Mount Everest  --  it has that adventure quality . We always think that the KGB can not be resisted , but she resisted . You can almost see some wretched Soviet policeman wishing she would just go away . "                     