@@329663

Vacationing in the northern industrial city of Rostock last month , Egon Krenz decided to attend a soccer match . The outing may have been business as much as pleasure : as the Politburo member who handled youth affairs , Krenz also oversaw the country 's sports programs . Soon after Krenz settled into his seat , an announcement blared over the public address system that the politician was in the stadium . Cheers and applause ? Hardly . The fans booed lustily . <P> Those jeers apparently never reached East Berlin . Last week party elders demonstrated just how out of touch they are with the masses by awarding Krenz the country 's top political trophy . Erich Honecker , for 18 years the country 's unsmiling , unbudging leader , was relieved of his posts as head of state , Communist Party chief and chairman of the National Defense Council . Krenz , his protege , was elevated to all three positions . Technically , the 77-year-old Honecker resigned , citing the poor health that has plagued him since he underwent gallbladder surgery last August . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aside by a leadership increasingly nervous about the continuing exodus of refugees to the West and the growing clamor of the stay- behinds for reform at home . At the same time , the two Politburo members in charge of the economy and mass media also lost their posts , signaling that a more extensive housecleaning might be under way . <P> Krenz , who had long been expected to succeed his mentor , will get no honeymoon , since the change at the top does not alter the crisis down below . Given Krenz 's hard-line convictions , there is little expectation that he will be the leader who will guide East Germany along the path toward social and economic reform . Krenz may turn out to be only a transitional figure , put in place , like the Soviet Union 's Konstantin Chernenko , to warm the chair for a more visionary thinker . " The real reformers will take over power in the next six to twelve months , " predicts Wolfgang Seiffert , a former adviser in the East German Communist Party who now teaches at West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of a Yuri Andropov  --  someone who appeals to conservatives but recognizes the need for change . <P> Analysts were united at least in this : Krenz is no Mikhail Gorbachev . True , Gorbachev was no Gorbachev when he ascended to power almost five years ago . But while Gorbachev was aligned early on with reformist factions within the Communist Party , Krenz is indelibly marked as Honecker 's creation . The son of a tailor , Krenz joined the Young Pioneers in his early youth and became a full-fledged Communist Party member by 18 . He spent three years at the party academy in Moscow , then returned home to rise quickly through the party ranks . He has been a member of the party 's Central Committee since 1973 . A decade later , he joined the Politburo , gradually assuming responsibility for both youth affairs and the country 's security apparatus .                     