@@324098

The nominee wins the support of blacks and Jesse Jackson <P> They have long been among the most loyal elements in the Democratic coalition , and Walter Mondale has been one of their most respected allies . Yet black voters , like many of their leaders , have become increasingly resistant to the prospect that their support might be taken for granted . That was a basic theme of the Rev. Jesse Jackson 's crusade in the Democratic primaries ; by attracting three out of four black votes cast , he became , for better or worse , the black community 's presumptive political broker . For Mondale , coming to terms with Jackson and other black leaders was a difficult but crucial preliminary to kicking off his formal campaign . The nominee did so after 50 black leaders spent almost eight hours last week debating the issue in a ballroom of the Twin Cities ' St. Paul Hotel . Said Jackson when it was over : " We must leave this place and mobilize the people of our nation . " Added a jubilant Mondale : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mondale spent more than two hours sitting at the ballroom 's huge central table during the black leaders ' debate . He watched expectantly as a motion to endorse him was introduced by Hazel Dukes , president of the N.A.A.C.P. 's New York State chapter . Former Manhattan Borough President Percy Sutton proceeded to voice his lingering qualms about Mondale 's refusal to support a specific funding level for a job-creation program . Suddenly dissension filled the room , with some participants loudly agreeing with Sutton 's reservations and others demanding a vote . <P> Amid the turmoil , the ample figure of former Atlanta Mayor Maynard Jackson , an early supporter of Jesse Jackson ( no relation ) , began to dominate the closed session . Recalls New York Congressman Charles Rangel , who chaired the meeting : " Maynard cross-examined Fritz . He did an eloquent Clarence Darrow job . " Why , Jackson asked , was Mondale so reluctant to pledge a specific amount for jobs ? Because , the candidate explained , he was committed to cutting the deficit by two-thirds and the austerity required might not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other ideas for addressing high black unemployment ? Yes , replied Mondale . The lower interest rates brought on by falling deficits would stimulate overall employment , and he would expand programs calling for minority participation in federally financed projects . <P> A voice called out asking for the delayed vote to be taken . " All in favor of the motion say aye , " intoned Rangel . Instantly , the room was filled with a shouted chorus of " Aye . " Maynard Jackson leaped to his feet asking that the vote be made unanimous . As a beaming Mondale accepted congratulations , the group chanted , " We want Fritz ! " Jesse Jackson , who had left the meeting earlier to make a nearby campaign appearance for Mondale , rejoined the group in time for its midnight press conference . " The course that the Mondale-Ferraro ticket represents is a course that we must pursue with enthusiasm and vigor , " he declared .                     