@@494005

Mr. Kipling 's Army by Byron Farwell ( Norton , $12.901 Short-sighted , uncoordinated , psychologically ( though not physically ) timid , deeply ambivalent in his attitude to authority , a poor horseman , in later life tortured by digestive illness , Kipling would have made no sort of soldier . As a young journalist in India , he joined his local regiment of white part-timers , the First Punjab Volunteers , but was never seen on parade and eventually returned his unearned bounty with " regret for neglect of duty . " He saw troops under fire only once , at the little battle of Karee Siding during the Boer War and her at such a distance that though he drew from the experience one of his most graphic military images ? " a small piece of hanging woodland filled and fumed with our shrapnel much as a man 's moustache fills with cigarette smoke " ? he in no sense risked becoming a casualty . During his years in India , 1882-89 , the British army was engaged only twice , in the Third Burma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaigns he witnessed . In his imperialist heyday before World War I , when the fear of a coming Armageddon for which Britain was unprepared drove his pen to increasingly frantic propaganda for the introduction of conscription , ca rtoonists delighted in portraying him uniformed and bemedaled . But the impression created was even more comic than intended ; and , as a matter of principle , he refused all offers of decorations which the state thrust at him . Yet the circumstances of his life were shot through with military people and military things . Educated at a school , the United Service College , specifically founded to cram the sons of officers for the army and navy entrance examinations , he made there one of the most enduring friendships of his life , with the future General Dunsterville , the Stalky of Stalky and Co , His beloved sister , Trix , fellow sufferer in the " House of Desolation , " married an army officer . His surviving child , Elsie , married an army officer . His son , John , was killed in 1915 serving as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he wrote the history , whose colonel , Lord Roberts , was one of his chief heroes , and which bestowed on him an honorary colonelcy . Soldiers took pleasure in his company and he reveled in theirs , cherishing every invitation to a regimental mess and pining , during his first , soli- tary ( but triumphantly crowned ) year of literary labor in London , for their conversation as a change from that of literary people , whom he shunned and half-despised all his life : Forty years later , another artist as would-be man of action , Evelyn Waugh , would make just such a " porcine bristled " soldier a principal object of dislike in Brideshead Revisited , a book it is inconceivable that Kipling would have written , attempted , or even read . Part of its very great power ertheless derives from its juxtaposition of doing and feeling , producing thereby some of that same tension which lies at the heart of the Kipling vision ; and some of the conviction with which Waugh invests his soldiers stems from their artistic propinquity to Kipling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As Charles Carrington , Kipling 's official biographer , pointed out , life very much imitated art in the Victorian-Edwardian army because , in discovering how Kipling saw them , or wished them to be , its members learned how to play themselves . Those who came a lit-. tle after , and particularly the " temporary " officers of World War I , made caricature out of theater until , in Waugh 's pig-bristled colonel , inarticulate irascibility achieved the level of the surreal . It is perfectly possible , nonetheless , that Waugh 's colonel might have been able to recite the In Paribus in which his prototype first appeared as a model . For it is one of Kipling 's many triumphs as an artist that he was read and learned by heart by the thousands of whom he wrote and the millions who identified with them : the sun-leathered majors of the Punjab Irregular Force ; the choleric colonels of the down-country cantonments ; the pink-cheeked , beardless subalterns fresh out from Sandhurst : the faded , quick-tongued ladies of Simla and Dalhousie ; and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the long , stately sea routes of the Peninsular and Oriental . And not the officer ranks only : Kipling was loved and recited by the empire 's rank and file , even by the empire 's down and outs , by the beer-pickled privates of the " Fore and Aft , " their time-hardened , time-serving sergeants , drummer boys poised on the edge of corruption , thrice-widowed barrack wives deep sunk in it . All the horror of the empire was in his work : " the sickness that destroyeth in the noonday , " the seven-year separatine from home , the contempt for the native , the cruelty to the weak , the extinction of all gentler feelings , the place-seeking , the covert adulteries , the glorification of force , the cowardly shrinking from its reality : If Kipling had written only thus , his books would have been on the empire 's index . His genius was to use the harsh and degrading in the imperial mission as counterpoint to his depiction of its altruism , glories , and self-sacrifice . When he writes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard labor for little pay and no thanks , courage in the face of the enemy , he lays it on thick . But because he makes the exemplars of these virtues also shirkers or womanizers or drunkards or brutes , we ( and that , in his time , meant Americans by the million ) buy his message of the white man 's burden . And because , too , the majority of his characters are a mixture of good and bad , weakness and strength , banality redeemed by ideals , those bearers of the burden whom he serves up to us as heroes unalloyed , the Ann of Kim or the demigods of William the Conqueror , manage to convince also . It was an excellent idea of Byron Farwell 's to provide the still densely ranked host of Kipling 's admirers with a documentary study of the principal institution from which he drew his cast of characters , the long-service , volunteer army of the Widow of Windsor , enlisted for drink and ruled by the lash , as the old saw had it . For , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ art shied from the explicit ) , there was a great deal more to the army than rum and punishment . The secret of the army was a family one , the family of the 150 separate and independent regiments , into which men were sometimes born , where they often died , and whence they transferred to another only for reasons not spoken about above a whisper . The author knows a great deal about the regiments , the Fifth Fusiliers , the East Lancashires , the Rifle Brigade , the Scarlet Lancers , and heconveys to us something of their secret . It wrestled with much that was destructive of unity and esprit de corps , with slaves wages , frequent sickness incompetently doctored , unjust discipline , flagrant inequality . It drew much of its force from a code deeply repellant to modern manners , the denial of individuality , the extinction of privacy , the censorship of thought , the superordination of the masculine over the feminine principle , made manifest in the almost insuperable difficulties put in the way of a private soldier who wished to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the regimental magic , transmitted through the powerful totemism of colors , music , uniforms , and customs . filled his veins with an elixir of maleness which bound him to his comrades with a force greater than that of the marriage bond . If there is a weakness in the author 's treatment of his subject , it is that he has been careless in defining its boundaries . Kipling'sarmy was several rather than one He wrote of the native army as well as the British , which Mr. Farwell excludes , of the imperial army of the Boer War , of the British Expeditionary Force of 1914-18 , of his " army of a dream " to which political realities very properly denied an existence . But " Mr. Kipling 's Army " is quintessentially that of Mulvaney , Learoyd , and Ortheris the army of paupers in exile which garrisoned the almost uninhabitable interior of the Indian empire from the Mutiny to 1914 and in particular during tin two decades of imperial stasis f ron 1880-1900 which coincided with Kip hog 's own Indian years . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for material with which to make his effects , and too far from the Indian heartland . The Peninsula and the Crimea were not Kipling 's subjects , because too early , nor New Zealand nor West Africa , because beyond his ken . A more accurate title , therefore , might have been The Army al the Second British Empire , of which Kipling certainly would have approved . Or would he ? There was a terrible dust-and-ashes end to his love affair with khaki . In 1899 pneumonia had taken from him " the daughter that was all to him , " Josephine . In 1915 , at the battle of Loos , the Germans took his only son , John . He had talked away the boy 's short-sightedness to get him a commission in the Irish Guards and taken enormous pride in his fulfillment of a role he himself could not play , though he had urged it on others throughout his writing life . His son 's death , not confirmed for many months and never by the recovery of his body , came near to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since Jose phine 's death . " Down on your knees , " he ordered a close woman friend in 1916 , " and thank God you have n't a son . " To console himself he wrote a short epitaph : My son was killed while laughing at some ie .. I would I knew What it was . and it might serve me in a time When lasts are few . It was kept from him , by the only friend who discovered the facts , that John Kipling was last seen by one of his soldiers crying with pain from a wound in the mouth .                     