@@329262

The trouble began in Section Y on the northeast end of Heysel Stadium in Brussels . In the stands thousands of fans were waiting for the opening of the European Cup Final between Britain 's Liverpool and Italy 's Juventus of Turin . About 45 minutes before the scheduled 8:15 p.m. kickoff , the mostly young Liverpool fans began to taunt the Juventus followers . Emboldened by alcohol , many backed up their insults by hurling rocks and bottles over the wire fence that separated them from the Italians . Suddenly , as if acting on some invisible signal , the screaming British crowd exploded across the standing-room terraces . They swarmed into the adjoining section , heaving rocks and bottles . The human tide crushed and maimed people in scenes of sheerest horror . Television cameras provided watching millions with close-up pictures of fans caught beneath a human pile ; of hands held out in vain supplication ; of the injured and dying crying out pitifully for help . <P> By the time the riot had subsided and the wave of raw violence had passed , 38 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ injured . Amid the scene of death and destruction , people wandered aimlessly about the field , injured and in shock . " I 've seen too much , " moaned one bloodied Italian fan , tears streaming down his cheeks . " I 've seen death . " <P> The 30th annual playing of the European final was one of the bloodiest sporting events in modern memory . It outraged Europeans and raised agonizing questions about why Europe 's soccer stadiums are increasingly coming to resemble gladiator pits . The behavior of the English fans , who were blamed for starting the riot , resulted in much soul searching in Britain about why a land famous for patience and civility produces the most violent soccer crowds . A shocked and angry Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher declared that the country was " worse than numb " over the riot . Said she : " Those responsible have brought shame and disgrace to their country . " <P> The rampage began as 60,000 spectators were filling the 55-year-old stadium , five miles from the center of Brussels , to witness one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimated 400 million viewers in Europe and Africa were tuned in for what promised to be a feast of first-class football , as soccer is known outside North America . Many of the Liverpudlians , dressed in the bright red colors of their home team , were gathered in Section Y , separated by a flimsy wire fence and a stairway from the mostly Italian spectators in Section Z , an uncovered sloping stand . The Liverpudlians , many of them drunk , began pushing against the fence . Suddenly , weakened by the weight of several hundred heaving bodies , the divider collapsed . " It was like watching guerrillas in a battle , " recalled Giampietro Donamigo , an Italian fan . " They came forward in waves toward the fence , throwing bottles . . . Some answered back with threats , but most of us were terrified . We tried to move away . "                     