@@432479

 | When Politburo member Nikolai Slyunkov climbed a marble platform in the Siberian coal town of Prokopyevsk last week to announce a modest pay offer to thousands of striking coal min , ers , helmeted workers shook their grimy fingers at the party boss and shouted " Nyet . " It was a rare display of defiance from the long-suffering Soviet working class and a warning to Communist leaders that Soviet society , after five years of perestroika , has lost its patience with a deteriorating economy , growing shortages of the most basic goods and abysmal working conditions . The strikes were the most dramatic evidence yet of the danger of a collision between Mikhail Gorbachev 's policies of glasnost , a runaway success , and perestroika , still stuck in first gear . At stake is Gorbachev 's gamble that he can jumpstart the country 's economy and stimulate reform by encouraging disgruntled workers to challenge hidebound Communist bureaucrats . But , in addition to demanding political and economic reform , workers are on strike for toothpaste and underwear . Widely covered by the official Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ukraine to Kazakhstan to the Arctic , as more than 250,000 miners joined in the largest labor dispute in the Soviet Union in more than 50 years . Dangers abound in a nation that was supposed to be a workers ' paradise but instead is a consumers ' hell . Rather than embracing perestroika , which requires new sacrifices from them , Soviet workers could simply demand bigger pieces of a small and shrinking pie , touching off a free-for-all that would pit workers against farmers , urban consumers and each other . Worse , spreading strikes could fuse with broader political and nationalist grievances in a nation already torn by centrifugal forces . Conversely , workers emboldened by the miners ' limited success could try to unite and abandon their toothless official unions in favor of a nationwide independent union like Poland 's Solidarity . " The roots of the mounting tension in society lie in the economy , and it is there that the party must above all find a solution to the situation , " Gorbachev told key regional party leaders last week . Maverick party member Boris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not improve . Fruitless efforts . Gorbachev 's options , however , are limited by the severity of the economic problems and by the fact that many bureaucrats and party leaders , like the Ukraine 's powerful party chief Vladimir Shcherbitsky , remain hostile to change . Even its champions admit that under the best of circumstances , perestroika wo n't produce much fruit before the middle of the next decade . There simply are not enough consumer goods to satisfy everyone , and providing limited amounts of soap and meat will only raise expectations . Buying large quantities of imported goods would strain hard-currency reserves , run up the foreign debt or divert precious investment away from long-overdue modernization . This much is clear : The problem will not go away . Although Marxism preaches that strikes are impossible in a Communist country because there are no capitalists to exploit the workers , walkouts have become commonplace . Nearly a dozen strikes hit the coal industry in the first three months of the year , and bus drivers , weavers and steel workers also have downed tools . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Leningrad , while in Moscow airtraffic controllers protested outdated equipment and unmet salary demands . Five years of perestroika , with its emphasis on profit making , have severely disrupted a life that gave workers modest salaries but low rent , cheap transportation , subsidized food and jobs for life . Now , with factories worried about productivity , Gorbachev 's reforms threaten to cost workers their union-subsidized vacations on the Black Sea or a sizable slice of annual bonuses , if not their jobs . Even Gorbachev 's allies admit that perestroika is the chief culprit . So far , says the leading Soviet economist , Abel Aganbegyan , " expected fruits " of reform have proved illusory . " We 're taking half measures and making enormous mistakes , " he said recently . Wary of price rises , consumers have stripped stores , while the production of goods has fallen . Most damaging , factories are taking advantage of greater autonomy to raise wages , which have grown twice as fast as productivity , thus aggravating the shortages . Living standards are plummeting . For- ty million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below one of the lowest poverty lines in the industrialized world . At private markets , which provide fresh fruit and vegetables , prices are soaring , making items like melons , at $10 apiece , out of reach to most shoppers . Official state stores , meanwhile , have rarely been emptier . Rationing is also creeping back , even in Moscow , bringing with it increased corruption . The demands by coal miners , traditionally the elite of Soviet labor , underscore the desperate plight of workers . Along with shorter hours and higher pay , the Siberian miners demanded soap for washing up after shifts , syringes for their clinics and regular food supplies . To stem the unrest , the Kremlin pledged to " fill up the market " with $16 billion in consumer goods . For Siberian workers , officials promised 6,500 tons of extra meat , 10,000 tons of sugar , 5,000 tons of canned milk , $32 million worth of leather shoes and 1,000 refrigerators . But the Communist leaders , already fighting a soaring budget deficit that this year will top 100 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gross national product , have little maneuvering room for buying out angry workers . Interest on the country 's $53 billion foreign debt already eats up three fourths of its hard-currency earnings . " It 's hard to see where all this comes from , " a senior U.S. official said of the sudden injection of consumer goods . Coming at a time of ethnic unrest in the republics , new strikes are especially dangerous . If they drag on indefinitely in the Ukraine , there is a danger that workers in the cities will join in with sympathy rallies . New purges ? So far , Gorbachev is treating coal miners gingerly and using the strikes as leverage to call for more economic reform , not less . Unlike his predecessors , who dismissed strikers as anti-Soviet , he has sympathized with many of their grievances . In a stormy meeting of top party leaders , Gorbachev warned last week that the party itself needs new blood at all levels to cope with the country 's ills . Clearly threatening a purge , the Soviet leader said that anyone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has fallen into the greatest and deepest delusion . " In a revolutionary but little-noticed speech , his top aide , Alexander Yakovlev , declared recently that human values should take precedence over class struggle , especially during a revolutionary period such as perestroika . For Gorbachev , the trick is to ride the wave of demands without getting wiped out . The threat of more unrest could still force him to pull back , and there are signs that the leadership may be dragging its feet . In April , longoverdue price rises were postponed for three years in the face of widespread resistance , and rationing is increasingly being used to curb demand . Even the much ballyhooed plan to lease land to promote private farming is bogged down in red tape . Easing up on reform would relieve some pressure but let explosive problems build up . For now , Gorbachev and his allies have little choice but to persevere , appeal to reason , swallow demands for higher pay and threaten tougher measures if strikes continue . Politically , he wants to push through a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissent . He also is calling for an overhaul of the discredited official trade unions . Gorbachev clearly believes the system can still be made to work and is prepared to take chances to prove he is right . But after this stunning revolt by miners , Gorbachev is only too aware of the dangers that arise when the workers of the world unite .                     