@@323508

THE YEAR OF LIVING DANGEROUSLY Directed by Peter Weir Screenplay by David Williamson , Peter Weir and C.J. Koch <P> In the doldrums of world cinema in the ' 70s , one national film industry suddenly emerged with the vibrant squalls of a healthy infant : Australia had arrived . From an outback of inactivity a decade before , a flock of young film makers proved they could appeal to a worldwide audience while remaining true to their country 's ornery uniqueness . But with success came a more daunting challenge : to remain uncolonized by the New Hollywood . The best directors have been wooed to the U.S. to make the same kinds of films but bigger , and without all those people who talk funny and drive on the wrong side of the road . Fred Schepisi ( The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith ) and Bruce Beresford ( Breaker Morant ) both emigrated to Texas to make western romances ( Barbarosa and Tender Mercies ) . George Miller , daredevil director of the Mad Max movies , is now helming an episode of Steven Spielberg 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a more restrictive set of rules . The successful Australian director could end up making lots of money and losing his distinct national voice . <P> Peter Weir , the first Australian director to make an international name for himself , has chosen to steer a course that is at once more cautious and more daring . He has taken MGM/UA 's largesse to mount a more elaborate version of the theme that solders his five earlier films : the collision between British culture and anarchic nature , a conflict that virtually defines the Australian experience . The scene is Indonesia in 1965 , as the Sukarno government stumbles toward a coup that will eventually end the strongman 's reign . In the streets , Communist marchers sing revolutionary songs with Whiffenpoof harmonies ; in the white man 's clubs , journalists and diplomats slug back their Scotch and try to forget that the good imperial days have vanished into Third World arrogance . Among the Caucasians are Guy Hamilton ( Mel Gibson ) , one of the Australian correspondents , and Jill Bryant ( Sigourney Weaver ) , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Helping them fall in love , and more than a little in love with them both , is Billy Kwan ( Linda Hunt ) , a dwarfish man who works as a photographer and functions as an all-knowing tipster . Nothing is simple here on the outskirts of Graham Greeneland , where conscientious Westerners sink waist-deep in the Big Muddy of moral and political ambiguity . <P> Weir 's movies have always boasted pristine imagery and avoided visual clichs ; Picnic at Hanging Rock , The Last Wave and Gallipoli are among the smartest-looking pictures in recent cinema . But in his attempt to blend his preoccupations with the plot of C. J. Koch 's 1978 novel , Weir has perhaps packed too much imagery and information into his movie . The sound track is wallpapered with dialogue and Billy Kwan 's pensive narration . The plot becomes landlocked in true-life implausibilities ; the characters rarely get a hold on the moviegoer 's heart or lapels.                     