@@333449

All the recent books on the late George Balanchine contain magic . The authors , whether biographers or dancers who have worked for him , have a singular advantage : an indestructible central character . A choreographer of genius , Mr. B. had a marvelous , ample personality . He was riveting to watch , hilarious to listen to . Like a god , he never explained . Instead , he demonstrated , and a dancer had to have the technique as well as the intuition and sensitivity to interpret . His spoken comments were usually odd , elliptical little puns , analogies or fables , often involving animals or food . Thus the Balanchine you got was the Balanchine you were able to assimilate for yourself . In a narrative , such a person is foolproof , or rather , writer-proof . <P> Ballerina Merrill Ashley has considerably more than a character to offer in her painstaking book . Today she is one of the glories of the New York City Ballet , a sunny allegro virtuoso . In his introduction , British Critic Clement Crisp likens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ashley documents it , however , her career was not a prestissimo ascent . It took a decade of intense , disciplined practice to perfect her astounding technique and years onstage to learn how to present herself effectively . In the early pages , the author-dancer shows just how lost a youngster can be , even in the country 's best ballet training ground . She had no idea of how to treat her often injured feet ; she used heat when she should have been applying ice . When she began to get solo roles , she found it hard to get someone to teach her , or even to discover which part she was to learn . <P> But she kept on working with what Ballet Instructor Stanley Williams called a " keen concentration that is inborn . " And she prevailed . Her account , with its cool assessments of rivals and careful record of all-important praise , betrays the tough , self-absorbed core that a ballerina must have . But she attributes her success to her profound submission to the will of Balanchine . " All knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total seriousness . " As I saw it , I had no choice but to place all my faith and trust in him . " A particularly valuable section recounts in detail what went on in Mr. B. 's voluntary Monday classes , given in the late ' 60s on the company 's day off . Merrill never missed a session . By her own testimony she was literal- minded and scalded by self-criticism . She was puzzled that Suzanne Farrell broke all the rules and still remained Balanchine 's favorite . She fretted over exactly what he meant when he said Ashley 's dancing was " sweet . " " See the music , hear the dance , " he cried , setting another conundrum for her wary intelligence .                     