@@321913

In some ways , the post-Tito era has already begun <P> Some came and stood outside in the cold , staring anxiously up at the windows of the modern , nine-story clinic . Others gathered in groups during the lunch hour to exchange murmured bits of gossip that might supplement the meager medical bulletins . Each day last week , small crowds huddled in front of the medical center in Ljubljana , the Slovenian capital , where Yugoslav President Josip Broz Tito continued to wage a formidable but apparently hopeless struggle for his life . <P> The vigil was one of the few perceptible signs of anxiety last week as Yugoslavs prepared for the inevitable . " I hope Tito will recover , " said a high-ranking government official , " but we are aware that every man has to die . " Television announcers were instructed to acquire appropriately dark suits . For three days , radio stations played only somber music , but then relaxed somewhat . Newspapers published the best-known utterances from Tito 's 35-year rule , almost as though they were already posthumous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 , to relieve a circulation blockage , the formidable 87-year-old patient at first appeared to be recovering strongly . Three weeks later , however , he suffered a severe relapse , with kidney failure and heart problems . Last week the terse bulletins issued by his team of eight Yugoslav doctors said his condition " continues to be grave , " in spite of some response to " necessary measures of intensive treatment . " Those measures included kidney dialysis . Then late in the week , he contracted pneumonia . <P> In some ways , the post-Tito era appeared to have already begun . The complex machinery of succession , based on a collective rather than one-man leadership , had automatically gone into effect following Tito 's hospitalization . At the head of the nine-member committee-like State Presidency was current Vice President Lazar Kolisevski , 66 , a mild-mannered Macedonian who would become the country 's first interim President upon Tito 's death . He would serve until May , when another committee member would take over . Tito 's functions as party chief were carried out by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ League of Communists , Stevan Doronjski , 60 , a colorless Tito loyalist from Vojvodina province . Both Kolisevski and Doronjski had traveled to Ljubljana two weeks ago to visit with Tito at his bedside ; it was announced that they attended a special meeting of the State Presidency to discuss what were described as " organizational issues " and " issues of constitutional jurisdiction . " <P> The new leadership was obviously intent on giving the lie to fearful Western prophecies that after Tito-by force or subterfuge-Yugoslavia might be yanked back into the Soviet orbit . Following a special session of the 28-member National Defense Council , military leaders spoke confidently of " a high degree of combat readiness in the country . " Since mid-January , Defense Minister Nikola Ljubicic has kept the 259,000-strong armed forces on low-level alert and ordered the stand-ready notification of the country 's 500,000 reservists .                     