@@487016

Eugene Hasenfus , shot down delivering weapons to the contras in Nicaragua , is an unlikely carrier of historical truth . His capture embarrassed the Reagan Administration , but how can we grasp his symbolism in the broadest sense ? He was on a rollback mission , just as he had been when he worked for Air America during the Vietnam War . He is an asterisk in a forty-year history of sometimes open , sometimes clandestine attempts to depose Communist regimes . The matrix of thought and decision on all such interventions was formed in the 1950s by the Korean War and the options it raised : accommodation , containment or rollback . Then as now , shadowy and allegedly private actors interfered with the foreign policy process in an explosive mix . Are there lessons to be learned from this past ? Heidegger asserts that there is an intimate connection among historical memory , the naming of things and that process we call thinking . Bad memories give you bad thinking . By naming , we locate or " call " something for the memory to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It does n't seem to be history that we remember , but particular verdicts . Ask yourself the following question : What kind of war was the Korean War ? The Truman liberal will respond , It was a limited war , a success that brought containment to East Asia , invoked collective security arrangements and taught the Communists a lesson  --  this far , and no farther . The MacArthur conservative will assert , It was the first defeat in our history , and it showed that there is no substitute for victory . ( Continued on Page 406 ) In Big Horn County the A.C.L.U. represented eight plaintiffs : three Northern Cheyennes , two Crows and three whites . ( Two of the whites were married to Indians ; the other was " pro-Indian " County Commissioner Ruegamer . ) This tribal cooperation for the purpose of the lawsuit may give a false impression of unity between two historical enemies . Early on , the Crow tribe allied itself with the whites , while the Cheyenne were among those Plains Indians who fiercely resisted the invaders . A century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sides of an issue  --  coal development . The Crow have generally favored strip mining and power plants . The Cheyenne have generally opposed them . Cheyennes are a small minority in Big Horn County , only 7 percent of the population , and they fear that in the three-district system their votes will be swallowed up by votes from the more numerous Crow , who are unlikely to vote for Cheyenne candidates . Even though some Indians will gain representation under the county 's new plan , the Cheyenne argue that others will not . So last July the plaintiffs proposed a five-district system , with one district to include Cheyenne reservation lands . But Judge Rafeedie , showing some annoyance , turned them down and called the county 's three-district plan fair and generous . " Fair " and " generous , " of course , are not words that describe white treatment of Indians throughout history . " Indians have lost land , had their economies disrupted , and been denigrated by the policies of government at all levels , " Rafeedie acknowledges in his decision . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and store windows in Hardin have been gone since the 1950s , but Indians in Big Horn County do not fare well compared with whites . For example , the average Indian life expectancy is only forty-six years , while for whites it is seventy years . Indian per capita income is only $2,987 , less than half that of whites . The rate of Indian unemployment is 32.6 percent , eight times that of whites . And actual Indian unemployment may run closer to 50 percent . In 1983 , before this voting rights suit was filed , only 2.3 percent of full-time Big Horn County employees were Indian . That is now up to 8 percent , but at least 40 percent of the voting-age , and therefore employable , county population is Indian . Whites in Big Horn County complain that Indians pay no taxes on reservation lands , forcing the county to provide services without receiving revenue . This is partially true . Lands held in trust for a whole tribe by the Federal government , as well as lands allotted to specific members of a tribe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does pay money to the county in lieu of property taxes for these lands . In addition , much reservation land , especially that of the Crows , has been sold piecemeal over the years to whites . Large chunks of what remains are leased to white farmers and ranchers . All this shows that the problems on Indian lands extend far beyond school-board and county elections . But making certain that Indian votes do count on a local level can at least be a beginning . ? KoreanWar ( Continued From Front Cover ) Such verdicts were integral to the raucous domestic policies of the 1950s , and they are intensely relevant in the 1980s . Ronald Reagan 's mind is fully shaped by this period . There 's no substitute for victory , he said , campaigning in 1980 ; we ought to roll back Communism , he said last year . Each verdict embodies a particular amnesia . Acheson thought Korean War I , the war for containment , was the high point of the Truman Administration . " Korea came along and saved us , " he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When he remembered , it induced schizophrenia . He called the march to the Yalu " an incalculable defeat to U.S. foreign policy which destroyed the Truman Administration , " and the worst American defeat since Bull Run  --  another revealing analogy . Korean War II , the war for rollback , was a debacle . But , he assumed , this happened not to him but to his bete noire , Douglas MacArthur . There was also a " substitute for victory " ? i.e. , stalemate  --  because who knew what victory meant in Korea , or what victory could be obtained ? A march into Manchuria ? A contest for mainland China ? If MacArthur saw no substitute for victory , he likewise saw no limit on victory : each victory begged another war . The consensus on Korea is well known . It was a success for containment , a failure for rollback  --  the latter , MacArthur 's fault . But there are other , more interesting ways of structuring debate on the war . The unmentioned but discernible verdict of the antiwar New Left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran , Guatemala or Cuba . Korea is Bruce Cumings is a professor of international studies at the University of Washington and author of The Origins of the Korean War ( Princeton University Press ) . A version of this essay was presented at the American Historical Association last December . rarely listed in the panoply of U.S. interventions , and one senses the judgment , tiptoeing in on cat 's feet , that Korea was a just war . Strange , since Korea was the only intervention that became a sustained military effort to displace a socialist regime  --  that is , the only full implementation of rollback . Nor is North Korea assumed to have had an authentic revolution . Perhaps the New Left verdict should be rendered : Korea was not a people 's war , like Vietnam . Stranger still , then , is the fact that the U.S. military and many civilian advisers saw Vietnam as another Korea . Their verdict : People 's war can be defeated , unless the Chinese come in . The extensive guerrilla insurgency in southern Korea from 1948 to 1953 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was named Operation Ratkiller ) , and the Korean People 's Army was turned back , so why could n't the same thing happen in Vietnam ? But China must not be provoked . The experience of invading North Korea and getting , as one American commander put it , " a glut of Chinamen " was a prime reason for the differing strategies of the two wars . There were invasions of Cambodia and Laos , but never of North Vietnam . In Vietnam it was the Chinese who said , This far and no farther . An American " success " in Vietnam would therefore be a limited war to get a Korean solution , dividing Vietnam permanently . The most interesting verdict on Korea was the pristine one declared before the Chinese came in . Soldiers , journalists and diplomats saw immediately that this war was not the same as World War H. It was an all-encompassing , revolutionary , civil war , with no front lines , no distinctions between friend and foe . The Koreans all wore " white pajamas . " The other verdicts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stitching together and mending of a torn national psyche . The stitching ought to be torn apart , in the interest of historical awareness of the era in which we live . In 1966 Dean Acheson dismissed critics of the Vietnam War with contemptuous asides to the effect that all their arguments could just as easily have been made about Korea . And last year , in a Harper 's retrospective on Vietnam , Edward Luttwak , a senior fellow at the Georgetown Center for Strategic and International Studies , called El Salvador " a tiny country with a few flea-bitten guerrillas , " adding , " If our country was not traumatized by Vietnam , the whole affair would be concluded very quickly , I assure you . " No conflict rent the national psyche as the Vietnam War did , but when it ended the verdict on that thirty-year war seemed so clear that amnesia was the best remedy . Vietnam was not a just war . Containment advocates agreed with rollback advocates : it was a defeat . But no sooner had amnesia made Vietnam into a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : the United States never lost a battle in Vietnam ; our forces were invincible . Defeat came in Congress , or from the failed doctrines of a generation of leaders , or in the streets of America . The curious thing about the recent debate on the Vietnam War is its increasing Koreanization . As the memory of the war recedes , voices begin to argue that we should have gone to the heart of the enemy power , not worrying about the Chinese ( a rollback argument ) , or that we could have .. /1 ? 07 ... 0 " .400:0 " limited our goals to the establishment of a stable South Vietnam ( a containment argument ) . The Vietnam War begins to look more like the Korean War  --  not the actual war but the figment of received and unexamined wisdom called the Korean War . The best place to find this curious revisionism is in the book On Strategy , by Harry Summers , a serious inquiry into the sources of American military failure in Vietnam . Summers argues that lessons of the Korean War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says the war in Vietnam was similar to the one in Korea but that it was wrongly perceived as different by the public . It was basically a conventional war , fought by large armies , and it was finally won with a major conventional assault . The rest of us saw it as a guerrilla war , a people 's war , when it was not ; we sought to use counterinsurgency against it , which was the wrong approach to the wrong problem . The wrong lessons from Korea froze us into a policy that " called for the containment rather than the destruction of communist power . " Instead , we should have taken " the strategic offensive , " had it been politically possible to do so . The war in Vietnam , he says , began " on a different key " from the Korean War . With no parallel to the North Korean attack of 1950 , the character of the Vietnam War was obscured . A cogent point except that it sidesteps the question , When exactly did the Vietnam War begin ? 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first to ask and answer the question , Who started the Vietnam War ? He wishes to identify it as an international war across " free boundaries , " instead of as a civil and revolutionary war ; he wants to make it another Korea , about which the only question people think to ask is , Who started it ? The North Korean assault , Summers thinks , " left no doubt as to the nature of that war . " The North Vietnamese did the same thing , he says , but at the end of the war , instead of at the beginning . Thus , we misunderstood the real nature of the Vietnam War . In fact , however , the absence of U.S. protection panicked both southern regimes so much that each one collapsed almost overnight . The inability of the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Vietnam to resist their northern cousins was ultimately a result of the social and political character of the two regimes , not the types of warfare or levels of weaponry . And that , in turn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their failure to enact fundamental social reforms demanded by the majority of the population , which had touched off civil and revolutionary war . Summers never considers this , viewing both southern regimes as innocent ? and perhaps free and democratic  --  victims of external attack . The Vietnam War was not purely a guerrilla war ; Summers is right about that . But has there ever been a purely guerrilla or people 's war ? In China the decisive battles of the civil war , such as the Hwai-Hai campaign , were fought by two of the largest conventional armies in world history . Because Summers wishes to deny the political , civil and revolutionary character of the Vietnam War , he makes this false distinction between guerrilla and conventional war . Vietnam becomes Korea , thus becoming Vietnam . Yes , Vietnam was another Korea  --  because Korea was a civil and revolutionary war . In retrospect it is clear that the great power of the United States in the 1950s , and the extraordinary suppression of dissent in America , made it possible to close the book @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . U.S. strategy in Vietnam was , indeed , restricted to containment . Summers both advocates rollback ( " the strategic offensive " ) and implies that it was politically impossible ; he thinks that either containment or rollback would have worked had our ends and means been properly aligned . What he ignores is the greatest foreign policy and domestic political crisis of the postwar period : what we know as the Truman-MacArthur controversy , but what was essentially a deep-running conflict over the New Deal at home and the victory of Europe-centered internationalism abroad . The debacle of rollback sharpened this conflict to the point where it threatened the American state . The Chinese kept us from expanding the war , and that , combined with the searing domestic turmoil , put lasting limits on the rollback of established socialist regimes , as opposed to the new governments in Cuba in 1961 or Grenada in 1983 . Now , what might have happened in domestic politics in the late 1960s had Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon carried out contingency plans for an invasion of North Vietnam , and got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hand in citing " political limits " ignores the domestic consequences of rollback in 1950 , implicitly suggesting that it could have worked in Vietnam . The ultimate failure of Summers 's analysis , however , returns us to the methods of history . A long view of the U.S.-Soviet conflict , citing Lenin and not Clausewitz , would see Korea , Indochina and now Central America as peripheral wars , not crucial to the global conflict between capitalism and communism . The ideal strategy , from the Kremlin 's viewpoint , would be to get the Americans to hemorrhage blood and treasure in what Summers calls " tenth-rate backward nations , " while giving up very little itself . The Russians barely lost a soldier in Korea or Vietnam , nor will they fight in Central America  --  especially after their own experience with aggressive peripheral war in Afghanistan . The Korean War nearly got us into a war on the Chinese mainland , made China dependent on the Soviet Union and made Sino-American relations impossible for a quarter-century . The Vietnam War contributed mightily to a growing inflation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed two presidencies ; it shredded the foreign policy consensus , still rent and tattered today . With the lessons of Korea and Indochina still unlearned , the American giant now stumbles into Central America . It is quite possible to arrive at the right conclusions for the wrong reasons , just as it is possible to ignore history but not to repeat it . Thus , the Summers book represents an important current of thought in the U.S. military , which rightly argues that the Vietnam defeat was not the fault of the military ; never again should young Americans be sent into battle without public backing and a clear definition of the goals of the military engagement . If those two criteria are adhered to , there will never be another Vietnam . But clear goals are the result of clear thought , and clear thought requires the faculty of memory . It is what Hannah Arendt called thoughtfulness . She sought to comprehend how Nazi leaders could have visited a holocaust on European Jewry , and she concluded that they never paused to examine first assumptions , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are by no means Nazis . Nonetheless , when all the extenuating circumstances and special pleading are over and done with , a few generations hence , it will be seen that Americans visited mass slaughter on the Korean and Vietnamese peoples . ( The Encyclopaedia Britannica estimates that 3 million Koreans died in the war , two-thirds of them civilians . ) The only way to atone for that , short of dropping to one 's knees in shame  --  appropriate but unlikely  --  is to think through why it happened , to reckon with it , a reckoning instead of a forgetting .                     