@@330170

Eden Pastora , the perennial Nicaraguan maverick , returned to Managua last week in a homecoming more quixotic than heroic . The charismatic former guerrilla will campaign for dark-horse Social Christian presidential candidate Erick Ramirez , touting him as an alternative to both the Marxist Sandinistas and the National Opposition Union , a coalition dominated by the right wing . <P> Under the nom de guerre Commander Zero , Pastora became a revolutionary superstar in 1978 after leading a raid on the National Palace that helped topple the Somoza regime a year later . Partly because he was unhappy with the Sandinistas ' growing dependence on Moscow , he quit as Vice Minister of Defense and in 1983 launched a guerrilla war against his former comrades . But he rejected CIA pressure to join the main contra faction and was finally forced to quit fighting . <P> Pastora can dazzle audiences , but he is not a candidate . His stumping for Ramirez will probably split opposition votes , which is one reason the Sandinistas let Pastora return in the first place . <P> In the microns by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , last week 's announcement by Egypt was a significant advance . With the Palestine Liberation Organization 's approval , Cairo formally accepted in principle U.S. Secretary of State James Baker 's five-point plan for talks between Palestinians and Israel . <P> Egypt attached conditions to its acceptance , as did Israel when it endorsed the plan last month . And since Baker 's five points were deftly ambiguous to begin with , the endorsements of Cairo and Jerusalem imply no resolution of their fundamental differences . The major open issues : Israel refuses to meet with representatives of the P.L.O . and insists that talks stick to its scheme for elections in the occupied territories leading to limited self-rule . The P.L.O . is determined to choose the Palestinian delegation and pursue the creation of an independent homeland . The next step is for the foreign ministers of Israel and Egypt to meet with Baker to shape the direct IsraeliPalestinian meetings .                     