@@480733

the Bedouin of the Arabian desert has a name for it : dakhala , A man in flight for his life can rush into the tent of another man , claim the privilege of dakhala , and know he will be protected by his reluctant host . The custom is sacred among nomadic Arabs . A man who provides dakhala lives by the rules of honor , at whatever cost to himself . He is recognized as upholding a higher law ? higher than kinship , higher even than vengeance ? that the desert itself has helped shape . The desert itself , yes : dakhala is in some measure an answer to the imperatives of landscape , a tool of wilderness survival , a hedge against heat and desolation and thirst . A fugitive in the desert can expect one of two fates : lonely death on the sands , or else dakhala . In the desert of southern Arizona , today , the equivalent word is sanctuary . And in Arizona , today , it is a felony . On May I of this year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. immigration laws . Among those convicted were two Catholic priests , a granite-jawed nun , and a Presbyterian minister . Six of the defendants were found guilty of conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens into the United States ; two were convicted of concealing , harboring , and transporting an illegal alien . ( Three other defendants were found not guilty . ) The aliens in question were Salvadorans and Guatemalans who had David Quammen is the author of Natural Acts : A Sidelong View of Science and Nature . been displaced by the murderous chaos in their homelands , people who had come north seeking refuge . The defendants faced up to five years in prison for each of the charges against them . The charges had resulted from an elaborate nine-month-long undercover investigation by the Justice Department called Operation Sojourner . As part of the investigation , informants working for the Immigration and Naturalization Service ( INS ) ? which falls under the jurisdiction of the justice Department wore con-cealed tape recorders into some of the humblest church halls in the country , including a number in southern Arizona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than fifty hours of tape these informants collected . But the investigation in a sense had always been moot , for the defendants were blunt about their activities . Many of them had freely admitted to journalists and anybody else who cared to listen that they were harboring Salvadorans and Guatemalans ; that , yes , these Salvadorans and Guatemalans had entered the United States surreptitiously . They freely admitted that they had sought to conceal these people and protect them from deportation . The proper question , they said , was why . The issue , they said , was whether these particular Central Americans were " illegal aliens " at all . Were they not in fact legitimate refugees ? Did the laws of the United States forbid the harboring of such people , or mandate it ? The judge in Tucson saw things very differently , classifying all argument around these issues as inadmissible . Such words as torture and death squads were , in the courtroom , taboo . No one mentioned dakhala . The trial began on October 22 , 1985 , and dragged on for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the public who followed it , it was " the Sanctuary trial . " It was n't the first such trial ( two church workers in south Texas were convicted in 1985 for similar activities ) , and it certainly wo n't be the last . It was a bellwether prosecution directed against several people perceived as the founders and guiding figures of a national movement called , simply , Sanctuary . This movement began five years ago with a decision by a small Presbyterian congregation on the south side of Tucson to harbor Central American refugees . More than 300 Quaker meetings , Roman Catholic parishes , Protestant congregations , and synagogues are now involved ? perhaps as many as 50,000 citizens . They are avowedly determined to prevent Salvadoran and Guatemalan refugees from being deported back home , where they may face imprisonment , torture , and death . The Political Asylum Project of the American Civil Liberties Union has matched the names of fifty-two refugees who were denied entry into the United States with the names of fifty-two people whose deaths were reported in El Salvador . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have fled their countries and come to the United States . Most arrive at our southwestern border without papers and manage , by this or that maneuver , to get across . The total number of these desperate people is minuscule compared with the steady flow of undocumented Mexicans , but large enough to constitute a controversial phenomenon . Why do the Central Americans come north ? According to one view ( the one offered axiomatically by officials at the State Department and the INS ) , they are " economic migrants . " In other words , they are enterprising job-seekers , no different from the Mexicans . By another view ( that of Sanctuary activists ) , many Salvadorans and Guatemalans are " political refugees " from the war zones of Central America , and are entitled by U.S. law not to mention the 1949 Geneva Conventions , or American tradition as inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty ? to at least temporary protection in this country . Specifically , the Refugee Act of 1980 , often cited by Sanctuary activists , defines a " refugee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to avail himself or herself of the protection of his or her own country ' because of persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race , religion , nationality , membership in a particular social group , or political opinion .... " Several of those conditions do seem to fit most of the Central Americans who come north . The act also stipulates ways in which a refugee may be protected , one of which is to grant him or her political asylum . For one reason or another , political asylum is not granted to the majority of Salvadorans and Guatemalans who apply for it . From January 1985 through August of this year , 723 Guatemalans applied for asylum ; during this period , asylum was granted to seven Guatemalans . The numbers for Salvadorans are similarly gloomy : 3,586 applications made , 209 applications granted . These figures contrast sharply with those compiled for Afghans and Poles seeking asylum during this eighteen-month period ( Afghans : 336 applications , 168 granted ; Poles : 1,783 applications , 857 granted ) . The pattern within these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States from a Soviet-backed regime in disfavor with Washington , your chances of being officially welcomed are much greater than if you flee from one of Washington 's clients . Denied almost any chance of asylum , denied exemption from deportation , Salvadorans and Guatemalans have no legal protection in the one country on earth that prides itself most stentorianly on being a haven for refugees . So they must get over the border by stealth . Some pass through an official port of entry , bluffing fearfully with false or borrowed papers , masquerading as U.S. citizens or day-labor Mexicans . Others make the taxing and risky hike through the desert , trekking across ragged mountains and gulches and through thorn vege-tation , entering the United States wherever the international fence is unwatched . Some of these hikers have been arrested , some have passed over safely , some have died gruesomely . The desert , which often seems beautiful and some-times seems benign , can be unforgiving of inex-perience and miscalculation . But it comes as a lesson of desert cultures ( and not just that of the Bedouins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ implacable , moral ecology must some-how compensate . That 's what happened in southern Arizona . The Sanctuary movement , in great degree , and from the start , presented itself the imperatives of ering portions of North America ? the Mohave , the Sonoran , the Great Basin , and the Chihuahuan ? the Sonoran desert , in which Tucson lies , is the most deceptive . It does not appear bleak . Many sensible witnesses consider it gorgeously scenic . Despite being prodigiously dry ( less than two inches of rain yearly , in some parts ) and prodigiously hot ( often around 120 degrees Fahrenheit ) , it supports more different species of plants and animals than any other North American desert . Most famously recognizable is the giant columnar cactus , the saguaro . The Sonoran desert is also home to the Gila monster , the tarantula , a profusion of black widow spiders , thirteen species of rattlesnake , almost two dozen species of scorpion , and a healthy population of vultures , which feast on fatalities . The Sonoran stretches over more than 120,000 square @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico up to Needles , California , and from east of Tucson to the far side of the Baja peninsula , embracing a long section of the border between Mexico and the United States . With its mountains , its broad riverbeds ( usually dry ) , and its saline basins , it is a landscape of extremity and denial : there are flash floods and drought , heat at midday that can shatter a rock , nights that can freeze a man . For most of the year , the Sonoran is a searing and inhospitable wilderness . That 's what it was when twenty-six Salvadoran refugees tried to cross , back in early July of 1980 . Those who survived , themselves very near death , were rescued by the Border Patrol . In a gulch not far from a paved road , about twenty miles north of the Mexican border town of Sonoyta , members of the patrol found a trail of discarded clothing and half-naked corpses , and then thirteen delirious , heat-sick people , some of whom had smeared their faces with toothpaste or makeup as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a party of middle-class urban Salvadorans , women in high-heeled shoes , men carrying suitcases . They had left El Salvador in the care of two " coyotes " ? mercenary smugglers and made the long trip across Mexico by bus ; just south of the U.S. border , on a bleak stretch of desert , they were told to start walking . Among their many mistakes , they had failed to bring enough water . Few canteens were found with the debris ? not even empty ones . Eventually , according to reports , they had been reduced to drinking cologne , aftershave lotion , and their own urine . By one account , each of them had paid $1,200 for the privilege of being taken north . Thirteen of them died . The survivors were brought to a Tucson hospital , and several churches were eventually asked to help them with housing and food . One of those churches was Southside Presbyterian , a small congregation in the barrio . Southside is an aberration , conforming badly to the stereotype of comfortable middle-class Presbyterianism . A little adobe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the church fills up on Sunday mornings with people of many complexions , people in shirtsleeves and with work-calloused hands . The Reverend John Fife , anotheraberration , is the minister . A tall , forty-six year-old Anglo , gaunt and bearded and favoring denims and cowboy boots when not in his vestments , Fife came out to the desert from a mean-streets urban ministry in Ohio , never dreaming he would achieve distinction as a convicted felon . In July of 1980 , he was concerned mainly with his duties as pastor of a poor congregation of Hispanics and blacks and Anglos and Indians . He could not then have placed El Salvador on a map . The deaths of those thirteen Salvadorans in the desert changed his world . " That engaged my attention , " he told me several years ago , the first time I spoke with him . " The fact that people were willing to risk that kind of venture , coming across our border . " Fife talked to the survivors , and heard " some incredible stories about El Salvador . I had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same reason that people were coming across our border from Mexico . It was hard in the villages , they were poor . But these folk from Salvador were telling a different set of stories . They were talking about death squads , and about torture , and about the kind of terrorism and violence that we now know about . " John Fife heard the stories and was moved to act . Others in Tucson began to act too . At first their efforts were modest and quiet : providing food and shelter to refugees who managed to reach Tucson , helping them pass northward to other cities along a sort of underground railroad , raising money to bond out those who had been caught by the INS , assisting with asylum applications , conducting a weekly prayer vigil . The vigil is still held each Thursday at rush hour outside the federal building , where the INS offices are located . The federal building was chosen because it is the policies of the INS that are responsible for the wholesale rejection of asylum petitions from Salvadorans and Guatemalans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Deportation is especially terrifying to anyone who has already fled the death squads . The very act of having gone north may be counted a sign of subversive inclination , or at least of disloyalty , and any deportee who lands at the San Salvador or Guatemala City airport is marked and vulnerable . It was the knowledge that the refugees might meet this fate that led John Fife and members of his church to decide that more drastic action was required . " We were really in despair at that point , " Fife said . " We had tried the legal defense thing . We had tried the underground smuggling thing . And as far as we could see , it was n't going to change anything . People in Tucson did n't even know there were refugees here , let alone people in the rest of the United States . The government was continuing to deport people at a rate of twenty-five or thirty a day . All of the legal defense efforts had managed to save a few people . The underground was saving a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the next ten years and save a few hundred people , and lose thousands . Really ? we were trying to say ? what can we do ? And the idea of Sanctuary emerged . " Within the Judeo-Christian tradition , the concept of sanctuary dates back at least to that record of a tribe of desert-dwelling nomads , the Book of Exodus : " Then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee . " It passed down through Roman and English law and eventually found embodiment , altered in shape but not in spirit , in the original underground railroad , which helped slaves escape northward despite the passage in 1850 of the Fugitive Slave Act , making it illegal to shield or abet runaway blacks . Many churches in the North played a crucial role in that movement . As reincarnated in Tucson today , the spirit of sanctuary differs from its American precedent chiefly in being determinedly public . Fife and his congregation not only decided to harbor Central American refugees ; they decided to do it openly . On March 24 , 1982 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church , joined by a handful of congregations in such cities as Los Angeles , Berkeley , and Washington , D.C. , would henceforth be providing sanctuary to undocumented Central American aliens , in some cases allowing them to live on church property or in the churches themselves . Sanctuary was pledging itself to support and defend the refugees , and daring the Justice Department to make arrests . What was the point of such provocation ? " The whole function of public sanctuary , " John Fife explained to me , " is to encourage as many churches ? and people ? as possible in the United States to have to deal with this moral , legal problem , To make a decision and then communicate it to the legislative bodies . And to the Administration . We need to engage the attention of as many people as we can possibly reach . " any of the refugees who came to Tucson were brought up through the desert by a man named Jim Corbett . Corbett , who stood trial with John Fife , was acquitted thanks to an ab- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work alone , the prosecution 's star witness , Jesus Cruz ? he 's one of the men who infiltrated the movement in Tucson for the INS ? had little to say about him . ( Corbett has talked openly about smuggling refugees , but like Fife and the other defendants , he maintains that his acts are in compliance with U. S. law . ) Jim Corbett , a Quaker , is fifty-three years old . He has a degree in philosophy from Harvard , and before arthritis slowed him down he had ranched cattle in southern Arizona for twenty years . He knows the Sonoran desert well . Beginning in 1981 and until his face became too easily recognized by INS agents , Corbett guided refugees across the border . Sometimes he cadged identity papers and took people through an official port of entry , a route precarious but physically undemanding . More often , if the refugees seemed hardy , he walked the desert with them . Corbett is familiar with the terrain and capable of using it to advantage : following the natural warps of the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ four-wheel-drive vehicles and on horseback , laying up at night without a fire . By his own estimate , he has guided 1,000 refugees across the border . Carmen Duarte of the Arizona Daily Star and a photographer went along with Corbett on a crossing he led in the summer of 1984 . He was guiding just one refugee , a Guatemalan woman who seemed too harrowed by past ordeals to try bluffing her way past uniformed men at a port of entry . The woman 's husband had been taken from their home by armed strangers ( evidently because of his role in a labor union ) and never seen again . She had searched for his body at a dump , among the mutilated corpses of other missing persons , but her search was inconclusive . She was warned not to report the kidnapping . And then strangers began to follow her . So she fled to Mexico City , there to be arrested and then raped by immigration officers , she said , before being deported by bus back to Guatemala . She made her way to Mexico @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sanctuary network there , and was put in touch with Corbett . He listened to her story , understood her anguish , but warned her she would face hardships in the United States as well . Yes , he would guide her across . He first helped her travel north to the border town of Nogales , just an hour from Tucson . Then , at a remote point along a road on the Mexican side of the border , Corbett , the woman , and the two journalists began walking . They moved slowly over sand flats and ledges of rock , taking what cover they could from the mesquite and paloverde . For the first half-hour they were precariously exposed , still within view from the road . At the sound of every passing car they scrambled for cover . Then once again they walked . And after only an hour they climbed over a fence ? not a very formidable barrier , just five strands of taut barbed wire ? and stepped down into U.S. territory . That was the easy part . There was still more hiking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border zone , the heat would have been fearsome and the danger of being seen by fly-over patrols would have been great ; fortunately , this particular afternoon was overcast . Four miles along through the winding gulches , they stopped for the night . The woman 's feet were blistered . There was a dinner of raisins and tuna and broken crackers , and then a cold night without blankets or sleeping bags . In the morning they hiked on , amid yucca and manzanita and skittering lizards , and then climbed a steep slope out of the canyon ; finally they climbed down a ravine to the rendezvous point , where a car waited with water and food . By that evening , Corbett had brought the Guatemalan woman into Tucson . Like John Fife , but in very different ways , Jim Corbett is an anomaly . Though active in a largely church-based movement , he is firmly ( if politely ) anti-clerical . He is an intellectual , a complex thinker and a prolific writer , who has chosen to spend much of his life looking after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to his work with Sanctuary is nothing if not peculiar . Most members of the movement trace their concept of sanctuary back to Roman law , medieval canon law , English common law , or the teachings of Exodus , Numbers , and Isaiah . When Jim Corbett discusses his ideas about sanctuary , he is more apt to cite Buddhist notions of stillness , the Taoist philosopher Chuang Tzu , the anthropology of pastoral nomads in Tibet , and the practical details of goat husbandry . The nuns and priests , ministers and rabbis who play such active and conspicuous roles in the movement have come out of the church and the temple , out of missionary orders and social-action ministries , Jim Corbett has come , literally , out of the desert . For almost two decades he has been thinking and writing about the spiritual dimensions of wilderness . The Buddhist , Hindu , and Taoist traditions all tell of the person who goes off alone into the wilderness ( often a desert wilderness ) for some stretch of time in order to strip away those aspects of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The Hebrews ' Sinai sojourn as described in Exodus served a similar purpose , he says , though in that case it was not a lone individual but an entire community that sought to purge itself . During 62 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE/ DECEMBER the early 1970s , Corbett himself began to experiment with this kind of sojourn . He went out into the desert for long periods , taking with him only a sleeping bag and gear essential for survival ; he did not take any food . Carrying food into this landscape was unnecessary , he believed , Instead , he herded along a few goats . Corbett later completed a book-length ( hut still unpublished ) manuscript titled Goatwalking . In it he distills his wealth of ranching and backcountry knowledge , knowledge flavored by his philosophic and political ideas . Goatwaiking is an intriguing document , the quiet manifesto of a man who combines in himself some of the more appealing aspects of Thoreau , Thomas Merton , and Emiliano Zapata . It is a guidebook to revolutionary simplicity and wild-land dairying . Corbett , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traditional nomadic pastoralists ? of ancient Sinai and twentieth-century Tibet . Like them , he has come to realize that " livestock could provide the life-support and security associated with planted crops while also providing the mobility necessary to escape the state . " In Corbett 's usage goatwalking is a potent term . At the literal level it has to do with tending and traveling with half-wild grazing animals , a pastoral nomadism practiced in a wilderness landscape outside the purview of ? but within the actual boundaries of ? the modern industrial state . The goats are allowed to go feral ; the goat-walker goes feral along with them , living on their milk and on wild plants . On a political level , Corbett recommends this goatwalking life as " the cimarron alternative . " The Spanish word cimarron has entered our language with two definitions , and Corbett intends them both : it means " feral animal " as well as " runaway slave . " The cimarron alternative in this sense is the act of stepping beyond societal constraints and into a state of moral freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to live off the land . Naturally , therefore , he will have greater sympathy than most for his fellow cimarron . This may all sound quixotic or woolly to you or me . But Jim Corbett happens to be the sort of stubborn Quaker moralist who turns quixotic notions into acts . Goatwalking was written in the 1970s , several years before Corbett met his first Salvadoran refugee . But when the need arose for a guide to lead terrified fugitives through the harsh desert and across the border , circumventing the armed minions of national policy ( as distinct from law ) , he was ready . he six-month-long trial of the Sanctuary defendants was an expensive prosecution , with its full share of legal technicalities and its mo ments of true drama and melodrama . But in the end , the proceedings were perhaps more notable for what did not happen than for what did . Right before the trial began , Federal District Court Judge Earl H. Carroll granted government motions to bar any testimony about human-rights abuses and death-squad killings in Guatemala and El Salvador ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and any testimony related to the defendants ' understanding of U.S. immigration laws . Moreover , the defendants were forbidden to present arguments that those refugees they stood accused of helping were in danger of losing their lives if they were forced to return to their countries . The list of exclusions covered virtually every defense that could have been presented by the defendants ' attorneys . The trial went ahead anyway , of course , and there were other significant omissions . James Rayburn , the INS investigator who had guided the undercover operation , was never called by the prosecution to testify . The ninety-one tapes recorded during the Sanctuary investigation were edited down to ten minutes of carefully selected excerpts , and then played for the jurors . ( The defense attorneys sought permission to play the tapes in their entirety , believing the defendants ' activities would seem anything but criminal if understood in context . But the judge supported the prosecutor 's wish to keep the jury ignorant of any such context . ) Three unindicted Sanctuary workers and one refugee refused to testify for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held in contempt and sentenced to house arrest until the trial ended . Of the refugees who did testify , seemingly under duress , the prosecutor complained that their memories were selective : they more readily recollected the deaths of members of their families , the terror and violence they had fled , than whatever incriminating words had been uttered , say , by John Fife . The defendants themselves did not testify . In the end , they presented no formal defense at all . On Friday morning , March 14 , in the twenty-first week of the trial , with the prosecution having rested its case and the Sanctuary lawyers scheduled to begin calling witnesses , each of those lawyers stood up in turn and announced that the defense , too , rested its case . This might have been a strategic move : if the defendants were not permitted to mention immigration law or their religious beliefs or anything else they considered significant , what value was there in giving the prosecution a chance to cross-examine them ? But it was also surely a protest , a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sham . Insofar as it was a strategy , the strategy failed . On May 1 , after more than sixty hours of deliberation , the jury brought in its guilty verdict . Late one evening near the end of the trial , John Fife sat in the living room of his Tucson home , exhausted from six months of courtroom tension , nursing a beer and telling me about the large place in his Presbyterian heart held by the spiritual traditions of the Papago Indians . It might sound as though he was digressing , but he was not . What the Bedouins are to the Arabian desert , the Papago are to the unsparing terrain that is southwestern Arizona . They are also known , to themselves and others , as the Desert People . The area they have traditionally occupied , and within which their reservation now lies , is one of the most arid and least hospitable parts of the Sonoran ? a landscape of flat valleys cobbled with windblown pebbles , sharp ridges that curl around like the walls of a labyrinth , arroyos and washes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basins , where nothing much grows except creosote bush . Drought is followed by flood , in Papago country , then again by drought ; the desert blooms , briefly , then withers . The cycle of life for all living creatures entails unpredictable but ineluctable swings between extremes of abundance and dearth . Over the centuries , the Papago adapted themselves to this cycle . One of their adaptations was an ethic of radical hospitality . Under the pressures of the landscape , a culture evolved in which great premium was placed on generosity , gift-giving of food and clothing , and the sharing of surplus whenever there was any surplus . Today we might see the Papagos as hopelessly improvident . But in fact they are quite provident . The limitless gift-giving is a survival strategy . That Papago ethos informs the spirit of Southside Presbyterian Church , which was founded eighty years ago as a Papago mission , in a Tucson ghetto then known as " Papagoville . " It also goes far to explain the presence in Tucson of John Fife himself . Twenty years ago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pittsburgh , Fife spent a summer on the Papago reservation ; there , he fell in love with the people and the desert and the strange dynamic between the two . When the pastorship of the church in Tucson opened up six years later , he jumped for it . " I 've heard their stories , " Fife told me . " We 've spent a lot of time talking about traditions . I climb their sacred mountain , Baboquivari , every year . Try to get to l'itoi 's cave . " l'itoi is the chief Papago deity , believed to dwell at the physical center of their lands , in a cave on the steep slope of Baboquivari . " I 've been on that mountain when Papago folk had visions , " Fife said . " I did n't see anything ? but they did . " As we were talking , I noticed on the wall behind him a characteristic piece of Papago coiled bas , ketry , shallow and circular , woven from tan and black fibers in the design of a concentric maze . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woven in black , recognizably human . The large silver buckle on Fife 's belt bore the same pattern . The design is called l'itoi Ki , and it has a strong resonance for the Papago . Fife explained that the pattern commemorates the time when Pito ' escaped from his enemies by leading them into such a maze . The design is also understood allegorically . " The maze represents all the complexities and dead ends of life , " Fife said . In the course of a lifetime , a person must move through all those complexities , all those tribulations and misleading paths , toward the center of the maze , at which waits safety , fulfillment , Baboquivari . I was intrigued by the maze . Clearly it also represents the desert . he sentencing of John Fife and the seven other defendants took place in Tucson on July 1 and 2 . Each of them was put on probation , ranging from three to five years ; one of the conditions of the probation is that they not bring in or harbor any more aliens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they plan to appeal their convictions . If it all seems a little anticlimactic , perhaps it is because the real drama has always been elsewhere ? worlds away , in Central America . There , people are still being taken from their homes and killed . The Tucson defendants never forgot that , and so they were relieved at the relative leniency of their sentences , but not jubilant , There is no leniency and no suspension of sentence , after all , for those Salvadorans and Guatemalans sought by death squads , or for those who face deportation . I did not intend this to be a rumination on the ecology and anthropology of arid lands . The moral ecology of the United States is what concerns me . Salvadorans and Guatemalans continue to be deported under the pretense that they are " economic migrants , " and innocent people , America 's rejects , continue to be abducted and tortured and murdered . Each of us shares responsibility with our government for those deportations . Some will try to believe that this country , with its stumbling economy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Others will simply not want to be reminded about another group of abused , needy people . Most of us would prefer to forget the whole subject . The thing we all need to remember is the same thing that John Fife and Jim Corbett have learned : sometimes hospitality is a matter of life and death .                     