@@487908

In our politics , a great deal changes , but Richard Nixon endures as malevolent presence and sufficient occasion of discord among comparatively honorable fellow citizens . Last year in The Real War , he returned to the rabid anti-Communism upon which his early triumphs over Jerry Voorhees , Helen Douglas and Alger Hiss were founded , just in time to stimulate the current Administration 's dangerous chauvinism . This year at Duke University , Terry Sanford , a decent Southern politician turned academic administrator , may already rue his decision to enlarge the campus with the Richard M. Nixon library and museum . His faculty will probably discover other reasons to complain about the administrators ' policies . But as the university 's lawyers endlessly haggle with Nixon 's representatives over the scale and location of the library and the terms of access to the donor 's malodorous files and tapes , Sanford is quite likely to regret his decision to shift from the sweetness and light of electoral politics . Even Richard Nixon serves a public purpose as a reminder of horrors past , and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brodie 's meticulous psychobiography , Richard Nixon : The Shaping of His Character . Nostalgia , the sentimentalization of the past , is a . vice of the elderly and a temptation to ambitious young historians determined to promote their fortunes by revising the judgments of their seniors . Because the 1980s threaten to be awful , the 1950s were not necessarily blissful . Several revisionist studies of the Eisenhower Presidency come perilously close to idealizing the General and ' elebrating the state of the union under Iiis benign guidance . Ike 's bad syntax , we are assured , was a ruse to deceive journalists and obscure his thoughtful plans for the national welfare . While John Foster Dulles traveled the globe constructing paper alliances and snorting defiance at the global Communist conspiracy , Eisenhower is now said to have kept his dragon on a long leash while conducting a prudent foreign policy . At home , the story goes , although he refused to descend into the " gutter " with Joe McCarthy , he quietly bided his time with the instinct of a master strategist . When the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Ike deployed his secret weapon , none other than Joe 's sometime pal Vice President Nixon , to undercut McCarthy 's Congressional support . In the hands of less cautious revisionists , the reign of Eisenhower the Good was an Era of Good Feelings . Blacks , women and college students knew their place . The John L. Lewises and Harry Bridges retreated muttering from center stage , and dimmer union types supplanted them . Living standards rose steadily , recessions were brief and mild , and cheap mortgages enabled hordes of veterans to acquire their own homes . In middle management , men in gray flannel suits abounded . For sophisticates , life was dull , but the square majority never had it better . There is some truth in this caricature of the decade as a Norman Rockwell Saturday Evening Post cover . For the white working and middle classes , prosperity was real . However , the politics of the 1950s were nasty episodes of loyalty and security investigations , blacklists and ruined careers , Congressional witch hunts and campaigns for office between superpatriots . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1960 debates with Nixon by appearing to be the tougher anti-Communist . Long after the Senate condemned McCarthy , stripped him of his chairmanship and encouraged him to drink himself to death , Nixon continued to campaign as the foe of internal subversion and external Soviet aggression . Far more than . McCarthy , he dominated the political style of the decade . Fawn Brodie , the biographer of Thaddeus Stevens and Thomas Jefferson , tells the Nixon story clearly up to the Presidential years , in the detail justified by exhaustive consultation of documentary sources , oral history archives and 120 journalists , psychiatrists , Nixon intimates and Nixon enemies . One is no more likely to tire of her 574 pages than of salted peanuts . Although there are scarcely more surprises in the chronicle than in a can of Planters ' finest , they are equally addictive . We hear again , as evidence of the man 's chronic mendacity , that in his Checkers speech Nixon deliberately misstated his wife 's name ( Thelma Catherine , not Pat ) and the date of her birth ( not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We read again the disgusting particulars of the war of extermination against Voorhees in 1946 and against Douglas in 1950 . Those of us who have grown old along with Nixon , certain that the best is unlikely to be , will not find much that is new here . Brodie speculates inconclusively that the problem that induced Nixon to consult the quasi-psychiatrist Dr. Arnold Hutschnecker was sexual impotence . She is solidly certain that Hiss was guilty and that Chambers was a generally accurate accuser on the basis of Allen Weinstein 's distinctly debatable Perjury : The Hiss-Chambers Case see Victor Navasky , " The Case Not Proved Against Alger Hiss , " The Nation , April 4 , 1978 . She adds touches to the well-known tales of the cool Eisenhower-Nixon relationship , Nixon 's friendship with Bebe Rebozo and his insensitive treatment of his wife . Of course , Brodie wanted her study to be judged less as conventional biography than as psychological interpretation . However , her explanation of ci , nrn , *t.r f ? ArrIllinr ? ac tho external events of his career . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bully whose punishments the young Nixon learned to avert by craft as well as by abject obedience . Mother Hannah , the " saint " of Nixon 's maudlin farewell speech in August 1974 , indulged herself in quietly " eviscerating " chats with her children on the subject of their failings . She preferred Richard 's siblings to the ungainly Richard . For a stretch of three years , she left him to the untender mercies of his father while she tried vainly to nurse back to health the favored child , the tubercular Harold . The love that his mother withheld , the mature Nixon sought from the electorate . The approval never forthcoming from his father , he again failed to evoke from an Eisenhower who refused to invite him and Pat to dinner at the White House and who seemed eager to dump him in 1956 . To this endlessly frustrated search for love and approval , Nixon-joined the rage of a man denied what is due to him . Why not destroy the enemies ? Democrats , fellow Republicans , subordinates or North Vietnamese  --  who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fury against himself ; he could not help doubting his own worth . After his 1962 defeat by Pat Brown in the California gubernatorial race , he held his famous " last " press conference , at which he excoriated startled journalists and promised that they would no longer have Nixon to kick around . And as an episode of self , , , destruction , Watergate is a classic . Nixon not only failed to destroy the fatally incriminating tapes but he even issued an expurgated version which was itself damning . Fawn Brodie 's argument is plausible enough , though hardly novel , and open to the usual criticisms of the genre . In the practice of psychoanalysis , there is no substitute for the couch To his credit , Dr. Hutschnecker has been ethically quiet about what he heard from his former patient . Moreover , similar circumstances evoke very different human responses . Hordes of boys grow up sadly in families with violent fathers and castrating mothers . They do n't all turn into Richard Nixons . In the sixteenth century , many Germans were constipated , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ James Mill was an unloving and disapproving martinet , but his son John Stuart became the liberal conscience of Victorian England , the saint of rationalism and the inspiration of the American Civil Liberties Union . Quite often an adult oppressed in childhood enjoys making life miserable for his own sons and daughters and anyone else in a subordinate position . In other cases , the victim of early misery resolves to treat others better than he was treated himself . Splendid parents sometimes have disappointing children . Neglectful parents sometimes witness the spectacular success of sons and daughters whom they hurt rather than helped . Original sin is as good an explanation of individual wickedness , I am disposed to conclude , as parental misconduct . ?                     