@@494149

THE FACES OF STOCKMAN BY BRUCE MAZLISH SIR EAGAN GOAL : DISPEL DOUBT . " That was the front-page headline over a New York Times analysis by Hedrick Smith on November 11 . The Reagan people , wrote Smith , regarded a show of confidence and unity as essential to the maintenance of the Administration 's political momentum . It did n't take long for that momentum to stall . The next morning , another New York Times front-page story , by Steven R. Weisman , headlined " Stockman 's Views Touch Off Furor , " detailed how , over a 10-month period and in 18 interviews , David Stockman had exposed his doubts and his loss of faith in the Reagan economic program to William Greider , assistant managing editor for national news of the Washington Post . Greider 's now faBruce Mazlish , who based this article on reading and on interviews with people who have been close to David Stockman , is the author of In Search of Nixon : A Psychohistorical Study ( Basic ) and Jimmy Carter : An Interpretative History ( Simon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ MIT. mous article , " The Education of David Stockman , " was announced quietly on the cover of the December issue of the Atlantic , almost as if ( in spite of its extra press run ) the magazine was not quite conscious of the political dynamite contained in its pages . Was Stockman aware , consciously or unconsciously , of the stir his ruminations would provoke ? " The whole thing is premised on faith , " Stockman had said of Reaganomics to Greider . The world works , he went on , in terms of perceptions and expectations . Yet with this one article he seemed to have done more to knock away the props of faith in the Reagan program than the huffing and puffing of all the Democratic critics combined . Having realized that supply-side economics was a " Trojan horse " in which trickle-down policies were being concealed , he appears to have brought a Trojan horse of his own inside the walls of the Reagan Camp . In its implications , the mode of Stockman 's apostasy evokes that of Daniel Ellsberg , turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of the Pentagon Papers , and that of Richard Nixon , taping the words that would bring down his own Administration . Like these , Greider 's narrative is now a piece of history . It is destined to appear in future anthologies of politics , for it raises fundamental issues of faith , loyalty , betrayal , morality , and personality . Although the Stockman affair has retreated to the back pages since President Reagan chastened Stockman and decided to keep him on as director of the Office of Management and Budget , the episode will likely be seen in retrospect as a turning point for the Administration . The architect of Reagan 's fiscal revolution had turned against his own creation . How can we best understand what Stockman did ? What were his motives ? Stockman 's own answer is that he was guilty of " poor judgment and loose talk , " of " careless rambling to a reporter , " of " an indiscreet quotation or expression or metaphor . " He makes no effort to postulate a sinister force in back of the taping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued mildly that there had been a " misunderstanding , " that he had thought he would not be quoted directly in the Atlantic ; but he did not press the point , as if in recognition that no amount of quibbling about the arrangements between him and Greider would take the sting out of his confessions . Stockman 's willingness to face the consequences of his actions is as admirable as his effort to save face for Reagan was predictable . But " loose talk " is not an explanation . It is a description , and it does not illuminate . How does Greider explain Stockman 's willingness to talk ? Well , he and Stockman are , in the latter 's words , " old friends . " Their acquaintance goes back to around 1978 , when Greider was a reporter and Stockman a member of Congress . Intellectually at odds , the two respected each other , and Greider , impressed by some of Stockman 's writings , got him to write a few pieces for the Post 's " Outlook " section . Did Stockman know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in understanding the role of personality in politics ? Did he know that Greider had written a three-part article on Jimmy Carter ( withwhom Stockman shares many traits ) for the Post in 1976 , which set a standard for psychological acumen ? An informant tells me he did . Greider was also for a time a member of a Washington study group that examined the interplay between personality and politics , and Stockman probably knew this too . These interests of Greider 's , far from putting Stockman off , seem to have encouraged him to confide in Greider . Greider , however , does not see himself in a father-confessor role . He writes , " The arrangement had obvious symbiotic value . " From Stockman 's side , it served as a channel to the press , a way of influencing the tone and direction of the Post 's coverage . Confident of his intel-lectual powers , Stock-man hoped to per-suade . And he had an eye on history . Stock-man had been a his-tory student at Mich-igan State , and he saw himself , in Greider 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps influenc-ing its conclusions . " One is reminded of that other contribu-tor to history 's record who showed " poor judgment , " Nixon ; and one is reminded as well of Kissinger , who , however , kept control of his own records for profitable use in his memoirs . Stockman , like Nixon , lost editorial control . Both Stockman 's and Greider 's explanations are plausible , and they are compatible . But they are not sufficient . People weave a tangled web for themselves , and motives are always complex and often contradictory . What we desire , of course , is some single motive or reason , a good punch line . But as Stockman found out , people , like politics , are not so predictable . The first theme underlying the Stockman episode concerns faith . Stockman is an idealist of sorts ; or , more accurately , a believer in search of a belief . In college he temporarily deserted his orthodox Goldwater-inspired Republicanism . Experiencing , as he put it , an " absolute clash of cultures , " he became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ saw its promised revolution as " God 's work . " Rapidly disillusioned , he sought a new faith in Reinhold Niebuhr , the theologian of liberal Christian realism , and at the Harvard Divinity School . Subsequently he put his religious faith to the test in politics , gradually moving from John Anderson 's vaguely mugwump liberal Republicanism back to neo-orthodox convictions as promoted by Ronald Reagan . Born again in his politics , Stockman would extol George Gilder 's Wealth and Poverty as " Promethean in its intellectual power and insight . " Gilder 's evangelical message is that " Faith in man , faith in the future ... faith in the providence of God are all essential to successful capitalism . " T HE TALKS with Greider reveal that , as the realities of self-interested politics eroded Stockman 's sense of rightness and righteousness , he experienced a gradual loss of faith . In the press conference following publication of the Atlantic article , Stockman professed to be a believer still ; but his words sounded hollow . His faith was not limited to the ideals of rightness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is so organized that there is a knowable answer to " how the world works . " Even more , he had had faith , now lost , that reality would follow prophecy : faith in faith itself , as a force that can move even mountainous deficits . Another theme that emerges in the interviews is Stockman 's perception of morality . He seeks to be a moral man in a moral majority , where the majority tends to be intolerant , narrow , and short on compassion . Stockman is , different from most of the Reagan entourage , who are mainly pragmatic power brokers , using ideology where convenient . Reagan himself sets the relaxed tone : confident of his own morality , he is comfortable with himself . Reagan could confide in his autobiography , Where 's the Rest of Me ? , that " A little lying in a good cause would n't hurt . " Stockman , whose idealism is an important part of his personality , clearly hurts . Niebuhr wrote in Moral Man and Immoral Society that the duty of the Christian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sinful world . This is Stockman 's inspiration . It means he can and must be realistic in an immoral society . But he can not accept the idea of himself as an immoral man . The interviews with Greider suggest that Stockman , Niebuhr 's student , was struggling to avoid feeling he had been corrupted by the harsh realities of politics . It is as if he had suddenly been stung by the words , spoken six months earlier , of the Reverend Truman Morrison , who had first introduced him to Niebuhr 's work : " Niebuhr felt that no matter how immoral we are , we are activated by more than self-interest . I 'm very worried , frankly , about what I 'm learning about David . He thinks of himself as hard-nosed and tough-minded , but there 's something naive about him . Compassion . That 's what I 'm looking for from David . I wish David and I had done more theological investigations than we did . " Where does loyalty lie for a man who is idealistic and whose self-image requires him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loyalty , and disloyalty , resounds through the interviews and through all of Stockman 's career . It is a history of betrayals , whichcould weigh heavily on a moral man in immoral politics . The first betrayal is of his mother , whose orthodox views he abandoned for the counterculture of SDS . He then turned against its radicalism in his move to Niebuhr . Once in politics , working for John Anderson , he betrayed him in two related ways . First , while Stockman was working for Anderson , he contracted , in Anderson 's words , " with the magazine Public Interest to do a piece that drew a great deal of attention by undertaking to savage a number of the positions that I , myself , happened to hold " ; and then he mimicked Anderson 's positions to help prepare Reagan for the campaign debates . That was how he attracted Reagan 's attention ? the first stepping-stone to the 0MB . There is a striking analogy between the article undermining Anderson and the interviews with Greider . Both imply that Stockman felt let down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an evolution of belief and disbelief , as well as a loss of faith , over time . In the early months Stockman felt supported by Reagan , and exhilarated from winning the bureaucratic battles : the budget plan was working . By April the predicted bull market had not occurred ; a month later , Stockman knew that the original agenda of budget reductions was inadequate , and that Wall Street was rightly dubious . Mid-May was the turning point . In Stockman 's words , " sometimes sheer reality has a sobering effect . " Greider remarks that " Stockman was changing , in a manner that perhaps he himself did not recognize . His conversations began to reflect a new sense of fatalism , a brittle edge of uncertainty . " If there is a key to Stockman 's subsequent remarks , it is in Greider 's trained sense of what was happening . Stockman , winning in public , and placed on a pedestal by the press , knew that he was losing in private . The emotional tension driving him to go public was becoming acute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution and to defer the reckoning . He proposed cuts in Social Security . Reagan initially backed him , but then , in the face of a public outcry , " disowned " Stockman 's plan . Next , the tax-cut legislation fell victim to trade-offs with the special interest groups : " The hogs were really feeding , " Stockman , the farm boy , protested . Kemp-Roth , he realized , in his famous metaphor , was a " Trojan horse to bring down the top rate . " A little greed might be an acceptable article of capitalist faith , but in this case the " level of opportunism just got out of control . " Stockman 's final sense of betrayal came over his efforts to secure the retrenchment in the defense budget . Having made converts in the Cabinet and among the President 's senior advisers , he discovered that " he could not convince the only hawk who mattered ? Ronald Reagan . " The Trojan horse metaphor is worth a more probing look . It surfaces twice in the interviews : once in relation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the final tax-cut paste job , as " another version of the Trojan horse ? ' a Trojan horse filled full of all kinds of budget-busting measures and secondary agendas . ' " As Greider notes , it seemed a " cynical " remark . When Stockman was asked in his news conference what he had meant ? " Was it a betrayal in any sense ? " ? he offered an equally puzzling reply : " The Trojan horse was a wooden beast with no brain . " Then he added , " I can only say that it was a rotten , horrible , unfortunate metaphor . I will not go into literary history to determine its meaning and application . " One is left wondering how Stockman could be unaware of the way he and his interviews were also a " Trojan horse " in the Reagan camp , a counterbetrayal to the betrayal of Stockman 's faith , ideology , and morality . The answer , as Freud would say , must come from Stockman 's unconscious . His words have meaning , even if the meaning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said , Stockman is naive , even about his own motives . Greider notes that Stockman has s ? ent his entire adult life working in the federal government ? whose ubiquitous presence he stoutly opposes . Although he spends many hours negotiating with special interests , he sees himself as having none . Although he constantly makes compromises , he sees himself as holding fast to principle . There is a quality of grandiosity in his naivete . Stockman is not only a man concerned with faith , morality , and loyalty ; he is also ambitious , opportunistic , and even , as John Anderson describes him , Machiavellian . His ambitious striving mirrors that of his classic Protestant farm family of the Middle West , and especially his mother , " who made David work for A 's in school . " It is the little boy in him that enjoys the power and the glory . Stockman himself recognizes that he is an opportunist of sorts . As he confessed , he had had opportunities , seized them , and came up smelling of roses . Looked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts it , a " characteristic ability to adjust his premises to new political realities . " In the eyes of John Anderson , Stockman not only has opportunities ; he creates them . According to Anderson , " He 's a young man who wants to be sure he 's out front . . . . " Such a trait fits nicely with his tendency to switch sides and loyalties . It also suggests a Machiavellian agility , an amoral willingness to seize and hold on to power while anticipating the next roll of the dice . " I would not , " Anderson warned , " underestimate that Machiavellian guile of the young man . " Taken together , these themes and motives help explain why Stockman set up the interviews with Greider , and why they evolved as they did over time . At their start , in December 1980 , Stockman began to tell what he thought would be a success story ; by mid-May , he was unfolding a tale of guilt , of loss of faith , and of a sense of defeat and betrayal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the char-acter behind them has been ambiguous . How can we reconcile the divergent traits and concerns so plainly visible in Stockman ? Stockman , in essence , is both moralist and Machiavellian , idealist reformer and hard-boiled politician . As Greider speaks of him , he has " a characteristic mixture of tactical cynicism and intellectual honesty . " Having experienced the " clash of cultures " within himself , Stockman seems to stand outside that self , able to take different positions , and then to act detached from them , as in his impersonation of his erstwhile mentor , Anderson . Tireless , energetic , intelligent , versatile , he exhibits what one observer calls " controlled schizophrenia . " What is most striking is his ability to vacillate between his two sides , without acknowledging that the sides coexist . Unable to work out the contradictions in his own mind , he aired them privately to Greider in a manner calculated to ensure they would be heard publicly as well . The interviews were Stockman 's way of doing penance for what he could not knowingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as in the Administration in which he serves . His story , of course , is of interest politically as well as personally . It serves as a case study in the problem of expressing doubts and dissents when part of a team . The experience of the Vietnam War years sharpened our awareness of the difficulties involved : should Robert McNamara have gone public with his doubts ? How effective was George Ball , remaining in the Johnson Administration though voicing his doubts ? And later , in the Carter Administration , was resignation the most effective and honorable course for Cyrus Vance to take ? I N HIS 1970 book , Exit , Voice , and Loyalty , Albert Hirschman addressed these problems systematically and thoughtfully . In cases where exit from a political party or team is easy , " voice " ? that is , the expression of dissenting views inside the group ? is minimal , to the great loss of democratic politics . What is needed is a balance , where exit is rare but possible , and voice frequent and encouraged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to maturity , was to raise the level of acceptable political candor . ( It is reassuring that at least one prominent Republican , Senator Robert Dole , commented that Stockman 's ruminations were " refreshing . " ) Stockman tackled , even if only inferentially , the question of how to admit overtly the need for changing plans , while remaining part of a political team , and wholly undermining the public 's faith in its leaders ' abilities to plan and control policies . He wrestled conscientiously , though without sufficient self-awareness , with that problem , both as it affected him and as it affected the public . The " Education of David Stockman " is not just the story of an ambitious and complicated young man learning more about himself and politics , but an education for all of us.                     