@@494636

Kicking out the generals is only the first chapter . FROM DICTATORSHIP To DEMOCRACY BY JOSE ZALAQUETT AVERAGE SIZE , middle-aged , middle of the road po litically , President Raul Alfonsin is an unassuming man who still looks like the small-town lawyer he once was . In other times , his sheer normalcy would have made him an improbable leader for a nation with a history of erratic politics . But Alfonsin is also a thoroughly honest man , known to have withstood the test of all seasons , and before the 1983 elections an aimless , despondent Argentina was craving governability and decency . National pride had been wounded after the humiliating defeat in the Falklands war . The country had plunged into a recession , with industry in disarray , three-digit inflation , and a crippling 845 billion debt . The horror of years of state terrorism , hitherto ignored ( semiconsciously maybe , but in any case conveniently ) by many , and perhaps most , Argentinians , was publicly debated for the first time . Demoralized and facing growing popular anger , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidate of the Radical Civic Union Party , was elected by a wide margin . Internationally , Alfonsin 's election was hailed as a major milestone in South America 's journey toward democracy . It marked the end of the first of the four modern , like-minded military dictatorships that had achieved worldwide notoriety for their systematic violations of human rights . Since then Brazil and Uruguay have effectively restored civilian rule . And in Chile popular protests demanding the end of the Pinoi:het regime have increased sharply since 1983 . But Argentina remains the crucible of democracy in the region . For this reason , Alfonsin 's progress is followed with both hopes and anxiety . The gains are still fragile , the stakes extraordinarily high . Upon taking office , Alfonsin was expected to mete out justice , unify the country , and achieve economic recovery all at once . Yet he knew his government faced daunting constraints that set the outer limits of political feasibility . The strong labor movement remained under the control of the Peronists ( traditionally Argentina 's strongest political Movement ) ; the business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radicals ; the International Monetary Fund prescribed economic policies that left the government little room for maneuver ; the military , defeatJose Zalaquett , a Chilean human rights lawyer , is currently a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace . ed at sea by the British , remained intact on the mainland , a cohesive institution with a monopoly on force . Now much economic austerity could be imposed without seriously antagonizing the unions , and how far could investigation and punishment of past human rights abuses mach before military unrest turned to rebellion ? Alfonsin also knew that the legitimacy of his mandate rested on his ability to restore the rule of law to a country torn by a history- of chaos and repression . The massive violations committed during the " dirty war " years of 1976 to 1982 , and particularly the question of the fate of thousands of " disappeared " persons , had to be confronted . " The past looms somberly over our future , " Alfonsin declared on December 13 , 1983 , a few days after his inauguration . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human dignity were committed by terrorism and the repression that followed . They can not go unpunished. for impunity would constitute a betrayal of basic ethical principles and would put at risk the pre-vention of such violations us the future . r ' He then sent to Congress a number of human rights-related hills and created a National Commission on Disappearance of Persons . He ordered the prosecution of the nine military leaders , including three former heads of state , who presided over the " dirty war , " and of a few other officers known to have led the repression . He also ordered the prosecution of some leaders of the extreme left still at large . The commission published an impressive report in November 1984 . The trial of the generals began in earnest last April and the prosecution and defense have now rested their cases . The court 's verdict and sentence are expected by the end of the year . Nevertheless , from the start the military closed ranks and refused to cooperate with the National Commission . Thus important information about the fate of individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the great majority of officers responsible have not been identified And whatever the verdict on the generals . the gov-ernment does not seen , to have a workable strategy for how to proceed next . The difficulties ot , satisfactorily closing this chapter in Argentine history are rooted in the history of political and ideological struggles in Argentina ? as well as in Brazil , Chile , and Uruguay ? over the last 20 years . This history explains the ideological rationalization of the military repression and how the armed forces view ' their present and future role in the still convalescing democracies of the Southern Cone . ARGENTINA often has been described as a wasted promise . A southern gateway to the new world , with a homogeneous , literate population , an abundance of fertile lands , and a vigorous cultural life , Argentina has a standard of living that has always been well ahead of that of the rest of Latin America and once compared favorably to many nations that now rank among industrial democracies . Yet since the early 1950s , Argentina has been adrift , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsequential interregnums of other civilian governments . Why would a nation so blessed devote its best energies to such internecine struggles ? Commonsense explanahons abound , for the most part variations on the theme that only difficult trials teach a nation not Ni take its good fortune for granted . For a generation of committed urban youth coming to political life in Argentina ( and elsewhere in South America ) in the late 1960s and early 1970s , such talk was seen as banal . These explanations were to truly scientific analysis what mere reformism is to revolution . Instead , Marxist analysis , or its local version , explained Latin America 's problems through an engaging and comprehensive vision . Leninist principles of organization , or the tactics of guerrilla warfare , embodied a promise of effective action now The generation of the 1960s had seen bourgeois democracy ? and it did not work . At best , it provided a facade for the control of wealth and power by a few at the expense of the masses . At worst , it imposed open dictatorship . Of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America 's politics . Communist and socialist parties had organized openly in many countries of the region since the 1920s and even earlier , though they did not reach substantial electoral strength , except in Chile . But it was not until Fidel Castro took power in Cuba in 1959 that a Marxist political model and ideology were effectively introduced in the region . Cuba 's promise catalyzed dreams of political change throughout the Americas to an extent not seen since the struggles of independence in the early 19th century . From Jefferson and Bolivar until Castro , democracy had been the uncontested legitimate ideology of the Americas . Of course , with a few modest exceptions , social and economic realities stood in stark contrast to the lofty ideals of freedom and equality written in the new nations constitutions . But though the dictatorships that plagued so many countries in the Americas blatantly contradicted the democratic idea , they could not undermine its legitimacy ? and rarely attempted to . Rather , by adopting the trappings of democracy ? subservient parliaments , periodic electoral farces ? they implicitly recognized its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a propitious time for the acceptance of revolutionary ideas in the Americas . Instant communications made both opportunities and inequalities more patent . Migration fromthe countryside to the cities exacerbated social and political tensions . The political debate in most of the region was about the very foundations of the economic and political order , matters that for the most part have long been settled in Western industrial democracies . It was the 1960s . The radical impulse touched urban youths in Buenos Aires , Santiago , and Montevideo in much the same manner as in Paris or Berkeley . Major change was essential , and not only in your lifetime but before you turned 30 . The moon could be reached with the hand . In affluent , more settled countries , such as the United States or France , these notions at most cloud or charm a generations ' itinerary for a few years , leaving a tangible residue of changed styles and mores , and the memory of a few crazy political actions . In societies where a national consensus on the basics is still in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and channeled into militant organizations , can move a young urban class to deal with politics in a life-or-death manner . Nowhere was this process more acute than in the Southern Cone . The most militant among the young urban class organized groups in the margins of the political spectrum advocating armed struggle and guerrilla warfare . The Tupamaros in Uruguay , the People 's Revolutionary Army in Argentina , and the Movement of the Revolutionary Left in Chile were the main and most publicized ones . Their gravitational pull compelled many young cadres in the leftist and populist parties ( like the Montoneros faction within the Peronist movement or some groups within Salvador Allende 's coalition ) that participated in the electoral process gradually to contemplate strategies of violence as well . O N THE RIGHT , new strategies of political violence were also developing . Brazil was the model . In 1964 the military overthrew the populist government of Joao Coulart , to establish a 21-year military regime . Relatively benevolent in its first years of rule , it turned to systematic repression starting in 1968 , following a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signaled the emergence of a new type of military dictatorship in the Americas . It differed markedly from the Latin American archetype of a caudillo supported by praetorian guards , such as Trujillo , the Sornozas , and the Duvaliers . The military in Brazil took over power as an institution setting for itself long-term tasks : defining major national goals and leading a drive toward economic development , while fighting leftist insurgency and aligning the country with the West . In the process , it developed a sweeping " doctrine of national security , " which gave ideological justification for its own role in society . This doctrine was soon to be adopted by the military in Argentina , Chile , and Uruguay . In its essentials , the national security doctrine regards domestic political struggles as an expression of a basic East-West conflict and sees Marxist penetration and insurgency as an all-pervading presence of a new type of enemy fighting a new type of war . Civilians are also warriors , ideas a different form of weapon . Democracy and politicsas-usual can not lead the fight against Marxism ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can they coordinate all national resources effectively so as to achieve modernization and economic development , pillars of a modern notion of national security . It is the professionals of national security ? the military ? who can ensure that both objectives are achieved , and this can not only he done by controlling the power of the state . Since the war on Marxism is an insidious one , unorthodox methods are called for including torture and extermination of irredeemable political activists . This is not stated directly , for it is too string even for many in the military . However , most official documents and speeches are per- meated with a belief in the inevitability of counterinsur- gency tactics that do not take into consideration notions such as " rights " of the insurgent or suspected insurgent . Soldiers trained to fight against insurgency are taught the enemy is evil beyond hope . Communism is to be contained by decisively waging unconventional war and , at the same time , through economic policies ( usually of the laissezfairevariety ) that are expected to benefit most of the popu- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The adoption of the national security doctrine introduced a second ideological and political alternative to democracy in the region . Under its tenets , avariation of democracy could eventually he readopted : a democracy " protected " by the vigilance of the armed forces , the custodians of long-term national objectives and the watchdogs of national security . The national security doctrine 's powerful appeal sprang not only from its explanation , in military terms , of political events that deeply disturbed the armed forces . It also gave the military , an institution in search of a sense of mission after a century of peace in the Southern Cone , a central role in a historical process . I N 1973 the civilian president of Uruguay , Juan Maria Bordaberry , ceded control of the government to the military . In Chile the military overthrew the government of Salvador Allende . In Argentina the military took power in March 197h . Then it was terror . Terror of a kind worse than the one claimed to be fought or feared . Certainly , violence breeds violence . The contempt for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But as Hobbes maintained , a crime relying on strength or influence to avoid the punishment of the law is greater than a crime committed with the hope of remaining undiscovered . By this token , the greatest crime is the one perpetrated by the authority against the individual , a crime that counts on the ultimate strength ? the power of the state ? to secure impunity . For people arc never more helpless than when the force meant to protect their rights is used to violate then . It is the starkest defenselessness . The terror of the shepherd turned wolf . State terrorism . With the benefit of hindsight , it is hard to understand how much the unfolding of state terrorism in the Southern Cone came as a surprise , not only to shocked world opinion but within the countries affected- Given the long-termobjectives pursued by the militant establishments , and the nature of the war and the enemy , as seen through their doctrinaire vision , the logic for the repressive policies is almost inescapable . Since democracy was suspect and inetfectual , parliaments were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political parties were suspended , outlawed , or restricted ; political debate was altogether silenced . An effective is , ar against an omnipresent subversive influence called for a number of major measures . First , a legal framework of emyrgencv rule , the suspension or restriction of habeas corpus and other legal remedies , special powers of detention to the authorities , and an enhanced role to military courts the judiciary did not need to he purged it judges cooperated , as most did ) . Then the organization of special security bodies ( often established around existing military or police security units ) . These bodies , charged with the dirtiest and most secretive aspects of repression , were to he effectively shielded from public scrutiny , judicial inquiry , or even pressure from military authorities other than those directly in the repres-sive policies ' line of command . Finally , fighting an organized underground opposition with all possible means and routing out legal or semi-legal opponents tram every position of influence : civil service , union leadership , university faculty . A reformed mass media and education as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ popular acceptance of the new policies , thus permitting gradual liberalization . Within this framework , repressive policies its the Southern Cone countries varied in method and scope . In Chile and Uruguay the repression was telt throughout society . In Argentina , state terrorism , though more circumscribed , was unparalleled in ferocity . It was in the 1970s that the terms " disappearances " and " disappeared prisoner " ( from the Spanish desaporaido ) entered the political vocabulary . They began to be used to refer to a repressive practice developed systematically in Chile since late 1973 and , on a much greater scale , in Argentina since 1976 . " Disappearances " were also being reported in countries as disparate as Afghanistan , the Philippines , Guinea , and Guatemala . The term emphasizes the uncertainties of the victim 's relatives , friends , lawyers , painfully trying to pierce through a curtain of secrecy . The situation resembles both prolonged incommunicado detention and secret killings by the police or death squads . But the distinct trait of " disappearances " is the government 's total refusal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From the authorities ' viewpoint there is no " disappearance . " They know well the victim 's fate , from the abduction and questioning to the killing and disposal of the body . The logic of " disappearance " can he traced to Hiller 's Night and Fog Decree ( . Nadir told Nebel Erlass ) for Nazi-occupied territories in the West . TO avoid creating martyrs , Hitler did not want to impose the death penalty for acts of resistance . Instead , he ordered the transfer of those suspected of " endangering German security " to Germany under " cover of darkness . " Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel issued a directive in February 1942 explaining these meas-ures would have " a deterrent effect since ( a ) the prisoners will vanish without leaving a trace , ( b ) no information may be given as to their whereabouts or their fate . " Human rights activists in Argentina have explained why the military adopted a policy of " disappearances " : they believed subversives must be eliminated once and for all ( in the past the Argentine military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military was also aware of the international public opinion outcry and condemnation following the open , crude repressions of the early days of the Pinochet regime . " Disappearances " diffused responsibility . Finally , there was a particular intimidation effect many relatives of the victims would hesitate to raise too much publicity for fear of jeopardizing the chances of obtaining clemency for their loved ones . " Disappearances " became a centerpiece of the military regime 's " dirty war " strategy . M OST " disappearances " occurred between 1976 and 1978 , the first three years of military rule . Efforts to document " disappearances " at that time rested largely on relatives of the victims , such as Mothers of the Plaza del Mayo and small human rights groups . The National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons used the information gathered by these groups to put together a single authoritative version of the extent of the crime of " disappearances " in Argentina . The 13-member commission , assisted by a staff of about 60 , worked for nine months to produce its 500-page report . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the abduction to the custody and torture to the killings and disposal of the bodies . The report portrays a repressive apparatus that relied on all-powerful task-force groups that carried out the security operations . Local police precincts allowed these task forces absolute freedom to search and arrest . The victims were then taken to one of hundreds of secret places of detention . The typical victim was young : 75 percent of all " disappeared " were 30 years old or younger at the time of detention . Thirty percent were women , and over a hundred children were abducted or thought to have been born in prison from mothers pregnant at the time of arrest . An association of grandmothers has been searching for the " disappeared " children . Many had been given in adoption to childless military couples , and in some cases , after endless investigating and sophisticated paternity tests , their real identities have been established . During the period of secret detention , torture was a routine method of interrogation . Some were then released or formally sent to a known prison , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for death . The condemned were probably shot in the head , and buried in unmarked graves or incinerated . It is believed that many were drugged , loaded in planes , and thrown in the sea . In an appendix to its report , the National Commission lists 8.961 cases of people still " disappeared . " Lacking access to information that the military still refuses to disclose , thecommission in many cases knows nothing more than the victim 's name . T. HE armed forces were haunted by the prospect of being held responsible for these crimes when it be-came clear that military rule would end . General Leopoldo Galtieri , who now awaits the court 's verdict , was forced to resign as head of state after the debacle in the Falklands . General Reynaldo Bignone , appointed president on June 22 , 1982 , led the country during an 18-month transition to civilian rule . Although there were recriminations and bitterness among senior military officers over the conduct of the Falklands war , internal cohesion prevailed on the question of the " dirty war " against subversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their common guilt . The military men who had not been involved in the " dirty war " had to accept the justification of national security . Institutional loyalty and peer pressure silenced any officers with misgivings . The outgoing military government took three specific steps to avoid accountability for human rights abuses . First , on April 28 , 1983 , Bignone divulged the " Final Document on the War Against Subversion and Terrorism . " It conceded that human rights abuses occurred ? " errors committed as in all wars . " It declared that those " disap-peared " who were not in exile or in hiding must be considered dead " for all legal and administrative purposes , " but claimed that they met their death in open combat rather than while in custody . Massive demonstrations of protest billowed 13ignone 's statement Second , in September 1983 the military government issued a Law of National Pacification granting amnesty to suspected terrorists and to members of the security forces who had committed crimes during the period of May 25 , 1973 , to June 17 , 1982 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is said to have issued a decree , which was not made public , ordering the destruction of the documentation related to the military repression . Alfonsin had promised in his campaign to repeal the amnesty passed by the military . Soon after his inauguration he sent a bill that Congress approved unanimously , declaring the law of National Pacification null and void . This emphasized the principle that those presumed responsible for hum n rights violations could not amnesty themselves or theiraaccomplices or subordinates . Only society , having learned the full truth , can decide , through its elected representatives or other democratic means , the extent to which an amnesty or other measures of magnanimity might be granted . In this regard democratic leaders would want to emphasize the need for restraint , particularly when national unity and reconciliation are needed to consolidate democracy . Whatever the demands of mercy , there is , however , a moral duty imposed on the international community since the end of World War II : crimes against hu- manity must be tried and those found guilty punished . For the Alfonsin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and public account of the " dirty war " could be obtained . The government was certainly not in the political position of a victorious power investigating and trying the crimes of authorities whose military might has been destroyed . Nor was it in a position similar to that in Spain and Brazil , where there was a popular sentiment that the goal of securing democracy demanded a measure of forgiveness ( made easier by the fact that the worst crimes of the dictatorships were committed long ago ) . The restoration of democracy in Greece In 1974 otters a more valid comparison . In both countries the military took power , ostensibly to defeat leftist subversion , and atter seven years of harsh , repressive rule , was forced to leave , following its defeat in a ctmventional war . In both cases the strength of the civilian government rested on a correlation of legitimacies rather than of forces : the legitimacy of a democratic mandate given by a people who were moreover , angry at the military coupled with the drastically diminished legitimacy of a military defeated at war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while the Greek military was accused of grave crimes , such as torture and a massacre of students , such crimes did not approach the magnitude and impenetrable secrecy of " disappearances " in Argentina . Strength based on legitimacy required Alfonsin not only to scrupulously observe legal principles but also to deter to unwritten rules of the game . This probably led hint to conclude that he could not embark on a wide purge of the military or use his authority as commander in chief to force the disclosure of secret information . Thus his m were bold but careful . In the first months in office , oves the president and the Congress laid the groundwork for the trials of the military . Civilian courts were given jurisdiction to try the military tor nonmilitary offenses in the future . But for past crimes the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces , a high military court , would have jurisdiction . However , Congress also stipulated that the council 's decision would be subject to an automatic review , conducted by the Federal Cot of Appeals , a civilian court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have believed the order was legitimate , unless it commanded the execution of an atrocious act . T HE Supreme Council of the Armed Forces procrasti- nated in judging the leaders of the " dirty war . " When pressed by the Federal Court of Appeals to conclude its investigation , the council declared in September 1984 that it found no reason to reproach the nine military leaders . This unsurprising result allowed some critics to insist that the " dirty war " crimes should have been tried before civilian tribunals from the start . However , the fact that the military was given a chance to clean its own house enabled Alfonsin to declare that he had hone Out of his way in order to be fair . The case moved then to the Federal Appeals Court of Buenos Aires and the high drama of the real trial began . A restless , passionate public packed the courtroom . The trial lasted six months . Hundreds of witnesses testified . A new publication , El Diary , del Juicie , devoted exclusively to printing every detail of the trial , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prosecutor Julio Strassera had chosen to make his case based on about 700 cases of " disappearances . " He alleged the defendants were responsible for ordering their subordinates tout many different crimes ( " ' disappear- ances " as such is not a legal crime , but a phenomenon that encompasses many crimes ) , including murder , illegal de- tention , and torture , or at least for not having prevented them from carrying out such deeds . He rested his case with the request that each defendant he found guilty , and demanded life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for Jorge Rafael Videla , Emilio Eduardo Massera , and Orlando RamOn Agosti ; life imprisonment for Roberto Eduardo Viola and Armando Tambruschini ; 15 years for Leopoldo Galtieri and Omar Rubens Grattigna ; 12 years for Jorge Isaac Anoya ; and ten years for Basiho Lami Dozo. n NCE THE TRIAL of the military leaders is left be-hind , the process ot further searching for the truth about " disappearances " is likely to he painfully slow . Other ( not many ) high military officers will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tate of indi idual " disappeared " persons and of other " dirty war " crimes will continue to be presented to lower civilian courts tat last count about I Li00 had been presented ) , but there can hardly he progress in such cases without access to information closely held by the military . Alfonsin probably suspected all along that his strategy would only lead to a partial disclosure of the truth . He no doubt judged this was the most he could do , and hoped for the best . Theoretically , a breakthrough would he possible if some of the military could count on immunity from prosecution in exchange for their testimony . Discretionary prosecution and plea bargaining , however , are alien to the Argentine legal tradition . Other mechanisms could achieve similar effects . For example , a selective amnesty for less serious crimes coupled with a legal obligation to cooperate with the process of justice ; or the legal establishment of a spe dal extenuating circumstance for those who fully confess to less serious crimes and cooperate with the justice . Such options @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ othcers believe they have better chances of eluding the action of justice than of escaping the reprisals of their colleagues . During the trial 's summation , the nine defendants sat in the duck with the demeanor of unjustly accused innocents who will he vindicated by history . Their attitude was more likely ideological selt-persuasion than pose . Indeed , many officers may still remain convinced that they did their duty and would be ready to fulfill it again if the interests of " national se unity ' so dictate . It the inner secrets of the " dirty war " remain hidden from Argentine public opinion and , yes , from the military officers who have not been forced to taco its horrors , then the nine generals and their accomplices may be , vindicated ? not by history but by a lack of history . The stigma of the " dirty war " will taint the armed forces as a whole for years to come . The gulf between the military and the civilian society will grow more difficult to close , a prospect that can only weaken democracy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  