@@494846

Swiss accounts with no sign of imminent shipment to the con tras . North and Poindexter maintained their pattern of deceit when the story broke in November 1986 . North shredded and altered critical NSC documents , while lying about the U.S. role in Israel 's arms shipments to Iran and helping to put out the cover story that some of the arms shipments were really shipments of oil-drilling equipment . Poindexter lied to Congress , claiming ignorance of the Israeli shipments , and subsequently destroyed a presidential finding that showed the opposite . Every administration has its foreign policy nightmares . The important question about this one is whether any laws were broken to achieve it . In some cases the answer is clear : North and Poindexter have admitted they lied to Congress on numerous occasions , a felony . The obstruction of congressional investigations through such lies and the shredding of documents is also criminal . Other issues are trickier . North and Poindexter may have greased their way around the Boland amendment , designed to prevent aid to the contras , which was signed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actions were certainly contrary to its intent . North and Poindexter may also have violated the National Security Act , which requires a " significant anticipated intelligence activity " to be disclosed to Congress ; an executive order requiring a presidential finding for covert operations conducted by a group other than the CIA ; and the Arms Control Export Act . There are any number of legal issues regarding criminal liability under these laws , as well as factual questions that remain unresolved even now . But a presidential pardon in advance of indictments would essentially terminate special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh 's investigation and make such resolution impossible . If President Reagan realTHE ZEITGEIST CHECKLIST BY CHARLES PAUL FREUND This Last Weeks Week Week on Chart Summit . If rhetoric matters , something basic has happened . The U.S. had long defined peace in terms of deterrence . Treaties meant , at best , " a safer world . " Idealized , lion-and-lamb peace was the scorned Soviet line . An ethereal Reagan adopted this line when he proposed SDI , and now the so-called U.S. strategy and much of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has somebody finally lost the ' 50s cold war ? Gorbomania . In the Brokaw interview , Gorbachev 's answers were clumsy , doctrinaire , and raised questions about internal Soviet politics . Never mind . He 's got vigor , an Italian tailor , and Raisa . The result was soaring approval ratings and a booming market in Cyrillic T-shirts . Forget Errol Flynn . Gorbachev 's the pop successor to Oliver North and Spuds MacKenzie . Conservatives . Among Reagan 's legacies count a conservative movement torn asunder . The Adam Smith Tie crowd is in descent anyway ; now hard and soft sides of the movement are emerging from Reagan 's appalling network anchor interview . This can have serious ripples at the convention . Reagan may be sending the Republicans back to the Goldwater days , where he found them . 4 . FLYING START 1.00 START . There 's an eerie quality to the START discussion . The treaty is approaching like a runaway train , but even supporters of arms reductions keep repeating that there 's not enough time ; it sounds like an incantation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their hands . The awakening notion is that SDI is already irrelevant , buried by a strict ABM Treaty and Congress . Decoupling . The decoupling debate ? the U.S. may abandon Europe ? is now under way . Though fueled originally by the arms reduction atmosphere , it has been inflated by America 's diminishing sense of its capacities , plus a grass-roots view that since Europe is *Item resurfaces in the Zeitgeist after at least one week 's absence . rich and hates us to boot , the hell with them . A lively topic in Europe , decoupling is becoming audible here . Confidence . Nobody 's got a clue about the post-Crash state of consumer confidence , but at least two confidence indices show a negligible recovery from October 's drop-off . More ominous is the growing number of economists ? still a minority ? who believe not that a recession may come next year , but that it has already begun . Toy guns . The move against realistic toy guns may be another facet of Reaganism 's decline . Toy guns were out a decade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? the " Rambo " stuff . That the toys are mistaken for the real thing is a suspect excuse . That 's been true for decades , and anyway Laser Tag guns ? cited in one notorious case ? do n't look like real guns at all . Group phone calls . Services allowing callers to enter group conversations with strangers are attracting hundreds of thousands of users . Some link this to willful cocooning ( ZC , August 10 &; 17 ) , but the real appeal ? as the services ' promotions make plain ? is to the lonely ( the secret of the CB fad too ) . It 's too late to regret the implicit social anonymity . In fact , for millions this addresses a hopeless social problem . Post-Reagan memoirs . Despite their numbers , administration memoirs usually sink like cinder blocks . Reagan 's crowd will have better luck . The apparent difference between White House p.r . and reality has been enormous , and anybody willing to fill in the blanks is going to sell books . Deaver 's copy is already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After Reagan , the Flood . Tweens . Marketers have identified a new target group : 9- to 15-year-old " tweens . " The kids , too old for kidvid ads but too young for teen revolt spots , will be exploited on their own turf . After all , they are estimated to have up to $30 billion in their pockets , and may influence another $40 billion . Industries ranging from clothing to electronics to snacks are trying to win 9-year-olds ' hearts . God bless us , every one .                     