@@329372

The skies over western Brazil will soon be dark both day and night . Dark from - the smoke of thousands of fires , as farmers and cattle ranchers engage in their annual rite of destruction : clearing land for crops and livestock by burning the rain forests of the Amazon . Unusually heavy rains have slowed down the burning this year , but the dry season could come at any time , and then the fires will reach a peak . Last year the smoke grew so thick that Porto Velho , the capital of the state of Rondonia , was forced to close its airport for days at a time . An estimated 12,350 sq . mi. of Brazilian rain forest  --  an area larger than Belgium  --  was reduced to ashes . Anticipating another conflagration this year , scientists , environmentalists and TV crews have journeyed to Porto Velho to marvel and despair at the immolation of these ancient forests . <P> After years of inattention , the whole world has awakened at last to how much is at stake in the Amazon . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earth 's endangered environment from humanity 's destructive ways . " Save the rain forest , " long a rallying cry for conservationists , is now being heard from politicians , pundits and rock stars . The movement has sparked a confrontation between rich industrial nations , which are fresh converts to the environmental cause , and the poorer nations of the Third World , which view outside interference as an assault on their sovereignty . <P> Some of the harshest criticism is aimed at Brazil . The largest South American country embraces about half the Amazon basin and , in the eyes of critics , has shown a reckless penchant for squandering resources that matter to all mankind . Government leaders around the world are calling on Brazil to stop the burning . Two delegations from the U.S. Congress , which included Senators Al Gore of Tennessee and John Chafee of Rhode Island , traveled to the Amazon earlier this year to see the plight of the rain forest firsthand . Says Gore : " The devastation is just unbelievable . It 's one of the great tragedies of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that surrounds the Amazon River and its tributaries has been under assault by settlers and developers for 400 years . Time and again , the forest has defied predictions that it was doomed . But now the danger is more real and imminent than ever before as loggers level trees , dams flood vast tracts of land and gold miners poison rivers with mercury . In Peru the forests are being cleared to grow coca for cocaine production . " It 's dangerous to say the forest will disappear by a particular year , " says Philip Fearnside of Brazil 's National Institute for Research in the Amazon , " but unless things change , the forest will disappear . "                     