@@487741

Ivan Boesky , unknown except to Wall Street professionals a few weeks ago , is-front-page news now that he has admitted to trading on insider information . In a sensational settlement with the Securities and Ex-change Commission , he has agreed to give back $50 million in ill-gotten gain and to pay another $50 million as a penance . He faces only a one-count charge , which might lead to a five-year jail term . He keeps the rest of his fortune , estimated at more than $200 million . In exchange , he is cooperating with government investigators . . . William Tabb , who teaches economics and sociology at the City University of New York , recently edited Churches in Struggle : Liberation Theologies and Social Change in North America ( Monthly Review Press ) . Boesky mastered the art of buying low and selling high . He knew ahead of time when well-known corporate raiders were going to bid up stock in takeover attempts , and he bought stock in those companies . As soon as that information became public , his stock would rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was also illegal . In the past the S.E.C. usually brought cases against petty inside traders  --  taxi drivers , secretaries or printers who somehow had picked up secrets . Rarely have the big fish got caught , even though it is widely thought that insider trading is practiced on a vast scale . Only a year ago the S.E.C. 's enforcement chief , Gary Lynch , sounded to many like a hapless Inspector Clouseau who could not see what was right under his nose . " There is something going on in the market , " he said ingenuously , " and we intend to get to the bottom of it . " Last summer , after receiving a tip in an anonymous letter postmarked Caracas , Venezuela , the S.E.C. caught up with Dennis Levine , a merger specialist at Drexel Burnham Lambert . Levine , who , according to the S.E.C. , made $12.6 million in illicit profits between 1981 and 1986 , has plea-bargained in exchange for fingering , among others , Ivan Boesky . Boesky is now naming names , and the investigation widens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ traded and sold information with Boesky , betrayed a trust much like that between lawyer and client . There are continuing efforts to individualize the case . John Phelan , chair of the New York Stock Exchange , grumbled that " for a professional of Mr. Boesky 's stature to have done what he has done is inexcusable . " One of the people who worked at Drexel told a Washington Post reporter : " We feel betrayed . . . . He led us astray . " Another said , " One bad apple got totally out of control . ' 7 But the market did n't plummet forty-three points on November 18 , the fourth-largest single drop in its history , because one professional had acted improperly . Panic spread when it became known that Boesky had agreed to cooperate with Federal authorities and for several months had secretly recorded his conversations with some of the most influential people on Wall Street . Who would be implicated ? How far would the scandal go ? Hobart Rowen wrote in The Washington Post on November 20 that " the Ivan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Watergate . " Rowen quoted a well-known securities-market investigator as saying , " It 's something like capturing the whorehouse madam : now the cops have her date-book . " Wall Streeters have complex interests in the case . People at the old-line investment houses are glad to see some of the upstarts checked by investigators and hope that public confidence in the market will be restored by their arrest . The S.E.C. , they say , will rid the stock market of bad apples like Boesky . " The responsibility of the S.E.C. is to level the playing field and , if it has to run its bulldozer back and forth a couple times , that 's all to the good for Wall Street and for the fragile commodity called public opinion , " one investment executive said . Howard Stein , chair and chief executive officer of the Dreyfus Corporation , which manages $40 billion , told The New York Times : " For a long time , as an alternative to much tougher self-regulation by the securities industry itself , I have favored beefed-up budgets for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If these funds are not forthcoming from the government , the industry itself should supplement monies for the S.E.C. " But , rhetoric aside , the old-line houses also want to limit the focus of public attention to the question of individual dishonesty , to stop things before the unhealthy nature of most merger activity is scrutinized and the Democrats propose regulation . So far , they are getting their way . The press has played up who gains and who loses how much , rather than examining the structural issues . Last year the Reagan Administration opposed efforts by Democrats to tighten regulations on the activities of corporate raiders and on the use of high-risk , high-yield bonds , commonly called junk bonds . William Proxmire , new chair of the Senate Banking , Housing and Urban Affairs Committee , is a staunch advocate of stricter controls over speculators and inside traders . He promises to hold extensive hearings not only on the Boesky affair but on broader stock market problems . Administration officials prefer to sde Boesky 's crime as an individual case and will resist any new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The fact that you find a crook does n't mean deregulation ca n't go ? on . . . . The more competition we have in the marketplace , the better . " The most ideological among the free marketers see a better solution : legalize insider trading . Why not , they ask , allow information to be sold to the one who will pay the most for it ? The cooler heads on Wall Street see such short-term profiteering as potentially disastrous to the market . Still , many continue to assert that the system will correct itself . They contend that lawsuits brought by corporations believing they paid too much for a company they acquired because inside traders had inflated the price will discipline the market . Fairness , they say , can be assured through this type of private litigation . But if such suits succeed and individuals , law firms , investment banks and brokerage houses are forced to pay multibillion-dollar claims , higher , consumer prices and a less competitive economy will result. ? From Boesky , the bad-apple hunt leads to Drexel Burn- , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  raiding parties on corporations , lending money to ' financial manipulators whose activities hurt the longterm health of the economy . Last summer Business Week published a cover story on Drexel . At that time Levine 's cooperation with prosecutors was becoming known , and there was speculation that Boesky would be implicated . Chris Welles wrote : Drexel has an obligation to corporate clients to keep certain deal information confidential . Yet since he is a client , it also has responsibilities to Boesky , whose business depends on knowing as much about deals as possible . And Boesky , with one of the largest information networks and some of the biggest arbitrage positions on Wall Street , is a valuable client . Drexel sees no conflict . Established firms and other deal makers who have no love for Drexel or for Boesky are saying publicly that Drexel and Boesky had inherently incestuous ties . Now the S.E.C. seems ready to prove it . Federal investigators have lots of questions for Drexel officials . They are interested in , among others , Michael Milken , who created and directs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid $40 million a year , a small part of what he brings into the firm , has received a subpoena . Junk bonds barely existed at the beginning of this decade , but today they are a multibillion-dollar  --  business . Drexel is estimated to be making more than Salomon Brothers , the leader among bond underwriters , although it has about half the capital base of Salomon . When it became clear recently that Salomon Brothers was moving into the junk-bond business , Henry Kaufman , one of Wall Street 's most respected figures , resigned as the company 's vice president and as a member of its board ( though he remained as head of Salomon Brothers ' research department ) . " I 'm not sure that this whole trend makes a net contribution to society , " Kaufman said . But the new-style bankers at the sayings and loan associations have loaded up on junk bonds . So have many of the mutual funds on Wall Street . As a result they can offer a breathtaking return of 11 percent or more . However , junk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highflying conglomerate , defaulted on a large number of junk bonds this past summer . Drexel , through sheer cunning and daring , has dramatically changed the U.S. financial system . The transition back to blue chips probably will not be smooth . Undoing the damage will not be easy , and indeed it is unlikely given the S.E.C. 's understanding of what is wrong . The problem in the stock market is not just insider trading but the merger mania itself , the speculation , the reckless pyramiding of debt . Mergers and acquisitions now drive the economy . The stock market activity generated by Boesky and his ilk have masked the stagnation of the economy : What will happen if the mask is removed ? Ivan Boesky did not operate in a vacuum . What about the offshore banks through which dirty deals are done ? And what about the prominent investment houses that do business through these banks , and the law firms that make tens of millions of dollars in a few weeks on mergers , and the accountants who charge huge fees for the paperwork ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So , too , however tangentially , are those who manage the raiders ' targets  --  the corporate executives with their golden parachutes if the raiders win and their poison pills that weaken their companies ' prospects . The workings of insider information extend to Boesky 's trial . Harvey Pitt , the lawyer who worked out Boesky 's so-called remarkable compromise with the S.E.C. , was formerly general counsel for the commission . He was assisted by Theodore A. Levine , who was once the number-three man in the commission 's enforcement division . Is Pitt trading on insider information , his knowledge of the people who used to work for him when he was with the S.E.C. and of how the commission works out its strategy in such cases ? Boesky 's sale of $440 million in stock before the market fell represents the ultimate insider deal . Jeff Danziger 's cartoon in The Christian Science Monitor on November 18 shows two dark-suited briefcase carriers on the steps of the New York Stock Exchange . One says to the other , " This Boesky affair is really undermining confidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friend answers , " I have n't had a good hot tip all day . " Everybody does it . Information is what fuels the market . When does it become insider trading ? Is the whole casino rigged ? And what does it mean for the economy ? What happens when the labor of talented people and money that might go to building better products is consumed in a paper chase ? When more is spent on mergers than on investment in new plants and equipment ? Along with the questions , the Boesky case points to a breakdown in conventional limits to greed . Under current conditions the logical extension of possessive individualism is criminal activity . Boesky represents only a slight deviation from the morality today 's market finds acceptable . Ivan Boesky was enmeshed in patterns of illegal trading and corruption of the kind made public after the stock market crash of 1929 . He is no bad apple ; the tree is diseased . ?                     