@@486973

From young Cieorge Washington 's apocryphal admission about chopping down a cherry tree to Jimmy Carter 's political mantra in 1976 ( " I will never lie to you " ) , the issue of Presidential truth and consequences has always been with us Since " leadership is example , " in Albert Schweitzer 's phrase , Americans have always expected -- or at least hoped - that their leading citizen would be a truth-teller No modern President has engaged in so consistent a pattern of misspeaking on such a wide range of subjects as has Ronald Reagan Prior Presidents surely committed their share of factual errors  --  and none of Reagan 's approach B J. 's deceptions about the Vietnam War or Richard Nixon 's lies about Watergate . But in terms of sheer regularity and frequency , Reagan - is the all-time champ of misstatement Reagan 's problem is not merely the kind of innocent bloopers and faux pas all of us , even Presidents , are prone to . Gerald Ford , for example , once actually said , " Things are more like they are now than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Brazil ; referred to his Secterary of Housing and Urban Development as Mayor " at a conference of mayors ; called Samuel Doe , Head of State of 1 iberia , " Chairman Moe " ; and announced at a G 0 P fundraisolg dinner in 1982 , " Now we are trying to gel unenrinloyment to go up , and I think we 're going to succeed . " No great harm done there . But Reagan makes errors that are far more serious than faux pas They can be divided into six categories- obvious exaggerations , material omissions contrived anecdotes , voodoo static ( Continued on Page 399 ) evidence obtained by wiretaps authorized under FISA would be admissible because the government 's " primary purpose " in obtaining it had been to collect intelligence information , not to prosecute American supporters of the I.R.A . Yet , for some time before the taps were installed , the U.S. government had been pressed by the governments of Ireland and Great Britain to bring criminal proceedings against . , mericans who were supplying guns to the I.R.A. , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Not even mentioned at the Kastenmeier hearings was the massive surveillance program carried out by the National Security Agency , which was exposed by the Church Committee and discussed in James Bamford 's book The Puzzle Palace . In the early 1970s , the N.S.A. participated in President Nixon 's war on drugs and worked with the Central Intelligence Agency under Operation Chaos to spy on protesters against the Vietnam War . For thirty years the N.S.A. ran its own surveillance program , known as Operation Shamrock , under which international cable companies turned over all their cable traffic to the agency . The information thus obtained was then disseminated to other Federal agencies , including the Justice Department , which used it in criminal prosecutions . N.S.A. surveillances touched not only suspected drug dealers but also antiwar activists , civil rights workers , Cuban exiles and such prominent Americans as Dr. Benjamin Spock , Joan Baez , Martin Luther King Jr . and Jane Fonda After the Church Committee exposed its illegal activity , the agency promised to mend its ways . But by taking advantage of loopholes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The extent of its activities and whether they involve abuses like those committed in the past are not known , partly because the courts have blocked inquiries into N.S.A. procedures by allowing the government to invoke the " state secrets " privilege . Obviously judicial scrutiny and legislative oversight of the administration of FISA are essential if the act is to achieve its purposes . Since there is no requirement in the act that targets of surveillance must be notified in all cases , there is little chance that anyone will challenge the legality of a tap or bug . Judge Hart 's testimony , scanty as it was , provides little reassurance about judicial oversight And Congress has not done what Morton Halperin has urged it to do : " insist Ton a right of access , which . . . the statute clearly contemplated . . . insist upon seeing the full text of the whole record in some number of cases , randomly selected . " Moreover , the annual reports by the House and Senate intelligence committees are no longer required by the act . This is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't know . It may well be that most surveillance orders have been permissible under the law . The mere existence of FISA and its provisions for some external checks has probably forestalled some of the more egregious abuses . But the statute , with its elaborate provisions for judicial scrutiny and legislative oversight , was passed not just for easy cases but also for those where a careful look is both appropriate and necessary . As things stand , that hard look is missing . E Presidential ( Continued From Front Cover ) tics , denials of unpleasant facts and flat untruths . ? Reagan repeatedly exaggerates  --  or , to use Huck Finn 's word , he tells " stretchers . " They often contain a kernel of truth , but not much more . Yes , taxes as a percentage of the gross national product rose from 1960 to 1981 ( kernel ) , but they did n't double , as Reagan has said ( 10.4 percent to 12 percent are the accurate numbers ) . Yes , Governor Reagan won handily in 1970 ( kernel ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ margin he won by in 1966 ( it was 501,000 votes ) . And yes , Pope John Paul II mentioned Poland in a letter he sent to Reagan following the crackdown on Solidarity ( kernel ) , but the Vatican has denied that the Pontiff approved of retaliatory U.S. sanctions against Moscow , as Reagan 's " stretcher " had it . In each instance , the President 's puffing was needed to make his point . The truth  --  that taxes as a percentage of the G.N.P . rose slightly , that Reagan 's winning margin decreased by half and that the Pope sent merely a courteous letter  --  was not enough . ? Reagan brings to mind Franz Kafka 's remark about Martin Buber : " No matter what he says , something is missing . " His statements are peppered with what lawyers call " material omissions . " At a March 1982 press conference , for example , he said the poor would n't suffer as a result of his budget cuts because the Federal budget was increasing by $32 billion ; what he did n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spending . The President has repeatedly claimed that expenditures for the food stamp program have risen " 16,000 percent , " without acknowledging that he is using the cost of the experimental program , which was limited to a few counties , as a base point . ( Did you know that George Bush has increased thirtyfold in weight ? Sounds like an obese Bush , but not if the comparison is between his weight at birth and his weight now ) ? Reagan frequently resorts to apocryphal anecdotes . Despite the Talmudic caveat that " for example is not evidence , " we are given battalions of welfare queens , students investing their education loans in money market funds , rich children getting free school lunches . Are these telling stories , or is Reagan telling stories ? At times a story seems too perfect to be true  --  and it is n't . The President told a Des Moines audience that a New York congressman had proposed " that government should confiscate all food and divide it equally among all the people because food was a natural resource belonging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House said , " The story was not true . The President intended it as a joke . " But the joke was Mark Green is the president of The Democracy Project and co-author , with Gail MacColl , of the forthcoming There He Goes Again : Reagan 's Reign of Error ( Pantheon ) , from which this article is excerpted . The fourth edition of his book Who Runs Congress will be published by Dell in January . ? 1983 by The Democracy Project , Gail MacColl and Christopher Power . on the audience , which took the tale seriously . ? Reagan often employs what could be called voodoo statistics When he wants to exaggerate a figure  --  such as the growth of Federal spending  --  he always uses numbers not adjusted for inflation ( " In the last ten years , Federal spending has increased more than 300 percent " ) . When he wants to minimize a figure , he either adjusts it for inflation ( military spending will increase a " real " 10 percent ) or gives it as a percentage of something to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only " 5 percent of the G.N.P. ) . Or he simply inflates numbers . Remember the statement he made at a press conference that 57 percent of the stores investigated by the Department of Agriculture violated the rules of the food stamp program ? But the department had investigated only those stores about which it had already received information about possible violations-2 percent of all stores . So the more likely percentage of stores that violate the rules is not 57 percent but 1 percent . ? Another kind of Reagan error is the denial of fact . In a scene in Mel Brooks 's film Young Frankenstein , Frankenstein expresses sympathy to his assistant Igor about the huge hump on his back . Replies Igor with a straight face , " What hump ? " When it comes to stonewalling bad news , Reagan is Igor After the 1982 midterm elections , the President pronounced himself satisfied : " There was nothing to suggest a need to change the basic course . " Nothing ? How about the largest midterm loss in the House for a first-term President ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And when scandal rocked the Environmental Protection Agency early this year , he said the problem was unfair press reports ; within three weeks of that statement , thirteen top officials at the agency had resigned or been forced out . ? Finally , there is the summum malum of misstatements  --  flat untruths . President Reagan has said that the United States decreased military spending in real terms over the past decade ; that Leonid Brezhnev was the first person to propose a nuclear freeze ; that he 's increased the budget of the WIC food-supplement program for women , infants and children ; that John Hinckley Jr . bought his gun in a jurisdiction with a strict gun registration law ; that Vietnam vets are n't entitled to benefits under the G.I. Bill of Rights ; that submarine-launched nuclear missiles are recallable ; that the United States has as much forest area today as it did 200 years ago ; that his Administration has n't " touched " Social Security ; and that the Federal education budget has n't been cut . None of those statements are true . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liar 's No . Using St. Augustine 's definition of lying as having one thing in your heart and another in your head , Reagan is telling the truth  --  not our truth , but his truth He 'd pass a polygraph test because , in a triumph of belief over reality , he seems to have convinced himself that all his contrived anecdotes and funny numbers are roughly true . Is Reagan reckless or negligent with the truth ? Here , with sincerity not a defense , one can make a good case that he - is , both Exhibit One is the forthcoming book There He Go , Again , in which my colleagues and I have documented some 300 errors , creating a strong presumption that the President either should have known his facts were wrong ( negligent ) or did n't care ( reckless ) . Exhibit Two is his recidivism  --  his repetition of errors even after they have been pointed out to him ( e.g. , his claims that he vastly reduced the welfare rolls in California and that he 's appointed more women to top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the way he uncritically passes along as fact information he has picked up the way a vacuum cleaner does lint . When White House communications director David R. Gergen was quizzed about the source of the President 's assertion that children were getting free school lunches in a community where the average income was $75,000 , Gergen replied , " He heard it al a dinner party . " Campaign aides from 1980 recall Michael Deaver hiding copies of Human Events from Reagan because of his tendency simply to repeat information from that ultraconservative and not very credible publication . Exhibit Four is the fact that all his errors coincidentally lampoon big government , Democrats and the Russians -- and laud Republicans , conservatives and himself . Is there a method to his badness ? To answer that question requires an understanding of why Reagan errs so often . Though his motives are generally mixed and murky , President-watchers must try to decipher them in order to spur better Presidential performance  --  or at least expose a bad one . Ideology before evidence . Reagan instinctively shoehorns all information into an ideological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data that reflect critically on the Pentagon are not to be trusted . When confronted with something or someone who challenges his conservative catechism , like an unyielding Marxist-Leninist , he will change not his mind but the facts . And since his catechism on supply-side economics , civil rights , wealth and poverty , and the environment often clashes with reality , Reagan is constantly engaged in circle , squaring exercises . Hence error . OW-of-date/Out-of-touch The President 's Norman Rockwell view of America  --  he did n't see any racial discrimination when he was a boy ; there were n't riots during the Great Depression , local volunteer groups should hold " barn raisers " to make up for funds lost to budget cuts  --  makes one wish that nostalgia were a thing of the past . It often seems as if he made up his mind on most matters three decades ago and has been on automatic pilot ever since  --  a conclusion supported by the identical phrasing and stories that turn up in speeches given decades apart . " There is a generation gap between what Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says John Sears , who ran Reagan 's 1976 Presidential campaign and half of his 1980 race . " Reagan has all these old phonograph records iii his head , and a lot of them are full of misinformation . We used to talk about getting into his ' record libiary ' and throwing some of them out . " Habit . For another origin of his gaffes , consider Reagan 's careers before he entered politics : acting , sportscasting and lec wing . An actor succeeds or fails not on the basis of the truth of what he says but as a result of the effect of lines scripted for him by others . ( " So much of our profession is taken up with pretending , " wrote Reagan in his autobiography , Where 's the Rest of Me ? , " that an actor must spend at least half his waking hours in a fantasy . " ) As a baseball announcer , Reagan , like all sportscasters of his day , read wire copy and then made up colorful play-by-play commentary . Speaking at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of America , Reagan said of that technique : " I submit to you that I told the truth . . . . The truth got there , and , in other words , it can be attractively packaged . " As a speaker for General Electric and conservative causes in the 1950s and 1960s , he developed the skill of delivering , and cataloguing for retrieval , one-liners about conservative shibboleths . Reagan 's background may have created a mind-set that favors packaging over content and applause over accuracy . Intellectual laziness . This is different from the facile charge that he 's " just a dumb actor . " He was smart enough to get elected President and to get most of his economic program enacted . Yet family , friends and aides agree that Reagan often relies on personal charm and a photographic memory instead of the kind of hard work needed to master a topic . Here is Neil Reagan on his brother as a young man- " He would take a book the night before the test and in about a quick hour he would thumb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test . He uses the same method now when he speaks . " Reagan himself told a biographer , " I 'm a lazy fellow . I work up to a certain point , but beyond that point , I say the hell with it . " He 's famous for his 9-to-5 schedule with Wednesday afternoons off for horseback riding , and has had as many vacations as press conferences . A September 1981 Newsweek article quoted an unnamed White House aide as saying , " He probably spends two or three hours at most a day on real work " Isolation . Reagan has long been isolated , and he rarely ex-r. ' , es himself to a range of opinions that might dig him out of his entrenched views . His insulated world of self-made businessmen and California conservatives reinforces his belief that the Russians and big government are behind everything evil . His schedule for the past couple of years  --  whom he 's met with and whom he 's addressed  --  reveals a chief executive unfamiliar with America 's diversity In a three-week period in February @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Association of Manufacturers , the National Association of Evangelicals , the Conservative Political Action Conference and the editors of National Review  --  groups that span America all the way from A to B Indeed , Reagan is able to indulge his habit of reiterating the same one-liners , anecdotes and errors in speech after speech , year after year , because he nearly always addresses audiences that mirror his views . The amiability factor . Finally , there 's President Pan-gloss 's upbeat and sunny personality . " You have to be careful with him , " cautions a former aide . " If you had nine bad items to tell him and one good one , he would latch on to the favorable item and discount the other nine . " An upbeat personality is a wonderful thing in a friend . But in a President it can result in self-delusion on important policy matters . People who act sunny in a thunderstorm are charming , but they still get wet . And saying that budget cuts have n't hurt the poor or that tax cuts will increase tax revenues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aides dismiss the criticism that he is error-prone . David Gergen considers the issue trivial , a non-problem , " pure journalistic fantasy . " " I do n't think we ought to turn our Presidents into statistical walking almanacs , " he has said . " If you 're a tenth of a point or two off on some number , that 's not what 's critical . " gut denying the existence of a problem that has publicly bedeviled Reagan since his 1966 race for governor simply compounds it . If there was no problem , why was Stuart Spencer assigned to Reagan 's campaign plane in 1980 to keep him from making further gaffes ? Why all the retractions coming out of the White House ? Nor are all or most of the errors trivial . To say that a Trident missile is recallable is hardly an insignificant blooper . Condoning small mistakes in the interest of a " larger truth " reveals the kind of casualness that tolerates and perpetuates error . " To lose faith in his attestations on small things , " wrote columnist Murray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to distrust them on large ones . " In fact , the evidence supporting Reagan 's " larger truths " is pretty thin as well . In the 1980 campaign he claimed that the United States had a " window of vulnerability " to Soviet nuclear attack and that " Democratic deficits " had caused inflation . The President later implicitly accepted the conclusion of the Scowcroft Commission that there is no " window of vulnerability . " As for deficits causing inflation , Reagan 's deficits are unprecedented , yet inflation is down . Taking a more sympathetic approach , Representative Richard Cheney of Wyoming , who was President Ford 's chief of staff , said in an interview that Reagan 's misstatements are " no worse than those of other Presidents . " True , all Presidents feel pressure to throw a coat of varnish over everything they touch . Sometimes that has led them to purvey misrepresentations , stretchers , halftruths  --  even deceptions and lies . Ike allowed his State Department to say that a U-2 downed over Russia was a stray weather plane . The White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1962 because of a cold when he really canceled it because of the discovery of Soviet offensive missiles in Cuba . L.B.J. deceived the public on the costs of the Vietnam War and on the Tonkin Gulf resolution . He also denied that Bobby Baker had been his prot  --  g ? in the Senate , asserted that Marines were sent to protect Americans in the Dominican Republic in 1965 because 1,500people had been " beheaded " and claimed that " my great-great-grandfather died at the Alamo . " None of those statements are true . Richard Nixon 's cover-up of Watergate , of course , is the quintessential example of Presidential deception . Jimmy Carter often grossly exaggerated his qualifications for the Presidency in the 1976 campaign ; for example , he was not a " nuclear physicist , " as he claimed . But both critics and supporters agree that Carter made very few factual misstatements on policy matters while he was President . Representative Cheney , then , is correct in implying that Reagan is not the first erring President , but wrong in concluding that he 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book with Carter 's factual mistakes ? Ford 's ? Ike 's or J.F.K. 's ? Even Nixon 's or L.B.J. 's ? The answer appears to be no , though dissenters are welcome to try . One might contend that Reagan is different merely in degree , but it is so many degrees as to equal the difference between hot and cold water . Despite this record of dissimulation , Reagan shows no sign of contrition or concern ; one high-level aide to the President said , " I have never heard him say , ' I was wrong . ' " Eisenhower quickly acknowledged the truth about the U-2 . Even L.B.J. , with chagrin , eventually admit-. ted that no Johnson had fought and died at the Alamo . " But with a chutzpah unprecedented in the theater of politics , " concludes Prof. Richard Phelps of Indiana University , who has studied the President 's use of statistics , " Reagan chews out false facts with nary a pause or flinch . He shows no shame . " Perhaps that is because Reagan has gotten off easy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there was a flurry of press reports about them early in the 1980 campaign and again early in 1982 . Though the errors did n't subside , the attention did . ( Some journalists , like Lou Cannon of The Washington Post , diligently continue to report them , but stories about Reagan 's misstatements have slipped farther and farther back from page 1 . ) As for the electronic media , Robert Kaiser , the editor of The Washington Post 's Outlook section , has observed that " the television networks have a hard time reacting . They have n't found a formula for saying the President is wrong . " So 30 million people hear one of the President 's well-delivered speeches , and even though ten reporters and Op-Ed rebutters later pen pieces correcting him , he 's still way ahead in terms , audience and credibility . A false remark gets halfway around the world , remarked Mark Twain , before truth puts on its boots . Shaking his head in dismay , Representative Mo Udall said in an interview that Reagan " has an immunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courtroom . " Why ? Because of the triumph of his charm over content . His cultivated sincerity on television is credible even if his material is n't . In the opinion of John Sears , " If Jimmy Carter were making these mistakes , he would be treated much worse . The press did n't like Carter on the level of a personal human being . But they like Reagan , and this affects their intensity factor . " President Carter found that out the hard way . Rick Hertzberg , who was Carter 's chief speechwriter , recalled that Reagan made so many obviously false assertions in the climactic 1980 campaign debate  --  e.g , he never favored voluntary Social Security contributions ; he never expressed indifference to nuclear proliferation  --  that " Carter did n't bother correcting him , assuming the press would crucify him . But they did n't " Indeed , when Reagan taunted Carter w'th his now-legendary line , " There you go again , " he was fa-dually wrong . Carter had said that Reagan had opposed Medicare in 1965 , which is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the election Reagan 's untruths have significant public costs , Gergen 's attempts to trivialize the problem notwithstanding . First , there 's the effect the President 's misstatements have on officials in his Administration , who may understandably consider it standard operating procedure to make misleading remarks to advance their purposes Vice President George Bush has actually denied he ever criticized candidate Reagan for his " voodoo economics " ( He did , on tape , at Carnegie-Mellon University on April 10 , 1980 ) 0 M.B. Director David Stockman has admitted he doctored economic indicators to make Administration projections look good in 1981 And in an internal memorandum , Reagan 's task force on government waste , with a tip of the hat to the master anecdotist , urged panel members to search for " the most horrifying and ridiculous events , anomalies , conditions and practices . . " Second , there 's the effect Reagan 's disinformation has on the content of public policy In the popular acronym of computer programmers , it 's GIGO ( garbage in , garbage out ) . Reagan 's remark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revenues ( they did n't ) may have converted a close vote on his tax bill into an easy win And when he says repeatedly that the Soviet Union dominates the United States militarily ( no member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has ever believed this ) , it has to encourage Congress to pass his record - setting military budget . Here , distortion is not harmless but pivotal . ? The final cost of false facts is a loss of trust in government . Every Presidential untruth , when unmasked , makes it harder for subsequent Presidential statements to be accepted and acted on . Post-Johnson and - Nixon cynicism weakened governmental credibility . Reagan 's counterfactual assertions too have a corrosive effect on public confidence in government . When he takes to the Presidential pulpit to explain why the guerrillas in El Salvador are murderous revolutionaries while the guerrillas in Nicaragua are " freedom fighters , " he may be right  --  but how can we know ? How can we trust his numbers , given his penchant for puffing ? Sissela Bok , in her book Lying : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem well : Imagine a society , no matter how ideal in other respects , where word and gesture could never be counted upon Questions asked , answers given , information exchanged  --  all would be worthless . A warning that a well was poisoned or a plea for help in an accident would come to be ignored unless independent confirmation could be found Trust is a social good Just as much as the air we breathe or the water we drink Whatever the short-run gains of dissembling and feinting , the best rule ? for incumbents and their heirs  --  is that you ca n't lead people by misleading them Unfortunately , Ronald Reagan , as Abraham Lincoln once said of an opponent , appears to have such a high regard for the truth that he uses it sparingly . Far preferable to Reagan 's casualness toward error is the approach of a President he so often quotes , Franklin Delano Roosevelt , which was described by his speechwriter Robert Sherwood in his book , Roosevelt and Hopkins : The New York Times can make mistakes  --  the World Almanac @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States must not make mistakes . This constant thought imposed a harrowing responsibility After 1940 , the White House had its resident statistician , Isador Lubin , the Commissioner of Labor Statistics , who was constantly available and incalculably valuable to Roosevelt and to Hopkins in checking every decimal point ?                     