@@480570

From " Race and Career Opportunities in Major League Baseball : I 960-1980 , " by John C. Phillips , in the Summer/Fall 1983 issue of the Journal of Sport and Social Issues . iven the competitive nature of professional baseball and the " fair play " ideology that is said to prevail in the world of sports , one would expect that players with the best performance statistics would be hired , without regard to race or any other irrelevant characteristic . Unfortunately , baseball is still not free of racial discrimination . A number of studies have shown that black players of marginal ability have been victimized by discrimination ( i.e. , whites of comparable or lesser ability have often been hired in their place ) , and that certain " central " positions ( catcher , shortstop , second base ) are closed to all but a few black players . As this study shows , from 1960 to 1980 there was a decrease in " marginality " as a form of discrimination , but an increase in " centrality " : the tendency to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action of teammates . Data for this study were compiled from Who 's Who in Baseball . The 1960 , 1963 , 1966 , 1969 , 1972 , 1974. 1976 , 1978 , and 1980 records of all major league players , with the exception of pitchers and those with fewer than fifty " at bats , " were examined . This graph provides stark evidence that blacks have consistently had higher batting averages than whites . The gap , however , does appear to be decreasing . Latin American players exhibit a pattern similar to that of blacks . If players were selected and retained on the basis of productivity alone , batting averages would not vary by race . A discrepancy might indicate that members of the group with the lower average possess some compensatory advantage ( e.g. , better defensive skills , willingness to play for lower salaries , greater fan appeal ) , or that some members of the group with the higher average are being replaced by inferior players of the other group ? that is , they are being discriminated against . Pascal and Rapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the second . If anything , black players appear to possess more compensatory advantages than their white counterparts : their salaries are lower and they have greater speed . Scully ( 1974 ) showed that the racial composition of a team has no appreciable impact on game attendance . The table shows a steady rise in the exclusion of blacks from central , or leadership , positions . The proportion of blacks in these positions has declined from 25 percent in 1960 to 15 percent in 1980 , while the proportion in the least central positions has risen from 54 percent to 67 percent . C represents catcher ; SS , shortstop ; 2B , second base ; I B , first base ; 3B , third base ; OF , outfield . Whatever the explanation , it is clear that blacks have slightly less opportunity than whites of comparable skills to play major league baseball . Among blacks who do make it to the major leagues , there is less opportunity to play the central positions , which often prov ide opportunities for coaching , managerial , and front-office jobs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of whites to the idea of blacks holding leadership positions . Some argue that managers and coaches assume that blacks lack the " mental ability " or personality traits required to perform well in these positions . AT &T; INVITES YOU TO STAY HOME AND ENJOYA CONCERT FROM CARNEGIE HALL EVERY WEEK . AT &T; PRESENTS CARNEGIE HALL TONIGHT " Now all you need is a radio to enjoy the excellence of Carnegie Hall week after week . In " AT &T; Presents Carnegie Hall Tonight ; ' some of the greatest soloists , ensembles , and orchestras of our time perform for you . Hosted by actor and composer John Rubinstein , this program hour also includes feature interviews , so you actually hear more than you would at a live performance . This series is part of AT &T's; continuing commitment to bring you great art and great artists .  - -  -  AT &T; Check local listings for the time and station in your area . s prologue to The Dyer 's Hand , a collection of his literary criticism , W. H. Auden set himself the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ So long as a man writes poetry or fiction , " he said , " his dream of Eden is his own business , but the moment he starts writing literary criticism , honesty demands that he describe it to his readers , so that they may be in the position to judge his judgments . " Following his own injunction , Auden filled out a questionnaire of his own making ( which appears on the next page ) that described Arcadia ? not a biblical state of primitive innocence , but a place in which he would feel at home . Editors occupy a position comparable to that of the literary critic ? forever evaluating the passing human parade from a perspective and with a moral agenda often invisible to their readers . Bearing in mind the chronic complaints about the negative carping of the American press , Harper 's asked a number of the nation 's editors ( chosen unscientifically and at random ) to describe their dreams of Eden . Their sketches and blueprints provide the information that Auden said he " should like to have .. when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which this questionnaire is taken , that all the judgments , aesthetic or moral . . . however objective we try to make them , are in part a rationalization and in part a corrective discipline of Our subjective wishes . " LANDSCAPE : Limestone uplands like the Pennines plus a small region of igneous rocks with at least one extinct volcano . A precipitous and indented sea-coast . CLIMATE : British . ETHNIC ORIGIN OF INHABITANTS : Highly varied as in the United States , but with a slight nordic predominance . LANGUAGE : Of mixed origins like English , but highly inflected . WEIGHTS &; MEASURES : Irregular and complicated . No decimal system . RELIGION : Roman Catholic in an easygoing Mediterranean sort of way . Lots of local saints . SIZE OF CAPITAL : Plato 's ideal figure , 5004 , about right . FORM OF GOVERNMENT : Absolute monarchy , elected for life by lot . SOURCES OF NATURAL POWER : Wind , water , peat , coal . No oil . ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES : Lead mining , coal mining , chemical factories , paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . MEANS OF TRANSPORT : Horses and horse-drawn vehicles , narrow-gauge railroads , canal barges , balloons . No automobiles or airplanes . ARCHITECTURE : State ? Baroque . Ecclesiastical ? Romanesque or Byzantine . Domestic ? Eighteenth Century British or American Colonial . DOMESTIC FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT : Victorian except for kitchens and bathrooms which are as full of modern gadgets as possible . FORMAL DRESS : The fashions of Paris in the 1830 's and ' 40 's . SOURCES OF PUBLIC INFORMATION : Gossip . Technical and learned periodicals but no newspapers . PUBLIC STATUES : Confined to famous defunct chefs . PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENTS : Religious Processions , Brass Bands , Opera , Classical Ballet . No movies , radio or television . AVIATION WEEK and Space Technology is the magazine of record for the defense and aerospace industries , and is available by subscription only to individuals in related industries , the sciences , and the government . William H. Gregory is the editor in chief . GOVERNMENT : Totalitarian bureaucracy . G All citizens are employed by the government , and thus no one works very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only committees with rotating chairmanships . SOURCE OF PUBLIC INFORMATION : Leaks . All information is classified . LANGUAGE : Federalese . Vocabulary limited to words like " implement " and " finalize . " Since all activity consists of committee meetings , nothing is ever finalized or implemented . CAPITAL : None . No central direction required . FURNITURE : Largely wooden swivel chairs , with waffle-pattern seat pads for official branding of the bottoms of occupants . CLIMATE : Fog . LANDSCAPE : All downhill . AGRICULTURE : Lotus cultivation . One forbidden apple tree . MILITARY FORCES : Consist entirely of secretaries of defense , undersecretaries of defense , and civilian systems analysts . Weapons are only studied , never designed or built . There are no forces to use them if , by mistake , a decision does emerge . ARCHITECTURE : Bolshevik modern . ART : Government-approved line drawings or stick figures . Usually depictions of committee meetings . EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM : Personal stereo players and tape cassettes supplied by government . Students run during sleep for subliminal indoctrination . No homework or study . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Baggy Mao suits or loose-fitting bathing costumes . RELIGION : Vague , convoluted loyalty oaths . LAW ENFORCEMENT : Lie detectors and whistle blowers . JUDICIAL SYSTEM : Supreme Court issues numerous rulings based on interpretations of transactions of committee meetings . Sits once every ten years . TRANSPORTATION : Consists solely of unregulated airlines as a result of a misunderstanding in a Supreme Court decision . Routes are changed daily on the basis of previous day 's traffic . Fares are set each day , but are not revealed to the public . ECONOMIC SYSTEM : All income is paid to the government in taxes . After committee discussions over several months , all revenues are paid back to citizens as entitlements , which are then paid back to the government the following year in taxes . The government does all manufacturing , which consists predominantly of swivel chairs . NUMBER SYSTEM : Base one billion arithmetic . All quantities less than one billion are banned . WEIGHTS AND MEASURES : The system has never been finalized . TIMEis America 's oldest and largest newsweekly . Henry Anatole Grunwald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Martha 's Vineyard abutting the Dolomites . CLIMATE : Rome in May . ETHNIC ORIGIN OF INHABITANTS : Anglo-Jewish . LANGUAGE : Correct English and any kind of Italian . WEIGHTS AND MEASURES : Who cares ? SIZE OF CAPITAL : The central arrondissements of Paris , whatever that adds up to . GOVERNMENT : Constitutional monarchy . SOURCES OF NATURAL POWER : Solar and will . ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES : High-tech industry , services of all kinds , gardening , barter . and a little gambling . MEANS OF TRANSPORT : Helicopters ( silent ) . ARCHITECTURE : Georgian , Palladian , New England Shingle . FORMAL DRESS : Edwardian . SOURCES OF PUBLIC INFORMATION : Bards and the newsmagazines . PUBLIC STATUES : Female only . FOOD : Caviar and pasta . NATIONAL ANTHEM : The " Marseillaise. " skier and never break anything . The population will consist of as many men as women , but emotionally everyone will be androgynous . Men will have tender , somewhat passive dispositions , and women will be forthright and energetic ? but sometimes it will be the other way around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambrosia , probably vegetables and fruit or chocolate chip cookies and pasta primavera . ( We are not going to kill anything to eat or wear or mount as a trophy . ) Whatever it is , it will never make anybody fat or even chubby . In Eden , calories literally will not count . Beverages will he the best wines of France and double chocolate milkshakes . There will be no alcohol other than wine , no drugs , no caffeine , and no cigarettes . There will , however , be a few Havana cigars in a far corner of Eden for sybarites like my husband . How will we look ? Sensational , of course . Since there will not be any preconceived standards of beauty , each of us will be considered beautiful . ( Not worrying about how we look will in itself constitute paradise for many of us . ) We will all select the age we want to be ? tiny tot , teenager , thirties , ninety-five ? and switch back and forth as often as we like , but only for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wisdom and mellowness . There wo n't be any downside to old age , because in Eden there will be no illness , pain , or disease . Deciding who you want to pal around with will take a lot of time and bring infinite pleasure , because you 'll have a crack at everybody ? all ages , intellects , colors , accomplishments , and personalities . Whomever you like will automatically like you back . You will enjoy innumerable 411 gambits , forays , discoveries , and explorings with your special pals . An exploration might take weeks or years . Since there wo n't be any jealousy , nobody will be upset if you are gone for so long . There will he no betrayals of friendship or love . Housing in southern Eden in the summer will consist of two- to four-story Paiazzi like those in Italy or other Mediterranean countries , with marble floors , wide staircases , enchanting views of endless gardens , satiny wood paneling , exqui- site furniture and trappings . Sheets will be silk or linen , changed daily . Clothes ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , gossamer wool , or Egyptian cotton . Chests of jewels will be available for playing dress-up ; everybody will have as many emeralds , sapphires , rubies , and diamonds as he or she pleases , but nobody will take them too seriously . There wo n't be any money , because no one will need anything ? it will all be there in abundance . Every kind of music will be available , played by robot musicians . The great and not-great works of literature will also be available , and there will be unlimited time to read . No television . Small chariots run by diesel power will be Edenites ' means of transport . Exquisite little robots who look soft and touchable will do all the work . Everything . Nobody will program them . They will just know what to do . They will handle all domestic chores , build the palaces and lodges , build and operate the chariots , weave the cloth , design the clothes , etc. , etc . They will never break down . There wo n't be any sex . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ console themselves for all the heartache , pain , and loneliness they endure . Since there wo n't be any heartache , pain , or loneliness in Eden , we wo n't need sex . Note : I have not included apple trees in the flora and fauna , so Adam will not be tempted and his ribs will remain intact . Anyway , his Eve will already be there . As for babies , they will be found under giant lily pads . Robots will take care of the babies , who will never cry ; they will all grow up perfect . There wo n't be any form of government . People will instinctively do what makes them and other people happy . GRAND STREET is a literary quarterly based in New York City that publishes original fiction , poems , articles , and translations . Ben Sonnenberg is the editor . 4 Eden is somewhere like the lobby of the old Astor Hotel , which used to be on Broadway between Forty-fourth and Fourty-fifth streets : bar over there , newsstand here , lots of bedrooms upstairs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vehicles , no dogs or cats , no weather , no nature whatever . Except human nature , mostly in the form of out-of-towners , many surprisingly bookish . I envision as well Hazel Scott talking with H. L. Mencken , Peter Arno with John Maynard Keynes . Not far away is a theater showing only Japanese movies . SAVVYis a magazine for executive women that places particular value on entrepreneurship . Its editor is Wendy Reid Crisp . LANDSCAPE : The northern Pacific coast , where the ocean slams against the rocks , and the rocks are filled with tide pools , and the tide pools are filled with anemones . The coastline and its sentinel of redwoods , the wild rivers , and the fir-forested mountains are politically undisputed . CLIMATE : Determined by ocean winds within two miles of the coast ? foggy , rainy . Over the first line of mountains , the weather of Pasadena , California , when there is no smog . LANGUAGE : For close friends , a sensual , gentle Spanish ; for lovers , Portuguese ; for acquaintances , Japanese . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for science . Klamath and Wiyot dialects are needed for survival in the wild . No one ever speaks French . FOOD : Because everyone was breast-fed , there is no problem with cholesterol , and vast amounts of butter and cheese and cream and eggs are common in the daily diet . MUSIC : Whistling and spontaneous singing of songs popular before 1970 . PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENTS : Feeds of deep-pit roasted beef , venison , lamb , grilled salmon , or mussels , attended by huge groups of extended families . They often feature open-air performances of Shakespeare , during which everyone la The Rocky Horror Picture Show ? shouts all the lines . These are followed by all-night country dances in big clean halls with bright lights and lots of beer . HOLIDAYS : Celebrated with parades led by elementaryschool and high-school bands playing slow Iberian processionals and fast American recessionals . Children carry flowers and there are fire engines but no cars , no grand marshals , no floats , and no public officials . TRANSPORTATION : Pickup trucks , jeeps , bicycles ; electric cars in town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made in Gulfstream jets . CLOTHES : Constant recycling of clothing through " exchange " shops ; thus , an abundance of " new " clothes . Style is a fluid , personal expression , and , depending on one 's mood , dress ranges from jeans and plaid flannel shirts to suits of the 1940s to Empire-period costumes with exposed bosoms . WAR : Unknown , but feuds are plentiful ; only those whose pride or property is at direct risk NEW YORK NATIVE is a biweekly newspaper published in New York City for the gay community . Brett Averill is its editor . den is neither a place nor a state of mind , E but a palpable sense of belonging , of being a welcome , necessary , and contributing member of a congenial social order . It can be dangerous to be an insider . Nonetheless , that is what many of us want , particularly we racial , sexual , and economic outlaws who view ourselves as having been twice cast out of the Garden : once by mythology , once by mythologists . These notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices and characteristics of an Arcadia for the unappreciated . My particular Eden is a gay and lesbian homeland ( sympathetic others welcome , too ) ; it is surrounded by complementary citystates of other people 's devising ? not ghettos , necessarily , but free zones for trade in divergent attributes and ideals . Charles Fourier When the Head Fairy waves her wand a semibacchanalia gets underway . The members of both groups rush into each other 's arms , and in the ensuing scramble caresses are liberally given and received . Everyone strokes and investigates whatever comes to hand and surrenders himself or herself to the unfettered impulses of simple nature . Each participant flits from one person to another , bestowing kisses everywhere with as much eagerness as rapidity . Everyone also makes a special point of encountering those individuals who caught his or her eye earlier . This brief bacchanalia allows people to verify the physical attributes of those to whom they are attracted , and it can lay the groundwork for the establishment of sympathetic relationships between people who are more inclined to physical than spiritual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural labor are relieved by sessions in the court of love . Edward Bellamy it appears to me , Miss Leete , ' I said , ' that if we could have devised an arrangement for providing everybody with music in their homes , perfect in quality , unlimited in quantity , suited to every mood , and beginning and ceasing at will , we should have considered the limit of human felicity already attained , and ceased to strive for further improvements . ' ? From Looking Backward 2000-1887 , the latenineteenth-century utopian novel . LANDSCAPE : Wide beaches along an aquamarine sea , steep mountains , dramatic vistas , rain forests , majestic plains in the interior , a small desert or two . CLIMATE : Tropical and predictable , with steady , cooling trade winds . Intense sunshine blazing through azure skies , startling for their clarity . Occasional violent thunderstorms . TEMPERAMENT OF THE POPULACE : Peaceable , urbane , rational , inquisitive , given to peeking through spyglasses into neighbors ' windows . SEXUALITY : Openly expressed and enthusiastically practiced with friends , strangers , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for couples and menages , gay and otherwise . RELIGION : Secular Buddhism with traces of Taoism . Selective totemism . EDUCATION : Thorough and progressive . Free throughout a citizen 's lifetime . OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY : An alien concept , as among many aboriginal tribes . TRADE : Heavily dependent on barter . Small , locally obtainable pebbles occasionally used as currency . ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER : Limited to the prevention of violent crimes . STRATEGIC VALUE : None . MILITARY : All retired and disarmed . PRINCIPAL HOLIDAYS : Halloween , New Year 's Eve , Gay Pride Day . 46 HARPER 'S / MAY SOURCES OF POWER : Sun , wind , water , a little petroleum . No nuclear . ARCHITECTURE : In town Edwardian houses , Victorian gingerbread cottages , small postmodern skyscrapers , occasional Egyptian and Greek facades ( but not on institutional buildings ) . In the country ? clapboard houses , wigwams , and enthusiastically tinted stucco shacks . No glass in the windows , only louvers . INTERIOR DESIGN : Traditional Japanese . LANDSCAPING : Zen gardens , banyan trees , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ART FORM : Sand painting . PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENTS : Opera , movies , buskers , political rallies , gymnastic demonstrations ; vocal recitals and performances of reggae , jazz , New Wave , and classical music in the parks . SOURCES OF INFORMATION : Many newspapers , magazines , journals , books , newsreels , and television and radio stations , all with wildly conflicting points of view . Some serious , some trashy ; very much like the American press . MEANS OF LONG-DISTANCE COMMUNICATION : Letters , telegrams , personal computers . No telephones . LOCAL SAINTS : Hadrian and Antinoijs , Emma Goldman , Gertrude Stein , Magnus Hirschfeld , Hannah Arendt , Flannery O'Connor , Tennessee Williams , Harvey Milk . LIVING NATIONAL TREASURES Christopher Isherwood , Allen Ginsberg , Tobias Schneebaum , Edmund White , the Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence . READER 'S DIGEST is published in seventeen languages and is purchased by 31 million people each month . Edward T. Thompson is the editor in chief . e he quintessence of editing is to achieve maximum clarity and feeling in a minimum of words . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hence the deep service editors render to readers . ) No magazine practices this more perfectly than Reader 's Digest , and in that context my concept of Eden can be condensed to a single phrase : Susie , my wife . FORBESis one of the nation 's leading magazines on business and finance . Sheldon Zalaznick is the managing editor . LANDSCAPE : Handsome plains punctuated by assertive hills and stands of fine old trees . Near a great river leading to the sea . Less-than one tankful 's drive from serious mountains and splendid beaches . A place , in short , rather like the northwest Bronx . CLIMATE : Four seasons ? bone-chilling winters , hopeful springs , beastly summers , and poignant autumns . Rather like the northwest Bronx . ETHNIC ORIGIN OF INHABITANTS : Highly varied , rather like the northwest Bronx . WEIGHTS AND MEASURES : Everything metric , but lots of slang terms for various portions , e.g. , a gaffe of gin ( 10 milliliters ) , a fiasco of gasoline ( fill ' er up ) . RELIGION : Reformed Druid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blue and frolicking in the woods . No human or animal sacrifice . The issue of whether women may celebrate the Druidical sacraments is long since settled . They may . CAPITAL : Deserted ten months of the year . FORM OF GOVERNMENT : Participatory fascism . Powerful enough to keep essential services going , but sufficiently corrupt to be only rarely a menace . Rather like the northwest Bronx . ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES : The largest component of Eden 's gross national product derives from the production of musical instruments , especially terrific pianos and harpsichords , and the exchange of services related to their use in concert by master players . Agriculture is among the most profitable lines of work . The cultivation of zucchini is illegal . FORMAL DRESS : Absolutely . This Eden greatly values dressing-up ( and down ) . Males are taught to ask themselves : What would Fred Astaire wear ? Depending on their age , females are taught to think Florence Eiseman , preppie , or Ralph Lauren . PUBLIC STATUES : None . But most bus stops and public squares have a large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and offers of piano instruction , and for the display of graffiti . PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENTS : Street music of all kinds ? military bands , steel bands , break dancers , jugglers . Some movie houses thrive by selling advance seating at whatever price the market will bear and serving the holders of such seats Colombian coffee in the lounge . FORUM 47 MOTHERJONES is named after Mary Harris Jones , orator , union organizer , and hell-raiser . Deirdre English is the executive editor . LANDSCAPE : A precipitous , indented seacoast , like southern Ireland or northern California . There is at least one live volcano , which provides the only frisson of danger . There is no war , no political terrorism , no murder , and no nuclear weapons . CLIMATE : The days are crisp and sunny , like winter in San Francisco . The nights are warm , as in the tropics , but the air is cooled by coastal breezes . SOCIAL CLASS : Class X , of course . LANGUAGE : The vocabulary of English , the tonality of Chinese , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . RELIGION : Zen-like in its detachment from materialistic striving , with heavy witchy overtones . Nature is deified . Her gods and goddesses play among the mortals . SIZE OF CAPITAL , There is no capital . FORM OF GOVERNMENT : Passionately democratic . Both sexes and all minorities are fairly represented . The economy is planned by local and national information-feedback networks . Talent , dedication , and even competitiveness are fostered and richly rewarded , but by nonmonetary means . SOURCES OF NATURAL POWER : Predominantly solar . No nukes . ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES : The hierarchy of rewards for productive and nonproductive ( or reproductive ) work that exists today has been reversed . Private life , education , health , art , and science are recognized as the primary values . Super hightechnology commodity production provides for the basic needs of all individuals , leaving them free to devote themselves to those values . Society has been largely demonetized ; the marginal money economy serves as a seedbed of creative ideas . FORMAL DRESS : Fashion is an art , drawing on ethnic history as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ STATUES AND ENTERTAINMENT : Everyone is celebrated during his or her lifetime with joyous tributes . There are elaborate public plazas surrounded by state-of-the-art stereo equipment that plays reggae , rock-and-roll , Mississippi blues , Beethoven , and Andean flute music . THE FAMILY : Raising children is considered the most intellectually fascinating and emotionally satisfying occupation , and the state lavishes its resources on it . Men and women share the experience equally . GENDER : Androgyny is widespread . Women are more autonomous and men more sensitive than they are now , but there are still distinct genders . SEX : Sexual preferences vary widely and sexual experimentation abounds , ranging from celibacy and monogamy to polyandry , polygamy , omnigamy , and wild , uncategorizable libertinism . NATIONAL LAMPOON is a humor magazine founded by three alumni of the Harvard Lampoon . Kevin Curran , Glenn Eichler , Peter Gaffney , Fred Graver , and Sean Kelly are the editors . LANDSCAPE : J. M. Barrie 's Never-Never Land is about ideal . CLIMATE : Lots of weather , all controlled , like in a shopping mall . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Dolphin ... whatever . Our Eden has a 100-year moratorium on regarding language as the expression of anything important . The moment someone says or writes something , it is dismissed as folderol . WEIGHTS AND MEASURES : In an effort to reinstate babies to their proper place as the basis of all civilization , the first baby born each year would become the standard for weights and measures . " That weighs about one and a half Debbies , " we would say , or " It 's about seventeen Maxes long . " RELIGION : Voodoo , but in an easygoing , Mediterranean sort of way . FORM OF GOVERNMENT : A huge , impersonal bureaucracy , symbolized by a huge , yellow , smiling face on wall posters and currency . SOURCES OF NATURAL POWER : Pyramids . Also , there 's a guy named Al in everybody 's basement who pedals a bicycle hooked up to a generator twenty-four hours a day . When he starts to get sluggish , you hit him on the head with a giant spoon specially designed for the purpose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , investment banking . LIMOUSINE ROUTES : Must pass through ghettos . MEANS OF TRANSPORT : If you want , Al will unhook his bicycle from the generator and run down to the store . Also , everyone has a big old Cadillac and runs into everyone else 's mailbox with it .                     