@@486986

There were many distinguished collections of poetry published in America in 1982 . Charles Wright and Galway Kinncll both reaffirmed their important position in American poetry with award-winning volumes of selected work . British-born Tony Connor celebrated his American citizenship with the superb New and Selected Poems ( University of Georgia Press ) , which traced his development from working-class Lancashire to prosperous New England . Hayden Carruth and Theodore Weiss both published long , ambitious poems . Carruth 's Sleeping Beauty ( Harper &; Row ) carefully explored the complex nature of romantic love , while Weiss 's visionary Recoveries ( Macmillan ) examined the shifting boundaries between art and reality . Meanwhile , Richard Moore 's Empires ( Ontario Review Press ) , an intriguing quartet of extended dramatic monologues , also expanded the possibilities of the contemporary long poem . In Flood ( Atlantic-Little , Brown ) , Wililiam Matthews used natural disaster as an unexpected avenue to self-discovery , while in Northbook ( University of Illinois Press ) , Frederick Morgan adapted Norse mythology to construct a powerfully personal world view , marking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also notable for the work of younger poets , some of them publishing collections for the first time . Dennis Johnson 's ingenious Incognito Lounge ( Random House ) introduced a poet of quick wit and strange illumination . Miriam Goodman 's Signal : Noise ( Alice James Press ) showed remarkable originality in another way . Writing about the world of business from the inside , Goodman dealt with an important subject that has rarely entered our poetry . There were also impressive reappearances : 80-year-old Gilbert Byron , for example , whose Sunbathing with the Professors ( Unicorn Book Shop ) provided a humane and captivating view of the fishermen and townspeople on the Chesapeake Bay 's Eastern Shore . Published by a small bookstore in Easton , Maryland , this unusual collection shows the importance of small regional publishers in bringing out work the major national houses ignore . Faced with these and other deserving books , the three judges ? Sydney Lea , May Swenson and myself  --  tried to choose the single volume most distinguished for its excellence and originality . Reading through the nearly 200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open to all styles and subjects . We paid special attention to collections from the small presses , since we knew those often receive short shrift from other award committees . We did , however , exclude three books which had already won major national awards because we felt it important to maintain the Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize 's tradition of independence . ? Our choice - for - the 1982 Marshall Prize is George Starbuck 's The Argot Merchant Disaster : Poems New and Selected .. Some people will be a little shocked by the choice . Many more , we hope , will be delighted , because Star-buck is not the kind of poet who is commonly considered serious enough for major awards . A master of light verse and satire , he is usually relegated to a second class of literary citizenship . Segregated by the Jim Crow laws of contemporary criticism from all but a few specialized anthologies , his work is not widely known , and until the publication of this volume , all his earlier collections were out of print . But if his audience has not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language have long recognized him as one of the few living masters of satiric poetry . For the last thirty years Starbuck has steered an independent course in the trendy currents of American poetry . He has written light verse in an age that demanded deep seriousness . He has blithely mastered both free and formal poetry when literary politicians required steadfast allegiance to only one camp . While many poets retreated into the narrow realm of personal concerns , he consistently engaged broader social and political issues . He has savagely satirized the military and the exploiters of the environment while not ignoring the shortcomings of the intellectual establishment to which , however reluctantly , he himself belongs . Treating these themes with objectivity in a distinctly personal manner , he affirmed the public role of the poet without succumbing to the dangers partisanship poses to art . As the self-deprecating title of this collection suggests , Starbuck has a keen sense of his own limitations as a poet . He is no Prince Eliot nor pretends to be . He cultivates the role of active citizen rather than that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not disguise Starbuck 's conspicuous strengths . He has been rightfully praised as a brilliant stylist , a virtuoso of comic rhyme and rhythm , of literary pastiche and pun . He is also an honest and intelligent observer of his age , though less attention has been given to this crucial quality . Perhaps Starbuck has become the unwitting victim of his own inventiveness . The glittering surfaces of his poems have obscured the depth and seriousness of his concerns . Too few readers have noted the essential interdependence of his voice and vision . His humanity has given resonance to his technique just as his ingenious imagination has invigorated his beliefs . But while Starbuck has often instructed , he has never failed to delight . The Argot Merchant Disaster is a hilarious book . Even poetry judges are human , and one deciding factor in our choice was how much he made us laugh qwq                     