@@334557

It is a murky business , trying to specify the ideological differences between Democrats and Republicans , boll weevils and gypsy moths ; even the traditional differences between liberals and conservatives get cloudy when people call themselves moderates , pragmatists , middle-of-the-roaders . Thomas Sowell , an economic historian at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University , would like to start all over again . He has divided people according to two different views of human nature : the " constrained vision " and the " unconstrained vision . " " Conflicts of interests dominate the short run , " he says , " but conflicts of visions dominate history . " <P> A vision , as Sowell uses the term , is not some mystical moment of perception , " not a dream , a hope , a prophecy , or a moral imperative , " but rather what another scholar has called a " pre-analytic cognitive act . " It is an almost instinctive sense of what the human race is like and how it functions . " Visions , " says Sowell , " are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constrained vision imagines people basing all their acts on self- interest and having only a very limited ability to affect their surroundings ; the unconstrained vision sees people being guided by reason and always able to improve things . To put it another way , the unconstrained see human beings as perfectible , the constrained as forever flawed . The constrained vision , as expressed by Adam Smith or Alexander Hamilton , seeks trade-offs ; the unconstrained vision , as in John Stuart Mill or Thomas Jefferson , seeks solutions . " The constrained vision is a tragic vision of the human condition , " Sowell writes . " The unconstrained vision is a moral vision of human intentions . " <P> Sowell steadily pursues his own vision of visions , applying it to a broad variety of contemporary issues . The unconstrained , he says , believe in government action to improve life ; the constrained believe in markets and process . The unconstrained think war is irrational and can be prevented by greater understanding ; the constrained think it is perfectly rational and can be deterred only by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith in education , the constrained in experience ; the unconstrained in youth , the constrained in age . <P> In their correspondingly contrasting views of such basic political concepts as equality or justice , the constrained and unconstrained not only differ from each other but differ so widely that they can hardly understand each other ; they use the same words to mean completely different things . " Both visions believe in rights , " Sowell says . " But rights as conceived in the unconstrained vision are virtually a negation of rights as conceived in the constrained vision . " The constrained vision supports equality of opportunity , for example ; the unconstrained judges equality not by opportunity but by results . Hence the emotional arguments over such issues as affirmative action in the marketplace or the comparable worth of different jobs , with both sides invoking high moral principles to reinforce their visions .                     