@@337751

His timing was not the best . " The tide of battle has turned , and we are beginning to win the crusade for a drug-free America , " Ronald Reagan declared last week at a White House conference on drugs . Yet as the confrontation escalated between the U.S. and Panama , and thousands of police gathered for the funeral of a New York City officer assassinated by a drug gang , Nancy Reagan took a tougher line . " Drugs are tearing our communities apart , " insisted the First Lady . " If you are a casual drug user , you are an accomplice to murder . " <P> The destructive and insidious menace of drugs has again boiled to a crisis . Once more , the First Couple and other Americans have declared themselves fed up and angry about the damage that illegal drugs are wreaking on their homes and communities . This time , however , many people were asking more insistently whether the U.S. is really serious about combatting its drug problem . How long should Washington tolerate drug-financed corruption in such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how long will ordinary Americans wink at the widespread , casual drug use that underwrites the violence on their streets ? <P> In 1986 the death of Basketball Star Len Bias after a cocaine overdose caused a national outcry . Last week another death became an even more chilling symbol : the brazen assassination of Police Officer Edward Byrne , 22 , a New York City rookie cop guarding the home of a Queens resident who had complained about cocaine dealing in his neighborhood . A gunman fired five shots into Byrne 's parked squad car , breaching a line against the deliberate killing of police that even the Mafia usually respects . An army of 10,000 lawmen , some from as far away as Texas , attended Byrne 's funeral in what may have been the largest such U.S. police honor guard . " If our son Eddie , sitting in a police car representing and protecting us , can be wasted by scum , then none of us is safe , " said his grieving father Matthew , a retired New York police lieutenant . New York Mayor Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a war for national survival . " <P> Another focus of the anger was the difficulty of ousting Panama 's arrogant military leader , General Manuel Antonio Noriega . U.S. attorneys in Tampa and Miami last month had announced indictments of Noriega for drug trafficking and money laundering . The charges made it impossible for the Reagan Administration to continue to overlook Noriega 's sinister activities . <P> The Administration 's initial steps against Noriega last week seemed timid and tentative . In response to a deadline imposed by Congress in 1986 , the President struck Panama from a list of nations certified as cooperating with the U.S. in reducing the production or transport of drugs . Any such " decertified " nation loses half of its U.S. economic aid and faces American opposition to requests for loans from international lending agencies . But the move was only symbolic , since U.S. aid to Panama was discontinued last year after anti-American demonstrators attacked the U.S. embassy .                     