@@487710

MARJORIE HOPE AND JAMES YOUNG Yew York City Mayor Edward Koch 's plan to hospitalize , against their will , some of the city 's homeless who are seriously mentally ill has generated a bewildering battle among lawyers , bureaucrats and assorted professionals . When Joyce Brown , the first street dweller to be - involuntarily hospitalized , brought suit against the city , a state court granted her release request ; the next day , an appellate court delayed it . Psychiatrists hired by the American Civil Liberties Union pitted their opinions against those of psychiatrists appearing for the city , while state and local officials-accused each other of reneging on responsibility for the homeless mentally ill . Most authorities contend that only a minority of the severely mentally ill need prolonged institutional care . But focusing on the right of mentally ill persons to live on the streets deflects attention from the basic issues . What of their right to comprehensive mental health services ? To decent housing ? Why is it that so many so-called street people are unwilling to do something as instinctive as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " The city 's psychiatric wards are miserably overcrowded . Adding twenty- . eight beds , as Koch has done , is no solution . Many shelters are dangerous and dehumanizing . More important , if these people had been given adequate mental health services and living supports in the first place , most would not be out on the streets . We need a preventive approach . " Since colonial days the states have assumed fiscal responsibility for the mentally ill . In the 1960s , however , Federal aid enabled discharged patients to live in the community , and Medicaid began to cover some mentally ill people who could be cared for in nursing homes . States welcomed Federal funds but not the dilution of their power . Another new source of Federal funding and power was the 1963 Community Mental Health Centers Act , which President John Kennedy signed with great fanfare . This " bold new approach " was motivated by the same sense of national purpose as the Federal stand on civil rights  --  the belief that Washington had to set certain standards to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mental hospitals held 558,922 long-term patients ; in 1984 , approximately 114,000 . The movement toward deinstitutionalization was spurred by the development of behavior-altering drugs ; by court decisions upholding the rights of patients , including the right to refuse inMarjorie Hope and James Young are the authors of The Faces of Homelessness ( Lexington Books/D.C . Heath ) . stitutionalization unless there is a clear danger to self and others ; and by the growing philosophy that most patients should be treated in the least restrictive setting , preferably their own communities . However , state hospital administrators and employee unions had a vested interest in the status quo . Today there are nearly sixteen times as many mental patients in outpatient facilities as in state hospitals , yet roughly 70 percent of public funds allocated for mental health goes to the hospitals . Deinstitutionalization fosters short-term acute treatment , which is more costly than custodial care , but the fact remains  --  as James Stockdill , a division director at the National Institute of Mental Health ( N.I.M.H. ) points out ? that few states have transferred state hospital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the emergence of highly restrictive policies of admission to state facilities . Today thousands of mentally ill street people in New York City and elsewhere have never been in a state hospital . Some live outside of institutions because most states forbid involuntary commitment unless the person poses a clear danger to self or others . On the other hand , advocates of outpatient treatment report many cases in which patients , frightened by their inner turmoil , have clearly wanted admission but were denied it . The Central Ohio Psychiatric Hospital , for example , refuses patients not accompanied by an involuntary admission form , as well as those with an alcohol , drug or serious physical problem . The Community Mental Health Centers have turned out to be anything but comprehensive . There were originally supposed to be 2,000 of them ; today they number approximately 870 . Because C.M.H.C. planners failed to stipulate requisite rehabilitative services or living arrangements , those remain state and local options . In line with two articles of American faith  --  local responsibility and reliance on the private sector  --  the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down , the centers were expected to become self-sustaining through fees , private insurance , Medicare , Medicaid , Title 20 ( the social services block grant ) and state and local funds . In 1981 the Reagan Administration lumped funding of all alcohol , drug and mental health programs into one block grant and cut the package by 25 percent . It also slashed Title 20 funds by 30 percent and the Federal portion of Medicaid by 10 percent . Preparing for the phase-out of seed money , administrators at " public " mental health centers began to scrounge for private support in the form of fees and insurance payments . As one therapist put it , " Our staff meetings began to focus on reaching more clients who could verbalize their problems  --  and who could pay . " Another therapist said that at her center , staff members are instructed to ask their paying or insured clients to come two or three times a week , even though they may not need more than one weekly visit . Therapists who object are told , Go with the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their pockets jingle , " she said . N.I.M.H. is prodding states to do more work with the severely mentally ill , but it estimates that today only 20 to 30 percent of C.M.H.C. clients nationwide have had inpatient care at a mental hospital . Theoretically , no one in need of treatment is turned away , but " hard to treat " or uninsured clients may be told that there is , say , a three-month wait for an appointment . Sliding-scale fees may correspond to the center 's criteria of " ability to pay , " but to low-income clients that may repiesent an intolerable burden anyway . In addition , the severely mentally ill who require psychiatric treatment are likely to receive little more than medication and perhaps twice-weekly activities . Eventually , many drop out . Meeting survival needs is fully as important as treatment . Although many states have begun pushing their local mental health boards to fund supportive housing supervised by C.M.H.C.s , according to E. Fuller Torrey and Sidney Wolfe , in a report issued by the Public Citizen Health Research Group , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homes ( which must have a trained staff ) or foster homes . Moreover , they depend on the good will of the neighborhood and on the generosity of local voters . The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development typically confines itself to setting up a few model programs in the hopes of inspiring localities . Nursing facilities , which house another 15 percent of the severely mentally ill , rarely offer the array of special services needed . In many rural areas the mentally ill end up in county homes for indigents , but only if they have lived in the county for a year . Many others dwell alone , in hospitals , on the streets , in jail or in shelters  --  the asylums of the 1980s . The presence of so many mentally disabled people on the streets is another index of the fragmentation of services . Dennis Conkin , who does street work with the Tenderloin Self-Help Center in San Francisco , and Tony Hannigan , who helped set up Columbia University 's Homeless Project , a drop-in center for people shut out of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that traditional outpatient services cater to clients with emotional rather than behavioral disorders  --  those who wo n't refuse medication , tell workers off or reject the treatment goals . " Ironically , " says Hannigan , " ten or twenty years ago the kind of people we work with were living in S.R.O.s single-room occupancy hotels , and most were managing to survive . " As for Medicaid , its very structure fosters fragmentation and inequity . Unlike Medicare , Medicaid is tied to the welfare system ; it is for the poor alone and is a Federal-state partnership in which states have enormous discretion , hence the power to control the poor . To obtain Federal cost-sharing , states only need to cover all persons receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children and most of those receiving Supplemental Security Income , a program designed for the indigent aged , the blind and disabled . While states may extend coverage to the " medically needy , " only one state , Hawaii , covers more than 90 percent of the poor ; South Dakota covers 23 percent . Federal regulations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mandatory ; thirty-two are merely optional . The mental health system , then , is a crazy quilt of conflicting regulations and responsibilities . Medicaid will not pay for room and board in foster homes , halfway houses orgroup homes , although it may cover admiision to hospitals or nursing homes . In most states it pays for the services of freestanding clinics , but only if deemed medically necessary ; typically this includes group therapy but not encounter groups . " Day treatment " programs may be covered but not those labeled " socialization , " although the dividing line can be very fine indeed . State discretion is so broad that some states limit mental health clinic visits to eighteen per calendar year , some impose special rate limits and only a few cover treatment for drug and alcohol abuse . In most places no ' agency at , the state or local level takes responsibility for planning and impleMenting a system to assure that the mental health and community-support needs of the mentally ill will be met ? or for monitoring the quality of institutional and community support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inordinate proportion of overhead is wasted on what one administrator calls " funding gamesmanship . " In sum , the system is not comprehensive , equitable , cost-efficient or preventive . What directions should mental health care take in the future ? One choice is to hobble down the same path , making incremental changes ( for example , along the lines recommended by the American Psychiatric Association 's Task Force on the Homeless Mentally Ill , which fails to point out the political and administrative changes necessary to achieve an equitable system ) . Many states and local mental health boards now fund group homes . The Mental Health Planning Act authorizes expenditures of $10 million to encourage states to institute plans for community-based services with special attention to the long-term mentally ill . Integrated programs that meet psychiatric , social , medical , housing and employment needs within one structure do exist , although most rely heavily on private and foundation contributions . The Robert Wood - Johnson Foundation of Princeton , New Jersey , has set up excellent models in nine cities . For more than a decade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide-ranging community support network . While advocates hope that this model will inspire other states and communities , it seems not to have . Another choice would be to privatize mental health still further . The United States seems to be moving quickly in this direction . Already the clear trend is to steer the indigent to public hospitals and privately insured patients to others . Only eighteen states and jurisdictions now fail to mandate that health insurance companies offer some kind of mental health coverage . However , the policy buyer decides whether to accept that option , and only 5 percent of the policies will pay for mental health outpatient services on the same basis as other conditions . A third way to effect change would be to introduce a comprehensive national health care system that incorporates mental health . Such integration is common both in countries like France and Canada , which follow the universal health insurance model , and in those like Britain and Italy , which offer a national health service . Ironically , under Britain 's " socialist " system , doctors enjoy more freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doctors feel like employees of the insurance companies . Can we afford universal health care ? The reality is that our privatized approach is the most expensive in the world . A New England Journal of Medicine study , based on 1983 figures , estimates that under national health insurance like Canada 's the United States could save $29.2 million a year ; under a national health service like Britain 's , $38.2 million . Resistance to change would be fierce . But perhaps the real question is , Can we afford not to have it ? Ideally , the concrete shape of a unified mental health system would emerge out of informed national debate . Whatever its final shape , an expanded N.I.M.H. should assume leadership . It would appraise the needs of the mentally ill , set a national budget and guidelines , coordinate the various levels of service and monitor standards . At the same time many decisions could be left to the states and localities . Consumers and other citizens should also have a voice . With adequate planning , our heritage of pluralism can be preserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ access to service and accountability . Under such a system , C.M.H.C.s , secure in their status and funding , could employ more staff trained to work with the severely mentally ill , children and the elderly . They could emphasize prevention far more than they now do . Low-income , chronically mentally ill patients will need comprehensive service , including a spectrum of treatment programs and housing alternatives . This will require a greatly expanded Federal role in coordinating the housing and mental health systems . Beyond'that , affordable housing , decent jobs and some basic minimum of economic security should be available to all . In the final analysis , sane mental health policy rests on social policies that create an environment in which people can flourish . ?                     