@@487000

In previous decades progressive activists and state prosecutors were often politically at odds . At best , attorneys general were politicians trying to do popular things ; at worst , they were apologists for big donors and enemies of civil liberties . No longer . State attorneys general are more likely than not to be working with consumer and environmental activists against corporate polluters , white-collar criminals and lax Federal agencies . Not since Watergate have prosecutors been so far in the lead in advancing progressive causes . In part that 's because A.G.s are younger and share the values of the 1960s and 1970s ? the values of consumerism , environmentalism and empowerment . But the new wave of activist litigation is largely a consequence of the Reagan Revolution . A funny thing happened on the way to deregulation : While the Federal government tried to arrest the regulatory cops , state legislatures and public interest groups began demanding and winning stricter standards . Once the laws were in place , ambitious attorneys general began to use their considerable prosecutorial power for the public good . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  called NAAG ? should be renamed the National Association of Aspiring Governors . ) " There is a void in Washington , " says California Attorney General and gubernatorial candidate John Van de Kamp , " and we o have stepped into it . " co And Bush with Administration the advent of , gp the ? which promises to prove no less permissive toward white-collar fraud , state A.G.s will be as important as ever . Indeed , in their attempt to enforce state laws , these officials have not shied away from suing the Federal regulatory agencies themselves . Here are some representative accomplishments of the new breed of progressive prosecutors : Environment : The indifference or malfeasance of the Reagan-Bush Environmental Protection Agency is well chronicled  --  and is not merely a chapter in the history books . Last November , for example , nine states sued the E.P.A . to force action on acid rain . Despite George Bush 's campaign attacks about the Boston Harbor , Massachusetts has been a pioneer in the area of criminal prosecution against polluters . Last year , Massachusetts Attorney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop a chemical company from emitting chlorofluorocarbons ( CFCs ) , which have been shown to deplete the earth 's ozone layer . The company ? Packaging Industries , a foam manufacturer  --  was emitting an estimated 1,300 tons of CFCs a year , equivalent to 7.8 million aerosol cans . Shannon 's office charged the company , in a civil complaint , with violating the Massachusetts Clean Air Act . " After eight years of the Reagan Administration , " says Shannon , " if we do n't do it , nobody will . " In a settlement , the state won $700,000 in penalties , and the company was forced to stop emitting CFCs by the end of the year . State attorneys general have also taken the lead in the well-known case of Alar , a ripener used on apples that is carcinogenic . Despite its own studies showing that a breakdown product of Alar can cause cancer , the Environmental Protection Agency not only would n't ban this hazardous substance but also spent years opposing a lawsuit by New Mark Green is a public interest lawyer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Transition : Blueprints for the 1990s . York Attorney General Robert Abrams , the public interest advocacy group Public Citizen , and the Natural Resources Defense Council . Only after 60 Minutes ran a devastating segment did the E.P.A . announce that it would eventually take this dangerous chemical off the market . " We should not have to wait for the E.P.A . to decide the outcome of endless debates seeking absolute scientific certainty about the health effects of each substance , " says Abrams , former president of NAAG and probably the most energetic attorney general on environmental , antitrust and consumer issues neglected by Washington . His office formed a pesticide initiative  --  a team of lawyers , scientists and investigators working on lawsuits , legislation and public education . Since there 's no Federal law requiring advance notice of pesticide use , Abrams got New York to join fourteen other states in requiring all certified pesticide applicators to alert people near an area about to be sprayed . And in the past eighteen months he 's filed eight criminal and civil pesticide lawsuits . Safety and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of deregulation 's most prominent casualties . As enforcement staff was cut , manufacturing inspections reduced and regional offices closed , the number of workplace-related injuries , illnesses and deaths steadily rose . In addition , the Reagan Administration promulgated safety standards usually only at the point of a court order . Despite this development , or perhaps because of it , state prosecutors began to focus on the unsafe workplace . The first such local case since the early 1900s was filed in Chicago in 1985 , and since that time more than 200 cases have been filed . By contrast the Federal government has brought only forty-four cases since 1970 , and only three since 1981 . In October 1986 , Robert Abrams joined Brooklyn District Attorney Elizabeth Holtzman in a criminal suit against the Pymm Thermometer factory in Brooklyn , which for years had subjected its employees to dangerous levels of mercury . Although OSHA had been long aware of the hazards at this plant , the agency assessed only piddling fines and allowed numerous extensions for compliance , during which one worker developed irreversible brain damage . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deadly weapon ? mercury ? and a jury found them guilty . Earlier workplace safety cases punished employers whose workers died , but this was the first case in New York concerning a nonfatal injury , and the first criminal action suit filed by a state attorney general . Criminal prosecution means that employers who knowingly expose their workers to dangerous conditions will pay a much higher price than OSHA could ever extract . In Chicago , for example , a worker at Film Recovery Systems was killed when exposed to cyanide gas . OSHA issued a " serious citation " and imposed a $4,855 fine , which was later reduced by half ? and never paid . A local district attorney took action , and in 1985 the company was fined $24,000 and two corporate officers were convicted of homicide , with penalties of twenty-five years in prison . Antitrust : State antitrust enforcement has come full circle in the past century . Prior to enactment of the 1890 Sherman Act , state attorneys general brought actions against price fixing and monopoly power based on common law principles . With @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act ( and 1950 amendments ) , law enforcement and judicial interpretation shifted to the Federal government . By mid-century , Federal antitrust enforcement had bipartisan support , with Democratic administrations ( Thurmond Arnold under Franklin Roosevelt ) and Republican administrations ( Robert Bicks under Dwight Eisenhower ) being equally vigorous . When I researched and wrote The Closed Enterprise System in 1970 for Ralph Nader 's antitrust project , state antitrust enforcement was worth only a short footnote . Under the Reagan Administration antitrust staffs at the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission were cut by nearly half just as the takeover movement gathered steam . Cases against anticompetitive mergers and monopolies evaporated . In 1979 , 868 proposed mergers were reported to the F.T.C. and the antitrust division of the Justice Department and twenty were challenged ; in 1987 , 2,254 mergers were reported and fourteen were challenged . Reagan 's antitrust chief , William Baxter , predicted that by 1996 most antitrust enforcement would be at the state level , a prophecy he has helped fulfill . Now corporations must keep in mind three official bodies as they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ F.T.C. and state attorneys general , whose approach to antitrust law reflects the values of Messrs . Sherman and Clayton far more than those of the " anything goes " Federal prosecutors . For example , forty-five state attorneys general have agreed to guidelines involving " horizontal " mergers ( mergers between competitors ) . Armed with these guidelines and their jurisdiction over market conduct within their states or regions , New York and Maryland sued Minolta for conspiring to fix the prices of two camera models In a settlement that thirty-seven states joined , Minolta set up a $4 million rebate fund for thousands of its defrauded customers . When Texas Air moved to buy Eastern Airlines in 1986 , which would have enabled it to control all shuttle service between New York and Washington , Abrams opposed the merger until an alternative shuttle was created . His pressure helped Pan Am start its own shuttle service . And just this year New York and Maryland again worked together to force Panasonic to provide some $16 million in refunds to 665,000 consumers nationwide for overcharges due to a resale price @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement . When insurance companies began canceling or making prohibitively expensive liability coverage for cities and towns , the states intervened . The city of Lafayette , California , was perplexed when it tried to obtain liability insurance from eighty companies and was turned down by all of them . Hartford Insurance canceled the $32,000-a-year policy of Milford , Massachusetts . The town could obtain only a much more restrictive policy , for $122,000 , from a company called Nutmeg , a wholly owned subsidiary of Hartford . The Justice Department was asked to investigate the liability crisis in 1986 but declined In March 1988 , after two years of investigating , nineteen attorneys general charged thirty-one insurance companies with conspiring to use " boycotts , threats , intimidation and other coercive conduct " to restrict the availability of liability insurance to businesses and municipalities . The companies being sued include giants in the business world , such as Aetna ( total 1988 assets : $84 billion ) , Allstate ( $29.7 billion ) and Cigna ( $55.8 billion ) . Although the insurance companies won a round when a Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states have appealed ) , they face a new foe . The A.G.s are among the strongest advocates of tighter regulation , notably for elimination of the antitrust exemption for insurance agencies under the 1945 McCarran-Ferguson Act . Consumer Protection : Consumer fraud has been a forgotten area of the law under Reagan and now Bush , but the A.G.s have picked up some of the slack . After forty-one state prosecutors banded together to charge Chrysler Corporation dealers with falsifying the mileage on odometers , consumers received $16.4 million in rebates , a victory worthy of the best consumer activists . Unsafe products have also come under the scrutiny of attorneys general . While the Consumer Product Safety Commission dragged its feet on regulating all-terrain vehicles , some 900 consumers died and more than 300,000 were injured in accidents . In October 1987 , thirty-two states warned Honda , Yamaha , Kawasaki , Suzuki and Polaris that action would be taken unless the companies rectified safety problems . Rebuffed , the A.G.s lobbied the Justice Department to recall and ban the vehicles . Massachusetts Attorney General Shannon , sounding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for placing " corporate profits over human lives . " Quickly , the Justice Department fell into line . When the long-gestating F.T.C. Used Car Rule was finally issued in 1985 , the provision requiring dealers to disclose known defects had been eliminated . Since used-car dealers have a bit of an image problem when it comes to candor , several state attorneys general responded by helping enact used-car lemon laws . New York 's version mandates a thirty-to sixty-day written warranty on all used cars sold by dealers for more than $1,500 . At times state action can prompt Federal action . Consider smokeless tobacco ( snuff ) , the use of which has been growing , particularly among teenagers . In the early 1980s , Massachusetts issued regulations that required warning labels on smokeless tobacco . The New York Attorney General reached an accord with the United States Tobacco Company that forced it to stop implying that the product was less dangerous than cigarettes . Public Citizen petitioned the F.T.C. to require label warnings , but the agency still refused to act . In 1986 Congress finally ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forget the Consumer and to issue regulations mandating health warnings . A s industry is discovering to its regret , when regulation gets turned over to the states , consumer , public interest , and environmental groups can exert more pressure . Lawrence Graham , vice president of the National Food Processors Association , is a staunch opponent of Proposition 65 , California 's tough new consumer product warning law He said , " We 've tried to point out what Proposition 65 means : Do you realize this was pushed by Tom Hayden and the Natural Resources Defense Council ? " Having encountered the threat of criminal penalties and aggressive state laws , many in industry now want a return to Federal regulation . " You 're going to have fifty F.D.A.s out there rather than one F.D.A. , " Graham complained to the National Journal . As President Reagan showed with his executive order placing Federal authority above state emergency plans at nuclear plants , apparently antigovernment conservatives are for states ' rights only so long as states stay asleep on the regulatory beat . Attorneys general and activists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a mutual interest . Several environmental groups joined the Northeastern A.G.s who sued the E.P.A . for neglecting the problem of acid rain . However , there are pitfalls in turning regulatory responsibilities over to state attorneys general . First , there is the desirability of a national standard , which was the impetus behind much Federal regulation in the first place . It 's true that when a state such as California passes a product warning law it can have a national impact , inducing manufacturers to bring their brands into compliance . Nevertheless , even if California has an aggressive attorney general enforcing workplace safety laws , that does n't help , say , oil workers in Louisiana . Should a worker 's health depend on his or her zip code ? Second , there are often legal hurdles to state and local prosecution . In the Pymm Thermometer case , the Brooklyn jury found the defendants guilty of assault , but the judge immediately threw out the verdict , arguing that OSHA 's jurisdiction pre-empted local officials from taking action . This was also the view of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though we wo n't protect the workers , you ca n't . " The pre-emption issue will remain a hurdle for activist attorneys general until the Supreme Court decides what their role should be , probably on a statute-by-statute analysis ( for example , the interstate commerce clause allows but does n't require Federal pre-emption ) , or until Congress more clearly states that Federal jurisdiction does not preclude local action . Also , it is crucial that states be allowed to set only those standards that are equal to or tougher than existing Federal standards . Finally , although prosecution can be more effective in particular cases , it is not a substitute for effective regulation . With their full agendas of criminal justice and other state issues , as well as their limited budgets , A.G.s at best can reach only a fraction of the cases in regulatory areas . The solution ? Attorneys general and criminal prosecution can make an excellent second line of defense against corporate abuse . For while white-collar offenders can generally work the Federal government 's inconsequential fines into their basic operating costs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the kind of negative publicity that arises from a case such as the Chrysler odometer fraud . Ideally , A.G.s ? 68 percent of them Democrats  --  might start to pressure the Administration into greater regulatory activity . The Reagan-Bush Administrations are on the wrong side of popular opinion when it comes to health and safety regulations . Polls show overwhelming support for stronger antipollution and pro-consumer efforts by the E.P.A. , F.D.A. and OSHA . While Republican presidential candidates have often prevailed by running in effect against reds and blacks , Democrats have snared the bulk of Congressional and local offices by running as deliverers of services , from Social Security to environmental cleanup . If Bush continues his laissez-faire line and cedes to state prosecutors the responsibility for improving the health and safety of Americans , look to aggressive A.G.s to continue to fill the regulatory void . ?                     