@@432366

 | Every woman in the country considering pregnancy should be tested for AIDS , says U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop . U.S. diplomats in overseas missions and applicants for the Peace Corps and Job Corps are baring their arms . Some 1.3 million servicemen and women already have had the test . An additional 30 million to 40 million Americans may have good reason , public-health experts say , to follow suit . So great has public concern become that more than 1 in 4 adults surveyed in a new U.S. News-CNN poll worry that they might get AIDS ? and 77 percent think all couples planning to get married should have to be tested . Fueled by fear over blood transfusions , by Koop 's insistent warnings raining down like hammer blows and by ever widening media attention , the hubbub over AIDS testing has reached a shrill pitch . Questions about who should be tested , how testing can be kept confidential ? or if it even should be ? and the medical , legal and ethical consequences of testing are piling up , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million to 4 million Americans who are carrying the killer virus without symptoms are unwittingly but unquestionably passing it on to many millions more . How can the nation keep this from happening ? The best way to start , most public-health experts agree , is to find the carriers , test them and warn them to change their sex habits . But since it 's unnecessary ? and impossible ? to test everyone , who should be tested ? In the " old days " of a few years ago , citing groups likeliest to be candidates for testing was simple . The list began with homosexuals and intravenous drug abusers ? and ended there . It 's still the case that about 9 of 10 persons carrying the virus are in these categories , and the risk remains greatest among urban poor . New patterns of risk Now , however , the disease is spreading so rapidly beyond homosexuals and drug abusers that the old rules no longer apply . Four of 5 new victims over the next few years will be outside San Francisco and New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prostitutes , a large number of whom use drugs . Already some of these men have passed on the virus to their wives or other sexual partners , who have given it to still others . Some AIDS carriers are bisexual men who contracted the disease through homosexual relationships and spread it into the heterosexual community when they had sex with women . That means the number of people at some degree of risk is rising sharply . Since the exact number ca n't be known , it 's best to be conservative ? hence Koop 's recommendation , for example , that any woman considering pregnancy should go for an AIDS test . Then , besides the highest-risk groups comprising homosexuals and intravenous drug abusers , there are single people likely to be sexually active . There are both members of couples planning a baby or about to have one . And there are people who had blood transfusions in the relatively highrisk period of 1978 to 1985 , before mass screening of blood for AIDS . The U S. News-CNN poll by the Rop- er Organization shows strong public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for anyone entering a hospital . Two thirds believe restaurant workers should be checked , even though public-health experts have stressed that AIDS can not be transmitted by handling food . And while AIDS is virtually nonexistent among children of elementary-school age , one third of the poll participants endorse the testing of every child upon entering a public school . Crackdown pressures Accordingly , get-tough measures are being pushed in legislatures across the country . Little support is seen for bills pending in four states that would quarantine or isolate AIDS patients , but there is widespread backing for premarital tests . Sixteen states require engaged couples to be tested for syphilis , a fading disease that 's rarely fatal . The same blood could also be examined for AIDS . No state now requires such a test , but 30 are considering one ? and a Utah law passed in late March prohibits anyone diagnosed with AIDS from getting married . Sixteen states are considering laws to mandate AIDS tests for anyone convicted of prostitution , rape or narcotics violations . A federal law to require such tests will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . " We are suffering from a severe lack of credible , usable information about the deadliest virus in America , " Nickles notes . Doctors are joining the political push . Last month , the California Medical Association adopted a resolution challenging a state law that guarantees confidentiality in AIDS cases . The 36,000-member group wants to let doctors give results of AIDS-positive tests to all physicians involved in a patient 's care and to the local health officer . The CMA will ask the American Medical Association , at its annual meeting in June , to back the resolution and to push for immunity for doctors who report positive results to " an endangered third party . " This would keep a husband from suing a doctor who had informed a woman that her husband had AIDS . Even many who support full confidentiality recognize that more should be done to alert the unsuspecting . With the exception of Colorado , Minnesota and South Carolina , few places are making much of an effort at " contact tracing " ? the laborious detective work of finding and informing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The confidentiality issue hardly existed when AIDS seemed to be confined to homosexuals . " Now , AIDS is moving into the heterosexual population where a male can seek the services  | of a prostitute , become infected and go home and infect his spouse , " says Dr. Roy Schwarz , the AMA 's assistant executive vice president for medical education and science . " It 's the unsuspecting spouse who will drive this shift . " The staggering cost of treating AIDS I patients ? from $50,000 to $150,000 ? is also driving the calls for more testing . Contract law forbids insurers from barring newly diagnosed AIDS patients from group health plans . Insurance companies can exclude someone from a single-coverage policy , however . To keep this right , they are fighting bills that would keep them from turning down AIDS-infected people . " It 's the only way insurers have of protecting themselves and their policyholders against the costs of AIDS , " argues Richard Schweiker , president of the American Council of Life Insurance . Gayrights groups contend that this would let the insurers discriminate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spread of AIDS , argue supporters of laws protecting confidentiality , is not through compulsory testing but by encouraging high-risk people to seek testing on their own and helping them change their sexual behavior . " Mandatory testing would deter people from seeking care and services for fear that their names would end up on a list somewhere , " says Thomas Stoddard of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund , a gay-rights group in New York . But some form of mandatory testing is bound to be discussed with increasing urgency in the coming months . Republican presidential candidates Jack Kemp and George Bush have called for compulsory testing for couples applying for marriage licenses . Richard Merritt , director of George Washington University 's Intergovernmental Health Policy Project , which tracks AIDS legislation , expects that state lawmakers will be considering more than 400 AIDS bills by the end of May . That would be more than twice the total for all of 1986 , and a heavy proportion of the bills will deal with mandatory testing . Increasingly , doctors are seeing the battle to contain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confidentiality . " When someone has the potential of transmitting the disease to someone who is n't infected , the second party has the right to know , " says the AMA 's Schwarz . " When that happens , society cancels out individual rights and opts for what is good for the society at large . "                     