@@480426

EDITORIAL writers casting about for kind words to say about Jimmy Carter , after his humiliation in November 1980 , found one apparent bright spot in the departing president 's otherwise dismal record of domestic accomplishment : his efforts to reform the government . The New York Times , in a representative pronouncement entitled ONE IMPORTANT PROMISE KEPT , credited Carter with " the first overhaul of the Federal bureaucracy in almost a century . " Carter 's reforms , it was said , had gone a long way toward eliminating Leonard Reed worked in the civil and foreign services for twenty-four years , mainly at the Voice of America . lie is currently a contributing editor of the Washington Monthly . three of the most annoying defects of government enterprise . Was it once virtually impossible to fire an incompetent civil servant ? " Thanks to the 1978 Civil Service Reform Act , " the Times reported , " it has become easier to rid the Federal bureaucracy of duds . " Were employees who exposed corruption and malfeasance in their agencies typically punished rather than rewarded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been provided to protect whistleblowers who risk their jobs to report wrongdoing . " Did top government managers lack flexibility , as well as adequate incentive to perform well ? Carter had " established a Senior Executive Corps of 6.000 highly skilled managers who may now transfer among government agencies without loss 9f rank , and are therefore less likely to abandon public service . " It all sounded very impressive ? but did it ultimately make much difference to the performance of the clanking , wheezing federal machine ? A look at the evidence four years after Carter 's reforms were enacted suggests not . L ET 'S start with the problem of incompetence . In the prereform year of 1976 , out of 2.5 million federal workers , only 3,500 tenured civil servants were dismissed for poor performance . That 's a discharge rate of one seventh . of one percent . Of that one seventh of one percent , a substantial number were reinstated after appeals to the courts . And now that the reforms are in place ? The government has n't retrieved the most recent data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after reform , the number of civil servants fired for poor performance ( throwing in for good measure those who resigned under fire ) had reached a grand total of ... um ... 2,632 . That is about one tenth of one percent , a lower percentage than the 1976 prereform figure . At this rate , a firm in the private sector with 1,000 employees would fire only one person a year . Or , putting it another way , a company that had maintained an even payroll of fifty employees since the Declaration of Independence would have dropped only ten for incompetence and other inadequacies in more than two centuries . In the battle between Jimmy Carter and the bureaucracy 's " duds , " the duds seem to have triumphed . This is nothing new . They have been gaining ground since 1883 , when , following the assassination of President James Garfield by Charles Guiteau , a frustrated office-seeker , the Pendleton Act established a tenured career civil service based on the principle of merit hiring . The Pendleton Act was designed to eliminate the mass political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hinder the dismissal of individual incompetents . But in HARP ER'S/ NOVE M B ER 19 the name of merit principles , further restrictions on firing civil servants were legislated in 1912 . The Civil Service Commission , delegated with sole responsibility for amending the firing procedures , generated a plethora of such amendments , almost all of which resulted in greater protection for government employees . Then the judges got into the act . Starting in the late 1950s , they began to allow dismissed federal workers to sue in court to get their jobs back , after their executive branch appeals were exhausted . In 1974 the Supreme Court bought an odd theory popularized by law professor Charles Reich ( who also gave us The Greening of America ) , and declared that under the Constitution government employees had a " property right " in their jobs of which they could n't be deprived without " due process of law . " Due process came to mean that every civil servant was entitled to a full-dress trial before an administrative tribunal , followed by an excursion through various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a laudable concern for fairness to individual workers . But in practice , all this fairness meant that firing a civil servant who really deserved it was a task that only the brave or brash would undertake ? and rarely successfully . A highly paid manager might expect to spend 25 to 50 percent of his working days for the better part of two years constructing and defending the paper record required to discharge a single goof-off clerk . In the process , the manager ran the risk of having the clerk file a " grievance " against him , of having to defend himself against the charge , of having his superior view him as a troublemaker or a bad manager who had a " personality conflict " with his employees . Small wonder , then , that government bosses learned to handle the problem differently . They palmed off incompetents on unsuspecting fellow managers , who in time did likewise . If an incompetent was of relatively high rank , he might be shipped off to one of the yearlongtraining courses or study projects known in-house as " turkey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unproductive employees , working around them rather than trying to fire them . HE 1978 reforms were hardly enough to cause a sane supervisor to change these tactics . The Carter changes did eliminate some superfluous stages in the firing process ? lawsuits , for example , now go directly to an appeals court without having to pass through the trial-level court first . But Carter did n't come close to testing the limits of the Supreme Court 's requirement of " due process . " So the supervisor who contemplates firing a federal employee can still anticipate a veritable festival of paperwork and multilevel appeals . To sack someone in the new , reformed civil service , an agency must first advise the alleged incompetent of his failings , and give him thirty days ' notice of its intention to dismiss him . The employee can then take his case to the regional branch of the newly established Merit Systems Protection Board ( a four-month process ) ; if the regional branch upholds the firing , the employee can appeal to the MSPB 's headquarters in Washington ( now thoroughly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controllers ) . If that decision goes against him , he can still take his case to a federal appeals court before throwing in the towel . Not only are the new procedures scant improvement on the old , but in order to get the Carter reforms past the federal unions , concessions had to be made . Federal unions are a peculiar breed . Unable to bargain over " bread and butter " ( since federal salaries are set by Congress ) , they can attract and hold membership only by their aggressive activity on behalf of each employee 's " job security . " Nor is this zeal tempered ? as it often is with private-sector unions ? by any fear that their employer might go bankrupt if inefficient work practices are maintained . What the unions got out of the 1978 reforms was the right to bargain over virtually any change in working conditions . The Department of Transportation in Denver soon discovered that it had no authority to remove a TV set from a " break " room ( although there was no contractual obligation to provide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shipyard learned that it could not require mobile crane operators to keep a lubrication log without negotiating the matter with the union . And the management of a military installation , when making temporary out-of-town assignments , now has to choose the person assigned on the basis of seniority . Even the rearrangement of desks ? that central activity of bureaucratic life ? can now be the subject of union-management bickering . F THE Carter reforms were sup-posed to make it easier to fire incompetents , they were sup-posed to make it harder to fire other civil servants ? namely , the " whistleblowers " who expose vari-ous forms of hanky-panky in their agencies . While compared with Eu-ropean bureaucracies the American civil service is a hotbed of rampant integrity , it has its share of hidden scandals and ? more important ? scandalously misguided practices that deserve some embarrassing publicity . The archetypal whistle-blower is the almost legendary A. fine print provides that he shall be " guaranteed a suitable position at his most recent SES salary or above . " This is not what most people would call a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in more than three years of operation , out of the 6,200 career members of SES , exactly one has been dropped for poor performance . Risk ? cONTRARY to the assumption underlying the SES idea , the main problem in government is not lazy executives who must be motivated by the promise of higher pay . In my experience , at least , senior government executives are as smart and energetic as their private-industry counterparts . The problem is the way they expend their energy , which is largely on bureaucratic dynamics ? turf battles and lobbying for higher budgets ? rather than in serving the broader public . This is why one of the most sensible ideas included in the original SES plan would have allowed executives to be shifted to jobs outside their agencies , a reform that would have broken the link that ties an executive 's own prosperity to his agency 's expansion . He could even abolish his agency , if required , and look forward to another assignment when the job was done . Unfortunately , the career executives prevailed on Congress to drop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of SES may be involuntarily transferred out of his own agency . Instead , the SES often reinforces the worst sort of bureaucratic self-interest . A good example comes from the Department of Housing and Urban Development , where two of the three " critical elements " established for judging whether an executive deserves a bonus read as follows : " Decisions rarely , if ever , questioned by client groups " ; " Decisions consistently praised by affected groups . " " Client groups , " of course , are interest groups that benefit from one or more of an agency 's programs . They have their members to HARPER'S/ NOVEMBER 1982 look after , but the public servant 's task is not necessarily to make their job easier . But HUD and other government agencies get valuable support from these lobbies , and from the congressional committees that are also responsive to them . So the HUD official who bucks the construction lobby instead of cultivating it is not likely to be the one who finds a bonus in his stocking . R ONALD Reagan 's contribution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Washington jargon for " reduction in force . " The size of the Reagan RIF has been in no way proportionate to the publicity it has received , or to the panic and indignation it has caused in the ranks . Some 9,600 people have so far been dropped ? approximately one of every 260 civil servants . That is hardly on a scale that would strike the citizens of , say , Flint , Michigan , as catastrophic . But in a city like Washington , where the government is sometimes considered to exist for the purpose of providing jobs for civil servants , the outcry was horrendous . The real tragedy of the Reagan RIF , however , was that it missed a rare opportunity to weed out the least productive members of the federal force . RIF procedures practically guarantee that any attempt to lay off bureaucrats will further decrease government efficiency ? something Carter 's reforms did nothing to change . In a RIF , seniority is everything ; competence hardly enters into the equation . Somebody whose job is eliminated may " bump " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of his job ; the bumpee , in turn , may bump someone else , etc. , until eventually the last bumpee is slid out the door . For every worker eventually laid off , three or four are displaced in this process . The results are sometimes startling . At the Railroad Retirement Board in Chicago , a doctor whose job was abolished wound up accepting a job as a clerk . At the Office of Personnel Management , a former GS-14 psychologist is , as of this writing , working as a GS-3 in the mailroom . Several public health analysts ( GS-14 ) at the U.S. Public Health Service ended up as secretaries ( GS-5 ) , jobs they can probably be expected to louse up thoroughly . For at least two years all of these downwardly mobile professionals will retain their original salaries ( at or close to $50,000 a year ) , thus assuring the government of a prestige clerical force . The Reagan administration , currently contemplating further RIFs , has toyed with the idea of changing the rules to make performance on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But faced with the opposition of the federal unions , which are devoted to seniority systems , the effort has already been abandoned , at least for this year . James R. Rosa , the general counsel of the American Federation of Government Employees , says that if the administration ever does try to change the rules without getting Congress to pass a new law , the union will take it to court . If the administration tries for a new law , the union will bring its muscle to bear in Congress , as it did against Jimmy Carter . I T IS possible to reform the bureaucracy . There is nothing inherent in government that prevents the performance of those who run it from being judged , that precludes breaking the career ties between senior executives and their agencies , or that requires whistle-blowers to be punished . Nor is it clear why the federal civil servant must be afforded extravagant protections against being erroneously fired that his counterparts in the private sector do not enjoy . Even the decisions of the Supreme Court on government employees ' " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a determined president . But on the unglamorous issue of civil-service reform , Jimmy Carter was about as determined a president as we are likely to get for a Long time . If he did n't change much ? and he did n't ? who will ?                     