@@480279

I SPEND PART of my day teaching an undergraduate seminar in popular culture ? movies , sitcoms , best sellers , rock music , and the like at a small liberal-arts college in New England . People differ about whether this is a good idea and I defend it , when pushed , but what 's pertinent is that the course exists . It has required reading and listening , a measure of theory , and a critical perspective ( how do you distinguish better from worse when dealing with the products of the culture industry ? ) ; essays are written and grades are posted at the end of the course . The previous academic performance of those enrolled is above the average of the college ? which is itself classified as elite ? and the in-class talk is serious . Most of the time , when engaged in interpretive work , the group abides by straight-arrow , commonsense norms . Most of the time . When treating rock music and films , my students diverge sharply , sometimes a shade troublingly. from those norms . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was once called Reading In : symbol-huntBenjamin DeMott is Andrew Mellon Professor of the Humanities at Amherst College . ing , supersubtle motivational analysis , hermeneutic high-rolling in the large . My impression , moreover , is that the incidence of this behavior is increasing . Whither Youth ? Who knows ? ? heavy whithering is n't my beat . I 've brooded more than a little , though , about the high-rolling I mention , because of its hearing on other intellectual fronts and , indirectly , on the vitality of popular culture in general . Let me clarify , using an example ? one of a dozen l remember vividly ? drawn from a seminar discussion last year of Robert Redford 's Ordinary People . For those who have forgotten , Ordinary People is a film about Cal , a Lake Forest , Illinois , tax accountant , played by Donald Sutherland , and his wife , Beth , played by Mary Tyler Moore ; a couple afflicted with exceptional domestic stress . Following their older son 's death by drowning in a sailing accident , their guilt-racked younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a therapist to draw him back into normal adolescence exacerbate tensions and lead to the collapse of the family . The film 's scenes of suburban high-school life ? turf Hollywood seldomgets right are well observed . Its disabling defect is its conception , or , rather , lack of a conception , of the parents ; their feelings , motivations , movements of mind are nearly incomprehensible throughout . At crises , without explanation , the mother repeatedly rejects her disturbed son 's attempts to speak to her from the center of his anguish . Robert Redford , as director , may have assumed that the pervasiveness of contemporary cant about the failure of communication in middle-class family life made it needless to search out reasons for any individual case of unresponsiveness . But that was a dumb assumption and the film is a muddle . It was , however , regarded with respect by English 80 , the course I 'm speaking of . ( In undergraduate discussion of films , flatly negative comment is rare anyway . ) Few students were bewildered by the mother 's spurning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Confidently , thoughtfully , my undergraduate Readers-In created for her , almost from nothing , a coherent set of inner complications : the mother 's grief so overwhelms her that the touch of her surviving son 's hand , the sound of his voice unbearably return the image of the son she 's lost ; the mother has an instinctive suspicion that her son , in intimate chats with his therapist , is betraying her through acts of objectification , violating family privacies ; the mother , because comparatively unsophisticated , superstitious , and wary of psychotherapy , sees her son ? a would-be suicide who 's dropped out of school activities that she understands to be healthy as a freak , and is repelled by his certainty that her love for him has undergone no change ; the mother senses that the father and son are in secret collusion against her , accusing her silently of having had an incestuous desire for her elder boy , the drowning casualty ; the mother holds the son responsible for the older boy 's death , since he survived the accident . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitively for deeds the film itself does n't account for . Naturally I did n't lie doggo in the face of this inventiveness . I reviewed scenes and shot sequences up at the board , held out for the superiority of interpretations supportable by gesture , expression , image , and word , condemned offhand novelizing . But the politic acquiescence I finally extracted was clearly superficial . Beneath the students ' admission that they might have been Reading In lay the conviction that , really , their inwardness with the figures on the screen was privileged , their access unchallengeable . You asked us and we told you . What 's this scam about evidence ? We know , that 's all . We simply know . s TM MAR BEHAVIOR surfaces , as I say , on the rock front . Sexual themes predominate in rock lyrics but , as everyone who listens to the music or pauses at his children 's door as they listen is aware , the images seem dependent on random and arbitrary association ; little contextual guidance , much opacity . But my students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improvisation , they summon interpretive proposals for each cunning passage in the albums of the Talking Heads , productions especially dense with impenetrable allusions . Portentously imprecise " symbols " in the music of the late Jim Morrison and the Doors ? the monotonous " this is the end " refrain , for instance , on one hallowed cut ? are unpacked with a no-hands shrug . Enigmatic , oracular declarations that a " rock literature " has come into being are soberly , extensively glossed . No sweat . We know . One assessment of this knowingness dismisses it as a species of dimwitted self-indulgence , testimony to the school system 's inability to inculcate respect for the disciplined pursuit of knowledge , sequential reasoning , and rules of evidence . Another version , farther out , sees it as a sign of the expanding influence of those academicians , impressed by the French critic Derrida , who have taken to arguing that true meanings are illusions ; every poem or book is a " textual infinity , " and the good critic is by definition a highroller ? somebody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ writer or filmmaker or lyricist and begun functioning , in his essays , as a poet . ( For the record , I looked into the possibility that my student high-rollers are closet undergraduate Derrideans : no way . ) Still another idea ? attractive to explorers of the unique psyche fabricated in movie-house darkness ? is that the acts of interpretation I describe are richly in the cinematic grain : movies legitimize every kind of fantasy , not excluding the fantasy of full explanation . My own belief is that behind the Reading In lies the contemporary authority problem . Admittedly there 's been some effort by faculties over the past decade to reoccupy positions abandoned during the previous decade : stabs at restoring requirements , curricula , and so on . But the overall impact has been slight . Soft options and easy B 's are far commoner than hard courses and gratefully accepted C 's , and the preceptors at the front of the room nowadays ? more likely to be veterans of war protest and marital strife than of wars are n't a particularly commanding bunch . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work for challenge , as they say ? persists , and so too does the interest of smart undergraduates in finding a corner of the brain-world to call their own . Intelligence in youth resembles animal spirits or sexual vitality ; it longs for expression somehow , anyhow , and if , owing to an interval of nervous self-hatred , elders seem momentarily diffident about providing arenas for arduous exercise , it will undertake to bring them into being by its own inventive will . And the desire for ownership ? for a personal position in some closely held , intricately problematic stock ? is a key element in this equation . Through many gates left ajar during the epoch of " openness , " students glimpse a vision of the Personal Curriculum , a body of knowledge of their own : private , specialized , exempt ordinarily from the tyranny of set questions , due dates , and letter grades . The Personal Curriculum promises a chance to be more definitive and peremptory than conventional authority dares to be on its own ground . All that 's essential is to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge with an air of mastery and establish that you 're proof against intimidation by interrogation . Toward that end Reading In is the ticket . It enables you simultaneously to preserve the dignity of your chosen theater of expertise , to reveal your fluency , and to " work out " ? push the headpiece , that is , at your own pace toward your own goal . Tell the man up front what Morrison was preaching in " The End , " what the Talking Heads are alluding to , what passes through a character 's mind as she stares away into the middle distance , oblivious to her heartbroken child ? do this and you receive , together with mental exercise , a ticket of admission to the best circles of authority available in an age without Authority , namely those revolving exclusively around you . Predictably , I have a sentimental worry about differences between them and us , youth and age , in the choice of objects of intellectual desire . It often erupts when I 'm asked in to admire an undergraduate rock library . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bootleg prints , as well as of mint-quality standard albums . ) I should note that while my college , Tike others , gives an annual prize to an undergraduate book collection , passion , expertise , and ingenuity ? a collector 's prime virtues ? are better represented by at least two or three individual rock libraries per class than by any recent book collection I 've heard of . Browsing through a rock library , it 's hard not to think back on personal as-pirations , personal covetousness . It was expertise that we wanted back then , all right , people like myself , but our academic elders had managed to make their holdings in the knowledge line glamorous and desirable . What was it we were after ? The meaning of the word faience ? Not , at any rate , information on what some electric guitarist said about his mother before slamming into " It 's My Life " at a 1979 East Coast rock concert . I feel a twinge of self-accusation while listening to the collector across the room running on about the original @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reissues of these classics could n't duplicate the sound of that first , primitive studio . Condescension and self-accusation . How did we blow it ? How can we explain our failure to make the particulars of tradition ? academic bricolage ? consequential to student imaginations ? B UT THIS is a sentimental turn of thought . The meaning of faience ranks as no grander a piece of property than knowledge of the sound of Elvis 's first Nashville studio . What counts . I repeat , is that the hunger for mastery and the desire to push the mind a bit ? somehow , anyhow ? are still alive . The real problem ? the potential danger ? lies in the damage this sort of mind-pushing does the rock-film sector itself . In the public arena ( an often risky scene ) , rock is the most various popular entertainment in the West . A musical event in one dimension ? a display of lyric , melodic , or virtuoso gifts ? a first-class rock concert is also by turns a demonstration , a dance , a melodrama , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the forging of social solidarities , and an hour or two of responsive reading on the myth of The Rise , the Miracle of Success , and the wild joys of wild sex . The audience consists chiefly of persons hived off , under existing social arrangements . into the ghettos of youth- and student-powerlessness . But because of the variousness of the entertainment and its capacity to embody contradictions and to draw together segments of the youth population ordinarily socially segregated , the experience provided by a rock concert is remarkably energizing and empowering , managing at moments almost to escape the control of the very culture industry that contrived it . Fantasy released through film is , to be sure , not negligible , although weakened by furtiveness and solitariness . But the rock concert at its best both expresses oppositional force and ? by confirming , briefly and artificially vet intensely and publicly , the continuing existence of broadly shared satisfaction in democratic settings ? shakes youthful cynicism and despair and recharges the idea of possibility . The undergraduate specialists bent on aestheticizing and academizing rock for ego-building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an experience without equal in popular culture elsewhere . They 're as remote from the truth of rock as I , as a fancier of the meaning of faience , was from the true core of the humanities . They 've been encouraged to do this , of course , by grown-up " experts , " just as undergraduate movie savants have been encouraged in their direction by oversolemn grown-up readers of film ? specialists in the " codes " of Keaton , Fields , and the rest . One might have hoped that , grown-up and in less need of pseudo-authority , rock savants would have shed a layer of pretentiousness and dropped the charlatanry . But that 's happened too infrequently . The tutors of the present undergraduate high-rollers ? my Readers-In ? range from respectable music-loving elders who discovered the Beatles in the late Sixties , as that group was producing its most pretentious and least durable work , to the literary commentators who rhapsodize about David Byrne as an " ambitious thinker . " There 's The New York Times 's John Rockwell saluting " artistic breakthrough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign success a song that transcends the humanistic , amorous-psychological basis of her music and moves into the realm of metaphorical abstraction . " There 's the Village Voice 's Ellen Willis doing litcrit about a Velvet Underground album , calling it a " Pilgrim 's Progress in four movements , " and laying down that : " For the Velvets the roots of sin are in this ingrained resistance to facing our deepest , most painful , and most sacred emotions ; the essence of grace is the comprehension that our sophistication is a sham , that our deepest , most painful , most sacred desire is to recover a childlike innocence we have never , in 86 our heart of hearts , really lost " And , most regrettably and depress . ingly , there 's Rolling Stone 's Dave Marsh settling in to persuade Bruce Springsteen , who stands among the most vibrant popular entertainers of the age , of his obligation to transform himself into material for scholarly exegesis . In a long interview in the current issue of Musician , Marsh harries the creator of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as two-part philosophical disquisitions , and on artistic self-consciousness as a Higher Good . Responding gushingly to a new album called The River , Marsh lectures the performer about the development of his oeuvre : " Certain ideas that began with the second and third albums have matured , and a lot of the contrasts and contradictions have been ? not resolved ? but they 've been heightened . " And a moment later : " The way your stage show is organized is that the first half is about work and struggling ; the second half is about joy , release , transcending a lot of things in the first half . Is that con-scious ? " s HUT UP SHUT UP SHOT UP , one thinks as one reads ? and then at once the further thought comes that perhaps teaching a course in popular culture itself adds to the pedantry and punditry . Not likely : not a course in the criticism of popular culture . It 's demonstrable that those now promoting rock and film pedantry in the establishment press did n't learn to do this in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Berkeley doctorate in European culture , not in the history of pop ; in his present field of intellection he 's plainly rolling his own . And , anyway , who's-to-blame and who-can-j ustify-himself are n't the subjects at hand . We 're addressing not the extravagance of rock and film chatter in itself but the question of what it signifies when it 's heard on campus . It signifies , I think , that students believe they 're in possession of a vital culture of their own ( they 're roughly right about that ) , and it also signifies that , out of pride , students enjoy locating the problematic side of their culture and talking about it in professorial tones ( it 's a mistake in some respects , but they could do worse ) . Lots of us itch to sound off with appropriate , urgent-voiced warnings -- -and with invitations , too . The appropriate invitation is : Come home , come back to the real library , come cudgel the brains where the pay . off is richer ? Kant , Shakespeare , that crowd . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstraction and you rip yourself off . But my money tends to say , cool it . One can take heart , whatever the look and sound of things , that the pop-cult savants in the student body are n't that far out of the fold ; could be all the way back in tomorrow . And there 's at least some ground for trusting the toughness of " people 's culture . " Many times before , it 's broken the stranglehold of both the culture industry and of phony erudition . With a little luck ? the break I have in mind would do as much for Kant and Shakespeare as for rock and film ? it could just bring off that amazing feat again .                     