@@333748

Vincent is back . We left him at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1984 , crop- eared and dazed in Arles : " Sometimes moods of indescribable anguish , sometimes moments when the veil of time and fatality of circumstances seemed to be torn apart for an instant . " Two months after writing this , he voluntarily entered the lunatic asylum at Saint-Remy in Provence ; and 15 months after that , discharged but still plagued by unassuageable fits of melancholy , he shot himself to death in the rural village of Auvers , just north of Paris . Van Gogh was 37 when he died  --  at the same age , it has often been noted , as Raphael , Caravaggio and Watteau , and with an oeuvre no less brilliant than theirs . <P> The Met 's great Van Gogh exhibition in 1984 tracked the artist 's career from his arrival in Arles to the spring of 1889 . Its successor , " Van Gogh in Saint-Remy and Auvers , " which opens to the public this week , completes the trajectory . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pickvance , has brought together 70 paintings and 19 drawings from this last phase of Van Gogh 's short life . Here we see the stuff of the most powerful legend of suffering and transcendence in modern art , and no superlatives seem apt to encompass its beauty and emotional range . It is a characteristic of great painting that no matter how many times it has been cloned , reproduced and postcarded , it can restore itself as an immediate utterance with the unexpected force of strangeness when seen in the original . Some of the Van Goghs in this show , such as the Museum of Modern Art 's Starry Night , with its oceanic rush of whorling energy through the dark sky , ought by now  --  if frequency of reproduction were as lethal as one sometimes thinks  --  to be among the most overworked cliches in art . But on the wall , among less familiar paintings ( of which there are many in this show , thanks to the persistence with which Pickvance nailed down the loans ) , they are refreshed , and we see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stayed in Provence the closer he thought he got to its " essence " : its high tender color and sometimes violently modeled forms , its archaic antiquity and , above all , its light . In Arles the initial shock of the landscape , impacted in citron and chrome yellows , had dominated his palette . But once he was inside the asylum at Saint-Remy , a different and more reflective way of looking at the landscape around him took over . " What I dream of in my best moments , " he wrote , " is not so much striking color effects as once more the half-tones. "                     