@@432471

 | For the first six months of the Bush administration , Samuel Skinner has been the firefighter in chief . As Transportation Secretary , the littleknown ex-prosecutor from Chicago has had a full plate of major problems : The investigation into the terrorist bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 last December , the strike against Eastern Airlines and the Exxon oil spill near Valdez , Alaska . Skinner won high marks for his performance and emerged as a rising star in Bush 's well-regarded cabinet . His sudden prominence even moved Bush to open one White House strategy session by quipping , " You know , the transportation system in this country was in pretty good shape until I appointed you . Now , all we 've got is problems . " But in all the commotion , few have noticed that Skinner has set for himself and for Bush an agenda so sweeping that Skinner 's crisis managing will look easy by comparison . Skinner wants to revamp America 's often gridlocked transportation system into a 21st-century model of efficiency . He has charged 50 staffers with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least a dozen new airports , high-speed trains and a stronger emphasis on mass transit . " President Eisenhower 's biggest contribution as a civilian was the interstate-highway system , " says Skinner . " We need to have another legacy along those lines . " If Eisenhower is Skinner 's inspiration , the Reagan legacy may be his biggest roadblock . Reagan 's firing of striking air-traffic controllers in 1981 created morale and staffing problems that continue to plague the system . Critics also charge that eight years of Reagan budget slashing at DOT have undercut crucial maintenance and expansion of the nation 's roads and railbeds . More important , the money needed to fix those problems and fund Skinner 's vision is being eaten up by the large federal budget deficit . This year , the federal government will spend six times more on interest on the national debt than on transportation . Even Skinner , with coy understatement , admits that solving the money problem without breaking Bush 's no-new-taxes pledge will be " very tricky . " Skinner 's rapid ascension is the result of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former IBM salesman who earned a law degree at night , Skinner joined the U.S. Attorney 's office in Illinois when James Thompson , now the state 's governor , was in charge . Skinner succeeded Thompson in that job and later became chairman of Chicago 's Regional Transportation Authority , which operates the nation 's second-largest rail-and-bus system . In 1980 and 1988 , Skinner managed Bush 's presidential campaigns in Illinois . After Bush won last November , Thompson pushed for a spot in the Bush cabinet for his protege . Skinner has proven equal to the task . During the Eastern strike , for example , he chastised both labor and manage- ment while adroitly avoiding any federal intervention to stop the strike . More recently , Skinner used his announcement of pay incentives for some air-traffic controllers to threaten the airlines with a federal takeover of scheduling unless they reduced the load on cramped airports . He further broke with the Reagan administration 's hands-off approach by forcing a reluctant Ford and General Motors to meet a 1990 fleet average of 27.5 miles per gallon , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In one respect , however , the smaller federal role in transportation will make Skinner 's job easier . As Reagan hoped , the budget cuts have forced state and local governments to eliminate underused or redundant bus and rail lines and put some questionable road-building projects on hold . In Chicago , Skinner cut costs and boosted service by creating bus links between inner-city workers and suburban jobs , luring drivers onto trains by building new park-and-ride lots and by forging partnerships with the private sector . There is also a growing willingness at local levels to fund a bigger chunk of the transportation bill . Last month , after two years of resistance , the Illinois Legislature passed a $1 billion transit-assistance plan to be paid for with higher gas taxes . Even with more local money flowing , the sweep of Skinner 's vision will carry a price tag far beyond current resources . Airports are the most expensive items on his list . Most major facilities are already beyond their design capacity , and demand is expected to double or triple again by 2050 . Skinner has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , similar to the new $2 billion facility to be built outside Denver , which will be seven times larger than the current Stapleton International . High speed , big bucks . Almost as expensive is Skinner 's likely plan for highspeed intercity trains like those operating in Europe and Japan . Rocketing between cities at 180 to 300 miles per hour , such trains are competitive with planes on trips under 500 miles . Skinner points to Amtrak 's Northeast-corridor Metroliner as proof that riders will support such service . The Metroliner 's 125-mph trains carry more passengers each day than the two competing air shuttles that connect New York with Washington , D.C. , and Boston . Skinner is also likely to support lightrail surface-train lines , which San Diego , Portland , Oreg. , and Buffalo have built and which many other cities are planning . Light-rail lines are cheaper than subways and popular with riders because of their speed and street-level access . Discouraging the use of private cars is Skinner 's most controversial gambit , and he is pushing it delicately by encouraging local governments to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , where car poolers skip the $1 toll on the Bay Bridge and sail past the daily backup of solo drivers . The city also restricts the number of parking garages downtown and discourages all-day parking with hefty surcharges . There are 50 miles of lanes for car poolers and buses , with 150 more planned . Best of all , a $2.3 billion plan to improve the already extensive transit system requires only a 30 percent funding match from Washington , down from typical requests of 70 percent or more a few years ago . That meshes with Skinner 's new policy to give top priority to proposals with at least 50 percent local funding . Selling his ideas . If his master plan is to have a chance , Skinner will first have to convince Bush to support more regulation of transportation and new funding sources , possibly from increased motor-fuel taxes and higher fees on airline tickets . While he supports Bush 's no-new-taxes stance , he has said he needs more funds in many areas , including Amtrak , a favorite target of the Reagan budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hard because Budget Director Richard Darman has convinced Bush that big-ticket items are out of the question , at least for now . But so far , Skinner 's rapport with Bush is strong . The Secretary must also enlist the cooperation of Congress , which has left untouched $21 billion in the aviation and highway trust funds because that makes the budget deficit appear smaller . Skinner hopes to have his new priorities incorporated into forthcoming appropriations bills so that funds flow only to states and cities that adopt his requirements on local funding and rules on private autos . Congress may not go along with that formula , however . The hardest sell of all may be transportation interest groups . The major airlines want existing airports expanded but have resisted new airports in Denver , Chicago and other cities where competing airlines could gain access to valuable gates and routes . Aides to Skinner say that some highway-trustfund money might go for mass transit and other transportation needs of cities that meet DOT standards ? an idea sure to enrage the trucking and highwayconstruction industries . " Our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cash cow for other spending projects , " says Carlton Robinson of the Highway Users Federation , an industry trade group . Skinner has become practiced at deflecting the central question of precisely how he is going to pay for his vision . He says he does n't want to prejudge the efforts of his staff . But with their blueprint scheduled to be completed in six months , that answer wo n't work much longer . Skinner is already finding that changing the way Americans move around is going to be a long , difficult and expensive journey .                     