@@480826

From " The Failure of the Environmental Effort , " a speech delivered to the staff of the Environmental Protection Agency by Barry Commoner on January 12 . Commoner , who directs the Center for the Biology of Natural Systems at Queens College in New York City , wets one of twenty-four peer reviewers of the EPA dioxin report discussed in his speech . Beginning in 1950 , new forms of environmental pollution appeared and rapidly intensified : smog , acid rain , excess nitrates and phosphates in the water supply , pesticides and toxic chemicals in the food chain and in our bodies , and dangerous accumulations of radioactive waste . In 1970 , pressed by a newly aroused public , Congress created the Environmental Protection Agency to undo the damage . Now , nearly twenty years later , the time has come to ask an important question : How far have we progressed toward the goal of restoring the quality of the environment ? The answer is in fact embarrassing . Apart from a few notable exceptions , environmental quality has improved only slightly ? in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to government data . In some cases it has gotten worse . Most of our environmental problems are the inevitable result of the sweeping changes in the technology of production that transformed the U.S. economy after World War II : the use of new , large , high-powered , smog-generating automobiles ; the shift from fuel-efficient trains to gas-guzzling trucks and cars ; the replacement of bio-degradable and less toxic natural products with non-degradable and hazardous petrochemical products ; and the substitution of chemical fertilizers for manure and crop rotation . By 1970 it was clear that these changes in the technology of production were the root cause of modern environmental pollution . In the few instances where production technology has been modified in response to environmental concerns ? such as eliminating lead from gasoline , mercury from chlorine production , DDT from agriculture , PCBs from the electrical industry , and atmospheric nuclear explosions from military enterprise ? the environment has been improved by 70 percent or more in the last ten to fifteen years . When , instead of changing the production technology , an attempt is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an automobile 's catalyst or a power plant 's scrubber ? environmental improvement is , at best , only modest . Take the example of smog , a pollutant that originates when nitrogen oxide is created as a result of the high temperature in modern automobile engines . But nitrogen oxide is not the inevitable product of gasoline engines ; pre-war cars did not produce it . Today we can design a high-powered engine that does not produce smog . To do so , however , would mean retooling our auto manufacturing plants ? and that would require a willingness to exert some social control over the means of production . Instead , we have applied palliative measures , and these have failed . For once we have agreed to the concept of an " acceptable " level of smog , it is an easy matter for industry and local governments to either weaken or delay the implementation of that standard . Thus , last December , after already extending the deadline twice , we gave some cities twenty-five additional years to comply with the Clean Air Act . Unfortunately , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental quality ; it fails to recognize that environmental pollution is an essentially incurable disease that can only be prevented , and instead deals with its symptoms . I want to address some of the unrecognized costs of this approach . The present ? largely unsuccessful ? regulatory effort is based upon a now well-established procedure . First , the EPA estimates the degree of harm caused by different levels of various environmental pollutants . Next , some " acceptable " level of harm is chosen ( for example , a cancer risk of one in a million ) and the EPA establishes emission standards that can presumably achieve that risk level . Polluters are then expected to introduce controls ( such as auto-exhaust catalysts or power-plant stack scrubbers ) that will lower emissions to the required level . If the regulation survives the inevitable challenges from industry ( and , in recent years , from the administration itself ) , the polluters will invest in the appropriate control systems . If all goes well ? and it frequently does not ? at least some areas of the country and some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process is the inverse of our preventive approach to public health . It strives not for a continuous improvement in environmental quality but for the social acceptance of some , presumably tow , risk to health . In a way , this represents a return to the medieval approach to disease , in which illness ? and death itself ? was regarded as a debit on life endured as payment for original sin . In our updated version , we think that some level of pollution and some risk to health is the inevitable price to be paid for the material benefits of modern technology . This approach presents many problems , but I want to focus on the way it leads to a dangerous confusion of science and policy . The very concept of an " acceptable risk " determined by EPA regulators takes decisions out of the public arena and , ostensibly , into the laboratory . Yet , unbeknownst to the public , the " objective " scientific process that is supposed to protect them is easily corrupted . The story behind the recent news that the cancer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides an example of the sort of dangerous thinking fostered by our current approach to environmental protection . The EPA has a standard of acceptable exposure to dioxin that dictates when contaminated soil must be removed . The EPA based this standard on a 1985 dioxin risk assessment that established the dosage at which the chance that exposure would lead to cancer is one in a million . The one-in-a-million risk standard is generally seen as acceptable and not likely to change . What can be altered is the specific dosage that is expected to generate the one-in-amillion risk . For Syntex Agribusiness Inc. ? the company liable for the dioxin cleanup in Missouri the issue of an acceptable risk level , of course , involves enormous sums of money . According to Syntex , relaxing the cleanup standard from one part per billion ( ppb ) to ten ppb would reduce cleanup costs by 65 percent . Predictably , Syntex scientists have developed reasons why the 1985 EPA dioxin risk assessment is wrong . And as most of you know , a recent EPA task-forcedraft report develops a new rationale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is sixteen times lower than estimated by the EPA in 1985 . To understand how the EPA came to this judgment , we need to review the scientific debate over the role that dioxin plays in the biological process that leads from exposure to a chemical to the appearance of a cancerous tumor . According to the theory currently accepted by much of the scientific community , this process has two sequential steps . First , a substance ? an " initiator " ? causes an irreversible genetic change in the exposed cells . In the second phase a " promoter " causes these now predisposed cells to proliferate and produce a cancerous tumor . Mathematical models , based on animal experiments , have been developed to estimate the risk of cancer in people exposed to given amounts of dioxin . Some models assume that dioxin is a " complete carcinogen , " acting as both initiator and promoter . Others assume that its sole role is as a promoter . In general , the risks computed from complete-carcinogen models are considerably greater than the risks computed from promoter-based models . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of both effects . The Syntex scientists , not surprisingly , claim that dioxin is only a promoter . So the question remains : Is dioxin a complete carcinogen or just a promoter ? Consider these facts : Rats and mice exposed only to dioxin exhibit a significant incidence of cancer ; this implies that dioxin is a complete carcinogen capable of both initiation and promotion . However , dioxin lacks the distinctive property of an initiator ? it does not cause mutations . But dioxin also lacks the distinctive property of a promoter ? there is no clear evidence that it causes cell proliferation . According to the actual evidence , then , dioxin is neither an initiator nor a promoter . This means that the initiator/ promoter dichotomy is not a sensible way to account for the effect of dioxin on cancer incidence , and that risk assessment models based on either of these assumptions are not valid . Despite the fact that the EPA never reconciles this paradox in its draft report , there is a way to explain it . Dioxin greatly increases the activity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental carcinogens to active agents . Apparently , dioxin can sufficiently increase the activity of small amounts of carcinogens present in food , water , and air to generate the increased tumor incidence observed when only dioxin is given to test animals . In effect , dioxin influences tumor production by enhancing the activity of carcino30 HARPERS MAGAZINE 1 MAY gens ? the danger of which is best estimated from the complete-carcinogen model used in the 1985 EPA risk assessment . But , clearly , the EPA did not take any of this into account . Instead , they chose the midpoint between the lowest risk assessment ( based on the idea of dioxin as a promoter ) and the highest ( based on dioxin as a complete carcinogen ) . The result was a new " safe standard " sixteen times higher than the one derived in 1985 . The EPA 's approach grievously violates scientific procedure . I can best explain my concern with a parable . Let us suppose that there is an animal in a closed room ; from previous experience this animal is known to bite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force is called to evaluate the bite risk . Opinions differ . One group says , " If we assume that the animal is a lion , and apply an appropriate mathematical model , we can compute that the risk from its bite is ten in a million . " The other group assumes that the animal is a dog , and its model yields a risk of 0.001 in a million . The scientists engage in a bitter debate , and in an effort to resolve it , they manage to provoke some sound from the unseen animal . It neither barks like a dog nor growls like a lion . Finally since the re-port is due ? they reach a consensus : the risk is midway , logarithmically , between 0.001 and 10 , or 0.1 . What 's wrong with this approach ? First , consider the decision to take the midpoint of the two types of risk estimates . If the animal is a dog , obviously it is not a lion , and vice versa . This leads to the conclusion that at least one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But since the animal neither barks nor roars , both sides are wrong , which destroys the logical bases of both risk models ? a defect that can not be cured by averaging their results . Eventually , some particularly hardy soul decides to open the door and actually look at the animal . It turns out to be a monkey , which then playfully slides open a door at the back of the room , and turns loose a roaring lion . Let me suggest that this monkey represents the dioxin-stimulated enzyme that releases the serious effects of the complete carcinogen , the lion . I believe that the new draft report on the dioxin health risk fails to meet the rudimentary requirements of scientific discourse . However , it may be that this is not the proper standard for judging the report . It is not entirely clear that we should regard the EPA draft report as a purely scientific document , for the report presents its conclusions as an example of sound " science policy . " What can this possibly mean ? Is n't there an inherent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the present context , the relevant attributes of science are , first , its demand for rigorous , validated methods , and second , its objectivity , or the independence of the data and analysis from the interests of those affected by the results . Policy , by contrast , is defined in Webster 's dictionary as " prudence or wisdom in the management of affairs " and " management or procedure based primarily on material interest . " If the new dioxin risk assessment is a purely scientific exercise , then its conclusion that the EPA 's 1985 risk assessment should be greatly reduced collapses under the weight of its faulty methodology . If it is , instead , a policy document , or some undefined hybrid , then it fails to meet a different obligation : it does not specify what " material interest " governed the outcome of the exercise . Was it the explicit interest of Syntex in reducing its Missouri cleanup costs ? Was it the Office of Management and Budget 's often-expressed interest in balancing health risks against the cost of ameliorating them ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimizing the risk to their health ? How can we remedy the environmental failure ? We do know that the preventive approach is more likely to produce the desired results than the current palliative approach , which is based on dubious " science policy " estimates of " acceptable risk . " The preventive approach has its own considerable difficulties ? it requires a willingness to challenge the taboo against even questioning the dominance of private interests over the public interest . But at least the publicwould be included in that debate ? indeed , would know that a debate was going on . Politics should not hide behind the skirt of bad science . We need good science , wise policies , and the honesty to distinguish the two . That is the necessary first step toward realizing what has been this nation 's avowed goal since 1970 ? restoring the quality of the environment .                     