@@486997

On June 20 , speaking at a Republican Party dinner in Jackson , Mississippi , President Reagan warned that failure to increase U.S. military and economic aid to Central America would result in " a tidal wave of refugees  --  and this time they 'll be ' feet people ' and not ' boat people , ' swarming into our country seeking a safe haven from communist repression to our south . " Reagan was right in saying that there is a correlation between patterns of immigration and our economic and political policies at home and abroad . Unfortunately , the correlation he made was the wrong one . Every thirty years or so the United States undergoes a xenophobic convulsion in the name of " immigration reform . " The SimPsonMazzoli Immigration Reform and Control Act , now before the House , is a product of the latest such spasm . Popular support for such " re . form " is characteristically fanned by the sort of jingoism President Reagan resorted to in his Mississippi speech . In 1954 , when hundreds of thousands of illegal Mexican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Naturalization Service appealed to the gods of the cold war in testimony before Congress , saying that 100 " Communists and ex-Reds " were crossing the border daily . Today we are given dire warnings of hordes of " feet people , " and of the invasion of uncontrollable masses . " The swelling population of Mexico , driving millions of illegal aliens over the border , " former Director of Central intelligence William Colby said , " is a greater threat to the future of the United States than the Soviet Union . " ( Continued on Page 303 ) to a plaintiff and hostile to the media can easily misapply the " reckless disregard for the truth " standard and find malice . Whatever a judge charges a jury about " malice , " " truth , " " good motives , " " justifiable ends " and " compensatory damages " may be irrelevant to its decision . There is no stopping a runaway jury . In the case of Tavoulareas v. Washington Post , the trial judge set aside the jury 's verdict . But t-Nt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the appellate courts . Judges reluctant to overturn jury verdicts will rely on appellate decisions to affirm the high awards of anti-press juries . Neier also suggests that awards for punitive damages be abolished . But the threat to free speech posed by oppressive libel judgments would not be removed merely by eliminating such awards . Juries could still award compensatory damages . Plaintiffs can wring hundreds of thousands of dollars from jurors , if not millions , by telling them how upset the libel made them . Even if a plaintiff did not suffer financially as a result of being defamed , a jury can rule that because of the mental anguish and humiliation he has suffered , and because of the damage to his reputation , he is entitled to millions of dollars . Once a jury has decided that published material is false , it generally regards the defendant as guilty of libel , even though at worst only negligence was involved . The increase in libel suits in the past few years has resulted in self-censorship by the media . Self-censorship often is insidious . Corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their ability to avoid litigation . Internal memorandums introduced in court in a recent libel suit against Newsweek showed that the chief criterion by which the magazine 's general counsel was judged was her success in avoiding such suits . Company lawyers and others charged with reviewing material for libelous statements are encouraged by management to take a conservative , businesslike approach , which in practice often means eliminating anything controversial . Nor would a right of reply reduce the harm caused by recent Supreme Court decisions that permit courts to probe into the editorial process . An author or newscaster can now be held liable not only for what he wrote or said but also for what he thought . The plaintiff in a libel suit has the right to peruse early drafts of stories not used in the final version ; to look at interviews that ended up on the cutting-room floor ; Ls listen to all tape recordings . He also has the right to interivgate the author or newscaster about why he chose one word rather than another . The smart publisher , prudent lawyer or careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As Justice Hugo Black wrote in his opinion in the Sullivan case , " This Nation , I suspect , can live in peace without libel suits based on public discussion of public affairs and public officials . But I doubt that a country can live in freedom where its people can be made to suffer physically or financially for criticizing their government , its actions or its officials . " Representative democracy ceases to exist the moment public functionaries are in any way absolved from their responsibilities to their constituents ; and that happenswhenever a constituent is restrained from speaking , writing or publishing his opinions about any public measure or about the conduct of those who may execute it . " An unconditional right to say what one pleases about public affairs is what 1 consider to be the minimum guarantee of the First Amendment , " Black wrote . Because of these and other dangers , on October 9 , 1982 , after decades of debate , the American Civil Liberties Union 's board of directors adopted a policy opposing libel suits brought by public figures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public officials are now cloaked with absolute immunity against liability for defamatory statements made in the discharge of their offices . Why should the press and private citizens have less immunity ? Finally , if criticism of a public figure can be found to be libelous , no citizen can safely utter anything but praise about the government or its officials . It may well be that a defamed official without access to the media is vulnerable to those who defame him . But that is one of the prices that must be paid for freedom of speech . Immigration ( Continued From Front Cover ) Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming , co-author of the immigration bill , has warned : In the past seNeral years a large majority of new legal immigrants joining American citizens and permanent residents in the United States has come from Latin America , Asia and the Caribbean area With respect to illegal immigrants , it is estimated that Mexico is the source of at least 50 to 60 percent of the total , other parts of Latin America 10 to 15 percent , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continues at a high level , yet a substantial portion of these new persons and their descendants do not assimilate into the society , they have the potential to create in America a measure of the same social , political and economic problems from which they have chosen to depart . Furthermore , if language and cultural separatism rise above a certain level , the unity and political stability of the nation will  --  in time  --  be seriously diminished Allegedly to preserve the cultural integrity of this nation of immigrants from the consequences of a brown , black and yellow invasion , Senator Simpson and Representative Romano Mazzoli of Kentucky introduced a bill that would make it harder for refugees to receive political asylum and would tighten controls on immigration in a way calculated to encourage discriminatory hiring practices and union-busting by U.S. companies . The bill represents what National Immigration Coalition director Bert Corona calls " Ripply - side economics applied to the field of immigration . " Moreover , as a means of stemming the influx , the bill would be ineffective . That is because the proposed legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border that was sparsely populated and largely undefined until the first part Geoffrey Rips is an associate editor of The Texas Observer . of this century . It does not take into account the reasons people leave their homelands for the United States . Most important , the Simpson-Mazzoli bill ignores the extent to which U.S. economic and political policies help create the . patterns of immigration to the United States . Any examination of immigration policy must consider both the " push " and the " pull " factors that cause peopl , c io migrate . In conventional analyses , these social forces are usually described as the pull of political freedom or economic opportunities and the push of repression or poverty . Only rarely is the government 's role in manipulating those factors considered . The McCarran-Walter Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 , for example , served as an important complement to cold war foreign policy . It was sponsored in the House by the chairman of the Un-American Activities Committee and contained an " ideological exclusion " clause and a " parole provision , " which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or group seeking political asylum . The parole provision was first used to admit 34,000 Hungarian refugees in 1956 . In the late 1950s and early 1960s , 650,000 Cubans were granted asylum under the provision and were given $994 million in immediate resettlement assistance by Congress . More than 130,000 South Vietnamese were permitted to settle in the United States during a two-year period in the mid-1970s , prior to the arrival of the Vietnamese " boat people . " Most of them were members of the middle or upper class who had supported the Saigon government . Chileans who sought to enter the United States after Gen. Augusto Pinochet took power , in 1973 , however , were not given blanket parole status ; they were admitted on an individual basis . Edwin Ledbetter , speaking for the State Department in 1975 , said , " This is really the first time since World War II we 've made an effort to resettle people from a rightist regime . The determinations on security matters are more time-consuming . " Secretary of State Henry Kissinger agreed that year to admit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them and their families were allowed to enter the United States . Not only has the government been ideologically selective in who it allows to invade America 's shores ; it has also triggered large-scale migrations by its interventions in the affairs of other countries . Vietnam is an obvious example . U.S support for the Duvalier regime in Haiti is another ; through economic aid we have contributed to its longevi ; / and the attendant repression . The United States is , therefore , indirectly responsible for the boatloads of Haitians fleeing to Florida . The U.S. hand is also evident in the emigration of large numbers of people from Central America to this country and Canada . Among those are Salvadorans fleeing the ravages of a war abetted by U.S. foreign aid . From 1980 to 1982 , the United States gave $398 million in military aid and $257 million in economic aid to the Salvadoran government . Salvadorans are not emigrating because of their government 's failure to subdue an armed opposition but because Washington is prolonging the war by shoring up a right-wing government , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participate in elections and which perpetuates social inequities . While the relationship between U.S. foreign and ' economic policy and the number of people seeking asylum here is obvious , the role the government plays in stimulating the flow of immigrant labor is no less significant . The history of Mexican labor in the southwestern United States kimilis history of the manipulation of these workers by U.S. agribusiness interests , aided by immigration legislation . To understand that history , we must begin at the nearly 2,000-mile border between Mexico and the United States . Throughout the nineteenth century , neither country made any effort to impede the flow of people back and forth across it , even after the present border was drawn up in 1848 in the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo , ending the Mexican-American War . The flow was regulated by supply and demand , and the border 's significance was largely a matter for cartographers . As Ernesto Galarzo , a farm-labor historian , wrote in Merchants of Labor , the Mexican Bracero Story , the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo left " the toilers on one side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other . This mistake immigration undertook to correct . " The demand for Mexican laborers rose markedly during World War I , and it was satisfied by poor Mexicans driven to seek work in the United States because the revolution of 1910 had left their country 's economy in shambles . During the agricultural boom of the 1920s , the growers called for more Mexican workers , and the rate of border-crossings accelerated . Many of these immigrants found jobs in the fields owned by California 's new agribusinesses . In 1924 , Congress passed the National Origins Act , which marked the beginning of a comprehensive Federal policy to control immigration through quotas . The act severely curtailed immigration from southern and Eastern Europe but set no quotas for immigrants from the countries of the Western hemisphere , who were needed to ease the resulting shortage of labor . That same year the Border Patrol was established to supervise the traffic of immigrants from below the Rio Grande . In the 1930s , there was a backlash against Mexican workers because of widespread unemployment among Americans . The result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor William Doak declared , " One way to provide work for unemployed Americans is to - gust any alien holding a job and to deport him . " His words Nfvere followed by well-publicized raids by the Border Patrol and state and local police on farms employing Mexican workers . Many states started repatriation programs , under which several thousand Mexicans were shipped back to their homeland . Although those measures resulted in the deportation of only a small percentage of the Mexican workers in this country , the number of immigrants slowed to a trickle because of the scarcity of jobs . In 1934 , President Lizaro CArdenas implemented a long-promised agrarian reform program , which provided land to many Mexicans who might otherwise have sought work in the United States . The growers in Southern California supported the government 's efforts to deport Mexicans not only because they objected to their presence on already swollen relief rolls but also because they feared labor unrest . Seventy-five percent of the workers who participated in a series of strikes in 1933 by the Cannery and Agricultural Workers Industrial Union were from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Valley in 1928 and again in 1930 , when 5,000 of them walked off the job . Local authorities arrested the organizers and deported them . The growers came to realize that while deportations did not significantly shrink the pool of Mexican labor , the threat of deportation did reduce protests about wages and working conditions and it made labor organizing more difficult . The next great demand for Mexican labor came during World War II . The draft , along with the booming war economy , created a labor shortage and drove up farm workers ' wages to levels that approached those in industry . Because the labor shortage was so acute , the Mexican government was able to win concessions protecting its citizens in the United States by working ' out a general migrant labor agreement , known as the bracero program Under the terms of the agreement , Mexican workers received a guaranteed minimum wage and did not have to pay for their transportation . They could be used only in areas where there were labor shortages  --  not to depress wages or to break strikes . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and enforced the terms of the program until it was transferred to the less stringent War Food Administration in 1943 , following concerted lobbying by the growers . In 1947 the agreement expired , but the growers convinced the two governments to extend the program under terms that allowed them to act as their own contractors . While that enabled them to get around some of the requirements of the program , many growers still felt constrained , and increasingly began to rely on undocumehted workers , many of whom had first worked in the United States as braceros . A large number of those workers , who had been shipped home when their contracts expired , returned to the areas of their bracero employment , but this time as undocumented workers . By 1951 , the number of undocumented workers arrested by immigration police approached 500,000 ( as compared with some 200,000 contract laborers admitted legally under the bracero program ) , and U.S. authorities attempted to establish greater control over the immigrant workers . This was accomplished in part by giving thousands of undocumented workers bracero contracts , usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegally . In 1954 more than 300,000 Mexican workers were signed to contracts under the program . That same year the U.S. government initiated " Operation Wetback . " One I.N.S. official claimed that " aliens who entered the United States illegally are responsible for 75 percent of all crimes committed in some Southern California and Texas counties . . . . Even more serious is the possibility that among the ' wetbacks ' who seek employment there may be those whose entry would be detrimental to our national security . " This operation , carried out In the name of the cold war , resulted in the deportation of more than 1 million undocumented laborers and produced a decline in the number of people apprehended by the I.N.S. while attempting to cross the border . Many workers joined the bracero program in Mexico rather than risk entering the United States illegally . In addition , by reducing the minimum contract period for braceros and by bypassing processing procedures set up by the Mexican government , the I.N.S. encouraged growers in the United States to comply with the system . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well over 400,000 during the late 1950s . The bracero program was terminated in 1964 because of opposition to mounting worker exploitation and-increased lobbying by organized labor , and because Johnson Administration officials no longer saw the program as the solution to the problems caused by illegal immigration . The number of undocumented workers from Mexico apprehended in this country shot up to 100,000 in 1965 , 350,000 in 1970 and more than 1 million in 1978 . While ostensibly set up to regulate the immigration of Mexicans to the United States , the bracero program had actually stimulated it . Through recruitment campaigns in Mexico during World War II , the program revived a migration process that had virtually ceased . And the work force mobilized by the program remained in this country illegally following its demise . Most of the employers in the United States who had relied on braceros for cheap labor continued to rely on these same workers , though their legal status had been terminated . As the foregoing indicates , U.S. immigration policy has been , in the main , designed to benefit agriculture and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them with a pool of cheap labor and has enabled the government to expel undesirable immigrants . Immigration policy created a pull that is partly responsible for the large immigrant work force in the United States today . The government 's effort to curtail further immigration in 1964 by ending the bracero program was singularly unsuccessful , particularly in comparison with similar efforts in the early 1930s . That failure stemmed not from a diminished U.S. commitment to enforcing restrictive immigration policies but from the economic situation in Mexico . The termination of the bracero program coincided with the so-called Green Revolution in Mexico  --  a government project that financed irrigation systems for large COtporate farms and encouraged an economy based on the international trade of commodities at the expense of local self-sufficiency . As a result , the operators of many small " rain-fed " farms were driven out of business , and small landholders and workers on communal farms , or ejidos , were forced to seek seasonal wage labor . By 1974 , almost 5 million acres of rain-fed farmland had been abandoned . In the 1960s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ products of the new industries in the cities replaced goods made by village artisans . That caused the decline of small local industries , an important source of income in rural areas , and set off a massive rural-to-urban migration . Many of the migrants left the land for the cities ; when they could not find jobs in the cities , they crossed the border into the United States . Others were forced to supplement family incomes from subsistence farms and sought seasonal farm work in the United States . As Mexican economist Lourdes Arizpe points out , " All industrial nations recruit the bulk of their industrial work force from surplus agricultural labor . " Arizpe calls rural-to-urban migration " the geographical expression of an economic process . " U.S. corporate interests gave added impetus to the forces in Mexico encouraging emigration . From 1950- to 1966 , direct U.S. investment in Mexico increased from $286 million to almost $1.2 billion . Some jobs were created along the border by free-trade zones , which attracted American investment , and by the maquiladores , or runaway shops , designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many cases these factories lured even more people from the hinterlands , who swelled the ranks of the urban unemployed . U.S. firms like Zenith , Motorola , Memorex , Burroughs and North American Rockwell opened plants in Mexico after receiving major concessions from the Mexican government . These concessions allowed them to exploit cheap Mexican labor and exempted them from certain export duties . This exacerbated balance of trade problem ' plaguing the Mexican economy . , . Another example of the way U.S. policy has encouraged migration was pointed out by economist Michael Conroy , who wrote in Socioeconomic Incentives for Migration from Mexico to the U.S. : The most significant determinant of substantially increased incentives for temporary migration from Mexico to the United States in recent years has been the devaluation of the peso relative to the dollar . . Policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund , such as those imposed in 1976 for " stabilization " of the Mexican economy , are likely to contribute indirectly to the incentive for migration by slowing job creation while contributing directly through pressures for devaluation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even encouraged such measures , U.S. policy has been significantly responsible for the increase in the incentive for temporary migration For the benefit of American investors abroad and American agribusiness and industry at home , a process was set in motion that has deposited the hordes on our doorstep . 4 Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1983 is little more than an attempt to control those hordes . It would make it more difficult to gain political asylum and it would use the policing powers of the government to serve the needs of U.S. employers . The xenophobic tenor of the campaign for the SimpsonMazzoli legislation can be attributed to the desire of the bill 's supporters to make undocumented laborers and political refugees scapegoats for the recent recession But the charge that such workers take jobs away from Americans is open to dispute . In the recent recession , the areas of highest unemployment  --  the Midwest and the Northeast  --  did not suffer the largest influx of undocumented workers . Since the late 1970s , the Sun Belt has had the lowest irate of unemployment and has seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently accused of putting a strain on social services . The truth is that they support a welfare system whose benefits they rarely see . The average stay in the United States for an undocumented worker from Mexico is two or three years , after which he returns to his family ; thus he is not in this country long enough to collect many of the benefits for which his taxes have been deducted . According to studies conducted in the late 1970s by Jorge Bustamante of the Colegio de Mexico and by the U.S. Department of Labor , while taxes and Social Security were withheld from the paychecks of about 75 percent of undocumented workers , only 1.5 percent of all such individuals received food stamps , only 4 percent got unemployment compensation and only 4.5 percent had ever used public health services . Undocumented workers further subsidize the . U.S. economy through the payment of sales tax . And the low wages most of them receive can be considered a form of subsidization of business . Even if undocumented workers are not a drain on the economy , some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depress wagesand take jobs from American citizens and permanent residents doubt that is true on the fringes of the economy . But the answer , says Jim Harrington , an attorney for the Texas Civil Liberties Union , is not to " retaliate against people because they are hungry but to organize . " The United Farni Workers of America , which opposes the Simpson-Mazzoli bill , has been working with labor groups in Mexico to organize farm workers The mechanisms proposed in the Simpson-Mazzoli bill for regulating immigrant labor include sanctions against employers , the " legalization " of various groups of un documented workers , the implementation of a guest-worker program and the issuing of identification cards to all legal alien workers . The bill 's supporters claim that sanctions would prevent employers from turning undocumented workers over to the I.N.S. after they have finished a job rather than paying them . The Mexican American I egal Defense and Educational Fund ( MALDEF ) argues that the penalties for hiring undocumented workers would not be a sufficient deterrent to prevent the practice . They may do little more than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic groups even if they are permanent residents or , citizens . While the bill does not protect the right of undocumented workers to organize , it specifically includes unions that act as labor contractors among those against whom sanctions would apply . Unions place thousands of their members in jobs each year through hiring halls , and workers may join regardless of their legal status . The sanction provision would compel these unions to enforce the immigration laws , which would drive undocumented workers to nonunion contractors whose marginal operations leave them largely unaccountable to the government . This of course would eliminate , the possibility of organizing a significant sector of the labor pool , which is one reason the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees , the International Longshoremen and Warehousemen 's Union and the United Electrical Workers have spoken out against the Simpson-Mazzoli package . The A.F.L.-C.I.O. , while calling for immigration reform , does not support the legislation passed by the Senate this summer and recommended by the House Judiciary Committee Instead it favors the Hawkins-Miller amendment , which was proposed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for guest workers and a review mechanism for legalization decisions made by the I.N.S. The " legalization " program proposed by the bill is purportedly intended to bring undocumented workers " out of the shadow , " but instead it would legitimize a new subclass of workers . Under Mazzoli 's H.R. 1510 , all undocumented aliens who entered the country before 1982 would be eligible for amnesty and permanent resident status , while Simpson 's S. 529 imposes a two-tiered system , with 1980 and 1982 as the cutoff years . Both proposals place the legalized workers in a legal limbo . Federal income tax and Social Security payments would be withheld from workers ' paychecks , but they would not receive the full benefits . Legalized aliens would not be entitled to participate in federally funded assistance programs for a period of four years , although they would be entitled to emergency aid . According to MALDEF , the bill 's imprecision in spelling out the social benefits and protections for which legalized workers are eligible presents an opportunity for exploitation . MALDEF also decries the fact that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families of legalized aliens would be allowed to enter the country and whether the workers would fall under the jurisdiction of the National Labor Relations Board , as they do under current law . If 1980 is used as the cutoff for determining which aliens receive permanent resident status , more than half of the undocumented workers in the United States today would not qualify , since , as mentioned , most stay no longer than two or three years . Many of those would be eligible for temporary resident status . However , under both versions of the bill all undocumented workers must be screened for eligibility by immigration officials , whose criteria Will include the ideological exclusion clause of the McCarran-Walter Act . The ID system is intended to keep track of all alien workers , who would be registered with the I.N.S. and whose records would be maintained on a computerized index . Guest workers , whose stay in the United States would be specifically limited by the requirements of a particular job , would be drawn from lists of available workers compiled by the Mexican government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employers , and they would not be covered by any union contracts in force where they work . Neither bill proposes mechanisms to safeguard the rights of guest workers . Moreover , the Panetta amendment to the bill , which has been passed by the House Agriculture Committee , does away with the requirement that employers certify the unavailability of American workers before applying for guest workers to harvest perishable crops . The guest-worker plan is little more than a government-supervised program that , would enable employers to hire cheap labor and free them from having to make contributions to Social Security and unemployment compensation funds . The Simpson-Mazzoli guest-worker plan is essentially an expansion of the current H-2 program , instituted in 1952 to fill temporary jobs with foreign workers if unemployed Americans are not available . Under that program wage f standards are set by the U.S. Department of Labor , and employers can control which workers are hired . In 1976 , H-2 melon pickers in Presidio , Texas , struck , demanding the pay the government had guaranteed . The strike was eventually settled , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.F.W. began to organize farm laborers in northern Mexico before they came to the United States , growers under the H-2 program started to fTy 'm workers from southern Mexico and Guatemala . Political refugees fare no better than immigrant workers under the Simpson - Mazzoli bill . The bill calls for the summary deportation of aliens who enter without documents unless they assert some " reasonable basis " for legal entry or apply for asylum within fourteen days after the issuance of an order to show cause why they should not be deported . An alien who misses the deadline will not be allowed to apply for political asylum unless there is a change in his home government that might affect his eligibility . The bill reduces the time for appealing a deportation order from six months to thirty days . Those provisions are designed to streamline the procedures for handling political asylum requests . Since most refugees will not be able to ascertain their rights and the steps they must take to receive asylum within the first two weeks of entry ( when most arrests occur ) , much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within that time , the political asylum provisions of the bill amount to little more than a mechanism to allow the summary deportation of large numbers of aliens . This would relieve the crowded conditions at detention centers in Florida , Texas and California , but it is not in keeping with the right to due process afforded all who come under the jurisdiction of the U.S. government , and it violates human rights conventions to which the United States is a signatory . While the House bill provides for judicial review of decisions on asylum , exclusion and deportation cases , the original Senate bill did not . Before it passed the full Senate , Edward Kennedy attached an amendment providing for such review . Those seeking judicial review would , of course , need a certain amount of knowledge about U.S. courts as well as money to pay for counsel . - After the Senate passed S. 529 , it was expected that Mazzoli 's bill would move through the House in a similar fashion . But several committees took an interest in it , which slowed its progress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In addition , talk of economic recovery has made the legislation seem less urgent to many members of Congress . It is now scheduled for consideration by the House Rules Committee on October 18 . Eyed if the bill is passed , it can not solve the problems it claims to address . Real immigration reform will come only through an understanding of the economic and political factors that create mass migrations . As long as the United States is willing to exploit cheap immigrant labor and tolerate the economic imbalance that exists between the First World and the Third World , as long as it supplies arms to other nations and exacerbates conflict in other parts of the                     