@@432475

 | Espe Yocham and her father-inlaw , Sonny , stood in the late-afternoon sun amid the shattered heap of glass , plywood and aluminum siding that was her Blanchard , Okla. , trailer house . Several yards away , her silver Mustang sat upside down in the red-brown mud . Across the field were the crushed remains of another trailer ? that of Sonny 's youngest daughter and her family . Espe 's legs and shoulder were covered with ugly purple bruises ; she had just returned from the hospital where her husband Brandon lay in intensive care with broken ribs and a punctured lung . " The trailer started shimmying and shaking , " she recalled . " I grabbed my baby , Elvis ? then all of a sudden everything just exploded . " It would require no stretch of the imagination to believe that a bomb had in fact gone off , so intense was the devastation . But this scene was a pure work of nature ? and a surprisingly common one . Thunderstorms , and the lightning , winds , hail and tornadoes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toll every year . In the United States alone , the annual losses exceed $1 billion . Lightning kills about 100 people and starts more than 10,000 fires . Hail smashes windows , gouges unprotected cars and aircraft , and robs farmers of 1 percent of their crops . About 165 people are swept away in flash floods following storms , while tornadoes claim 100 lives . At any given time , 2,000 thunderstorms are in progress around the world , releasing energy equivalent to several atomic bombs . For all of the advances in weather prediction brought about in the last decade by satellites , radar and supercomputers , when it comes to forecasting these most damaging of storms , meteorologists acknowledge that they are still coming up short . Predicting tomorrow 's temperature is easier than foretelling tomorrow 's rainfall ; predicting broad , regional weather patterns even five days in advance is an easier feat than determining exactly where tomorrow 's thunderstorms will develop , how long they will last or how severe they will be . One shortcoming is lack of up-to-theminute data . The most accurate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humidity and wind readings from balloons that are launched every 12 hours from only about 100 points across the country . Storms can form .  | devastate an area , then dissipate in much less time than the 12 hours between balloon launchings . And storms tend to be tens of miles across , while hundreds of miles stretch between launch sites . The mysteries that still surround the behavior of thunderstorms present even more fundamental problems for forecasters . Precisely which atmospheric conditions precipitate the towering , accelerating growth of clouds into thunderheads ; how the vast , twisting cyclone of air that develops in the heart of some clouds gives birth to tornadoes ; how electrical charges build up to trigger lightning ? all are questions crucial for improved prediction , and all are questions begging for answers . Much of what we do know about thunderstorms has come from scientists at the National Severe Storms Laboratory ( NSSL , pronounced " nissel " ) in Norman , Okla . Norman is in the heart of what meteorologists call " Tornado Alley , " a region that stretches from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of the frequency and ferocity of local thunderstorms . Most trees lean north , bent by the prevailing winds . A local carwash hands out rain checks that are good for 24 hours : If a storm spatters mud on your freshly washed car , come back and they will rewash it , free of charge . Hot pursuit Most of science 's standard techniques are of little help . Scientists ca n't take atmospheric readings in the middle of a tornado , nor can they examine a dead storm or experiment with a live one in the lab . Instead , meteorologists are learning to study storms indirectly , by reconstructing their wind patterns from the damage they leave in their wake , or by using a variety of remote sensors , such as radar that can measure speed and direction of winds aloft and special lasers that measure precipitation size . On the Saturday afternoon last month when the storm ripped through the Yochams ' trailer , NSSL researchers watched from the roof of the lab as the towering , purplish-gray clouds advanced across the countryside toward Norman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shelf " cloud juts out like a large flat foot ; to the meteorologists , it signifies that the storm , still several miles off , is producing high winds . Fat lightning flashes arc from cloud to cloud , accompanied by increasingly sharp cracks of thunder . Then a chilly wind rises , and big drops of rain begin to fall . The researchers hurry inside , and within minutes , the rain is so thick that no one can see across the NSSL parking lot . Thunderstorms this spectacular are rare , even for Tornado Alley . But NSSL scientists are stuck in the lab instead of out studying the storm because earlier in the day they predicted that the clouds gathering over Oklahoma would not coalesce into a significant storm . Their botched forecast points to the central irony of storm research : Scientists can not predict storms well enough to reliably catch them . For the past month , David Jorgensen ,  | head of NSSL 's mesoscale-research division , and his team have been probing storms with a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ( NOAA ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . With the plane , researchers are able to range far and wide in search of storms . This season , the Jorgensen team has focused , in part , on huge circular storm clusters , known as mesoscale convective complexes ( MCC 's ) , which were first identified by NSSL Director Robert Maddox when he was a graduate student in the 1960s . In the Midwest , especially , MCC 's are a potent meteorological force . They produce twisters and damaging hail , yet they supply the region with most of its rain during the growing season . Currently , many of scientists ' questions ? why storms often form at night , when during their life cycle they spawn tornadoes and how they get so big ? go unanswered . But the research tights are helping to change that . Jorgensen 's team has flown into four MCC 's this past month , collecting data on about 50 storm cells . Such research has allowed scientists to formulate some general principles about how storms form and behave . In the U.S. , the Southeast and the eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to local conditions that help force warm , moist air aloft . The Gulf of Mexico provides an abundant supply of moisture ; advancing cold fronts or mountains , notably the Rockies , act as a wedge that gives the air the necessary lift . Air is lifted also when heat from the sun strikes the ground , which warms the lower atmosphere and causes it to rise . That explains why so many thunderstorms occur in the late afternoon . Whatever the driving force , when warm surface air rises through higher and cooler altitudes , its moisture condenses into a cloud . Water droplets form into tiny rain and ice particles that fall as they grow too heavy for the updraft to keep aloft . Under the right atmospheric conditions , about 1 storm in 10 develops into a long-lived " severe " thunderstorm capable of spawning tornadoes , large hail and fierce winds . In these storms , the current of rising air can attain speeds of close to 100 miles per hour , and ice particles inside the storm may tumble about for hours , growing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The intense updrafts can also be transformed into a whirling column of air that gives rise to tornadoes . Arm 's length The pattern of winds within a storm in progress is thus of crucial interest to the meteorologists . To measure these winds without risking their lives , researchers avoid the violent up-and-down drafts at the storm 's center . They instead fly in box patterns around a storm while scanning it with radar and other sensors that provide a detailed three-dimensional view of the storm . Clinging to the plane 's belly is a big flattened sphere that houses conventional weather radar . Sensors that measure  | the size and electrical charge of rain and ice particles are tucked under the wing . A needlelike pressure probe sticks out from the nose . Probably the most crucial piece of electronics ? a Doppler radar ? is mounted in the rear of the craft . Like conventional radar , Doppler measures the overall intensity and distance of a storm by bouncing microwaves off winddriven rain and hail . But the Doppler also measures the velocity of particles moving toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of circulation inside the storm . Normally , after a storm has roared through , it takes a while for the atmosphere to destabilize enough for another storm to develop . But only a few hours after the storm passed through Norman that Saturday , the sky was again ominous . At 9 p.m. , Jorgensen 's plane takes off into a thunderstorm complex that by midnight will cover most of Oklahoma and part of North Texas . The first task on the night 's agenda is gathering data that will be used to develop a reliable hail-detection system . In general , a radar echo 's brightness is related to the size and intensity of precipitation in a cloud . But radar is n't foolproof ? watercoated hailstones often give a brighter echo than same-size dry hailstones . The pilot flies to Yukon , Okla. , where researchers on the ground are probing the clouds with Doppler radar . As the plane circles , scientists on board measure hailstones with the plane 's sensors . Later , Dusan Zrnic , head of NSSL 's Doppler-radar group , will fine-tune the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ size as measured by onboard sensors . The research team is also investigating one of the mysterious aspects of thunderstorms ? how a nonelectrified cloud becomes an enormous electrical generator , with negatively charged ice particles segregated at the bottom and positive ones at the top . To tackle this question , lightning experts John Hallett of the Desert Research Institute in Reno , Nev. , and Steven Rutledge of Colorado State University in Fort Collins need a vertical profile of the storm 's electrical field . The pilot swings the plane into a slow spiral descent from 24,000 to 10,000 feet while Hallett records the electrical field with onboard sensors . To obtain the rest of the profile , researchers in a mobile lab on the ground simultaneously launch a balloon that measures the electrical field up to 10,000 feet . At 2 a.m. , Jorgensen calls it quits , and the plane turns toward home . Many of the flight crew are dragging with fatigue , but the research team is exuberant . The storm was long-lived and spectacular , says Jorgensen , and produced a wealth of data @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analyzing the data . The researchers on this flight observed three out of four of a severe storm 's fearsome features ? strong winds , hail and lightning . Capturing data about the fourth , tornadoes , is perhaps the most pressing need but also the most difficult to accomplish . Tornadoes form quickly , with little warning . Scientists know that a large spinning column of air within a storm , called a mesocyclone , usually precedes the formation of tornadoes . But tornadoes actually develop from mesocyclones only about half the time , for reasons still unclear . An especially thorny problem for forecasters is small tornadoes , which , embedded in the gusty fronts of advancing storms , often go undetected by weather radar . One way researchers hope to learn more about the elusive twisters is by piecing together evidence on the ground in a storm 's aftermath . By taking a " census " to determine how frequently little twisters actually occur , forecasters hope to build a basis for deciding whether to issue tornado warnings when their radar images are ambiguous . The Wicked Witch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Norman , another team from the laboratory is picking through the Metzger family 's flattened vegetable garden near Blanchard , Okla . Four-year-old Bubba Metzger dances around the garden chanting , " Ding , dong , the wicked witch is dead . " It is a sunny afternoon , and NSSL staffers Ken Howard and Doug Forsyth are examining the storm 's damage to determine whether it produced a small tornado as it raced through Grady County . Twisters leave a characteristic trail with debris flung in every direction . If a tornado did indeed touch down , the two men will be able to locate and follow its trail . The Metzgers escaped relatively unscathed . Their toolshed is pockmarked by hail and their well house demolished , but their trailer home is intact , and no one is hurt . Over all , the damage to their property gives an inconclusive picture of the storm . Lawn chairs , parts of the well house and tree branches generally were flung southeast , the direction the storm was moving . But a canoe was tossed north into a tree ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the area . A couple of miles down the road , Forsyth pulls over next to a man clearing branches and shingles from his yard . " You are a day too late , " he says curtly to Forsyth . The Weather Service issued a warning the previous day for high winds , though not for tornadoes . In response to the researcher 's queries , the man says that he does not know whether a funnel passed through because he took shelter in his basement . " To them , one weatherman is the same as another , " says Forsyth , who has never worked as a forecaster . " It 's tough going out the next day , hearing that we did n't give them enough warning . But if we do n't go out , we does ca n't do a better job next time . " Forsyth drives off , and within minutes the devastation at the Yochams is in view . To a nonmeteorologist , the scene is pure chaos ? a shattered television , an upended stove , and clothing , toys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forsyth see order in the apparent disorder . Most of the debris lies northeast of the toppled concrete blocks that once supported the trailers , suggesting that they were tossed by a weak tornado . Twenty-five feet from the flipped car is a relatively undamaged pickup truck ; erratic and superlocalized damage is characteristic of twisters . And down the road , a couple of 55-gallon drums have been tossed north . Over all , says Forsyth , the damage is consistent with a small tornado , perhaps about 75 feet in diameter , embedded in intense , straight winds of 60 to 80 mph . As he will later write in his report to the Weather Service , the tornado moved in a northeasterly direction and probably touched down only for about a mile . Hand in hand with these efforts to  | better understand the genesis and development of storms are initiatives to improve real-time reporting of weather information to forecasters . Right now , weather prediction is a difficult skill made still more challenging by the relative crudeness of the data . " We miss a lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says NSSL 's Howard . Data collected at Weather Service offices around the country are relayed to the National Meteorological Center in Camp Springs , Md. , where they are fed into a supercomputer that churns out national forecasts . The forecasts are whisked back to the field offices , along with charts of upper-atmospheric readings across the country . To make a detailed local prediction , forecasters digest the computer output , charts and **26;1355;TOOLONG radar images of the region . Cows and other forecasters Faced with the capriciousness of Mother Nature , people have for centuries relied on homespun methods for predicting the weather . Although many of the weather sayings and rhymes that have been passed down are nothing more than interesting bits of folklore , some actually stand up surprisingly well to scientific scrutiny . The belief that aching joints can foretell an approaching storm is one . Arthritic persons often report a flaring of symptoms a day or two before the weather changes . Doctors speculate that humidity and the falling atmospheric pressure that precede stormy weather cause the membranes to exert pressure against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The saying " The moon with a circle brings water in her beak " is likewise based on the accurate observation that a halo around the moon often precedes rainfall . The halo is caused by a scattering of the moon 's light by ice crystals in the atmosphere , which frequently appear when lowered air pressure and high clouds are present and rain is approaching . The best remembered , " Red sky at night , sailor 's delight ; red sky in the morning , sailor 's warning , " would more accurately use the color pink , but it still makes sense . In thin , fairweather clouds , particles of moisture and dust filter out the blue hues of the sun , leaving a pinkish-orange color . In areas where the prevailing weather patterns move from west to east , seeing that color as the sun sets in the west indicates that fair weather is moving in . The same color in the morning means the fair-weather clouds have passed over and rain could be moving in . The stock of folklore in our melting-pot country @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other places with much different climates from our own . Few sayings traveled well over long distances , and even shorter distances are often enough to ruin a weather proverb . " When the wind is in the west , the weather is always best " may work well on the East Coast but would not apply on the west slopes of the Cascade Mountains and the Sierras , where rain and snow often accompany west and southwest winds . Farmers , a little too intent on watching cows ' behavior for signs of rain , spun a few tales that belong to the old wives ' genre . Cows lying down are supposed to be a sign of impending rain ; a modern refinement has it that half a herd of cows caught lying down indicates a 50 percent chance of rain . More likely it signals a 50 percent chance of tired cows . Raw data Huge gaps remain , however . Data on upper-air movements are particularly important and particularly spotty , especially over the oceans . Aircraft and ships provide the weather service with occasional measurements , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vast unknown . Initially , meteorologists thought they could infer upperair temperature and wind patterns from satellite images . But according to John Brown of NOAA , the data , while better than nothing , are not very accurate . " The glorious promise of satellite data simply has not materialized , " he says . The system produces reasonably accurate short-range statewide forecasts . " Right now , when we say rain tomorrow in Colorado , we are right 7 times out of 10 , " says Philip Merilees , a meteorologist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research ( NCAR ) in Boulder , Colo . But it falls down when it comes to predictions on a local scale , such as whether tomorrow 's picnic will be rained out . A $1 billion overhaul of the National Weather Service promises to remedy many of the shortcomings of atmospheric sampling today . By the mid-1990s , a $700 million nationwide network of Doppler radars will replace today 's World War IIvintage conventional radars . A prototype for the new system , dubbed NEXRAD for NEXt-generation RADar , currently is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ improve the detection of severe weather , including tornadoes . Both Doppler and conventional radar pick up a so-called hook echo , the signature of a tornadic vortex inside a storm . But the hook echo appears only 5 minutes before a tornado touches down and does its damage . Dopplers , however , Also spot mesocyclones , which develop up to half an hour before a tornado de- scends . With Doppler radar , forecasters should be able to predict a strong tornado as much as 20 minutes before it occurs . The overhaul also includes a network of specialized radars called " wind profilers , " which measure wind currents up to 10 miles high , and 1,000 completely automated surface-observation stations , based primarily at airports , that will collect data on clouds , wind , temperature and moisture every 6 minutes . The Rockies , and other details In addition to installing the high-tech hardware , the Weather Service is revamping the National Meteorological Center 's short-range forecasting software . These computer programs used for forecasting construct a mathematical model of the atmosphere . The temperature , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the computer , taking into account terrain and the laws of physics that govern the movement of air , then calculate how the weather patterns will move hours or days hence . But by all accounts , the current model is fairly crude , especially in the way it handles terrain . Because of the limits set by the size and speed of computers , many simplifications are made . In the model world , the Sierra Nevada range does n't exist , and the Appalachians are about half their real height . Furthermore , all mountains are smoothed out with no hint of individual peaks . The result is that in the model universe , air slips easily over mountains instead of flowing around them . In early 1990 , the Weather Service will introduce a new model that simulates more realistically the blocking effects of mountains . Improvements in local forecasts are less likely to come from the models in Camp Springs than from the introduction of a new weather workstation that is specifically designed to help forecasters with 3-to-12-hour predictions . The Program for Regional Observing and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is being tested in Denver . The workstation will give forecasters ready access to the new data , and allow them to overlay satellite or radar information with other images on one screen . Some meteorologists wonder whether in the Profs era the flood of data will overwhelm forecasters . Experts are especially concerned by studies showing that when forecasters are given a lot of data , they are more confident of their predictions even when the predictions are no more accurate . Criticism has also been raised about automating the weather-reporting network , which currently uses humans to relay the data ; they often add important observational details , such as the presence of clouds on the horizon or the time thunder began . Such data would be missed by automatic sensors . How accurate will forecasters get at predicting damaging thunderstorms ? Even the next-generation sensors will not catch everything . Downbursts , for instance , are notoriously difficult to spot . They last only a couple of minutes ; Doppler radar scans every 5 or 6 minutes . And Doppler radar ca n't measure the vertical movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the NEXRAD support facility in Norman , most tornadoes will escape detection in the Doppler era as well . While the really big twisters are the easiest to spot , 90 percent are too short-lived and diminutive to be picked up by a Doppler unless the funnel descends less than 25 miles from the radar . The experts concur that they may never be able to forecast an individual storm much more than an hour in advance . The problem is the limits set by the atmosphere 's own complexity . Researchers refer to it as the " butterfly effect " : In theory , a butterfly flapping its wings today in Bali affects storms next month in Washington , D.C. This phenomenon , known as chaos , means in practice that the smaller and briefer the event , the less possible it is to forecast it far into the future . And on a meteorological scale , events like tornadoes are pretty small stuff . The new atmospheric sensors , especially NEXRAD and the wind profilers , should help forecasters issue more-focused severe-storm warnings , however . Currently , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There were warnings in effect for most of three counties when severe winds wreaked havoc at the Yochams ' . If the new technologies had been available , forecasters might have been able to limit the warning to the immediate vicinity of Blanchard , for example . That would do much to improve public confidence in warnings and help to ensure that they actually achieve their intended effect of limiting the damage , economic loss , injuries and fatalities that inevitably ensue when storms strike the unprepared . As it stands now , people frequently ignore warnings altogether or run outside to see what is going on instead of taking shelter . Meteorologists included . " There 's no way I 'd run my family into a shelter every time NOAA issued a warning for our county , " admits NSSL Director Maddox . The real sign that forecasting has come of age may be when the weathermen start heeding their own advice .  | Bob Davies-Jones , a meteorologist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory ( NSSL ) , chases tornadoes for a living , yet the scariest part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funnel clouds but the lightning . In 15 years of research , he can recall his most harrowing moment well . " In the middle of a storm , the power lines over our heads started crackling , and this big bolt crashed down . I just thought , This is it . ' " Lightning 's terrifying reputation is more than justified . Lightning strikes at least 250 people a year in the U.S. , killing around 100 . In addition to starting thousands of forest fires , it causes millions of dollars of damage to buildings , power and telecommunications equipment and aircraft . Among the more dramatic losses in recent years was an $80 million Atlas-Centaur rocket carrying a $100 million Navy communications satellite that was knocked from the sky by a bolt that crippled its guidance-control computer . Lightning researchers are not only trying to understand it in order to save lives and minimize property losses . They also are examining lightning patterns in thunderstorms to help forecasters predict how a storm is evolving and whether it might produce tornadoes , hail or severe winds . Phoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in storms have accelerated recently due to the completion of a network of lightning detectors that monitors all bolts that strike the ground in the continental United States . Researchers at NSSL and other labs can view on a computer screen a map of the U.S. punctuated by flickering points of light , each representing individual bolts of lightning . The network is composed of over 100 detectors that are linked by telephone and satellite . NSSL scientists already are relying on the network during storm chases to help them pinpoint thunderstorms inside huge storm clusters ; previous research established that lightning is heaviest in the strong updrafts at the heart of a storm . The network 's detectors pick up electromagnetic disturbances from lightning , much as a radio does . Lightning occurs when the electric charge inside a thundercloud gets so high that a current arcs from one side of the cloud to the other , or to the ground . This happens more than 100 million times a year in the continental U.S. , though well over half of all discharges never hit the ground . The lightning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three or four very rapid strokes traveling along the same channel . Lightning appears to flicker because the human eye is not quick enough to perceive each stroke separately . Bolts can be very long , often extending for 100 or more miles . The electrical current heats the air to about 30,000 degrees Celsius in a split second , causing it to expand explosively . That expansion produces the sound waves responsible for thunder . The new research on lightning and storm duration could pave the way to more-accurate predictions of flash floods . Currently , forecasters are fairly unsuccessful at predicting how much rain a storm will dump on a region , partly because of the difficulty they have anticipating how long a storm will last . Preliminary research suggests that the number of lightning strikes in a big storm complex peaks 1 to 2 hours before the storm begins to decay . If this pattern holds up under scrutiny , forecasters will be able to gauge more reliably when a storm will end and , thus , how much rain will fall . The network is also proving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violent storms generate proportionately more lightning . If so , forecasters should be able to look at lightning patterns to help predict whether a storm will produce intense winds or large hail . In the mid-1990s , researchers will be able to monitor in-cloud bolts as easily as they now do strikes to the ground when NASA launches a satellite that will pick up both kinds of flashes over most of the Western Hemisphere . One of the first questions lightning experts will check out is whether tornado-producing storms in their early stages generate far more in-cloud flashes than bolts to the ground . NSSL scientists have noticed this pattern in several Oklahoma and Kansas storms and want to know if it holds true for storms in other parts of the country . The crouch defense . Disabusing the public of myths about lightning is another of the researchers ' goals . The most dangerous spot to be in during a thunderstorm is near an isolated tree or on elevated ground , where a positive electrical charge , induced by the growing negative charge in the cloud overhead , is most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided by rubber-soled shoes or even rubber tires on a car are no protection , although a car , especially a wet one , is in fact one of the safest places to be . When a bolt hits a car , the current spreads rapidly over the metal body and arcs safely to the ground . For a person caught out in the open , the best strategy is to crouch ? not , as many believe , to lie flat on the ground . Even if not hit directly , people have been injured or killed by currents racing along the surface of the ground away from a distant lightning strike . And do n't be fooled : Lightning most definitely does strike twice in the same place . The Empire State Building is hit , on average , 23 times a year .                     