@@494697

What is the essence of the scandal gripping the Reagan White House ? Is it the apparent collapse of the Reagan administration 's foreign policy ? Is it a larger concern about the governability of America , raised by the sight of yet another presidency in shambles ? Only in part . Abstract considerations of foreign policy and presidential power are not the main reasons to be concerned about Lt. Col. Oliver North 's siphoning of mon ? ey from the Iranian arms deal . If they were , we would join the chorus for a quick conclusion , a clearing of the air , a prompt return to business as usual . We would agree that all Americans have an overriding interest in restoring public confidence in Ronald Reagan 's leadership . We would join in the task of shoring up his ability to be a strong , effective leader for the next two years . This scandal is about the basic attitudes the president and his men have held toward the law and toward demo ? cratic institutions . Restoring respect for these values not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or shoring up the institution of the presidency . It is a necessary precondition of those other goals . The Reagan White House has displayed its contempt for the law in two senses . The first is the narrow sense in which Oliver North and Company may have run afoul of various criminal statutes ? and that could include not only the arms export laws , but fraud and conspiracy provisions as well . There is the fairly clear violation of congressional prohibitions on government aid to the contras that were in effect at the time , and , of course , of the embargo on ship ? ments of arms to Iran and other terrorism-sponsoring countries as well . And then there are plenty of still-murky aspects to the scandal that will no doubt be illuminated in the coming weeks . For example , after their departure from office , North and ex-national security adviser John Poin ? dexter spent a weekend merrily shredding documents that might bear on their culpability and the culpability of oth ? ers , a seemingly gross obstruction of justice that has prompted curiously little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of lawlessness that the White House has practiced . Whether or not any crimi ? nal statutes were violated , the White House certainly brokean implicit democratic contract binding it to act in accor ? dance with the expressed will of the people 's representa ? tives . Congress had said no to military aid to the contras . The president signed the law . He may have done so regretfully , but Congress plainly had a right to enact it , and Americans plainly had a right to assume that this legislative decision would not be systematically subverted by the White House . Instead , the president 's men decided to carry on the rejected program in secret . It had to be secret precisely be ? cause the White House knew it was doing something it should n't . The real crime here is contempt for democracy . The White House now offers a special prosecutor to get to the bottom of the scandal and determine who broke what law . This is not as great a concession as it may seem . The investigation of an independent counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criminality , often serves to excuse a sleazy deed that might not meet the technical criteria of an indictable offense , but is neverthe ? less wrong . Edwin Meese can attest to that from his own experience under investigation for allegedly failing to abide by financial disclosure laws and giving government jobs to his wealthy benefactors . An independent counsel did n't even absolve him of criminal behavior ; the counsel merely held that if there was a crime , it was n't worth prosecuting . Meese then trumpeted this finding as a clean bill of health . Meanwhile , the ongoing independent coun ? sel investigation generally serves to siphon off the scandal and provides an excuse for officials to decline public com ? ment . Heard anything about Michael Deaver lately ? Probably the only forum in which to air the broader questions of administration disregard for congressional prerogatives and constitutional procedure will be a select committee of the Senate . Reagan has also agreed to some ? thing like this . But it , too , is a far from perfect way of distinguishing truth from falsehood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from both sides of the aisle to scramble for seats on what they will see as a chance for a star turn on the nightly news . Special prosecutor , special committee , daily revelations in the press : it will be entertaining , but in a way it hardly matters . The search for a smoking gun is beside the point . This president 's public charm and policy success ? the Rea ? gan Magic ? have always been based on a jaunty optimism , a willingness to challenge established norms and ideas . But now this brash style of governance has shown its dark side . Call it the Reagan Hubris : the president 's apparent view that his popularity in the polls and his staff 's public rela ? tions skills ( shown in their having extricated him from one jam after another ) somehow granted him the right to disre ? gard such trifles as the institutional norms of democratic government , the law , or simple factual consistency . Indeed , the Reagan administration has been so contemp ? tuous that it has jeopardized the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Sandinistas in Nicaragua . This scandal will encourage those in Con ? congress and in the foreign policy elites who always haveshrunk from the tough actions a great power must some ? times take on behalf of its interests . Many of these oppo ? nents never have been disposed to back the use of any military or covert means to advance even the most unas ? sailable causes . Now they will seize on the transgressions of North et al . to discredit the very idea of aid to anti ? communist rebels in the Third World . They may well succeed , but they should n't . This sordid affair should not provide cover for an isolationist retreat to Fortress America , innocent and pure . TNR continues to sup ? port aid to democratic forces resisting the imposition of a totalitarian regime in Managua . That support rests on both moral and geopolitical foundations , the essential sound ? ness of which is not changed by the unworthiness of the means the Reaganites have used . There is no necessary connection between covert sleaze and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full , open military support of the rebels . Swiss bank accounts and deliberate deception should never have entered into this . As for Reagan himself , the verdict is already in . The president is unrepentant about the actions of his subordi ? nates . He approves of what they did . In an interview in the December 8 edition of Time magazine , he said that Oliver North " has a fine record . He is a national hero . My only criticism is that I was n't told everything . " If this means anything , it means that the president would have said yes to North 's shady dealings if only he 'd known about them sooner . North is the embodiment of a policy that pursues democracy abroad while trampling on it at home . And Reagan has embraced him . Reagan also asserted : " This whole thing boils down to a great irresponsibility on the part of the press , " on the premise that stories about the Iranian arms deal foiled negotiations toward the release of more of our hostages in Lebanon . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's actions was that word got out . It 's also at odds with Reagan 's previous claim that the arms deal was n't meant to get the hostages released . In a somewhat different vein , Reagan added that " An ? other country was facilitating those sales of weapons sys ? tems . They then were overcharging and were apparently putting the money into bank accounts of leaders of the con ? tras . It was n't us funneling money to them . This was another country . " The president apparently meant Israel ? though it could just as easily have been Saudi Arabia , which is also deeply implicated in the arms deal and the subsequent si ? phoning of money . In either case , this strange attempt to blame the scandal on foreign powers comes only a few days after a press conference in which Reagan had tried just as forcefully to assert that no third country was involved at all . Cornered , the president drifts off into fantasy in a wild attempt to deny that a problem exists . He can not even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mistake . He is prepared to believe only what he wants to believe ? and much of that is shocking in its moral shallowness . The Reagan Magic has come undone . The country should never fall under the spell again . NOTEBOOK NAME THAT SCANDAL : A year 's subscription or subscrip ? tion extension to the reader who comes up with the best name for the Reagan-Iran-contras festivities . Entries end ? ing in " - gate " or " - scam " will not be considered . It 's time to move on . EDITORSHIPS AND DOUBLE STANDARDS : The November Commentary contains a startling piece of political obsequi ? ousness by its editor , Norman Podhoretz . Called " The Hate That Dare Not Speak Its Name , " it is mostly about the anti-Semitic ruminations of Gore Vidal in the Nation ( a subject with which TNR has also been obsessed from timeto time ) . Podhoretz notes the virtual silence about Vidal 's anti-Semitic writings , and occasional apologies for them , on the left . He draws a contrast between this and the sup ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one Joseph Sobran , a sparsely syndicated right-wing columnist and crank . What is the evidence for this contrast ? Podhoretz musters the words of William F. Buckley Jr . Buckley had written that while he and his colleagues at National Review were sure that Sobran was not really anti-Semitic , anyone who did not really know him " might reasonably conclude that those columns were written by a writer inclined to anti-Semitism . . . Accordingly , I hereby dissociate myself and my colleagues from what we view as the obstinate tenden ? tiousness of Joe Sobran 's recent columns . " Obstinate ten ? dentiousness ? Podhoretz calls this " outrage " and " repudi ? ation . " We call it squeamish , equivocating , and forced . Sobran is still a senior editor of National Review , even more in the official good graces of his circles than Vidal is of his . If Podhoretz ca n't even recognize a refusal by the right to reject anti-Semitism , he is not likely to recognize anything morally objectionable on the right at all . And that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put it with reference to Nation editor Victor Navasky 's own craven attitude to ? ward Vidal , it is the spirit of Uriah Heap ? hardly what one expects from someone so unafraid of breaking ranks .                     