@@486971

To provide additional background information on El Sal- . vador , we asked one of our regular Latin America specialists to review the pertinent books published during the last year . Elizabeth Farnsworth has written widely on U. S. - Latin American relations and was co-author of the ' Dispatches " column in The Nation . She recently won the Freelance Writing Award of the Media Alliance in San Francisco for her journalism over the past five years . ? The Editors ELIZABETH FARNSWORTH W hen the Carter Administration first decided to try to avert a revolution in El Salvador in mid-1979 , it looked , as if events were unfolding in an all-too-familiar sequence . Some surprises were in store , however , particularly the rise of the movement to oppose American involvement in that country , which emerged earlier and was more broadly based than comparable movements in the past . That opposition created a remarkably fertile debate on U.S. policy in Central America  --  including unexpected contributions from analysts who share Washington 's Russophobia but see risk in its current course  --  and has at last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of information on El Salvador readily available in English. * El Salvador : The Face of Revolution is , in my view , the best book published so far on the Salvadoran crisis and its background . Robert Armstrong , a lawyer and former Peace Corps volunteer in El Salvador , and Janet Shenk , a longtime staff member of the North American Congress on Latin America ( NACLA ) , have written voluminously about El Salvador in recent years  --  mostly in NACLA 's bimonthly Report on the Americas . This book builds on their earlier * Until 1980 the best sources were Thomas P. Anderson , Matanza : El Salvador 's Communist Revolt of 1932 , University of Nebraska Press , 1971 ; David Browning , El Salvador ? Landscape and Society , Oxford University Press , 1971 ; Stephen Webre , Jose Napoleon Duarte and the Christian Democratic Party in Salvadoran Politics 1960-1972 , Louisiana State University Press , 1979 ; and Alistair White , El Salvador , Westview , 1973. writings . It is anecdotal ; enriched by poems , photographs and tables . The authors ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific events  --  a weekly meeting of a Christian community in a remote village , for example . A patronizing tone can creep into their writing ? " In this century , there are those who have declared themselves revolutionaries . The best of them are scientists . They are humble before the phenomenon which they study and of which they are a part " ? but fortunately this sort of arch lecturing is infrequent . Tommie Sue Montgomery 's Revolution in El Salvador : Origins and Evolution covers much of the same ground . But Montgomery , a political scientist who spent eleven months in El Salvador interviewing more than 100 people , excels in chronicling the seemingly endless cycle of coup and repression that began in 1932 and that by 1979 had left the government of Carlos Humberto Romero without legitimacy , precipitating the young officers ' bloodless overthrow of that year . Her history of that coup is the most complete I have read . The book contains photographs and tables of economic data ; it is a good book , but it suffers from trying to cover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arnson , a Latin America specialist and a visiting fellow at the Institute for Policy Studies ( and a frequent contributor to The Nation ) , has since 1980 published the elusive specifics of U.S. military aid to El Salvador in a series of I.P.S. " Updates , " concise gems of research which reveal the growing U.S. commitment to a military victory over El Salvador 's guerrillas . El Salvador : A Revolution Confronts the United States stems from this earlier research . Short , straightforward and clearly narrated , it is a basic history of El Salvador and of U.S. involvement in the current crisis . The book lacks anecdotes and telling details , but the important information is there . The great strength of these three books is that they show the human face of the Salvadoran left , of those unpublicized and patient organizers behind the guerrilla war . To know the left , they say , we must learn the histories of the guerrillas , of the mass groups known in El Salvador as " popular organizations " and of the center-left political parties that played @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the popular organizations are unique in Salvadoran history and the key to the guerrillas ' successes . The People 's Revolutionary Block ( B.P.R. ) , for example , which was formed in 1975 , " was the first of a new kind of organization that quite literally would revolutionize the concept of politics and political participation in Salvadoran life , " write Armstrong and Shenk . The B.P.R. , the People 's Action Front and the People 's Leagues ( LP-28 ) " were profoundly democratic , allowing workers and peasants , students , clergy and professionals to participate , many for the first time , in political discussions or decisions . They meant an alternative to vanguard or reformist parties , to electoral coalitions and parliamentary blocs . " The popular organizations brought together the mass base that has kept the guerrilla struggle alive . This is no intra2 mural conflict among elites , as some would have us believe ( Gabriel Zaid , for example , Dissent , Winter 1982 ) . Leoncio Pichinte , head of the LP-28 , finished sixth grade and then worked as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , secretary general of the B.P.R. , is a former field worker . Juan Chacon , who headed the B.P.R. until he was killed along with five other leaders of the Democratic Revolutionary Front ( F.D.R. ) in November 1980 , had also been a field- worker ... - Though each popular organization had ties to a guerrilla group , in the early years they worked quite separately . Well into 1980 , Armstrong and Shenk note , the popular organizations " persisted in their belief that an unarmed mass Movement of the people  --  perhaps modeled on Iran  --  could bring down the government ; they were unprepared to take the final step towards armed struggle , and the guerrillas , in the winter of 1980 , were not yet prepared to incorporate so many into their ranks . " But the terrible repression of 1980 forced the popular organizations underground , and by early 1981 the guerrillas and the F.D.R. ( which united the popular organizations and the center-left parties ) had formed a joint Political-Diplomatic Commission . The F.D.R. accepted the armed - groups as its " vanguard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Montgomery , many of its members came from the Catholic Church . Salvador Cayetano Carpio , who left the Salvadoran Communist Party in 1970 at age 50 to build the Popular Liberation Forces , had studied at the Conciliar Seminary . Many among the People 's Revolutionary Army ( E.R.P. ) had been Christian radicals in the 1960s . Whatever their religious roots , the guerrillas suffered from what Arnson calls " militarismo , " relying too much on bombings , kidnappings and assassinations in the early years . They also were rent by internal divisions , which in 1975 led to the murder of revolutionary poet Roque Dalton by one faction of the E.R.P. Both Armstrong and Shenk and Montgomery describe this dark side of the guerrillas ' history as the stumblings of infant organizations which found their balance when the military groups and the popular organizations began to work together . The guerrillas ' liberated zones , with their simple democracy and their schools and clinics , presage El Salvador 's future , these authors belieVe . They may be overly optimistic . Before returning to El Salvador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and he wrote : " I belong to two countries/ Cuba/and my own . " Armstrong and Shenk quote the poem , but none of these three books tell us much about Cuba 's recent connections with El Salvador 's left . They would have benefited - from some discussion of Cuban-Central American relations , especially since attacks on Cuba form the core of the Reagan Administration 's policies in the region . William M.- LeoGratide , director of political science at American University , writes of these relations with sympathy for both Cuba and the Central American left in his chapter on Cuba in the new bobk from the Hoover Institution , Communism in Central America and the Caribbean . The Sandinists in Nicaragua received only a few crates of arms from Cuba , according to LeOGrande , partly because Cuba wanted to avoid giving Washington a credible rationale for intervention . As to El Salvador , - " although the size of the shipments is a matter of some controversy , " he writes , the Cubans have aided the guerrillas and they did increase their logistical support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Administration claims . But the flow of arms was never v ry large , and it has ebbed since then . In LeoGrande 's view , Cuban aid is not a significant factor in the Salvadoran struggle . But , he says , Cuba might come to Nicaragua 's assistance in the event of a war with Honduras , and that would dramatically change the Central American picture . In the debate over U.S. policy in El Salvador , the Administration has few outright defenders , even among those who share its Manichaean world view . Three new books from conservative think tanks , including the Hoover Institution book containing LeoGrande 's essay , are remarkably critical of Washington 's simplistic and militaristic policies . Robert S. Leiken , director of the Soviet-Latin American Project at Georgetown University 's Center for Strategic and International Studies , is the most articulate proponent of a position argued in these books : that current U.S. policies are actually facilitating Soviet and Cuban designs on the region . " Fears of renewed U.S. hegemonism under President Reagan have impeded progress toward collective security " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin America . " The Soviet Union 's greatest strategic asset in Latin America , even greater than Cuba , is anti-Yankee sentiment . " Leiken has appeared frequently before Congressional committees to argue that Washington should back a political settlement in El Salvador that would include all factions of the left in order to prevent the guerrillas from becoming dependent on the Soviet bloc . Other analysts are more oblique . Robert Wesson , a professor of political science at U.C.L.A. and a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution , worries that U.S. support of " unsavory " regimes in Central America will turn Americans against policieS truly vital to their country 's security . " What happens on American campuses is important for the long-term strength af the United States , " he argues . " It is thus essential to uphold vital interests in ways broadly acceptable . . . to the American people . " At the heart Of the criticism from those Who share some of the Administration 's basic assumptions is a healthy realism about the limits of U.S. power and a sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That resignation  --  the belief that the revolutionary challenge is too profound to be easily manipulated from Washington  --  is a new phenomenon that deserves attention . It is evident in several of the essays in a recent issue of the American Enterprise Institute 's Foreign Policy and Defense Review edited by Howard J. Wiarda , and in thecontributions of conservatives in a new book edited by Richard E. Feinberg , Central America : International Dimensions of the Crisis . Feinberg was the Latin America specialist in policy planning at the State Department from 1977 to 1979 . His useful and politically diverse book covers subjects ranging from Mexico 's Central America policies to a bold co mparison by James R. Kurth of " hegemonic systems , " including the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe , Britain in the Middle East and the United States in Central America . These conservative critiques are indicative of the Administration 's failure to- build support for its policies even among its own natural allies . The Administration 's softened rhetoric in recent months ( Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs Thomas Enders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which emphasized the local roots of the Salvadoran conflict ) is intended at least partly to convince the friendly detractors to come back on board . But the new rhetoric is also intended to confuse . As opposition to U.S. policies in Central America has grown , U.S. operations have increasingly flowed into covert channels . Along with the visible war , a hidden- war is under way . In the future we will need a new spate of books to describe that . Meanwhile , these books hold- the clues to how it all began . ?                     