@@332646

At times this austere leader , the son of an army sergeant , seemed to be trying to enfold himself in the mythic , superhuman image of past Ethiopian emperors . Dressed in a simple royal blue tunic , Mengistu Haile Mariam received TIME Chief of Correspondents Henry Muller and Nairobi Bureau Chief James Wilde at the headquarters of the ruling Workers ' Party of Ethiopia in Addis Ababa . The occasion : a rare interview with a U.S. publication . Mengistu sat at the head of a long U-shaped table in a sparse conference room decorated with portraits of Marx and Lenin and other revolutionary trappings . Throughout the four-hour interview , he remained statue-still , his impassive face animated only by an occasionally furrowed brow . Mengistu refused to answer any questions that had not been previously submitted . While he spoke softly , his words carried a tone of icy , uncompromising certitude . Not once did his eyes focus on his guests ; at times he appeared to be speaking to an unseen audience , or to the portraits on the wall . Excerpts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently has improved its patterns , as evidenced by this year 's rains , although the distribution is not as even as we would like it to be . People still do not have adequate food , and their caloric intake is still not sufficient . Only when we can produce greater quantities of food and have sufficient reserves can we fully overcome the problems of drought . It will take some time before we can do this . <P> On forced resettlement . The concept is not new . In fact , no less an organization than the World Bank long ago recommended moving populations away from areas where the soil is degraded as a way of combating the increasing erosion of our agricultural land . In addition , resettlement provides new opportunities to people in areas affected by drought and to those in highly crowded areas where landholdings are shrinking . Some Western countries have seen the sincerity of what we are doing and are helping us . <P> On his " villagization " policy . What makes developing countries really backward is their inability to benefit from modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Ethiopia is scattered . People live in isolation on hilltops and inaccessible mountainsides . This has brought considerable disadvantage , exposing our people to natural and man-made calamities . Soil and weather vary from place to place . It is only when you have peasants together in villages that they can benefit from science and technology to combat difficult conditions . <P> Why is this well-intentioned strategy viewed with prejudice in some quarters in Western countries ? It is wrong to conclude that the objective of villagization is to build socialism ; this is something that can come about ! only over a very long time . Our main objective is first and foremost to free ourselves from backwardness .                     