@@325407

France humiliates Moscow by expelling 47 Soviet officials <P> It was the sheer boldness of the decision that shocked Moscow , delighted Western capitals and dramatized the dimensions of the Soviet espionage effort in Western Europe . More than three months ago , French President Franois Mitterrand had been given a report by his Interior Ministry on the intensifying activities of the Soviet spy network in France . Mitterrand could have responded like his predecessor , Valry Giscard d'Estaing , with traditional French diplomatic discretion , by quietly declaring a few of the more fla grant Soviet offenders personae non gratae . Instead , in a move unprecedented for France , the President ordered the expulsion last week of 47 Soviet diplomats and other officials along with their families . Not since Britain threw out 105 Soviets twelve years ago had any Western nation inflicted such a humiliation on Soviet diplomatic personnel . <P> For all the wisps of mystery surrounding the affair , one thing was clear : Mitterrand was sending a message both to the Soviets and to his NATO allies , best summed up by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France has shown that she has no intention of being a soft underbelly . " Said a Western Ambassador in Paris : " I think Franois Mitterrand is just fed up with the brazen Soviet espionage in France . " Since he came to power 23 months ago , the Socialist President has demonstrated that the presence of four Communist ministers in his government does not deter him from pursuing a tougher policy against the Soviets than his predecessors . <P> Among the Soviets sent packing were Nikolai Chetverikov , the third-ranking diplomat at the Soviet embassy , who was considered to be the head of all KGB activities in France ; Oleg Shirokov , bureau chief of the official press agency TASS ; and Vladimir Kulikovskikh , a TASS reporter . Forty of the group held diplomatic passports . Said a member of France 's counterespionage agency , the Direction de la Surveillance du Territoire ( DST ) : " Ten or 15 years ago , the Soviets instructed their young agents that France was no problem . Well , all that has changed . Now they 'll have to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the unexpected presidential move was only slightly diminished by a leak that appeared in a New York Times column by William Safire before the expulsions . Since the French on the previous Thursday had informed the U.S. , along with the other NATO allies , of the impending crackdown and the number of Soviet officials involved , Safire appeared to have been tipped off by a talkative U.S. official . It could hardly have been a deliberate leak aimed at forcing the French to act sooner , since the machinery for the mass ouster was already in motion by the time Safire 's column appeared , but French officials did not hide their irritation at Washington 's inability to keep a secret .                     