@@432345

 | The voice on the other end of the phone told the NEWSWEEK reporter she had a hot tip . Alexander Haig , a Republican candidate for president , had been spotted parking his car in a zone reserved for the handicapped . Haig the Heartless ? Wheelchairgate ? It was a sign of how conditioned the press has become to playing character cop that the reporter actually briefly considered calling around to check the story out . With the revelations last week about the Rev. Pat Robertson 's personal life , the hulking " character issue " was turning into the Frankenstein monster of American presidential politics . And just as in the movie , the monster eventually turns on its creator ? in this case , the press . Robertson is learning a hard lesson about the realities of modern-day media politics . Only days after he announced his candidacy , The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post ran stories showing he had lied about his marriage date in order to conceal that his wife gave birth to their son 10 weeks after they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him on other character issues . Had he , as his biography claimed , seen combat in Korea , done graduate work in London and served on the board of a major bank ? His answers were ambiguous , though in fact he had exaggerated his accomplishments . Carefully scrutinizing a candidate 's resume is a worthy journalistic practice that was too often skipped over in the past . Jimmy Carter , for example , was only infrequently challenged about his exaggerated claim to having once been a " nuclear physicist . " Harping on these details , however , can obscure larger character issues . Robertson 's belief that he had a presidential mandate from God ought to be more significant to the electorate than what he did with his girlfriend ( now wife ) in 1954 . ' Feeding frenzy ' : That is the nub of the emerging backlash against character reporting : it too often descends into trivial and painfully private matters that have little or nothing to do with qualifications for the presidency . On the premarital-sex charge , even Robertson 's interrogator , Koppel , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under similar circumstances . The incident may have harmed Robertson 's efforts to broaden his support beyond his forgiving fundamental- ist base , but it did give him a chance to kindle some hot embers of resentment against the media . " To hurt a man 's family ? that 's over the line . It 's just not good journalism , " Robertson said , chastising the press for " playing gotcha " with him . " The sharks are starting the feeding frenzy but the blood is n't in the water . " Later , he challenged Benjamin Bradlee , executive editor of the Post , to " come out from behind the typewriter " and debate ; Bradlee declined . The original idea behind character reporting is perfectly legitimate . Why find out about a person 's flaws after he has reached the White House ? The absence of ideological differences between the candidates in each party had helped make character a natural issue this time . So has the cultural obsession with personalities . Some journalists , sensitive to the pitfalls in judging character , try to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current or recent activity be expected to continue in the White House ? Even if minor in itself , does an incident fit into a familiar pattern that illuminates more serious shortcomings ? If a candidate does something out of keeping with his public image , is it a small miscue or a sign of hypocrisy ? Many stories meet these tests . Gary Hart 's womanizing was current and could be expected to continue . Joseph Biden 's law-school plagiarism was ancient history , but his unattributed quotations and distortions about his past bore out suspicions that he was short on substance . Robertson 's premarital-sex story , by contrast , was not current and apparently fit no pattern . But given the religiosity of his campaign , the old indiscretion seemed newsworthy . Unfortunately , in the anarchic world of presidential campaigns , many reporters believe just about anything may reflect how a person would act in the White House . Thus The Boston Globe , perhaps trying to counter an impression that it was in Michael Dukakis 's pocket , laid into the governor for not immediately accepting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tape . Dukakis , the paper wrote , had shown an " inability to act decisively . " But was waiting a few hours before making perhaps the most important decision of his campaign really such a sin ? Similarly , Sen. Albert Gore was taken to task for boasting that while a journalist , he had written stories that sent people to jail . In fact , only one was convicted , and he got off with a suspended sentence . In the current climate , Gore felt obliged to apologize for this minor lapse . Jesse Jackson : Because they do not want to be accused of using a double standard , reporters sometimes chase stories that illuminate nothing beyond the prurient . Sex was deemed relevant in Hart 's case , and thus it is widely assumed to be relevant for any candidate . In a profile of Jesse Jackson , The Wall Street Journal last week made a flimsy reference to " allegations ... about his marital fidelity . " Similar speculation about Jackson is expected in other papers , whether relevant or not . Notice how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the process of criticizing them . That is standard practice nowadays at major news organizations . The thinking is , let some other publication or TV station take the blame for breaking a damaging story ; we 'll just " follow up " on it . And of course the public can be hypocritical , too . The people most angry at reporters for asking personal questions are often the most eager to learn the answers .                     