@@487917

mechanized army , capable of moving supplies and troops from one trouble spot to another almost overnight . Each operational zone also has hidden grain mills , small farms , underground repair shops , hospital facilities , supply depots and schools . On a visit to one set of workshops , I found the guerrillas manufacturing spare parts for captured arms , stitching new uniforms , smelting discarded artillery shells and casting hand grenade casings , as well as making school desks , artificial limbs for disabled fighters , shovel blades and other tools . Much of the daily activity of the rank-and-file guerrilla fighters was not directly military . At the Afabet battlefront , the guerrillas started their day in organized political discussions on the issues facing the Oromo front . By 10 A.M. they were studying simple fractions in a third-grade mathematics class . After a lunch of soft flatbread , spicy lentils and hot sugary tea , they fanned out into work teams to chop trees and dig more tunnels in an effort to strengthen their existing fortifications . A complex maze of shoulder-deep trenches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a random and unpredictable pattern that is intended to make precise targeting difficult for Ethiopia 's long-range artillery and MIG aircraft . The terrain and the brutal climate are key factors in this phase of the war . The mountains neutralize the effectiveness of the Russian armor while the scorching temperatures , to which the Eritreans are accustomed , appear to . be taking a heavy toll among the Ethiopian troops , who are drawn mainly from the temperate central and southern Ethiopian highlands . The high cliffs are being turned into a labyrinthine fortress with gun emplacements hollowed out of the hard-packed dirt and shale , gunslits open to the valley below . Squads of guerrillas chop the gnarled stubby tree trunks into short thick logs that are stacked by the score in central locations for use in building roofs . Other fighters hack at the ground with pickaxes and shovels . The deep holes are lined with stone walls a yard thick and covered with layers of wood , rock and dirt , leaving them all but invisible from a short distance away . Weapons include Russian-made AK-47 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On a nearby mountaintop are hidden Soviet T-54 tanks and 120-millimeter artillery pieces , which the guerrillas say they captured in previous battles . A low ceiling of gray clouds offers some relief from the suffocating heat . When a fierce hailstorm breaks , the soldiers simply halt their work temporarily and huddle together under tattered woolen blankets . Late in the day , the heavy work yields to individual tasks such as sewing patches on mismatched uniforms , cleaning weapons or studying the morning 's lessons . One group of guerrillas descends to the valley for a spirited game of football , and several assemble by a campfire for a round of singing and dancing . In stern contrast with the almost carefree mood , a young woman works laboriously on a makeshift gas mask . The threat of enemy chemical warfare seems to be taken seriously ; guerrillas have made simple masks of cloth , plastic and charcoal . Group seminars have been conducted on theeffects of various toxic gases and on measures to take against them , such as special protective clothing , ventilation of underground shelters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gas attack , according to guerrilla leaders . Frontline medical teams have also been equipped with scientific kits for collecting samples of gas to enable quick analysis and provide hard evidence for the outside world . " We are getting ready in a primitive way , " squad leader Ezghanaria Ghilankiel told me . " We will take some more lessons in the course of the battle , but in the end this can change nothing . " ? Oil ( Continued From Front Cover ) ing in the last part of the twentieth century . Domestic controls on oil are being phased out and prices brought up to Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ' levels . The high prices are to discourage consumption , although exactly whose is never spelled out . But compassion is built into the program through payments to low-income families unable to cope with escalating prices . Although indelicate to dwell upon , these payments in effect end up as further subsidies to the energy industry while blunting the potential of political uprising against corporate welfare by badly battered homeowners , tenants and consumers . Extraordinarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that this return will spur new exploration and production at home . A pledge is made to recover some of this wealth , perhaps 25 percent , through a so-railed windfall profits tax . This in turn is to be the source of public seed money , price supports , purchase commitments and loan guarantees to be channeled through a new public corporation into synthetic fuel development by the energy industry , an arrangement described by Carter as " the keystone of our national energy policy . " Public faith and cash in astronomical proportions are thus placed in an industry whose leaders heretofore have worked to forestall the introduction of any new or expanded energy source in a manner that might upset its own global energy policy . The keystone of this private planning has been a tightly wound and delicately balanced mechanism designed to prevent supply from exceeding what is calculated to be effective market demand and thus weakening anticipated prices . The OPEC producers give many signs of becoming apt disciples of their corporate teachers and now collaborators . No concern is shown over how such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blessed beneficiary of OPEC price Robert Engler , author of The Politics of Oil ( University of Chicago Press ) and of The Brotherhood of Oil ( Chicago and Mentor ) , has edited America 's Energy : Reports From " The Nation " on 100 Years of Struggles for the Democratic Control of Our Resources ( to be published by Pantheon later this fall ) . Portions of this article have been adapted from the latter . He teaches at the City University of New York . ratcheting and now accounts for 40 percent of all manufacturing profit in the United States , further distorts the overall availability and allocation of investment capital for other needs of the nation . Energy corporations , meanwhile , admit their dedication ( that is , obligation to shareholders ) to the search for good investment possibilities outside the energy field , and indeed outside the United States . Nor is it made clear how this crash technological effort ? " it will dwarf the combined programs that led us to the moon and built our interstate highway system , " exulted the President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many communities , considering that the energy industry employs less than 1 percent of the work force . The President did lose his battle for an Energy Mobilization Board , which would put such projects on a fast track , and might enable them to bypass environmental constraints and regional opposition . And while John Sawhill , former Deputy Secretary of Energy and now Carter 's nominee to head the synthetic fuels corporation , defines the winning of the confidence of the energy industry as a major task , the Department of Energy remains beholden to giant technology and its partisans in the energy and aerospace industries . ( The observation cited in a Nation editorial ( " Big Oil or Us ? " January 5-12 that " The D.O.E . has called on private contractors to such an extent that , were there a truth in government ' law , the agency would be listed on the stock exchange rather than in the Government organization manual " remains apt today . ) Renewable alternative energycontinues to receive relatively token financial encouragement . Bill its advocates may take comfort from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus , a Reagan regime will have its work cut out for it if it is to top such fealty to corporate America . But there remains legitimate ground for fearing such a victory should the candidate 's not incorrect insistence that we are an energy-rich people be code words for eliminating hard-earned health and safety regulations in coal and other energy areas , unlocking the public domain to the highest bidders and unleashing the nuclear option . j ohn Anderson offers himself as an independent alternative . He expresses increasing doubt about nuclear solutions and recognizes conservation as integral to energy planning . But his proposals for a gasoline tax and car pooling are tame approaches to restructuring the energy economy . Matching his opponents in the avoidance of any fundamental analysis on why the major role of the Federal Government has been to protect prices and limit supply while shouldering business risk , he qualifies as a convincingly safe candidate for managing the present system . There are other choices , including Barry Commoner , whose Citizens Party offers a devastating critique of the way energy is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and democratic control , and David McReynolds of the Socialist Party , whose energy platform is set within a more structured socialized political economy . For those who want business and government unadulterated by taxpayergrants or interventionist actions to protect overseas holdings , there is the Libertarian Party and its candidate , oil lawyer Ed Clark . Such alternatives , however , are recognized by neither the League of Women Voters nor the mass media in their stewardship over national politics . The public is denied exposure to thoroughgoing debate and the charade accelerates the deterioration ola national politics cynically irrelevant to the needs of the American public . Despite the trained incapacity of politicians to deal with energy intelligently and creatively at the junctures where it matters most , namely where alternatives impinge upon the going structure of power , energy policy is now almost ' universally recognized as central to the performance of the domestic and the world economies . Choices about energy are intertwined with employment patterns in a range of industries , inflation , community survival and war and peace . American national interest , once on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ region of the earth , including the seabed . Each international upheaval , no matter how geographically remote , seems to impinge directly upon energy decisions at home . When asked , earlier this year , the hostages in the headlines , about the United States ' role in overthrowing Premier Mohammad Mossadegh and restoring the Shah to the throne in 1953 , President Carter 's rejoinder was : " That 's ancient history , and I do n't think it 's appropriate or helpful for me to go into the propriety of something that happened thirty years ago . " Yet a sense of history is instructive and indeed imperative for understanding conveniently labeled " crises " and for sorting out or creating options . Iran , as everyone now knows , had been viewed as a secure energy and military outpost , its leaders not asking too many questions about the larger framework of the arrangements with the American empire . What had gone wrong ? When World War I ended , the victors hastened to dismember the defeated empires and claim the oilfields of the Middle East . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " would be over oil  --  the fuel displacing coal as the determinant of national power . World War II was not fought over oil . But the international arrangements made in its wake helped to integrate the great reserves of the Middle East into a corporate world order controlled from the West . The Mediterranean became an American sea , and the energy supply lines for " the American century " seemed firmly in place . In the wings was nuclear power to assure military supremacy and keep the American system " number one " should fossil fuel demand ultimately outrun supply . The United States was soon using one-third of the world 's daily energy output . The consumption of more and more was celebrated as the key to individual growth and national greatness . But the assumption that this was a natural order of things received some setbacks . As the Western hold over producing areas tightened , rising nationalist movements challenged their countries ' assigned role as reservoirs on tap for the " advanced " industrialized world . American faith that progress was automatic and that no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need be kept was undermined , as the costs of an energy-intensive economy were shifted back home and an increasing percentage of the American population became aware of their vulnerability . As belief fades in the magic of technology and the potential of atomic power , the efficacy of the political and corporate order in defining the public interest and protecting personal well-being is now sharply questioned . Is the nation approaching the point when the unstated contemporary social contract , under which the people concede their political power over fundamental decisions in return for assurance of economic opportunity , will be abrogated ? While the United States remains endowed with more abundant energy resources than most nations  --  a factor helping to limit the sympathies of other people  --  it now draws about 45 percent of its petroleum ( or about one-fifth its total energy consumption ) from Latin America , Canada , North Africa and the Middle East . Now American leadership claims vital national interests in the Persian Gulf . With the focus upon a presumed Soviet threat , President Carter has warned that any attempt " by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be " repelled by any means necessary , including military force . " No convincing explanation is offered by the Pentagon on what combination of conventional weapons , let alone the tactical nuclear weapons frequently alluded to , will successfully protect Middle Eastern oilfields from sabotage , keep them operating in harmony with American policy and also guarantee safe pipeline and tanker passage . Sliding into armed conflict over energy seems mad . And yet , did the early prophecies err  --  by one war ? Even where the inevitability of a military approach is played down , current writing and discussion tend to stress technological solutions . In contrast , looking back to earlier debates in this country , first over coal and then hydroelectric power and petroleum and nuclear power as each became important to the economy , one is struck by the sharpness of the battle lines that were frequently formed . The stark record of how precious and often irreplaceable resources were being manipulated and looted in the name of freedom and development prompted critical appraisals of the performance of private ownership and challenges to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were calls for new political experiments such as regional planning . The possibility of cooperatives and of public control enjoyed the open support of political movements . There were numerous inspiring fights by individuals and local and national groups . People believed that there were choices and that they could help make them . Too often this legacy has been obscured or distorted through the pervasive power of private interests and the vacuity or venality of public servants , leading to the more troubling conclusion that it is also our history that has been plundered . There are , of course , serious technical problems in formulating energy policy . But these are advanced at the expensd of underlying political considerations . Advocates of capital-intensive programs for synthetic and nuclear fuels have their visions of the good society , as do those who favor the transition to benign renewable sources . To the former , expanded energy systems will keep the nation powerful and the citizenry. independent . Solar advocates foretell the emergence of more human-scale communities where violence against nature and control over one 's fellow beings caused by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ options are related to politic 's , they are treated as though they have no base in past political experience . Where factors of political power are introduced , too often they are confined to specific conflicts , as over the pricing policy for natural gas or the location of a particular nuclear plant . These are important battles and an essential first step for creating a public aware of relationships : as between gas pricing and the oil industry 's drive to command all energy forms ; between nuclear plants and nuclear war ; between corporate power and governmental incapacity . The tougher requirements for mobilizing the political will necessary to challenge the organized power behind the present system and to bring about effective democratic transformation remain largely unexplored . All camps and candidates , with varying emphasis , join in the call for a new conservation ethic . The major burden is generally placed upon the individual rather than upon the forces shaping his economic environment . Exhorting the householder to turn off the pilot light or live more simply , however beneficial , offers an easier political course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , including the energy industry itself , allocates capital , introduces technology , employs energy in the production of goods and services and generates new energy-consuming wants . Meanwhile , energy is still viewed as a commodity , and the primacy of profit in its development and distribution remains inviolate . The United States has accepted subsurface ipineral rights as belonging to the landowner and has favored private development of petroleum on private lands as well as on the public domain . The latter constitutes one-third of the area of the country and is believed to contain perhaps 50 percent of its remaining fossil fuels . Critical data about energy reserves , refinery runs , global allocations anti profit breakdowns , essential for public understanding and the making of public policy , remain largely " proprietary . " The contrived aspects of contemporary oil and gas shortages are blurred and troubling four-letter words like " glut " are left to oilmen in their journals and business sessions. c onventional corporate , political and even scholarly rhetoric laments present soaring prices which are passed along by reluctant Western corporations who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even the successful have nightmares . The latter 's recurring one , only dimly appreciated and rarely dissected by our public guardians , is that the newly arisen and irresponsible producing nations might forget their apprenticeship to power and deliver the ultimate blow to corporate expectations by lowering the price of oil . Meanwhile , a pervasive public relations campaign continues to assure a frustrated American public that although supply-price pressures are beyond corporate control , national energy security is most wisely left to the marketplace and to the presumably apolitical corporate managers . The latter , we are reminded daily , share with the best of us a love for science , chamber music , British drama and , incidentally , freedom from accountability . Despite such temptation for abdicating citizenship , the American people must develop independently some underlying propositions for thinking about energy and the related issues of technological innovation , industrial planning and democratic control . A starting assumption here is that energy policy should be determined by the kind of society Americans seek , not the other way around . While there is every reason for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage of energy nor of the intelligence to make it available . The need is for the political will to support its purposes . I Thoroughgoing democratic values require an economy committed to the just development and distribution of energy for people everywhere . Economic justice must extend to the energy rights of the succeeding generations who will have to live in the environment we bequeath them . Safeguarding the natural heritage from deterioration is therefore a precondition for an energy bill of rights . Economic democracy also requires that energy decisions affecting people 's lives be accountable to them . Mechanisms must be found for bringing energy policies directly into the political process and for expanding citizen participation in debate and control . If treating fossil fuels as commodities has been harmful to American development , allowing solar and other alternative energy prospects to be introduced in the same fashion could be fatal . Public ownership and democratic planning CI basic energy resources are starting points for reversing these patterns . There is everything to be learned about how to plan democratically . While there is no ready model to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some come from the American public power tradition . The nation should encourage experiments at every level of the political economy . When evaluating energy alternatives , we must ask which provide the most widespread and satisfying employment ; which are most in harmony with the realities of total energy availability ; which least distort the overall demand on the nation 's capital investment ; which entail least violence to nature ; which are most likely to respect the rights of other people to use energy and to encourage international cooperation in the sharing ; which are most likely to foster a garrison state , and which are most likely to maximize community self-reliance . By such tests nuclear energy and many of the proposed high-technology synthetic fuels appear to come out poorly in contrast to renewable possibilities for meeting the balanced needs of the economy . Oil from shale remains a neglected potential , despite the vast deposits , decades of Government research and experimentation and the long-claimed interest in its development by the petroleum industry . There have been serious warnings about an adverse environmental impact , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The present system , which relies upon , a corporate definition of " technological readiness , " a euphemism for protecting the profit timetable for the introduction of competing fuel , makes public appraisal almost impossible , even though most development would be on public lands and now with public funds . Oil from coal is also feasible . Such alternatives require tremendous capital investment and , judging by past performance , huge public subsidies . They will further the concentration of private control and possibly the creation of new coal colonies within the nation . Equally troubling is the prospect of accelerated environmental degradation . " National emergency needs " may provide a convenient and not unfamiliar justification for overriding regional anxiety and opposition , once the industry concludes it is ready to launch such development . More attractive to those concerned by the increasingly ? , antidemocratic character of energy policy are the possibil- ' ities for shifting to simpler technologies which rely upon diverse , renewable sources such as grain , wind , water and sunlight . The visions of windmills , small dams and decen- , tralized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mammoth , centralized power-generating stations with their high-cost and high-security technologies , all under the management of absentee owners . It is also hoped that these energy alternatives will enlist local business initiative and labor skill . Such steps could give renewed meaning to the ideal of community self-reliance while enhancing respect for the natural environment . Emphasis upon expanding the energy supply can easily slight prior questions about how energy is now used and how it might be better used . At stake here is not simply a definition of what constitutes waste and what kinds of conservation to promote but what mechanisms now operate for making such judgments and for introducing the necessary constraints and incentives . It has been seen how the energy industry has sought to make itself the arbiter of all energy innovation and to integrate all such operations within its planning . The other corporations and financial institutions that dominate major sectors of the economy are equally insistent on their need and their right to decide on the direction of their capital investments . Such power is viewed as the heart of the workings of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that hold it . Every question must be raised about the relation between such power , and the needs of a public that is beginning to experience energy not as a liberating force but as a trap . I f conservation is to be more than landscaping of the present system of production , end-use planning must be introduced whereby the community develops the power to limit energy-devouring production while encouraging socially needed goods and services . The arguments for the rebuilding of mass transportation and the rethinking of agribusiness are persuasive because they link energy concerns , full-employment objectives and more rewarding daily life . Such$planning ultimately involves democratically set priorities and controls over capital investment . - Global cooperation and global planning must be introduced for dealing with world resource allocation and environmental protection . The continuing struggles over the law of the sea suggest how difficult a task that is . Unfortunately the United States lost a major opportunity to advance such an ideal when it was content to have American-based corporations dominate oil . Now that the producers are in the ascendant it becomes a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy resources ought to be the monopoly of no people . Meanwhile , it keeps a discreet silence about the administered prices of the industrial goods its corporations sell abroad and at home . It would also be in the national interest to encourage non-OPEC regions of the world to develop their own energy resources . Instead , under corporate prodding , the United States and the world lending agencies until very recently have resisted extending the financial help needed and thus have furthered dependency upon the existing oil corporations and also upon OPEC . The giant corporation is not going to wither away because of talk about democratic planning . Independent information about its power over the present energy system and about alternatives must become widespread to counter the pervasive corporate defenses . There must be popular organization to fight for public purposes and control . Active public participation is imperative if planning is to be democratic . " More government " provides no automaticsolution to the problem of irresponsible power . Even a program as visionary as the Tennessee Valley Authority could , become " just another power company @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to push nuclear construction while neglecting the more difficult task of sustaining the grass-roots ideal . Wherever possible , community and regional energy projects with which the people can identify must be developed . One recalls the efforts of community organizer Danilo Dolci to have poor peasants in Sicily take responsibility for the building of a desperately needed dam which had been promised to them by their rulers for many years . To Dolci the result when the dam opened was " democratic water " which would give its builders confidence in their own efforts and courage for the next community venture . It would also weaken the foundations of the old order which had promoted this dependency . Current reforms focus on such measures as reinstituted price controls , stepped-up regulation and antitrust action , mandated and self-imposed corporate responsibility standards , divestiture and public utility status . Slightly bolder is the creation of a public corporation to serve as a yardstick or for the publicly controlled importation of oil . Each has some merit . But there is little to suggest , given past experiences and the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be effective in moving toward the desired goals . Perhaps Henry Demarest Lloyd ( author of Wealth Against Commonwealth ) said it best in a letter to The Nation in 1882 in an exchange on the role of robber barons : You say also that " Gould is the product of corrupt courts and legislatures , and no economist of any school ever taught that the principle of laissez-faire covered the right to bribe judges or gobble railroads , any more than It does the right to rob and murder on the highway . " The class of corporation , trust , and stock-jobbers of which Mr. Gould is the most brilliant representative can not be explained away on the " bad man " theory which The Nation has taught us to ? disbelieve in . Bad men , we have with us always ; but why have the " bad men " free course ? A deeper cause than the depravity of individuals must account for the most dangerous fact of our social condition , the sudden development of a caste of overgrown wealth and power If the theories of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men to rob and murder by retail on the highway , they cause society to leave them to rob and murder by wholesale , by all kinds of " corners " and combinations , and by legal methods of oppressing the people , betraying trusts , and deceiving the community . This class must be controlled but they can not be overcome by the political and industrial philosophy under which they have been suffered to grow up . In another neglected but related chapter of our history , Senator George Norris in 1923 explained his opposition to turning over a major water power site , later to become basic to the Tennessee Valley development , to industrialist Henry Ford , who wished to build dams for cheap power : " I am not moved in my opposition regarding Muscle Shoals by any feeling of animosity or ill-will . He is a man whom in many respects I greatly admire , but I would not give away the                     