@@322899

With relations on hold , the superpowers hurl weighty words at each other <P> Words , not deeds , have now become the measure of superpower relations . After each new difficulty , it seems , Washington and Moscow have tried to match charge with countercharge . As the distance separating the U.S. and the Soviet Union has grown wider , those words have begun to echo loudly across the gap . The world last week still heard the shrill reverberations from President Reagan 's unfortunate joke about bombing Russia . As the Soviets took full advantage of the incident with denunciations and pious indignation , the Reagan Administration weighed in with yet another affront : the message that it considers the Soviet subjugation of Eastern Europe to be far from permanent . Amid all this , the level of international anxiety was raised by persistent rumors that Soviet President Konstantin Chernenko was in poor health . <P> When President Reagan quipped on Aug. 11 that he had outlawed Russia and would begin bombing in five minutes , he little suspected that his off-the-cuff remark would bring such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forgotten , the rest of the world was still talking about a gaffe that seemed to reinforce the worst stereotypes of Reagan as the trigger-happy cowboy President . Even to many in the U.S. , the President 's rhetoric of late has lapsed into the stark , sometimes reckless-sounding anti-Sovietism that he indulged in early in his Administration and later toned down under criticism . <P> In a less than subtle reference to the Reagan gaffe , a Soviet commentator for the Novosti press agency last week declared that the Republican Party platform adopted in Dallas echoed " most of the inane statements made by President Reagan over the past years , which have sent shivers down the spines of people in many countries , especially in Europe . " Moscow 's chief negotiator at the 40-nation disarmament talks in Geneva made a point of putting the President 's jest on the official record to illustrate U.S. " hostility " to the Soviet Union . In Western Europe , the West German weekly Stern appeared on newsstands with a cover that depicted Reagan wearing a clown 's red plastic nose . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ TO BE LAUGHED TO DEATH ! <P> The concern about Chernenko 's health arose from the fact that he has not been seen or heard from since he began his vacation at an undisclosed location on July 15 . The new Soviet leader has issued no policy statements and summoned no leaders from the Warsaw Pact for private chats in the Crimea , as did Leonid Brezhnev during his summer vacations . Chernenko also passed up the opening ceremonies of the Friendship ' 84 Games , Moscow 's answer to the Los Angeles Olympics , letting Politburo Member Mikhail Gorbachev preside in his place . None of this proved that Chernenko 's health , already frail , has deteriorated . But suspicious Soviets were quick to draw parallels with the late Yuri Andropov , who went on vacation last August and did not reappear in public before his death nearly six months later .                     