@@322901

Likud and Labor go courting <P> The turning point came at Ezer Weizman 's home last Wednesday morning , when the former Defense Minister told Shimon Peres , leader of the Labor Party , that he would join a Labor-led government . Peres was jubilant . For more than two weeks he had been trying to scrape together a coalition government to succeed that of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and his Likud bloc . Starting with the 44 Knesset seats his party had won in July 's national elections , Peres also enjoyed the allegiance of two small parties , bringing the total to 50 . But he still remained shy of the 61 needed for a parliamentary majority . By winning the support of Weizman and his party , Yahad , Peres picked up an additional three seats . More important , however , he dashed any lingering hopes Shamir might have had of wooing the pivotal Weizman to his side . <P> What kind of coalition Peres might form remained uncertain . Two days after the Weizman coup , the Labor leader met with Shamir at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of forming a national unity government . Though the two sides have been discussing such a step for almost three weeks , Shamir so far has refused to accept Peres as the Prune Minister in a Labor-Likud union . After the meeting both men agreed that progress had been made , but a pact remained elusive . Likud and Labor representatives also met to settle differences over foreign policy . Though both parties agreed that Israel should withdraw its 22,000 troops from southern Lebanon , there was disagreement over other key issues , including the pace of Jewish settlement in the Israeli-occupied West Bank . <P> Peres is also pursuing alliances with several tiny religious parties in the hope of achieving a Knesset majority without Likud 's help . Peres is especially lobbying the ultraorthodox Agudat Yisrael ( two seats ) and the National Religious Party ( four seats ) , a mainstream Orthodox group that is holding out for the Ministries of Religious Affairs , Education and Interior . Yet the National Religious Party complicated Peres ' task last week by announcing that it would join only a wider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor carried a large price tag . Peres promised him his choice of becoming either Foreign Minister or Finance Minister , along with safe seats for Weizman and the two other Yahad members in the next Knesset election . Likud officials , who reportedly offered to rotate the office of Prime Minister between Shamir and Weizman if the maverick would side with them , were incensed by the compact . Deputy Prime Minister David Levy accused Labor of acting like " thieves in the night , " while other Cabinet ministers labeled Weizman a " traitor " and a " backstabber . " The new Labor ally dismissed the charges , pointing out that Likud had refused his request to join their ticket before the elections .                     