@@432263

 | IN THE END , the question was a classic : What price victory ? The budget compromise enacted by Congress on August 1 emerged from a political world temporarily turned upside down , with President Reagan aligning himself with House Democrats while Republicans were fighting Republicans . One upshot was a rift between the White House and Senate Republicans that could haunt Reagan in the fall , when new battles begin on tax reform and spending . Some GOP lawmakers complained as well that Reagan had missed the best shot of his second term at wangling significant deficit reduction . What angered Senate Republicans was that Reagan had killed their blueprint for much greater budget savings . He objected to a proposed oil-import tax and to delays in Social Security adjustments and indexing of tax brackets for inflation . " I regret to say that the President has sold us down the river again , " said Senator Slade Gorton ( R-Wash . ) . Inside the White House , only departing Budget Director David Stockman argued for adoption of the Senate plan . But Reagan was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign pledge to oppose taxes . He also was described as fearing the proposals would be blocked by the Democratic House and used against GOP candidates in 1986 . The week of recriminations started as Reagan on July 29 caught Senate Republicans off guard by announcing rejection of their plan . House Speaker Thomas O'Neill ( D-Mass. ) applauded while Senate Republicans sulked . The next day , Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole ( R-Kans. ) snubbed Reagan by skipping a White House meeting with GOP leaders . " There will not be too many Republican senators listening to pleas from the White House on anything , " said Dole ? a likely presidential contender in 1988 ? who was so mad that he kept making sniping remarks the rest of the week . Republican and Democratic budget conferees , facing an August 2 deadline before Congress broke for a month-long recess , worked latenight hours and finally ground out a more modest 57-billion-dollar reduction both houses would accept . The White House applauded Congress for setting the nonbinding spending target . Weary Senate Republicans were less enthusiastic . Some predicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Domenici ( R-N.M. ) called the compromise " the best we could do under the circumstances " but warned that deficits would be at unacceptably high rates " forever " without tax hikes or cuts in Social Security and other benefit programs . White House officials were miffed with senators for proposing a tax increase they " should have known damn well " would be unacceptable to Reagan . One aide complained privately that Capitol Hill " lacked the political guts " to make tough choices for deeper cuts in social spending . Some aides said senators ' hurt feelings would soon heal , but at least one worried that the rift meant trouble over not only tax reform but farm policy , trade and the debt limit , too . He lamented : " We 'll have the roughest three months we 've had from September to December . "                     