@@432480

 | A surreal shadow is hanging over Central and Eastern Europe this summer , a scene from the past like one of those sepia-toned images of a bygone era . Ordinary men , women and children are on the move ? to refugee camps , tented villages , resettlement centers . Armed troops stand ready in a dozen places to keep the peace ; hysteria-filled rallies occur frequently . The death toll already is in the hundreds and the list of injured in the thousands . Several countries are close to open conflict , others fear internal collapse and still others will have to choose between democratic reform and repression unless emotions cool . From Estonia in the north to Hungary in the west , Bulgaria in the south and Uzbekistan in the east , and in the very heart of the Soviet Union itself , in the Ukraine and Byelorussia , a nationalist tide is rising . This fall in Moscow , the ruling Communist Party 's Central Committee is expected to discuss ways to ease ? or subdue ? the mounting ethnic unrest . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at stake , " said Mikhail Gorbachev in early July . The prognoses in Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe are equally grim . That glasnost and extremism should coexist is no coincidence . Long-suppressed and neglected national grievances , often the product of the injustices perpetrated by Stalin and Hitler and now exposed by glasnost , are coming home to roost . Declining living standards and worsening consumer shortages have piled fuel on this combustible mixture . Meanwhile , Europe 's 40-yearold cold war is ebbing , and as ideological conflict eases , older , more-basic differences stretching back centuries are reasserting themselves . Nationalist-based groups have sprung up in all three of the Soviet Union 's Baltic republics , in Central Asia , Georgia , Armenia , Moldavia , Byelorussia and , most important of all , in the Ukraine . They are bent on restoring their cultural and linguistic identities , and some of them already are calling for independence from Moscow . At least 220 people have died and more than 2,500 have been injured in worsening ethnic clashes in the Caucasus and Central Asia . In the past week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Nagorno-Karabakh ( where 90 died in ethnic clashes last year ) , in Tadzhikistan and in the Abkhazian district of Georgia . In 10 days of violence last month , 50,000 Meskhetian Turks fled their homes in Uzbekistan after 100 people died in fighting with Uzbek nationalists . Romania and Hungary have moved from a war of words to a state of semibelligerency over the treatment of 2 million Hungarians living in Romania and threatened with compulsory resettlement . While some Hungarian troops tore down the electric fence dividing their country from Austria , others were redeployed to the supposedly fraternal Romanian border . More than 170,000 ethnic Turks have fled Bulgaria since May in a forced exodus touched off by an official drive to obliterate Turkish and Moslem influences . The Bulgarian government refers to them as " tourists . " Serbs and Albanians in multiethnic Yugoslavia have clashed repeatedly and violently in the disputed province of Kosovo at the climax of a two-year " national awakening . " Tens of thousands of Germans , settled for centuries- in Eastern Europe , have begun to trek west to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , does not have a monopoly on such quarrels : Western Europe has its Ulster , its Catalonia , its Basques and Flemings and Walloons . But harmony has never been one of Eastern Europe 's trademarks . During the brief interludes when the region 's polyglot peoples were not herded into artificial empires by Swedes , Turks , Austrians , Germans or Russians , they were quarreling with one another . The most recent conqueror , Joseph Stalin , imposed order with guile , terror and brute force . But outside Russia itself , Communism and nationalism never merged , and now , as Stalin 's successor stands back , the old feuds are breaking out again . Glasnost has legitimized the airing of once taboo topics , in particular the relationships between the 100-plus nationalities and 15 republics into which the Soviet Union and its 287 million people are divided . Even Gorbachev has been taken aback by what his policy of open debate has wrought . " We have to acknowledge honestly that we clearly underestimated the severity of these issues , " Gorbachev noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in Eastern Europe , too , the prime beneficiaries of glasnost are those anxious to reassert a local identity as a unifying banner for protest , an alternative to Marxism or a prelude to self-government . Decaying Communist economies have provided fertile soil for the rebirth of nationalism . Unemployment is now widespread in the high-birth-rate republics of Central Asia , and living costs have risen sharply this year . Similar patterns exist in Yugoslavia , Romania and Bulgaria . Under such circumstances " outsiders " ? Russians or Meskhetians in Uzbekistan , Albanians in Serbia , Hungarians in Romania ? become natural targets . Where local economies have long been distorted to serve Russian interests , as in Uzbekistan , bloated with cotton , or Moldavia , drowning in pesti- cides , the smallest spark can now produce an incident . The party 's over . Economics is only one of Eastern Europe 's problems . In most places , the Communist leadership is weak , Marxist roots are feeble , and the relative prosperity of the West is grating . At one time , militant parties and strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gomulka , Hungary 's Janos Kadar ? kept order . Now , pygmies bemoan their fate , and parties are disintegrating . As the latest forgettable Yugoslav party leader , Milan Pancevski , admitted recently : " The frightening avalanche of nationalism , chauvinism , separatism and all forms of confrontation threatens the integrity of our country . " Having released the nationalist genie , Gorbachev and his shaken colleagues now are scrambling to recapture it . For hard-liners in the Ukraine , Georgia , Bulgaria , Romania and elsewhere , repression is the answer . Nationalist popularfront organizations are banned , demonstrations broken up , political institutions reserved exclusively for the Communist Party faithful . The Ukraine 's ailing 71-year-old party boss , Vladimir Shcherbitsky , although a Ukrainian himself , has steadily Russified the republic in language and culture . The fledgling Ukrainian People 's Movement in Support of Perestroika , RUKH in Ukrainian , is a particular target of his venom , especially after a host of top party officials failed to win seats this spring in the Soviet Union 's newly elected Congress of People 's Deputies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Politburo 's longest-serving member , owes his survival in the Gorbachev era to his ability to keep the lid on Ukrainian nationalism . In the Baltics , by contrast , party members have flocked to join nationalist groups partly out of conviction and partly in an attempt to coopt them . Serbia offers a third variant : There , the party is the nationalist movement and Slobodan Milosevic , its demagogic leader , takes his cue from Mussolini and relies on wild appeals to patriotism at huge , hatefilled rallies . The Kremlin has deployed 20,000 troops to prevent ethnic clashes within the Soviet Union , but there is confusion at the heart of the empire . Slow to react to the nationalist challenges both at home and abroad , Gorbachev has wavered between conciliation and scaremongering ever since . But he is not the only one at fault . " Perestroika in the party is lagging behind the processes in society , " the Soviet leader claimed in a keynote speech to the party 's Central Committee last week . He meant that the party 's extreme centralization , its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imaginative  | handling of a thousand local issues . He might also have said that perestroika sometimes aids his opponents by devolving power and so giving recalcitrant local bosses the chance to drag their feet . Some reforms . The surge of chauvinism in the Soviet empire nevertheless is forcing change . All three Baltic republics ( Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania ) soon will have Communist parties nominally free of Moscow 's control . Estonia 's freewheeling legislature has won the right to make foreign treaties . Private farming has been legalized in all but name in Lithuania . Tough language laws shortly will make it compulsory to speak local languages on official business in at least half a dozen Soviet republics . Within a year , Estonia and Latvia plan to control their own budgets , issue local currencies and control immigration . But Gorbachev 's options are limited . Ideology is no use : In Marxist theory , nationalism should have withered away long ago . Broken promises in the past and the strongly Russian character of the present leadership undermine the credibility of more-attractive policies . Given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of swamping the disaffected with largess . Force , as underlined by the killing of 20 people by Soviet troops during rioting in Tbilisi , Georgia , in April , is a short-term palliative that discredits Gorbachev 's leadership at home and abroad and only stimulates fresh nationalist demands . Gorbachev has been forced to rely on a combination of conciliation and the big stick . The carrot is a genuine effort to investigate and redress some grievances , combined with some forced decentralization of decision making . The stick is a tough line with rioters , backed up by new laws that make it an offense to " under mine " the state or to fan nationalism . " It 's not much of a program , " argues a senior Western diplomat in Moscow . " He 's strong on attitudes and weak on solutions . But you have to ask yourself if there are any solutions . " That , in a nutshell , is the dilemma posed by nationalism throughout authoritarian Europe . Repression produces martyrs and undermines perestroika . Tolerance allows nationalist groups to usurp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow 's grip . " There is no alternative to democratic discussion , tolerance and mutual consideration , " Gorbachev noted in a nationally televised speech earlier this month . In the Baltic republics , in Hungary , in Yugoslavia and elsewhere many will say amen to that . But as Gorbachev is now uneasily aware , glasnost has a way of setting its own agenda , and tolerance is n't always part of it . For 30 years , the ornate 18th-century cathedral that stands opposite the Communist Party headquarters in Kishinev , the capital of Soviet Moldavia , was a museum . To considerable popular acclaim , the glasnost-minded city council recently voted to return it to the Russian Orthodox Church . But when a reconsecration service was held , the officiating bishop was heckled for offering prayers in Russian . In this small , intensely nationalistic republic , ethnic unrest focuses most acutely on language . Pollution and an influx of non-Moldavians also generate controversy , but it is the status of Russian as the official language ? and as a de facto requirement for getting ahead ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us speak Russian at school , to do any official business , even in the shops , " complains a Kishinev student . " We are made to feel second class in our own land . " To some , the language struggle provides a romantic link to the Middle Ages , when Moldavia was an independent kingdom . For others , it is a practical weapon for populist leaders to use against Brezhnev-era reactionaries still in power here . But for most local people , especially the demonstrators who are in the streets almost every Sunday , it is simply a question of national justice . Their language has no status , even though the republic 's population is 64 percent Moldavian , 17 percent Ukrainian and only 12 percent Russian . Usurpers . A law already has been drafted to make Moldavian the official language within five years and to replace the Russian Cyrillic characters with the Latin alphabet used until World War II . " That 's absolutely unrealistic , " insists Anatoly Lisetsky , a history professor who advises nonMoldavians opposing the proposal . " We think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The half-million Russians in Moldavia reject charges that they are usurpers who forced themselves and their language on the region after the Red Army drove out the Nazis in 1944 . Instead , they emphasize local ties dating back to the early 19th century , their major contributions in developing the republic after World War II and the large share of technical , educational and administrative expertise they still provide . So far , the prospects are not bright for a compromise that would encourage Russians to learn Moldavian and give both languages official status . The editor of a local newspaper , Socialist Moldavia , recently was fired because he failed to get official permission before publishing details about the proposed language law . Threats of a republic-wide media strike restored him to office , but that defused only one source of tension in a region where language disputes could turn violent at any moment .                     