@@487874

We write in response to your recent letter to The New York Times putting forward again the claim that a secret intelligence service and a Freedom of Information Act are incompatible . If it could in fact be shown that there were some serious costs to the intelligence community of being subjected to an F.O.I.A. , we would still not hesitate to argue that , in order to satisfy the public 's right to know , these would be costs our society should bear . But there is no such evidence , and in all the years you and your predecessors have been fighting this act you have failed to provide a shred . The simple truth is this . You have ample authority to withhold any information that is properly classified or might somehow reveal intelligence sources and methods . Several recent decisions of the Court of Appeals underline the great deference the courts give to your assertions that information must be kept secret . To date not a single sentence has been released over the objections of the C.I.A. , and just last week the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this magazine to force the release of a list of the 1,000-plus books the C.I.A . subsidized through 1967 . Even so , a great deal of valuable information  --  on C.I.A . drug testing , covert operations , surveillance of Americans , the use of journalists and professors  --  has been released to the public as a result of F.O.I.A. requests without apparently ' harming the agency . That would seem to suggest that , if anything , the system needs to be altered to provide for greater access . Your persistent demands for total exemption from the F.O.I.A. thus betray a sad lack of understanding of the First Amendment . Not to mention a thoroughgoing contempt for the public you presume to serve . EDITORIALS . The Truly Rich A vid to learn how today 's " Big Rich " are different from the rest of us , we snatched up the September 13 issue of Forbes , with its cover story on " The Richest People in America : The Forbes Four Hundred . " We were disappointed to discover , however , that the main difference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ riposte to Scott Fitzgerald : " They have more money . " - Perhaps it was that " Four Hundred " that unduly raised our expectations . After all , the original Four Hundred announced by freelance snob Ward McAllister back in 1892 purportedly referred to the number of Mauve Age plutocrats who could fit comfortably into the elegant ballroom of Mrs. William b . Astor 's mansion in New York City , presumably leaving room for several thousandfootmen . Actually , McAllister 's list was a symbolic one , intended to denote those whom Mrs. A. thought worthy of knowing . It had a certain phony ton and , once proclaimed , generated endless stories in the society pages about imported nightingales singing in the orangerie while the guests quaffed Mumms to wash down their terrapin and saddle of lamb . Forbes 's figure of 400 has nothing to do with the number of swells Malcolm S. Forbes , chairman and editor in chief of the magazine , can fit on his yacht without causing it to list . It  --  is supposedly a strictly utilitarian compilation , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ admission is $100 million . There is none of this tiresome business about hiring nannies and Italian masters for your children , summering in Newport and marrying off your daughter to a mendicant nobleman . In keeping with its , shall we say , functional view of the Big Rich , the magazine downplays conspicuous consumption , observing that " a family with $10 million or so . . . can readily live , and in fact many do live , as well as most of the country 's centimillionaires . " On the income from a mere $400,000 in tax-exempt bonds , for example , one can buy a year 's worth of " very fine dinners for two at gourmet restaurants , " and a modern convenience like the Concorde makes owning a private jet unnecessary , since it costs only $1,800 one way from New York to Paris and gets you there much faster . ( Elsewhere in the magazine , a warning note on inflation is sounded : Concorde ticket prices have risen 58 percent in the past two years , though mink coats are still holding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a seven-ounce jar . ) What sets the Big Rich off is that they are " solidly rich , rich enough to make a difference . " A difference in what ? Presumably in the nation 's economy , because having so much dough and so little to spend it on , Forbes says , the Big Rich must resort either to philanthropy ( which is " ' in ' among the very wealthy " ) or to investments and reinvestments , creating jobs for the rest of us . Freed from the need to build a $5 million pile on Fifth Avenue ( 1890s prices ) or to conspicuously consume , today 's rich can theoretically spend their money performing useful social functions rather than their time going to them . While itis difficult to generalize about the investing habits of a group so heterogeneous as the Forbes Four Hundred , a conscientious compilation of them would surely include such job-creating ventures as the attempt by W. Herbert and Nelson Bunker Hunt to corner the silver market . How much of this stewardship of wealth backs conglomeration capers like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goes into real estate speculation , luxury-condominium developments and tax shelters ? ( And how much tax do these people pay , anyhow  --  if any ? ) As a " capitalist tool , " Forbes can take the social utility of concentrated wealth on faith , but the rest of us might like a more extensive discussion of the uses to which it has been put , the power it buys , the impact it has on the modern economy . Still , until a 1980s version of Gustavus Myers 's History of the Great American Fortunes comes along , we must take what factual nourishment we can from Forbes 's compendium , which displays considerable journalistic industry . Tracking down the extent of the various holdings reported in the magazine must have been no easy matter , and the denials by the chosen subjects that they are worth anywhere near as much as they are reported to be must have become rather tiresome . ( As Malcolm Forbes points out , Howard Hughes was said to be worth billions , but when he died his fortune immediately shrank to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax lawyers . ) It is interesting to note that Forbes himself is the only person on the list whose fortune is not given . Since his name appears last , under an offsetting heavy bladk rule , could it be that he does n't belong there ? Listen , Malcolm , that yacht and those hot-air balloons you own do n't fool us . Any  --  parvenu with $10 million could swing them . Our main criticism of the Forbes article , however , is that it may have a deleterious effect on youthful ambition . Among the first 200 wealthy folk listed , more than half in-herited their motley , and a number of others , like Malcolm Forbes , took over more or less successful businesses from their fathers . This kind of old money would unfrost Mrs. Astor 's hospitality , but inspiring it 's not . Eat your heart out , Horatio . ChileWeather 0 ne month ago , on September 11 , Chile completed nine years under Gen. Augusto Pinochet . The President , constitutionally due to remain in office until at least 1990 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government will apply the full weight of law against those disrupting public order , " especially politi- cal dissidents and representatives of church organizations . No great surprise , then , that on September 30 the Chilean judiciary , under rules of law suspending normal political rights , acted to rid the nation of eight troublesome human rights activists , including the national secretary of Chile 's widely respected Human Rights Commission and two staff members of the Catholic Church 's Commission for Justice and Peace . The charge : disregarding the " political recess , " as the nine-year-old suspension of political activity is called . The sentence : exile . More precisely , 541 days of exile ; but the exactitude of the number is almost endearingly ironic , for not a single Chilean formally exiled in the past nine years has been allowed to return . The eight defendants , all members of a small Catholic-socialist party , the Christian Left , were arrested last December 10 , Human Rights Day . They were held incommunicado for up to twenty days  --  legally  --  during which time psychological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guardians of public order , produced the desired confessions . From there on , through both lower and appellate court proceedings , the case has been a model of the Pinochet government 's contention that Chile is ruled by laws not men : under the 1981 Constitution and its " transitory articles , " so much is outlawed that the thoroughly compromised judiciary can be permitted to appear independent . One observer at the recent appellate proceedings noted , " They have done the equivalent of making it illegal to have breakfast . By covering such a range of activity with the label ' political , ' they can choose whom to prosecute and then just let the courts do the work . " The eight went into hiding when the latest decision cafe down . It seems unlikely , however , that they can evade capture for long . The Reagan Administration , meanwhile , plays a waiting game on Chile . One move toward certification for military aid was quietly quashed inside the State Department earlier this year ; the Pinochet government is still too controversial to champion against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortage of good will . In Santiago in July , Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Everett Briggs noted " differences " between the two countries on human rights while stressing that " we have moved to restore a normal bilateral relationship with Chile , after several years of confrontational diplomacy . " As Briggs added , there have been high-level visits , official economic credits and increased " cooperation . " As to arms sales and credits , held back by Congress since 1976 , " we hope to be able to resolve this matter at an appropriate time . " The sooner the better , from Pinochet 's point of view . This is an especially touchy period in Chile . The government presides over an acute economic crisis : 23 percent acknowledged unemployment , a recent 60 percent currency devaluation and resultant inflation , 533 bankruptcies in the first eight months of this year , an expected 12 percent drop in the gross national product for the year . Loud complaints are coming from the formerly delighted private sector , and the population at large is increasingly desperate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ torture have , not by coincidence , risen dramatically over 1981 levels . The case of the eight , coupled with the expulsion of Human Rights Commission president Jaime Castillo last year , reveals the government 's decision to silence human rights groups as their work becomes even more necessary . The Pinochet regime seems to be taking a leaf from the Salvadoran military 's book : if no one is safe publicizing human rights abuses , and if the number of reported cases and statements of protest therefore declines ( as has occurred in El Salvador ) , then quite possibly it could find itself presented for State Department certification  --  another case of " improvement " in human rights conditions . And the beauty of it is , it 's all quite " legal . " CYNTHIA BROWN Cynthia Brown writes frequently for The Nation on Latin American issues . Cruising Along Amsterdam R eagan- and Thatcher-style austerity politics made strong inroads onto the European continent in the Dutch parliamentary elections this September . The issues were largely economic  --  rising unemployment , inflation , high interest rates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Reagan 's nuclear strategy for Western Europe . Unless something unforeseen intervenes , the Netherlands is likely to have a conservative coalition Cabinet extremely sympathetic to the deployment of cruise missiles . This , together with the fall of the Schmidt government in Bonn , would deal a major blow to the European antinuclear movement . Despite the efforts of the Dutch peace movement to bring the missile issue to the fore in the campaign , the Christian Democrats ( C.D.A. ) and the right-wing People 's Party for Freedom and Democracy ( V.V.D. ) managed to avoid it and focus instead on the country 's deepening recession . It was a clever maneuver , considering some 70 percent of the Dutch public opposes missile deployment . The C.D.A. /V.V.D. coalition takes what is called here a " double- track " position on deployment : cruise missiles will be deployed in the Netherlands some time around 1983unless the United States and the Soviet Union agree on an arms limitation treaty before then . Yet Christian Democratic leader Andries van Agt has started to show signs of impatience , urging that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minister of Defense , Hans van Mierlo , has said that the Netherlands should begin to prepare for the missiles now , although that preparation need not indicate acceptance . A Dutch public well informed on the nuclear issue is not likely to fall for that kind of logic . The peace movement has been pressing the point for years that nuclear deployment is a process of relatively small concessions , that negotiations are nothing more than preparations for deployment and that the only way of effectively opposing the final step , the actual stationing of the missiles , is to protest against every incremental step along the way . The Netherlands ' position depends heavily on what happens in Germany , and that does not bode well . Even before the fall of the Schmidt government there was talk of Germany abandoning the double-track position and accepting a compromise whereby the United States would station about 100 missiles in Sicily and in Britain and the Soviet Union would deploy an equal number of SS-20s in return . Now , with Christian Democrats in power in Germany , this is likely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a compromise is unacceptable to the peace movement , which is fighting for a completely denuclearized Europe . According to Wim Bartels , international secretary of the Inter-Church Peace Council in the Netherlands , if the cruise missiles are stationed in Sicily and Britain , it would be almost impossible to keep them out of Germany , the Netherlands and Belgium . In the face of these challenges , how can the peace movement respond ? Bartels says the first step must be to show that " there is no social basis for deployment . " In the Netherlands , the majority of the population is opposed to nuclear deployment both because of the inherent danger of the missiles and because they symbolize U.S. dominance over Western Europe . Bartels says that " this social and political opposition must be made vocal in continued demonstrations . " The second step , he says , should be to concentrate more antinuclear activity in Italy , where the missiles are scheduled to be stationed first . Perhaps the biggest obstacle to formal Dutch acceptance of Reagan 's nuclear strategy is the realization on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of such a decision would be catastrophic . Four hundred thousand people demonstrated in Amsterdam last November against nuclear weapons in Europe . The peace movement is not going away . A decision to accept deployment would relegate the new coalition 's popular conservative economic platform to second place behind the nuclear issue in the minds of voters . For a coalition trying to establish some longevity , that would be politically unwise . KEVIN MOORE Kevin Moore is the coordinator of the militarism and disarmament project of the Transnational Institute in Amsterdam . by should racialists be attacked for practicing discrimination ? Of all faculties , surely that is the one they most lack . Once decide that people are to be disliked or subordinated for being black or Jewish or Arab , and you surrender the ability ( as well as the right ) to distinguish among them . Racialism  --  a more accurate term than " racism " ? is , like many other evils , quite literally indiscriminate . Implicitly , we recognize th ! s ? by making scornful jokes about tokenism ( " some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The subject becomes more intricate when one has to consider the politics of a large multiracial society . Not many leading conservatives care any longer to make it easy by publicly avowing hatred or contempt for minorities . Even Ronald Reagan , when he spoke of his distant youth as a time " before we had a racial problem , " revealed utter ignorance and innocence rather than brute prejudice . Nonetheless , things are bad enough for black America to make it worth asking  --  is this a racialist Administration ? The President allows as how this charge upsets him more than any other . Call him a warmonger , a liar , a lamebrain , and he smiles-sweetly . Call him a bigot and see what you get . As he told the dinner of the imp obable National Black Republican Council in Washington 's Shoreham Hotel on September 15 : Well , usually I try to ignore personal attacks , but one charge I 'll have to admit strikes at my heart every time I hear it . That 's the suggestion that we Republicans are taking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans . No matter how you slice it , that 's all baloney . . . . There is no room in the Republican Party for bigots . In the same speech , the President gave us a glimpse or two of his general theory on the racial issue : This country entered the 1960s having made tremendous strides in reducing poverty From 1949 until just before the Great Society burst upon the scene in 1964 , the percentage of American families living in poverty fell dramatically from nearly 33 percent to only 18 percent . With the coming of the Great Society , government began eating away at the underpinnings of the private enterprise system . The big taxers and big spenders in the Congress had started a binge that would slowly change the nature of our society . He followed this with another insight : It is ironic that had the economic expansion and low inflation of the years prior to the Great Society been maintained , black families and all Americans would be appreciably better off today In fact , had we Just maintained the progress made from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been nearly $3,000 higher than it was after fifteen years of Great Society programs There is an obvious retort to this , which can be felt like the pain of an old wound . If it had n't been for the terrible war that Lyndon Johnson waged on Vietnam , who knows what his " Great Society " might have become ? At just the point when black Americans were beginning to emergedefinitely and undeniably , there came a gigantic expense of resources on an unjust war and a revival of the most indiscriminate kind of conservatism . It 's also escaped Reagan that the black movement in the 1960s occurred partly because of rising standards . Nothing " ironic " there for any student of history . Still , Reagan 's economic policy is not a racialist one . It demoralizes and damages all poor people regardless of color , creed or national origin . Its effect on black people will indeed be disproportionate . One thinks of the near abolition of the Legal Services Corporation . But it is the very lack of discrimination in the strategy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unfair . Can it be said of the President 's other policies that they are nondiscriminatory ? Only if one is fair to the point of feeblemindedness . Some of his actions are merely symbolic  --  such as the refusal to honor the birthday of Martin Luther King . Some are ugly and suggestive  --  like the treatment of political refugees from Haiti . Some are so obvious that they may even be subconscious  --  nobody would know from a detached study of U.S. foreign policy that the country had any black citizens at all . It is when we come to civil rights , in education in particular , that we find affirmative action being taken in support of discrimination and segregation . Step forward William Bradford Reynolds . The past experience of this fellow , chiefly in the defense of insurance companies , has included very little of what might be called " civil rights background . " Nonetheless , as the Assistant Attorney General for that division of the Justice Department , he has displayed uncommon confidence and forthrightness . He has , for instance , announced the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court-ordered " ( i.e. , legal and constitutional ) busing . Reynolds , in short , is looking for a test case . He may find many litigants eager to cloak their plaints in his patronage . More , the Emergency School Aid Act , which provides funding for " magnet " schools in difficult areas and which organized the resources for voluntary desegregation  --  which Republicans say they want  --  has had nearly 80 percent of its budget shorn away . So , not only is the legal basis of school desegregation being eroded , the economic possibility of it is being abolished as well . One might converge these two arguments on the case of Milwaukee . The superintendent of schools in that city , Lee McMurrin , said recently that the slashing of funds for voluntary desegregation " forces school districts back to mandatory busing , which is the cheapest and in many cases the most miserable way to integrate the schools . " if McMurrin tries that he will find William Bradford Reynolds waiting for him . Thus , by means of one indiscriminate policy , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that of selected legal challenges , the President marches on . He may not be a bigot , but that may not be the point .                     