@@295247

While diplomats debated the Fahd peace plan throughout the Middle East , and Arab gulf state potentates met in Riyadh to discuss security arrangements , the U.S. was taking action of quite a different kind last week to buttress the region . The effort involved a long-planned sequence of military exercises in four friendly countries-Egypt , Sudan , Somalia and Oman-occurring over a month 's time and involving some 6,000 U.S. personnel . Code-named Bright Star ' 82 , the maneuvers are the biggest trial run yet for the still nebulous U.S. Rapid Deployment Force , which is eventually supposed to have 200,000 troops at the ready to be launched on 48 hours ' notice in defense of the strategic Persian Gulf . <P> Bright Star began impressively . Some 500 U.S. military vehicles , ranging from trucks to armored personnel carriers to self-propelled howitzers and 155-mm field guns , rumbled off U.S. Navy transport ships in Alexandria . Waves of C-5A , C-141 and C-130 transports touched down at Cairo West Air Base , ferrying in supplies , equipment and 4,000 U.S. military personnel wearing newly designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 850 members of the 82nd Airborne Division parachuted into the Egyptian desert near Cairo West in a mock assault . In subsequent days and weeks , across the expanse of northeast Africa , other exercises will range from the field testing of water purification systems to full-scale U.S.-Egyptian army exercises . The most spectacular event will occur on Nov. 24 , when six B-52 bombers , flying from North Dakota bases and refueled three times in midair , will skim across the Egyptian desert at an altitude of a few hundred feet and drop live bombs ( see map ) , a feat that will not necessarily inspire worldwide awe . <P> Bright Star stems from the pledges by Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan to oppose Soviet intervention in the Persian Gulf area . But the exercises are only a short step toward that goal . The U.S. still lacks the power to act decisively in the region . The Rapid Deployment Force consists mainly of 56,000 troops borrowed from Fort Bragg 's 18th Airborne Corps , and the Pentagon has neither the ships nor the planes to get them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last week about Bright Star : fears that the U.S. would be charged with heavy-handed intervention in the Middle East during a time of uncertainty . For that reason , the Pentagon tried to play down the importance of the maneuvers . Said a spokesman : " It is a normal exercise , long planned . " Although they view the U.S. as the ultimate protector of their oil wells , most of the moderate gulf states were concerned that the military maneuver would be exploited by Arab radicals to increase political instability . The states also viewed the maneuvers as an escalation of superpower involvement in the region , one that could trigger a Soviet response . Oman did agree to take part in the exercise , but only after asking that the U.S. Marine operations be scaled down from 2,000 troops to 1,000 . <P> Predictably , the radical Arab states attacked Bright Star .                     