@@486760

There was a time in the history of South Africa when the African National Congress was not banned and its leaders not imprisoned ; when , as part of the living , breathing existence of the country , it set the quotidian calls to resistance and functioned not as mythology but as tangible leadership for the millions of blacks and smattering of whites seeking liberation . It was a time when people like Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu supplied the rhetoric of change within South Africa ; when they fought the legal battles in court and led the demonstrations in Sophiatown and the marches to Pretoria ; when they existed not as demons or gods but as leaders . That time seems to have come again . Now the young people of Soweto , those on the front lines in 1976 and 1985 , dance in the dusty streets around the feet of white-haired leaders who were imprisoned before the young comrades were born . Now the body of an exiled tribal chief , King Sabata of the Pondos , is brought home to the Transkei to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the A.N.C . at the funeral . Now , with the government 's consent , 80,000 people gather at a rally to chant " Viva A.N.C. ! " and listen to Walter Sisulu proclaim that " the A.N.C . has captured the center stage of political life in South Africa . " South Africa 's newspapers are filled with images of celebration and statements by A.N.C . leaders . The unprintable is printed , the unthinkable is thought , and there is a sense , throughout the country , of being on the brink . There has been a de facto suspension of the state of emergency , and rumor has it Nelson Mandela will be home by Christmas . So much energy has been expended on the demands for these changes  --  both in South Africa and in the international community  --  that now that they are being met it is tempting to cry " victory " and dance with the octogenarians and comrades in the streets . The leaders are being freed and both sides have declared a willingness to negotiate a settlement . Yes , we should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this Christmas at a dinner table in Soweto , but the designs for the table at which all South Africans must sit and sort out their collective future have yet to be drawn . Walter Sisulu may be free , but his son Zwelalche ? who edits The New Nation ? remains under severe restriction and the paper has just been threatened with a shutdown for repeatedly giving " positive publicity " to the A.N.C . Even though the release of Sisulu and seven others in mid-October does make tangible the prospects for resolution of Mark Gevisser writes regularly on South Africa for The Nation . the crisis , the eight were released not as free agents but as commodities in an intricate game of approval mongering and time buying . South African President F.W. de Klerk is caught between the rock of internal resistance and the hard place of international condemnation . Since replacing P. W. Botha in August , de Klerk has been cast by the world news media as a visionary , a savior , a Gorbachev , but the robes do n't fit him . As leader @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as Minister of National ( read " white " ) Education , he led the in-house resistance to Botha 's cosmetic reforms over the past decade . De Klerk 's political base is in the right-wing hinterland of the governing party , and if he has begun to consider the possibility of negotiation , it is because his primary motivation is the survival of his yolk . The A.N.C . believes that the government is using the lure of negotiations to co-opt the liberation movement into the apartheid system , and there is no doubt that de Klerk 's current quasi-glasnost is an attempt to test the strength of apartheid 's adversaries and the forbearance of his own constituency before committing to real change . His party 's current plan for South Africa 's future would only entrench apartheid even further by extending the present tricameral Parliament into an unwieldy four-chambered monster , one chamber for each race . Any matter of national import would have to be ratified separately in all four chambers before being passed into law , thus giving the white chamber veto power . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " writes Mark Phillips of the University of the Witwatersrand , " negotiations could become just another in the long line of strategies which successive governments have pursued to defend the white minority state . " So if we are to dance it should be to keep up the pressure . If we are to dance it should not be because freedom is around the corner but because , for the time being , the tune is played and the rhythm set by the internal grass-roots resistance of the Mass Democratic Movement ( M.D.M. ) working in tandem with skillful diplomatic maneuvering orchestrated by the A.N.C . What is so fascinating about South Africa today is that even though the apartheid regime still has the biggest cannons , the liberation movement is , for the moment , calling the shots . As in East Germany , popular pressure is dictating public policy . W hen , in one of his first acts , de Klerk permitted a pro- test march through the streets of Cape Town he was commended by the international news media for bravely " taking the initiative . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M.D.M . ' s Defiance Campaign , gathering steam after the phenomenally successful detainees ' hunger strike earlier this year see Pippa Green , " New Wave of Defiance in South Africa , " September 18 , had reached such a pitch just after the September 6 elections ? mainly in response to the killing of twenty-three people by the police on Election Day  --  that the march would have taken place anyway . Freedom-seeking South Africans would have walked willingly and nonviolently into a rain of gunfire and there would have been thousands more to replace them . At a time when all eyeswere on the new President , he had no choice . For the first time in a decade , the U.S. government responded to antiapartheid voices . President Bush , after snubbing de Klerk , met in June with Albertina Sisulu ( Walter Sisulu 's wife ) and a delegation from the banned United Democratic Front ( U.D.F. ) . Herman Cohen , the new Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs , publicly repudiated the Reagan policy of " constructive engagement , " admitting that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white power structure . " He gave the de Klerk regime until next June to institute " real change " before calling for tougher measures . Until recently South Africa 's $8 billion debt standstill agreement was slated to expire in June 1990 , and the creditor banks were being pressured to refuse any further restructuring of debt payments unless signs of significant change were evident . Indeed , F.W. de Klerk assumed control of South Africa with the support of only one international leader ? the unflinching and unwavering British Prime Minister , Margaret Thatcher . At the October Commonwealth Conference in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , Thatcher was expected to unveil a plan for South Africa similar to the one that led to Zimbabwe 's Lancaster House Agreement a decade ago . Although the plan was never made public , it can be presumed that it would have protected Britain 's extensive economic interests in the country and was intended to dovetail with de Klerk 's goal of distancing the A.N.C . ( for which Thatcher does not hide her distaste ) from the negotiation process in favor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Namibia , it is likely that the terms of negotiation would have been dictated not by the people of South Africa but by international brokers . But if Thatcher was going to garner any international support for her plan ? or even if she was simply going to call for more support for the government and fewer sanctions  --  she needed proof from de Klerk , with whom she had met at considerable length in June , that her version of constructive engagement was working . Little wonder , then , that in the week before the Commonwealth Conference was to convene de Klerk met for the first time with leaders of the resistance movement , and only four days before the first session in Kuala Lumpur , Sisulu and the others were set free . The hand of South Africa 's international supporters was thus immediately strengthened , and that same week the South African government managed to strike a deal with the banks : The standstill agreement would be renewed in June 1990 if South Africa undertook to pay $1.5 billion of its debt over the course of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had , in effect , given apartheid an additional four years of breathing room . Thatcher might well have conjured up a Lancaster House  --  or a Namibian Resolution 435 ? for South Africa , but for a brilliant piece of diplomatic maneuvering by the A.N.C. : Wary of Thatcher 's moves and of de Klerk 's growing international currency , and taking advantage of the extent to which the Defiance Campaign had shaken South Africa internally , the A.N.C . swiftly revived the guidelines for negotiation it first issued two years ago , presenting them in August to the Organization of African Unity ( O.A.U. ) summit in Harare , Zimbabwe . In these guidelines the A.N.C . reiterates the basic principles of the 1959 Freedom Charter , calling for " a united , democratic and non-racial state " organized on " the basis of universal suffrage , exercized through one person one vote on a common voters roll . " It then sets out necessary conditions for a " climate conducive to negotiations " : Before the A.N.C . will come to the table , the regime must release @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remove all troops from the townships , end the state of emergency and stop all political trials and executions . This being done , negotiations will ensue during a " mutually binding ceasefire " and , once a constitution has been settled , " all armed hostilities will be deemed to have formally terminated . " The O.A.U . promptly adopted the guidelines as its official South Africa policy , and shortly thereafter the Non-Aligned Movement followed suit . The guidelines will be brought before the United Nations at its special session on South Africa in December , and will almost certainly be adopted there too . This international consensus effectively pre-empted any possible Thatcher proposal that might minimize the role played by the liberation movement . Unlike the people of Namibia or Zimbabwe , South Africans are setting the terms for their freedom . The A.N.C . ' s guidelines will soon be a universally accepted bottom line . At the Commonwealth Conference , even Britain approved of the A.N.C . ' s conditions for negotiation . However , hours after Foreign Secretary John Major put Britain 's name to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the A.N.C . guidelines ) , Thatcher rescinded , refusing to commit Britain to the application of further sanctions as called for by the agreement . Amid the resultant furor one salient point emerged : Britain stands alone in the world in believing that the carrot , rather than the stick , will lure the South African regime to the negotiating table . Even the Bush Administration grudgingly acknowledges the utility of sanctions . In the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary , it is a viewpoint so blinkered that it can be ex-plained only by Britain 's economic interests in the region . The pressures of international retribution and internal resistance have forced de Klerk to travel a great distance in a very short time . With the release of prisoners , and with that of Mandela and hundreds of others pending , and the permission for marches and gatherings , the regime is well on its way to satisfying the A.N.C . conditions for negotiation . The A.N.C . in turn has undergone a major change of policy in presenting negotiations as the principal item on its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for those in the liberation movement who realize that black South Africans will come to any negotiating process from a compromised position , and will therefore be forced to accept something less than full freedom , as did the Zimbabweans at Lancaster House a decade ago . The A.N.C . has therefore refused to renounce armed struggle , and it swears to continue it , knowing that a capacity to destabilize is one of the most important bolstering factors at any negotiating table . The more the state is weakened by popular resistance , the more likely it will be to accept the terms of the liberation movement . But at the A.N.C . rally in Soweto , Raymond Mhlaba , who was a key figure in the A.N.C . ' s guerrilla army Umkhonto we Sizwe ( " Spear of the Nation " ) before being imprisoned in 1963 , admitted that the A.N.C . ' s guerrilla efforts are " quite weak at this stage . " The organization has come to see , after decades of repression culminating in the past four years ' brutal emergency , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the apartheid regime . Consequently , there will be no solution in South Africa without the consent of the country 's 5 million whites . Perhaps critical in helping the Congress to understand this has been the stance of Moscow , still the liberation movement 's most significant supporter . In his upcoming book , The Mind of South Africa , to be published by Alfred A. Knopf next April , South African journalist Allister Sparks quotes Boris Asoyan , deputy director of the Soviet Foreign Ministry 's South Africa department , as saying that although " in the past it was always assumed there would be a classical overthrow of the white regime . . . now we accept there will have to be a political settlement . " A recent paper prepared by senior Soviet Foreign Ministry official A.A. Makarov concludes that since " organizationally , politically and militarily the anti-racist resistance movement is not ready to topple the regime and capture power , " talks should be the movement 's main thrust . Even the South African Communist Party 's General Secretary , Joe Slovo , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the first step should be the sharing of power , and only then could the movement set about instituting socioeconomic revolution . But the Frontline Worker , " a journal for the socialist movement in South Africa , " roundly condemns both the A.N.C . ' s constitutional guidelines and the Freedom Charter on which they are based as a " recipe for betrayal , " and it casts the A.N.C . as a toady to " the bosses at home and abroad and the governments in the west ( and the apartheid regime itself ) who want to end apartheid without seeing an end to capitalism . " Such critics maintain that the A.N.C . will have to repudiate socialism if it is to be at all acceptable to white South Africans and the West . They are being proved correct insofar as strong socialist voices within the A.N.C . ( and there are many ) have been notably quiet in the past few months , deferring to the unthreatening tones of leaders like Thabo Mbeki , the international director who is leading the negotiations drive and who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are worried that the A.N.C . ' s negotiation guidelines might serve as no more than a means for deracializing capitalism . And so the A.N.C. , like the de Klerk government , is caught between its own rock and hard place . On the one hand it must present itself as a viable and even attractive option for South African capital and the white South African electorate , but on the other it can not afford to relinquish its claim to the moral high ground it has occupied for more than seventy-five years . In the stands at the A.N.C . rally outside Soweto , the hammer-and-sickle flags of the South African Communist Party far outnumbered the A.N.C . ' s own black , green and gold , according to the Weekly Mail . Oliver Tambo 's message , urging de Klerk to rise to the greatness of a peacemaker , was met with silence , while Joe Slovo 's call to arms raised one of the loudest cheers of the rally . Such calls still speak to the soul of the revolution 's foot soldiers , despite a higher-level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take place there will be many questions to answer . Will the militant youth continue to dance at the feet of their once-imprisoned elders ? How will those forces who refuse to participate in negotiations ? like the Black Consciousness movement and the Pan-African Congress ? be placated so that they do not undermine the process ? And will very influential tribal leaders like Gatsha Buthelezi be included ? Will the liberation movement be able to hold out for a common voters ' list , or will it be co-opted into accepting de Klerk 's " group rights " proposal ? Will wealth be redistributed or will jobs just be reallocated according to some notion of " affirmative action " ? And how will the fragile unityof the movement withstand a struggle over a new constitution ? Raymond Suttner , a leader of the Mass Democratic Movement and a constitutional scholar , puts it best : " In preparing the ground for negotiations , we have no illusions about a quick fix , an easy solution . We are simply entering another site of struggle . " ? MI ANTINUCLEAR SELLOUT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ southwest of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolis sits the Comanche Peak nuclear power station , waiting to go on-line after fifteen years of construction . One engineer who worked on the plant calls it a " completely unsafe nuclear facility with a great potential for killing or injuring millions of people . " Despite such warnings , as well as a history of opposition by local citizens and stinging rebukes by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission , Texas Utilities ( T.U. ) , Comanche Peak 's owner , is moving to apply for a low-power operating license , the penultimate step before commercial operation . Ironically , Comanche Peak was put on the fast track to operation by the very citizens ' group that , over the past decade , was most responsible for uncovering its chronic safety and quality-control problems . In July 1988 , in an unprecedented agreement , the Citizens ' Association for Sound Energy ( CASE ) suddenly withdrew its opposition to the plant 's license , triggering the dissolution of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board , which was created by the N.R.C. in 1979 to monitor the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was awarded a seat on a company-controlled oversight committee and a secret $10 million cash payment . For the nuclear industry , eager to defuse popular resistance to the next generation of power plants , Comanche Peak 's ability to co-opt its opponents and short-circuit essential public oversight establishes an encouraging precedent . For opponents , the story of CASE should stand as a warning . Juanita Ellis , a church secretary , formed CASE soon after Comanche Peak broke ground in the mid-1970s . In cooperation with a number of plant employees , CASE developed a critique of the plant 's design and construction and took it before the licensing board . The campaign against Comanche Peak received its first dividend in 1983 , when the board refused to approve an operating license for the plant . Instead it rebuked the N.R.C. staff for " acquiescing " in T.U. 's sloppy design and construction and ordered the utility to undertake reinspection and reconstruction of the entire project . Geoffrey Aronson , a freelance writer living in Washington , D.C. , specializes in nuclear issues .      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      