@@494736

I. " THATCHERISM " was a long time coming in British politics . When Philip Larkin wrote of England in 1972 that it was First slum of Europe : a role It wo n't be so hard to win , With a cast of crooks and tarts his sentiments were not merely his own . And when he wrote three years earlier of the withdrawal from empire as something ominous for England 's sense of herself The statues will be standing in the same Tree-muffled squares , and look nearly the same . Our children will not know it 's a different country . All we can hope to leave them now is money ? he was articulating more than just a personal prejudice . Larkin 's conservative voice , questioning at the deepest level the values of the postwar Keynesian state , was a soft echo Andrew Sullivan , a former TNR reporter-researcher , is a doctoral candidate in government at Harvard University . He has previously written for the London Daily Telegraph and for the Centre for Policy Studies , London . unattainable . And they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hardly seem attractive , at this moment ruthlessness is widely perceived as a virtue . But they do n't always take recidivism into account . To be sure , there 's a lot to be said for purity and discipline , for rising with the birds to meet a nutritional challenge . But there 's also something to be said for sleeping late . And for Cheerios . JANET MASLIN Janet Maslin is a film critic for the New York Times . of Jimmy Porter 's in Osborne 's Look Back in Anger , of Kingsley Amis 's sharp evocation of the affluent academic elite in Lucky Jim . It represented not the establishment conservatism of the public school social-democratic consensus , but a more aggressive , demagogic populism that refused to be at peace with the collapse of what England used to mean and the paltriness of what England had come to be . It is one of the most significant ironies of postwar British cultural history that those so-called radical " angry young men " of the 1950s ? most particularly Amis , Osborne , and the late John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thatcherite bent . Amis is on the editorial board of Policy Review , Osborne writes articles against new liturgy in the Church of England , and Braine , in his last years , was in favor of bringing back capital punishment . But it is no accident . " Thatcherism , " the only " ism " ever to be attached to the name of a British prime minister , deliberately represented much more than a marginal shift of policy direction . Of course , it is still possible to construct a history of its meanderings without any reference to ideology . Monetarism had been discovered by James Callaghan 's Labour government in 1976 . Union reform was already in the political bloodstream by 1979 , and had originally been attempted by Harold Wilson 's Labour government ten years earlier . The high exchange rate and interest rate combination in the early 1980s had as much to do with the impact of North Sea oil on sterling as with any ideological conviction . The restructuring of British industry , as well as the political ability to survive high levels of unemployment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preparation for the siting of American cruise missiles . It is possible , in other words , to argue plausibly that all the key elements of " Thatcherism " were a natural development of the 1970s , in the same way that Ronald Reagan can be seen as a logical extension of Jimmy Carter 's final year . And yet such an analysis misses something essential . Thatcherism was not bent upon the excoriation of a previous administration alone . Whatever its particular policies , the rhetoric of Thatcher-ism was rooted in a long-heralded desire for a moral and intellectual attack upon an entire generation . Just as the 1945 revolution of the left had its " guilty men , " so did the counterrevolution of 30 years later . ( The size of Thatcher 's 1983 landslide was matched in the postwar period only by Attlee 's . ) The guilty were those who in the name of liberalism and socialism had undermined Britain 's economic , strategic , and cultural strength . They were responsible not for a temporary " malaise " but for a deeply seated , maybe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seven years after Thatcherism 's initial coming to power , an irony is clear : the Britain that it was supposed to " bring back " was even more illusory and confused than Reagan 's forever dawn-breaking America . It was a Britain framed upon emotional conceptions of previous glory that had no prospect of return , upon a moral and cultural coherence that was diminishing with every day that passed . Oddly enough , the disappearance of such coherence intensified , rather than dissipated , the longing for it . And such longing went deeper than temporary dissatisfaction with liberalism : it evoked sentiments that had at their core an almost premodern rejection of the liberal state . " Do you hate liberalism with all your being ? " is how one leading Tory thinker put it when discussing his ideas with me earlier this year . He was more evocative of one side of Thatcherism than any free marketeer . So perhaps are the sentiments of Peregrine Worsthorne , theeditor of the London .5unday Telistaph , writing in his paper only last month . For him , almost all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for him , is now " more cause for shame than for pride .... The territory is changed out of all recognition .... Punks make me sick and Guardian women are another source of intense disgust . " He referred to the Falklands War as the only thing worth celebrating in recent British history . It was a particularly revealing remark , because it showed the extent to which the war was not simply an extraneous episode that somehow saved Thatcher , as most interpretations have it , but rather the essence of Thatcherism itself . The emotions that the war unleashed ? of nation , of history , of meaningful community ? helped Thatcher because they revived a kind of distillation of her appeal . They tapped its core again . The extraordinary scene upon the return of the fleet after the Falklands War , when sailors pinned anti-strike slogans to their ships in front of thousands of flag-waving , Britannia-singing workers , captured some of the irony : it demonstrated the extent to which Thatcherism 's " new beginning " was , in effect , an attempt to resurrect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paradox , however , is that the other part of the appeal ? the actual policies of the Thatcher government ? seemed to point distinctively to the future : a freer market , deregulation , the extension of private ownership , reliance on monetary control of inflation were all aspects of British policy well before they became the norm for other Westernei.ononnes . In 1981 , economists talked of the " British experiment " as though it represented something new . But more importantly , it emanated from a fundamentally modern and liberal conception of the limited state . The way in which the two strains were combined drew heavily on a previous political incarnation . In the late 1960s , Enoch Powell 's combination of a populist , libertarian attack on the planned economy and a rallying call to defend the purity of the " nation " ( largely directed against foreign immigrants ) had become a phenomenal , and largely extraparliamentary , political force . Thatcherism was its most tenacious offspring . But Powell 's discovery ? that by linking Liberal free market economics with a revived Conservative nationalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flawed one . In opposition , it could rally a whole plethora of laissez-faire liberals , old-style Tories , working-class capitalists , and intellectual conservatives without any worry . But in office , the contradictions have begun to come home . While in the United States the conservative tradition has had a long-standing alliance with the forces of the market , in Britain conservatism was largely shaped by the counterattack against individualist liberalism . The American conflict between social conservatives and economic liberals might be seen , then , as an awkward family quarrel to be solved by inertia . In Britain , however , this kind of conflict was tantamount to a mental breakdown . The policies that the economists had designed to " bring Britain back " were precisely those liberalizing , equalizing forces that , according to the moralists , had taken her away in the first place . Deregulating markets actually led to a further round of the environmental spoliation , materialism , and selfishness that the more radical conservative moralists found only mildly less repulsive than socialist controls . In other words , as Thatcher 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to unravel . Those heirs of Larkin and Osborne , the new polemicists of the " conservative " revival , began to distance themselves quite deliberately from their erstwhile mistress . The strains within the conservative alliance ? between the essentially anti-modern conservatives and the more liberalized economists ? became apparent . And now that the full consequences of a freer and more capitalist ? even classless ? Britain have begun to come closer , the conservative acolytes who did so much to articulate the philosophy of " revolution " have predictably become that recurring feature of political life : fellow travelers . II . O NE OF THE most prominent , if not one of the most disloyal , of these is Roger Scruton , whose adherence to Thatcherism has been aided by his love of the publicity it gives him . It is Scruton who first leaked the existence of a conservative philosophy group that meets in a private house and informally advises the prime minister . It is Scruton who is the guiding force behind the Salisbury Review , a magazine started in 1982 as a new forum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course , such a journal would seem almost absurd ; and yet its project , the enunciation of a conservatism equally opposed to liberalism and to socialism , is far more of a threat to her political project than a help . Scruton 's public posture hardly emphasizes this ambiguity . It is a posture of being on the cutting edge , politically and intellectually , of a beleaguered conservative revival . It is helped by ? indeed revels in ? a sense of isolation , and at times it treads a precarious line between argument and polemic . But the persecuted minority complex is the core of the Salisbury Review . As an April editorial put it : This publication which nobody reads is perhaps more widely known in the United Kingdom than any other intellectual journal , and certainly more widely vilified . The explanation For this peculiar state of affairs is simple : the Review is written for the most part by people within the universities and polytechnics who , despite being young , energetic and cultured , are also conservative . . . It the Salisbury Review @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the socialist establishment . . . it is that of rewriting the conservative agenda , so that the full extent of the confrontation can be perceived . Our work is only just beginning , and although we may not survive for long , we shall go down with guns blazing , leaving an infamous reputation behind us . Scruton begins , in part at least , in the enemy 's camp . He is an atheist , a trained analytic philosopher , and a product of a highly European philosophical training . His anti-liberalism looks to Hegel more often than to Burke . His starting point is the critique of Cartesian dualism , as begun by Kant and extended ( in the Scrutonian analysis ) by Hegel and the later Wittgenstein . The object of attack is the Cartesian ( and by implication the liberal ) self . " The ambition of Kant and Hegel , to achieve a philosophy which removes the ' self ' from the beginning of knowledge so as to return it in an enriched and completed form at the end , has perhaps now been fulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Descartes to Wittgenstein , which appeared in 1981 . This is an unusual approach for conservative writers in England , whose hostility toward European philosophy is as pronounced as their ignorance of it . But Scruton 's conservatism is a brainier version . His concerns range far beyond the boundaries of most contemporary conservative pundits : to aesthetics , to metaphysics , to architecture , and now , in his latest book , Sexual Desire , to sex . T HIS LAST addition has a familiar Scrutonian ring to it . The greater part of Scruton 's public relations campaign is not designed for the general public at all , but for the intelligentsia . His aim is partly to make conservatism a sexy research topic and to reclaim lost intellectual ground by staging terror strikes into the heart of the enemy camp and then retreating . Sexual Desire is the intellectual equivalent of the latest heatseeking missile . The project of the book is threefold : to evoke a phenomenology of sex , to deduce a morality of sex , and then to construct a political framework with which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerably more space than the third . The essential idea of the phenomenology is that sexual desire is rooted in a person who is neither a Platonist refugee from his body nor a Kinseyist slave to it . Rather he is a person at home in his body , " not ( to borrow Descartes ' image ) as a pilot in a ship , but as an incarnate self . My body is identical with me , and sexual purity is the precious guarantee of this . " It is from this premise that the morality of sex develops . The benefits of this philosophical freewheeling are some delicate insights in a much trampled area . Scruton sets out in elegant terms , for instance , the way in which involuntary actions , such as a blush , a glance , or an erection , can be the most powerful signs of an acutely voluntary desire ; and he articulates a conception of sexual hunger as an urge to enter conversation , rather than to assuage appetite , and of orgasm as an interruption of congress rather than its end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of shame , the relationship oflove to esteem , and the uncontractual nature of marriage are all insights that one might not expect from a conventional political " conservative . " But the book ends with a sudden spring back into the old conservative closet that calls into question the sincerity of the essay 's quest . Once sexual Fulfillment has been lucidly defended as a virtue , it still turns out to be immoral for homosexuals to practice it , thanks to a peculiarly contrived argument about the " complementarity " of desire . In this way , help . Others are , too . Despite the importance of sexual congress for the Aristotelian fruition of the person , Scruton gives no quarter to Freud 's attempt to help or explain the sexually shy , awkward , or incapacitated . This negative conclusion reveals a lack of understanding of how the old order could , and still does , destroy the sexual virtue of countless people ? not least Scruton 's allies in the conservative camp . It is not an accident that the party that still proclaims Victorian virtues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parkinson and Jeffrey Archer are just the latest in a long list . CCRUTON 'S defense of Victorian morality would have made sense , of course , if a regular conservative argument , invoking religious revelation or natural law , had been brought in . But his modern atheism does not allow for such a grounding . Religion , in an atheist world , is regarded as a lost cause : " The ' restoration of the sacred ' may be a political hope , " reveals Scruton , " but it can not be a political task : to make it one is to risk the most violent cataclysm and the collapse of liberal political institutions . " Then what precisely is the criterion For Scruton 's argument ? Philosophy ? Yet philosophy ? at least what passes for philosophical investigation in the phenomenological part of the book ? would seem to lead in a direction far less constricting and repressive than the book 's stern final admonitions suggest . We are left with the suspicion that the turnaround stems more from a classic Scrutonian device : the cynical use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short , philosophy in Scruton 's hands turns out to reveal our inability to trust a philosophical critique of the world that has created us . All that is left is an unillusioned defense of the old bourgeois order , and the lukewarm hope that it will provide some antidote to the desacralized world that now haunts not only conservatives . In this there is security at least , even if it is impossible to know whether it is the security of a delusion or a truth . As Scruton puts it , " Out of the mute objectivity of the surrounding world , a voice suddenly calls to me , with a clear and intelligible command . h tells me who I am , and enjoins me to enter the place that has been kept for me . " The real question here , of course , is why it is the old bourgeois order , and not the new one , that makes us feel at home ; and without an argument independent of the structure he is defending , Scruton 's conservative sexual ethic can not finally persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an anachronistic one at that . M AURICE COWLING takes this abnegation of persuasion even further . A don in Peterhouse College , Cambridge , for 2.3 years , a former Tory parliamentary candidate ( unsuccessful ) , and a literary editor of the Spectator ( 1971-72 ) , Cowling 's vision of social order is not bourgeois-liberal . It is confessional , in the shape of the Church of England . In this sense , his conservatism is much less tainted with liberalism than Scruton 's , and even less at ease with modernity . Cowling 's defense of Anglicanism has the added strength of never discussing the truth or falsehood of the faith he defends . All that is at issue For this distinctively modern conservative is the political power that true believers can wield . This is the key import of religion : that it can render service as a doctrine , interchangeable with political doctrine , in the necessary battle for political power Even the structure of his latest product , the second volume of Religion and Public Doctrine in Modern England , reflects this underlying conviction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " counterassaults , " and " battles . " Literature is considered as " doctrine , " schools of thought as " conspiracies " inspired and concocted by enemies . There is no attempt at a dispassionate reconstruction of the past as it was . Such a project , in Cowling 's eyes , is largely meaningless . As he says , " The reader who looks for it in these pages deserves to be disappointed . " Nor is there an attempt to make arguments that would be subject to reasonable assess ment ; they are merely used " in order to manifest resentment . " The result is a rather exhausting and at times objectionable read . The book amounts to a series of essays on several thinkers , idiosyncratically selected and grouped in battle formation . Each is summarily dismissed or patronizingly approved in the tone of some marginally neurotic headmaster of an English public school giving end-of-term reports on his pupils . Shaw , in later years , " became a bore , windbag and licensed clown . " Havelock Ellis " needed to write in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But the book is a deliberate polemic , if a contrived one , and it must be read as such . At times it approaches a rant only conceivable within the portals of a Cambridge college , as when Cowling explains how Gilbert Murray 's Hellenism , Comteanism , and post-Gladstonian liberalism were apparently formed " by an unsympathetic world which had been created by Lloyd George , T. S. Eliot , D. H. Lawrence , Stalin , Hitler and Nasser . " The left , it appears , has no copyright on paranoia . Cowling willfully sums up the corrosive and largely self-defeating acidity of many conservative writers , whose anger at modernity culminates in a refusal even to converse with it . The upshot is that the book , for all its conceptual coherence , does the opposite of what its Christian heroes are praised for . If it is meant as an apology for the Church of England , it comes across as an apology for Anglican politics rather than for Anglican spirituality . By disillusioning us completely , Cowling 's argument renders us unable to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be already . But this , according to Cowling , is all that religion is anyway : " those directions of the mind and will which precede and transcend all activities and subjects of study . " And the submission that precedes study is to a faith of such extraordinary political usefulness that we may wonder whether the God we are putting our faith in is the God of Christianity or of social control . It comes as no surprise , then , to find that transcendent religious truths do not encumber Cowling 's conservatism , or his political judgment . In his earlier work , The Impact at Hitler ( 1974 ) , he asserted that it was neither " morally obligatory " nor " prudentially self-evident " that Hitler be obstructed in eastern central Europe , and that appeasement 's only flaw was a prudential one : it underestimated the ease with which France would fall . Churchill is a prime enemy of this strain of conservatism , especially for his implication in establishing the hegemony of the Soviet Union and , particularly , the United States , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ World War . Churchill 's relationship with Margaret Thatcher , then , is of particular interest . Her belief in the paramount importance of Western freedom and her love for the United States ? placing her firmly in the Churchillian tradition ? is in stark contrast to Cowling 's view of freedom . As he put it in assessing the possibility of a " new conservatism " in 1978 : ( It is not freedom that Conservatives want ; what they want is the sort of freedom that will maintain existing inequalities , or restore lost ones , so far as political action can do this .... Pt is a way of not saying what they want , a way of attributing principle to a social structure they wish to conserve or restore . What is interesting here is not merely the desire to maintain existing inequalities ( and why is inequality the prime conservative or Christian concern ? ) , but the desire to restore lost ones . It is an argument that shows clearly how the doctrinaire opposition to an increasingly liberalized world has ended in recent years not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatism 's temptation : reaction . I.V . T O MENTION the Spectator in the same breath as Cowling is not to suggest that it follows the extremity of his positions . But it has certainly absorbed the flavor of his concerns . Given the Cambridge-conservative education of its new management , this is hardly surprising . Under the editorship of Charles Moore , the magazine has taken the issues of religion and culture far more seriously than it did under the more eclectic and relaxed ethos of its former editor , Alexander Chancellor . Editorials can now seriously intone , as one did in July , that " empires rise and perish , kingdoms wax and wane , the Church endures , " in a way that would have seemed deliberately self-mocking a few years ago . More importantly , the influential magazine has adopted a style of reactionary chic particularly suited to a British political debate now more concerned with surface than with substance . Glossier pages fittingly reflect an archly aristocratic temper , all the more appealing for being hopelessly fake . As the Spectator 's literary section @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , its City of London coverage has been extended and its pages besieged by an influx of double-barreled names , such as Hugh Montgomery Massingberd and Ambrose Evans-Pritchard ( to name only the most awkward combinations ) . Also among this year 's innovations were the Duchess of Devonshire 's weekly diary and an editorial devoted to commemorating a schoolmaster at Eton . The latest example of the new direction is the magazine 's " poll " that asks only the " important people " ( 96 percent male ) for their views on politics , and discovers that they too find Thatcher somewhat vulgar , even if she is the lesser of unpleasantnesses . And unpleasantnesses ( not evils ) is the word ? for the one thing that typifies the increasingly wan detachment of the Spectator 's tone is the lack of any passion or anger or urgency in its pages . As a result , these days it has all the cutting edge of the retired curates it wishes were still its readers . M UCH OF THIS would be endearing , if it were n't for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Detachment is forgivable when it is convincing . Some of the regular writers manage it with ease : Alexander Chancellor 's genuinely confused dismay at almost all aspects of contemporary television culture was , until his column was terminated , nicely matched by Jeffrey Bernard 's resolute inebriation in the face of organized life . But the body of the magazine has adopted a conservatism as self-absorbed as it is intellectualized . Powellite dislike of the Commonwealth , for example , led this summer to a vicious personal attack on the queen , with a caricature on the cover and the headline " How She Keeps Her Empire . " ( Respect for the monarch is no longer , it seems , a clever enough conservative position . ) Part of the Powellite foreign policy position is also reflected in a barely veiled hostility toward the United States . For a conservative magazine , the Spectator 's American coverage is dominated by journalists whose liberal or left-wing credentials can hardly be bettered , from John Mortimer to Christopher Hitchens . The Libyan raid occasioned a hostile tirade ? in stark contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But contempt for American liberalism abroad neatly balances cultural pessimism at home . And the youthful expression of aged depression ( known as " Young Fogeyism " ) has become a popular trend . For the still uninitiated , a Young Fogey Handbook appeared last year , to fill them in on the latest quirks . Scruton 's and Cowling 's mood has become agreeably marketable . ESSENESSENTIALLY there are three Young TIALLY a kind of Holy Trinity . They are A. N. Wilson , Charles Moore , and Gavin Stamp . Wilson is a massively prolific and popular novelist in his early 30s , slight and self-consciously gray in appearance . He rides on his rustic bike , in bicycle clips , around Oxford , where he enjoys taking tea in small cafes frequented largely by traffic wardens and off-duty policemen and featuring Holman Hunt reproductions and pictures of Winston Churchill on the walls . Charles Moore is editor of the Spectator , in his late 20s , from Cambridge via the Daily Telegraph editorial staff . Gavin Stamp is an architectural historian who lives in an extraordinarily preserved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ red-light districts in London . That the Young Fogeys are the subject of intense ridicule is no cause for wonder : they have a genius for self-publicity and , apart from Moore , sustain a prolific output . Indeed , their first collaboration could have been designed by a parodist . Its cover displays the title The Church in Crisis with their three names emblazoned ecclesiastically beneath the image of a stained-glass window . The book is divided into three parts , each reflecting accurately the disposition of one of the three figures . Moore 's analysis of the workings of the Anglican bureaucracy is an impressive piece of rigorous reporting , though it will bore anybody who finds such issues as synod politics less scintillating than Moore does . Wilson revels , as usual , in camp stories about gay priests and eccentric services , but he manages to discuss quite sensibly the stupidities of some forms of Church training and the need for greater lay involvement at informal levels , Wilson is also unique among his co-authors in alluding to the central questions of faith , even if he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ something that neither Moore nor Stamp seems particularly concerned with . Moore 's thesis , for example , that Church bureaucracy exdudes practicing Anglicans , ignores the rather elementary fact that there are virtually no practicing Anglicans left . It is Stamp 's essay , though , that really gives the game away . It is by far the most readable , and at times it is hysterically funny . It largely comprises descriptions of services in different Anglican churches visited by Stamp over an extended period . Suddenly we are confronted with Anglicanism in the raw . Yet Stamp 's concern is not simply the nature of faith , but its structure . He is keen to point out the connections between architecture , art , liturgy , and faith that he feels many contemporary Anglicans fail to see . Stamp 's illustration of the secularization , politicization , and bastardization of the delicate structures of transcendental aesthetics dissects the cant of many self-consciously " modern " approaches to religion . Still , it is difficult to avoid the suspicion that all this effort is aimed at a renewal not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion as its tool rather than its master . Thus the object of veneration on the cover of the book is a stained-glass icon of the national flag . And Stamp 's most telling moments come in political satire : " Dull , complacent , cosy services combined with baring of middle-class guilt about the Third World is not , however , confined to country churches . It can happen in towns .... " It is not faith , but a particular manifestation of English faith , that matters ; and it is a Church that can touch even atheists and agnostics in a broad cultural , religious , and political sweep that is Stamp 's model . When he talks about chaotic church services , for example , it is difficult not to feel that he is really talking about a chaotic England that persistently refuses to live up to its " great traditions . " Stamp 's " Church Going " is as depressing as Larkin 's , but it lacks Larkin 's resolute unsentimentality and realism . Stamp is searching for an England that no longer exists , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can always exist . It is in this way , then , that Stamp 's arguments are finally less worrying in their consequences for politics than in their ramifications for religion . V. A MERON WAUGH 'S Catholicism manages to distance him from the peculiarly comprehensive dilemma that confronts the more earnest of the new Tory Anglicans . But his role in the resurrection of a distinctively conservative sensibility is perhaps unparalleled . Private Eye , the savage English humor magazine in which until recently Waugh wrote a diary , served in the late 1970s to destroy serious left-wing politics as a national force by popularizing a devastating satire of it . And Waugh 's constant saying of the reactionary unsayable has certainly enabled such sentiments to become less shocking . Like Scruton , but with considerably more success , Waugh has moved the public debate in his direction . It is hardly a positive direction . Take on its offensiveness . And some of his ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? points spring from a pseudoaristocratic libertarianism , which , in its opposition to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : drug testing , anti-alcohol campaigns , and officious , moralizing legislation . More often than not , however , his targets are the easy ones : the disabled ( " our four-wheeled friends " ) , the working class ( " its brutal stupidity as well as its natural greed , its vindictive bloody-mindedness as well as its natural idleness " ) , and other usually pitied groups ( " British prostitutes ... have the reputation for being not only the ugliest and greediest but also the laziest in the world " ) . He even joins in the odd game of Jew-baiting , in good English aristocratic fashion : " There is much to detest about Mrs. Thatcher and her government . Watching her kneel in front of the Holocaust Monument at Yad Vashem many of us might have decided that a vote for nice Dr. Owen the SDP leader . ... " The point is that these comments should be taken seriously , and yet not taken seriously . In that way , Waugh can get his points across without ever being fully responsible for them , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people 's expense . It 's a brilliant technique that he has made his own . Brideshead Benighted is a collection of pieces Waugh has written for the Spectator over the last ten years . Its title , calculated to cash in on his father Evelyn 's reputation in the United States , beautifully distinguishes Waugh 's aristocratic persona from his non-aristocratic sense of where the fast buck is . As is inevitable in such a miscellany , the sharpness of each piece is blurred by the merciless succession of them , but that is not the only reason that Waugh should have left his outpourings to the weekly Spectator column . Pulled together , what strikes one most is their essential shallowness . If there is a unifying thread , it hardly twitches with purpose . His is simply a lively picture of an England in desperate decline , complemented by a willful , witty , and resolute refusal to do anything about it . ERHAPS IT is unfair to object to such carefully constructed detachment , or to criticize any humor except on the grounds that you do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find it funny , but that such amused detachment is an awkward position for anyone who cares about the country he lives in . And the unavoidable conclusion about Waugh is that he lacks this most naturally conservative instinct . He unabashedly cares much more about himself and his ( mythical ) class than he does about his country . Or worse still , he does care about his country , but feels it is unsophisticated or naive or boring to say so . It 's all part of what he calls his " equanimity . " The problem here is that he does not sound very full of equanimity , nor is it possible to conceive of anyone even bordering on equanimity engaging in the sort of vitriol that Waugh does . What it amounts to , then , is a good pose , from which he can avoid responsibility for his opinions and for the idiosyncrasy of his impulses . And , on another level , it serves to keep him impervious to the obvious sense in which his humor is a serious business . It 's serious in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pseudo-sophistication , destroys confidence in a culture , without any recourse except to an equanimity that even he does n't manage . Waugh 's view of British life , then , is not a recipe for Britain 's problem : it is Britain 's problem . Too sophisticated to care , too clever to propose , his is the sharpest form of decadence : the vinegar of a once distinguished wine . VI . rr HE SAME could be said , sadly , for I almost all the other prominent products of England 's " conservative revival . " A symptom of malaise rather than its cure , they have only nudged at the edges of the task of reconstructing a positive conservatism that can govern a liberalized society while retaining the benefits of conservative thought and feeling . Their rejection of some of the platitudes of the conservative postwar past ? most particularly the unreconstructed Keynesianism of the so-called " wets " ? is well taken . But their counterrevolution seems shot through with a self-indulgence designed to infuriate their fellow countrymen rather than to persuade them . The great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to channel the mood of postwar gloom into a new , conservative project for the country ? has been blown . And in the process even the most cherished conservative concerns have been relegated to the status of a " style " : religion reduced at times to a fashion , philosophy to a game . The key to the failure lies primarily in the self-consciousness of the project . Most of the writers are keen to be " conservative " before they are anything else , as if ideology were the first resort , rather than the last , of a conservative temperament . And in regarding doctrine as something enshrined in a particular version of the past , they remain blithely unaware of what might pass for the real attractions of conservatism for their own generation : its freedom from the constricting ideology they want it to be , its openness to the new , its enjoyment of the present . Conservatism 's defense of the past springs from precisely these sentiments . For this reason it is perhaps the most liberating temperament of all , in that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ haunt our present composure . It is for the present in which it fully lives that conservatism makes use of the past . But the new conservative catechists have been intent on embalming the past in order to excoriate the present . In so doing , they have forfeited the chance of being anything in this hopelessly modern world but depressive and marginal ideologues . Hence the necessity for a " style , " It disguises a profound unhappiness ; and it is their only medium for dialogue with the outside world . It is a relief , then , to discover a new edition of Michael Oakeshott 's Experience and Its Mocks , which first appeared in 1933 and has been reissued this year . Oakeshott , whose philosophical career now spans SO years , including the professorship of political science at the London School of Economics , is a Tory philosopher noteworthy for his quiet abstention from the loud " redefinition of conservatism " of recent years . His first book , in pursuing the tradition of German idealist philosophy at a time when that tradition was firmly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Scruton 's eclecticism , the book reflects a unified philosophical structure ( largely intact throughout Oakeshott 's subsequent writing and teaching ) , and never even hints at Scruton 's manipulation of philosophic ideas for political ends . Unlike Cowling , Oakeshott sees philosophy as something more than doctrine ? indeed , as the opposite of doctrine : Philosophy , for me and for others , means experience without reservation or presupposition , experience which is self-conscious and self-critical throughout , in which the determination to remain unsatisfied with anything short of a completely coherent world of ideas is absolute and unqualified . This crucial work , rarely read by those who concentrate on the more " political " essays of his Rationalism in Politics , underscores Oakeshott 's reputation as a philosopher rather than as merely some kind of " political conservative . " The power of his conservatism is in its emergence from a rigorously independent philosophical exercise that attempts to explicate the separateness of intellectual and practical life , so as to make politics an essentially " practical " rather than an essentially " ideological " exercise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new " conservative ideology " is in fact a contradiction in terms . Oakeshott 's conservatism sees such argumentation as already embroiled in an ideological invasion of practical life , which is precisely what he takes to be the essence of modern liberalism . What is more , in its repercussions for the moral life , Oakeshott 's perspective defends a moral community as it already functions , rather than as a frozen mirror of the past . It deems " reaction " to be as objectionable as liberal When the history of the last years of white rule in South Africa comes one day to be written , the year 1976 will loom large . For in the national uprisings of 1976 a powerful new ( and endlessly renewable ) force entered the fray : a generation of politicized black children impatient with what they saw as the capitulation of their parents to apartheid , and heedless of life and limb . It was the younger brothers and sisters of these same children , better organized , better led , who brought the machinery of local administration to an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a battlefield , put a sudden ( and in many cases brutally chilling ) brake on the process of co-option and bribery by which the government planned to turn a growing black middle class into a buffer between white comfort and black anger , and precipitated a crisis of confidence that has crippled the national economy . The uprisings of 1976 gave a new spur to black writing , and soon novels set inutopianism , indeed to be its flip-side . But perhaps more interestingly , Oakeshott brings home clearly what the Thatcher years have taught . Their successes , such as they are , have more to do with Thatcher 's pragmatism ( of which Oakeshott undoubtedly approves ) than with any new ideology . Those successes have also revealed how the conservative regret of modernity , if ever translated into outright hostility , can have disastrous consequences for the social cohesion that conservatives most want to preserve . It excludes and it attacks ? the sure sign of a destructive and self-destructive politics . But this lesson ? that " bringing Britain back " is a dangerous illusion ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The final and more difficult lesson of the Thatcher period may take longer to sink in , because practice can never teach it . It is that conservative thinkers , in assaulting the New Left , can easily become the mirror image of it .                     