@@480170

IN WASHINGTON hearing rooms , as I have seen them on television , dramatic events unfold before tense audiences . But one morning in late September , when I entered the third-floor hearing room in the Federal Trade Commission Building , the participants in the proceedings then under way seemed overcome by torpor , and no audience at all was there to witness the end of long hearings on a proposed trade-regulation rule covering " product standards and certificaLion . " For twelve weeks , starting in San Francisco and concluding in Washington , a small group of specialists had been arguing about certain arcana of our industrial society ? the procedures by which volunteer experts establish thousands of technical standards for materials and manufactured products . During much of the morning only seven persons , besides me , were in the room : the FTC-appointed presiding officer , a witness from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , his lawyer , a stenographer , and , to examine the witness , one representative each from the FTC , the National Consumers League , and the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for most of the standards-setters in the nation . Despite the hush , and the evident boredom , felt that I was present at an occasion of some importance . I sensed that I was witnessing a crucial defeat for the forces of government regulation in the United States . Like a stranger coming across an advance platoon of Napoleon 's army before the gates of Moscow , I thought , " The cause is lost ; they have chosen the wrong enemy and come too far , recklessly ; the great retreat starts here . " I first learned about the proposed FTC rule in the pages of engineering journals . " VOLUNTARY STANDARDS UNDER ATTACK , " read a headline in the December , 1978 , issue of the ASCE News , a publication of the American Society of Civil Engineers . " FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION REACHES FOR REGULATORY INPUT TO EVERY SEGMENT OF STANDARDS-SETTING OPERATION , " announced a feature in Professional Engineer . " ANOTHER INCURSION INTO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE , " sputtered the editors of Consulting Engineer . I found it hard to believe what I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America ? Who could be foolish enough to challenge the 300,000 individuals who volunteer some of their time , under the auspices of trade , technical , and professional organizations , to writing the industrial standards of the nation ? One might sooner launch an assault on the League of Women Voters . I could only conclude that someone at the FTC had gone mad . My sense of alarm did not arise out of any personal animus toward government regulation . On the contrary , I am convinced that a complex technological society requires an abundance of regulation , and that the current big-business campaign to discredit the regulatory function is a danger to the commonweal . I become disturbed when I see an illustration in Exxon USA portraying the Statue of Liberty enveloped in red tape , or advertisements from the Amway Corporation showing an ugly " Federal Nanny " hovering overhead or a " regulatory " branch choking the other branches of the tree of liberty . If regulations are often imperfect , or even absurd , that is because regulators are as fallible as the bankers and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regulations need to be rationalized , of course , but not disparaged and weakened to the point that the innate avarice of businessmen is given free play . Bureaucracy is the price we pay for technological complexity and creative greed . The Statue of Liberty is not tied up in red tape , dear Exxon ? she is held together by red tape . It was out of concern for the beleaguered cause of regulation that I deplored the move against the standards-setters . I even fancied that the public-relations department of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce had planted a double agent within the FTC whose mission was to launch an assault on a placid yet powerful community whose history is one of the triumphs of American democracy . Round pegs , round holes ALTHOUGH STANDARDS are as old as civilization ( in 1266 , for example , England 's Henry III decreed that a penny was to weigh the equivalent of 32 grains of wheat " taken from the middle of the ear " ) , the modern age of standards began in the nineteenth century with the development of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and be interchangeable , and if parts made in one factory were to be assembled in another , then there had to be agreement on dimensions and quality of materials ? that is , there had to be standards . Such simple and ubiquitous items as the nut and bolt were being made haphazardly in thousands of sizes , shapes , and screw-thread configurations , a situation that an emerging industrial society could not tolerate . Wherever men of science and industry gathered , the need for standardization was discussed . At a meeting of the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia in 1864 , a Mr. William Sellers proposed a system for standardizing screw threads that within a few years gained wide acceptance . The American Society of Civil Engineers established a committee to develop a standard steel rail ; the American Society of Mechanical Engineers set to work on a code for steam boilers . In 1898 , a newly formed nonprofit organization called the American Society for Testing and Materials started to codify standard sizes , strengths , and other characteristics for the burgeoning steel industry . Intercompany standards associations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which required prototypical equipment such as safety couplings and air brakes , to say nothing of a standard track gauge to replace the thirty-three different dimensions that were in use at one time . As the need for standards outstripped the facilities to provide them , the National Academy of Sciences pressed Congress to establish a national standardizing laboratory . In 1901 the National Bureau of Standards was founded , modeled after Germany 's Imperial Physical-Technical Institute ( organized in 1887 ) and England 's National Physical Laboratory ( established in 1900 ) . In addition to taking over and expanding the Treasury Department 's Office of Weights and Measures , the NBS was given the responsibility of making tests to guide the purchases for federal departments , and thus became a technical resource for both industry and government , researching , testing , and setting standards for myriad materials and products ? cement , light bulbs , paper , twine , resins , varnishes , and so forth . By 1911 the bureau was conducting some 80,000 tests annually , and sending inspectors into every state to examine the scales of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their customers However , industry did not want all standards to become the province of a federal agency . and even NBS officials agreed that such an assignment would swamp them in petty details and subject them to unwanted political pressures . So the idea of making all standards a responsibility of the federal government , although advocated by some , was not implemented . As dozens of corporations , trade associations , and professional societies increased their standardizing activities , overlapping and conflict inevitably occurred . Thus , in 1916 , the professional societies of the civil , electrical , mechanical , and mining engineers , along with the American Society for Testing and Materials , met to discuss the coordination of standards on a national level . After two years of conferences , these five societies established the American Engineering Standards Committee . The purpose of this organization was not to create standards but to review and coordinate those being developed elsewhere . The departments of Commerce , War , and the Navy accepted invitations to become founding members . Soon other government agencies , and then many trade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and changed its name to the American Standards Association . ( In 1948 , when the association incorporated under the laws of New York State , federal agencies withdrew from formal membership , although their personnel remained active on technical committees . The present name , the American National Standards Institute , dates from 1969 . ) Although the standards movement was occasioned by mass production , it made its way into many areas of American life . Insurance companies , concerned about fire losses and electric shock hazards , founded Underwriters Laboratories in 1894 and , two years later , the National Fire Protection Association . A growing sensitivity to the rights of workers was expressed in a drive for industrial-safety codes , launched in 1919 at a meeting that standards experts had with representatives of labor , industry , and government . Building codes were developed , and standards adopted for pharmaceuticals and agricultural products . The consumer movement was created in the late 1920s not by activist lawyers but by standards professionals . During Herbert Hoover 's term as Secretary of Commerce ( 1921-28 ) a " Crusade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mattress sizes was reduced from seventy-eight to four , varieties of milk bottles from forty-nine to nine . Satirists predicted that eventually standardization would reach ladies ' hats . ODAY THERE ARE more than 400 pri-rill vate organizations ? trade , technical , professional , consumer , and labor that have written or sponsored the approximately 20,000 current commercial standards . Most of the larger of these organizations are members of ANSI , which defines itself as " the coordinating organization for America 's federated national standards system . " By far the most prolific member of this community is the eighty-one-year-old American Society for Testing and Materials . Almost 30,000 individuals serve without pay on the ASTM 's 135 standards committees . The ASTM standards are usually developed at the request of an industrial trade association or a govern . ment agency , and they come in many varieties : a specification for stainless steel bar and wire for surgical implants ; a recommended practice for rating water-emulsion floor polishes ; a method of making and curing concrete test specimens in the field ; a classification system for carbon blocks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for wet traction in straight-ahead braking , using conventional highway vehicles . To assure committee balance , the ASTM requires that neither the chairman nor more than half the members may be " producers . " Draft documents prepared by task groups are reviewed by a mail-balloting procedure and , finally , by the entire ASTM membership . At each point along the way , negative ballots accompanied by written comments must be considered ; dissatisfied voters can appeal to the board of directors committee that grants final approval . The ASTM standard is usually submitted to ANSI for endorsement as an American National Standard , and another routinebegins , one that in recent years has given particular attention to the interests of small business and consumers . Many published standards find their way into government specifications . Other leading developers of standards in the ANSI system are the Society of Automotive Engineers , the American Society of Mechanical Engineers , the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , Underwriters Laboratories , the American Petroleum Institute , the Electronic Industries Association , and the National Fire Protection Association . Although not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ASTM , nor seek the participation of nontechnical people , their members all do view themselves as conscientious professionals . Anyone who reviews the history of voluntary standardization in the United States can not help being impressed by the benefits that arise from the activities of this unique social institution . And anyone who reads in the literature of the standards-setters themselves can not help noting how proud they are of what they do . This is the community that the FTC staff now proposes to subject to stringent , wide-ranging , and unprecedented regulatory control . Conspiracy theories D URING MOST of the morning session I attended , the witness was Ivan G. Easton , the consulting director of standards for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , whose calm monotone did not conceal his annoyance . " We are dealing with high technology , " he said , speaking of the IEEE 's standards-making activities . There is no need for a new FTC rule , he argued , one that would only open the door to trivial challenge and harassment from people whose main interests lie outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bureaucrats , Mr. Easton implied , he and his colleagues should be thanked and encouraged to continue their constructive work . The young FTC lawyer who was doing the questioning , however , saw Mr. Easton in a different light . " Are n't the people on your committees sponsored by their employers ? " he asked . " And is this totally altruistic ? " The implication that the IEEE 's standards committees are controlled by the large corporations is wildly ironic , particularly in light of the fact that the 160,000-member organization has long been considered the most radical of the engineering societies , implacably opposed 66 to domination by business interests . It went so far as to resign in protest from the Engineers Joint Council when that organization in 1967 decided to accept corporate members . After the lunchtime break , in the hope of discovering the rationale for what increasingly appeared to me to be a lunatic proceeding , I sought out the responsible members of the FTC staff , and was directed to the office of Robert J. Schroeder , project manager . I yield @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but I found it unsettling to learn that Mr. Schroeder , five Years out of the University of Michigan Law School , and four other young men of approximately the same experience constitute the entire legal staff of the FTC 's Bureau of Consumer Protection , the body that now proposes to reform one of the nation 's venerable technical institutions . It all began in 1974 , Mr. Schroeder explained , with the case involving foamed-plastics insulation . Manufacturers had been marketing plastic insulation as " nonburning " or " self-extinguishing , " using as justification an ASTM test that exposed a small piece of plastic to an open flame . However , when buildings burned , plastic insulation burned along with them , giving off a poisonous smoke . After a number of deaths were attributed to the flammability of foamed plastics , the FTC issued complaints against twenty-five manufacturers and their trade association , and named the ASTM as " the means and instrumentality " involved . Under a consent order , the manufacturers and their association agreed to stop making the unwarranted claims , to notify past @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million research program . The ASTM , maintaining that its test results had been misused by others , did not participate in the consent order , and when the FTC did not persist , declared itself vindicated . However , the FTC asserted that the plastics industry had " captured " the ASTM committee , and used it to issue a self-serving standard . It is because of this , Mr. Schroeder said , that the FTC commissioners recommended a general investigation of the standards field . ' Four years of study convinced the FTC staff that a rule-making procedure was justified . Standards are called " voluntary , " Mr. Schroeder explained , but once they are adopted for use they are likely to become mandatory , and are often given the force of law . Therein lies a potential for abuse . This is recognized by the standards-setting organizations , which strive to avoid it by balancing o. their com-mittees and establishing other democratic procedures . " But we have seen injury to consumers and to competitors , " Mr. Schroeder insisted . " It 's okay to say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the instances that we have uncovered . " 0 N MY RETURN HOME I did read through the FTC staff 's 572-page report , and found about thirty instances of purported abuse of the standards process . There were several examples of what the report calls " buyer misreliance , " of which the most prominent was the flammable-plastics case . A few of the others : ? Aluminum electrical wire , after being approved by the Underwriters Laboratories in the 1960s , was implicated as a fire hazard and found to require special connecting devices . The UL , it is claimed , was slow to modify its standards and approval practices . ? The American Plywood Association 's " exterior grade " plywood has been found susceptible to damage by birds and insects . ? Lighting-level standards developed by the Illuminating Engineering Society were steadily increased over the years . With the coming of the energy crisis , they were deemed to be wastefully high and were belatedly decreased . ( This has been a special grievance of Ralph Nader . ) ? An ASTM standard for brick has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of absorption ( of water from fresh mortar ) that might affect the ultimate strength of a brick wall . More numerous than " buyer misreliance " complaints were instances of purported " prod ? uct exclusion . " For example : ? Plastic pipe was kept out of plumbing codes long after it was found suitable for certain uses . Presumably this happened because of pressure from plumbers ' organizations , which preferred the more labor-intensive cast-iron pipe . ? It took ANSI six years to develop a standard that permitted toughened glass as an alternative to porcelain for use in high-voltage electrical insulators . ? A manufacturer of loose-fill powder insulation for underground pipe complained that his material was unfairly excluded from a standard developed by the Building Research Advisory Board of the National Academy of Sciences . ? When the Railroad Uniform Freight Classification Committee approved the use of foamed-plastic packaging , the manufacturers of traditional cellulose packaging protested that their material outperformed the new product . Other complaints were filed by manufacturers of boiler low-water cutoff devices , relief valves for hot-water heaters , screw-thread gauges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the National Fire Protection Agency ) , butt-welded intermediate metallic conduit ( banned by Underwriters Laboratories ) , thin ceramic tile , water system backflow prevention devices , automatic vent dampers for gas furnaces , burglar alarms , bathtubs , and wine bottles . In this catchall of complaints , it is difficult to determine which values the FTC staff means to espouse . It opposes hasty approval of new materials , and also too much deliberation or foot-dragging . It deplores economy at the expense of safety , and safety at the expense of economy . It condemns practical compromise ( noting with disapproval that " decisions are susceptible to being based more on political give-and-take among various factions than on sound technical/evidentiary grounds " ) . It also condemns the " mistaken assumption " that there are any " unbiased experts . " It is , of course , against errors and in favor of perfection . In reading the report I could only wonder at the complexity of the issues with which the standards-setters contend , and marvel at the way in which so many interests seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has resulted in fewer than 100 dissatisfied parties ( including those who were heard during the course of the hearings ) , and many of these are soreheads who in no way discredit the people they criticize . What other institution , I wondered , public or private , has done as well ? The report admits that there are means of recourse for those who feel aggrieved by the standards system ? first making use of ANSI procedures , then appealing to the media or Congressional committees , and finally filing private antitrust and products-liability actions . ( Only thirty formal complaints have been filed with ANSI in the past ten years , and all of these have been resolved without litigation . ) The report concedes that in the past the FTC has dealt with standards problems by issuing industry guides and advisory opinions ( in 1970. in response to a request from ANSI itself ) . It admits that the standards organizations have taken steps to update and improve their procedures . One looks through the report in vain for a clue to how society might benefit from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Proposed Trade Regulation Rule for Standards and Certification covers sixteen pages of tightly packed type . ( " This is n't all bad , " an ANSI official confided to me . " The standards organizations ' lawyers love it . " ) Therule requires that " notice " be given to the public at three different stages of a standard 's development : it requires that all persons ( including environmental groups and energy-conservation groups ) have equal opportunity to participate in all phases of standards proceedings ; it contains a provision for " duty to act " in response to any legitimate challenge , and a definition of " appropriate action " ( withdraw the standard , revise , or cease to distribute ) . There are sections on " required disclosures , " and " record-keeping and access , " followed by a section on " appeals " ( each standards-setter would have to establish an independent appeal board ) . Finally , there are sections dealing with the special responsibilities of certifiers and marketers ( the information required to be included on labels would sometimes make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not quarrel with the rule 's main objective ? a fair representation of all interests in the standards process ? it contends that the new regulations would mean substantial added administrative cost for the larger standards organizations , and would probably drive smaller standards-setters out of the business altogether . Obstructionists would have a field day , and the existing cadre of talented volunteers would become dispirited . And to what end ? " Opponents of the FTC rule , " says ANSI 's official statement , " are being forced to defend a fantastically productive and effective standards system , which is the envy of the world . " Moreover , ANSI 's lawyers maintain that the proposed rule imposes " prior restraint " on ANSI 's right to publish standards , and so constitutes a violation of First Amendment rights . They claim further that the FTC does not have authority to implement the rule , since ANSI , as a nonprofit corporation , is not subject to the FTC 's jurisdiction . Finally , the standards organizations point out that existing laws are adequate to remedy flaws in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " unfair methods of competition ... and unfair or deceptive acts or practices . " The Sherman Act is enforceable by the Justice Department , the Consumer Product Safety Act by the Consumer Product Safety Commission . The FTC lawyers say that they are merely trying to clarify laws that already exist , to better define what is " unfair " and what is not . ANSI 's reply is that if the law is to be modified , then it is up to Congress to do it , and that the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly Subcommittee , after holding hearings in 1975 , 1976 , and 1977 on purported standards abuses , decided that no new legislation was warranted . THE HEARINGS ENDED the day after my visit . Ralph Nader , who had been scheduled to testify , canceled his appearance , a good indication that the proposed rule is considered by its advocates to be a lost cause . ( " We knew that he would n't show , " chuckled ANSI 's counsel , William Rockwell . ) I have not encountered a single informed participant on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There is a move in the Senate to cut off the funds for this rule-making effort . Even if that does not happen , given the failure of the FTC staff to make a convincing case , and consider . ing the outraged hostility of the scientific and business communities . it is rather difficult to conceive of the FTC commissioners deciding to proceed . It will be late 1980 before the commissioners get around to considering the matter I after a period for written rebuttals , a new staff report , and a time for public comment , and by then the adversaries will probably have begun to negotiate . ANSI has repeatedly expressed its willingness to modify its procedures so long as it can he done voluntarily . When I asked Mr. Schroeder whether the FTC is willing to talk , he responded , " I would hope that there is room for discussion . " ANSI , although it could probably stand fast and claim total victory , may end up paying ransom , in the form of financial support for consumer groups . The FTC rule , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but it was stricken by the commissioners . Matthew Finucane of Ralph Nader 's Center for Auto Safety , whom I met at the hearing , told me that even if the standards process is made more open , consumer groups can not afford to participate without subsidy . The ASTM already spends close to $100,000 annually to subsidize lay review , and ANSI doubtless is willing to do the same . One might speculate that the entire proceeding has been a form of genteel extortion . No matter what face-saving settlement is reached , the FTC. in failing to enact the rule , will have suffered a defeat , one that the regulators can not afford . It is all very well for the FTC to be seen badgering used-car dealers and funeral-home directors , but quite another thing to assail the volunteer standards community , only to fall back before a ground swell of righteous indignation . HY , THEN , did the FTC investigators embark on this ill-conceived venture ? Some people think that bureaucrats lust insatiably for power , but I do not see that as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is their role to extend their influence as far as possible on the assumption that unrelenting enemies of regulation are doing as much themselves . Such an unfocused aggressiveness , however , does not adequately explain the actions of the FTC staff . It appears to me that Mr. Schroeder and his colleagues have a consuming impulse to codify the future . Clearly they have no interest in solving immediate problems . Those individuals who claim to have been wronged by the standards establishment are being turned into witnesses in support of some obscure future good . The Bureau of Consumer Protection is so busy making rules that the present needs of consumers go unattended . To formulate redundant statutes instead of doing the day 's work is a perversion of the regulatory function . The few complaints that arise out of the development of standards should be addressed . on a case-by-case basis , by diligent , competent investigation . But complex technological problems will not yield to another sixteen pages of legalistic prose . Legalistic is the operative word . It is less significant that the FTC staff is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idealistic , than that they are lawyers , and thus imbued with an excessive esteem for words . Instead of using the authority they already have , they create new definitions of authority . Our shelves grow heavy with law books , and our problems go unresolved . American society is not overregulated . It is overlegislated and undermanned , overwritten and underaccomplished . It is overlawyered and underengineered . Engineers tend to concentrate on the job that needs doing , and they implicitly place their faith in the ingenuity and good sense of future generations . Lawyers , accustomed to drafting contracts and executing wills , try to command posterity with the sorcery of clever phrases . The conflict over the proposed FTC rule on standards is. philosophically and literally , a battle between the two professions . Engineers have learned in recent years that misplaced highways and parking lots can blight the very lives they are intended to enhance . Let us hope that regulatory lawyers will learn , with equal grace , that the fertile fields of creativity are to be tended , and occasionally weeded , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                 