@@486960

The polls and the pols refer to the nuclear freeze and unemployment , but the dual specters really haunting the upcoming elections are international nuclear holocaust and domestic depression . Given their obvious importance , it may be superfluous for us to urge our readers to evaluate this fall 's candidates in terms of their positions on these inescapable subjects . But we would like to draw attention to two significant races , on opposite sides of the country , which might otherwise escape notice . We are fortunate to have in Betty Goetz La11 , the Democratic/Liberal candidate for the House in this magazine 's own Congressional district , one of the nation 's leading students of and workers for nuclear disarmament . We enthusiastically back her attempt to unseat the Republican incumbent , S. William Green , who characteristically has split the difference on the disarmament issue , belatedly coming out for a freeze on " strategic " nuclear weapons ( excluding the Pershing 2 ) after voting more funds for the neutron bomb , the cruise missile and the MX missile . Across the page @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civil liberties in California , but there is another underreported story in that state : the message Elizabeth Martinez , a former Books and the Arts editor of The Nation , is carrying to the voters as the gubernatorial candidate of the Peace and Freedom Party . Martinez has identified as " Public Enemy Number 1 " the transnational corporations whose drive for superprofits propels the arms race and destroys the global economy . Her thesis  --  that the militarism of the Reagan Administration and the cutbacks in social services are a direct result of its role as servant of these ungoverned conglomerates  --  is not original , and Elizabeth Martinez will not be the next governor of California ; but the logic of her argument will be with us long after next Tuesday 's election is forgotten . vious being that it does not provide a means for dealing with autonomous revolutionary forces , which take orders from no one . Moreover , the doctrine subverts the Pentagon 's policy of priorities insofar as it states that if Russia attacks a nation that is important to U.S. interests  --  for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , say , a much poorer Cuba in retaliation . In effect , the doctrine not only fails to solve Washington 's military problems but actually deepens them by threatening to increase the number of local wars . Since logistical preparations for local conventional wars in even a few places would take many years to accomplish , the Reagan Administration in May began minimizing horizontal escalation as a solution to the problem of fighting local wars . On May 21 , Reagan 's national security adviser , William P. Clark , leaked the news of a still-secret Pentagon plan , which will be the basis for military budgets until 1988 . It projects the perfection of a second-strike " massive retaliation " nuclear capability , which would be an effective and relatively inexpensive deterrent . The Pentagon plan , which has received National Security Council approval , would enable the United States to " survive " the first round of a nuclear exchange and retain the capacity to launch nuclear attacks against remaining Soviet targets . While Administration leaders have taken great pains to deny reports that this is a scheme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are planning to produce technology capable of inflicting a decisive second strike . Such talk is intended to force the Soviet Union to increase its arms spending , thus further weakening its economy , but it seems unlikely the Administration 's confidence in strategic war is shared by the military and defense establishment . The debate over strategy will certainly continue so long as an infallible military policy at an affordable price eludes the Reagan Administration . The Administration 's foreign policy deliberations have not been helped by the limited talents of its major spokesmen . Weinberger , Clark and Secretary of State George Shultz have little diplomatic or military experience , and this has greatly increased the role of Congress in defining foreign and military policy options . Shultz knows how to get along with his superiors even when he disagrees with them , but his academic , business and government background equips him to deal only with foreign economic problems . To make up for his deficiencies , Shultz has sought advice from conservative establishment-oriented Soviet experts ; six of them met with him in August to consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deputy assistant for national security affairs , William G. Hyland , and in an influential analysis published last year ? Soviet-American Relations : A New Cold War ? ( Rand Corporation ) ? he revealed the kind of counsel Shultz is receiving . Hyland argues that d  --  tente is dead and that the Western and Soviet spheres are becoming increasingly divided and internally unstable . Given the strains on both Soviet and American resources , Hyland sees the need for greater unity in the Western bloc to exploit the vulnerabilities within the Soviet system the events in Poland have revealed . Yet at the same time , Soviet military power is growing , posing a larger threat to the United States than ever . With each development accruing to America 's advantage , in effect , there is an even greater challenge to overcome . Experts such as Hyland do not solve such dilemmas , but it is important that they are making the government aware of them . U.S. foreign policy during the first two years of the Reagan Administration has been uncertain and hesitant , as a conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has found itself more and more constrained by its domestic economic commitments . So long as the economy is in bad shape , that foreign policy will also be under conflicting and increasingly inhibiting strains both from Congress and from important domestic political elements . The real problem facing the United States now , however , is comprehending the nature of the world and the growing constraints on its resources for confronting international crises . It is precisely the autonomous economic and political trends that have upset great power relations since 1950 that are shaping the world today , posing new difficulties that can not be solved by conflict or accommodation with the Soviet Union and China , defying the well-laid plans of Pentagon strategists . But unlike previous periods , the accelerating dissolution of American alliances in Latin America , Europe and the Middle East has created nationalist movements of rightist or religious complexion , with which the United States must cope along with leftist elements of every type . The events in Lebanon today are but one example of this . The social and political forces of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these mercurial trends , America 's search for a coherent global strategy appears increasingly pathetic . Ultimately , it seems likely that President Reagan will end up presiding over four years of a further decline of American power in the world . ? Courts ( Continued From Front Cover ) have no one running against them . But under California law they are required , at the first regular election after their appointment , to receive confirmation from a majority of the voters . No sitting judge has ever been removed this way , although a right - wing campaign led by Republican State Senator H. L. ( Bill ) Richardson , an increasingly powerful figure in California politics , nearly unseated Chief Justice Rose Bird four years ago . Even if the three are confirmed by the voters , as polls indicate they will be , the campaign will keep the political Peter Schrag is the editor of the editorial page of The Sacramento Bee . heat on the courts . Richardson and other right wingers have been discussing proposals to launch a new campaign against Bird for some time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one nearly received the endorsement and the financial support of the state 's increasingly conservative Republican Party . All were eventually dropped , but there is little doubt that next year Richardson will try again . If the three judges on the November ballot should fail to win confirmation  --  or even if they are approved by narrow margins ( which is likely ) ? the push for a recall drive against Bird will be all the stronger . Another element in the attack on the judges this fall is the candidacy of George Nicholson , now an assistant attorney general , who is in a tight race with Los Angeles 's Democratic District Attorney , John Van de Kamp , to become the state 's chief law enforcement official . In looks and demeanor , Nicholson reminds many people of the young Richard Nixon . But unlike Nixon , he is more true believer than-opportunist , a man who  --  notwithstanding statistics showing that California courts are among the toughest in the nation in their criminal sentencing  --  argues persistently that liberal judges are far and away the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those judges ' must be curbed or removed . In his messianic fervor Nicholson sees only white and black , good guys and bad guys . When The Los Angeles Daily Journal , a legal newspaper , asked him last spring why he opposes confirmation of the three Supreme Court judges , he replied : " They are Jerry Brown 's judges . Jerry Brown has appointed the overwhelming majority of the judges in this state . The appearance of those three judges on the ballot . . . provides the public with the opportunity to speak out in clear and uncertain terms and say we have had enough of Jerry 's judges . We have had enough of a court that concerns itself more with abstract , unworkable , ivory-tower extensions of criminal rights to the virtual total neglect of crime victims ' rights and the rights of everyday citizens . " And without going into the specific merits of each individual jurist that appears on the ballot among those three , the point being there comes a time in the life of an individual and society when lines have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and stands have to be made , and this is one of them . " It does not matter , in other words , what the judges have done . Of the three , one , Otto Kaus , is a judicial moderate , if not a conservative , with a highly respected record on the California Court of Appeals . The other two , Cruz Reynoso , a Hispanic , and Allen Broussard , a black , both have good lower court records . None of them have been on the Supreme Court long enough to compile much of a record there , let alone be guilty of the sort of malfeasance that would justify rejection at the polls . Some observers suspect that Kaus was included on the hit list to undercut the charge that opposition to the judges is racist , a suspicion reinforced by the fact that , as Attorney General , Deukmejian voted for  --  and warmly praised ? Kaus when he came before the Commission on Judicial Appointments . Although he has never explained his change of heart , Deukmejian now opposes confirmation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matters on the ballot : the freeze proposal , a modest handgun-control initiative , a ground-water - management proposal , a bottle-deposit initiative . Indeed , for the first time in a number of years the majority of the important ballot measures are essentially liberal in inspiration . Yet the one theme running through the entire campaign is crime and the right wing 's attack on " Jerry 's Judges . " Pete Wilson is trying to use that issue on Brown ; Deukmejian is using it on Bradley ; Nicholson is using it on Van de Kamp . Nicholson has even been using the recall of Rose Bird , which is not on the ballot , as a sort of political litmus test . an indication of how committed a politician is  --  or should be  --  to fighting crime . Wilson , for his part , is saying that if elected to the Senate he will introduce legislation abolishing the exclusionary evidence rule in the Federal system . He has also declared that Federal judges  --  including justices on the Supreme Court  --  should be subject to periodic reconfirmation so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much for the concept of an independent judiciary . What makes the soft-judge issue particularly powerful in this campaign is the presence of the handgun-control initiative on the same ballot . State Senator Richardson , who has been leading the attack on the judges and who has been highly successful in getting his allies elected to the state legislature , receives much of his support from two California gun-owners ' organizations that he heads and whose campaigns he generally directs . Although there is no evidence that Richardson actually uses money originally raised to fight gun control in his campaigns against the judges , there is little question that the political logic of the two issues is the same . Tougher judges and tougher criminal laws have nearly always been the right-wing answer to gun control , and they definitely are in this campaign . The 150,000 votes that Richardson brings out against the gun-control initiative are likely to be votes for Nicholson , Deukmejian and Wilson  --  and , most emphatically , votes against the three Supreme Court judges . None of it , of course , may succeed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the court survived an extended investigation of improper conduct charges in 1979 . The judges may survive this attack as well . But the court , the state 's criminal justice system and constitutional due process are nonetheless taking a fearful pounding . One of the reasons the courts are vulnerable to attacks from demagogues is that judges can not answer those attacks , can not defend their records , can not reply to people like Nicholson who seem to believe that if the courts do n't follow the " will of the people " they are failing . The State Bar has become increasingly active in trying to defend the courts and explain the function of an independent judiciary , but the speeches of a handful of lawyers are no match for the daily attacks from virtually all of the state 's leading Republican politicians . The argument that in upholding the law and the Constitution the courts must sometimes rule against " the will of the people " is not heard nearly enough . But beyond that there is growing damage caused by measures like Proposition 8 , both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among other things , Proposition 8 's repeal of the evidence code abolishes nearly all restrictions and procedures regarding evidence and makes evidence derived from burglaries or illegal wiretaps admissible . Not only does this violate the Federal Constitution but it leaves the legal system in the kind of chaos that will , in the words of Stanford Law School professor John Kaplan , a conservative , " give lawyers work for the next thirty years straightening it out . " The results of the political exploitation of the crime issue have been extremely costly . On the June ballot California voters approved a $495 million bond issue to construct new state prisons see Jessica Mitford , page 424 . On the November ballot there is a measure to authorize an additional $280 million for new county jails . Those costs , according to state correctional officials , are just a small fraction of the bill the state is now facing in new prison expenditures caused by the vastly longer sentences being mandated by a legislature which , in the past two years , has gone crazy over crime . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at this election . But for the moment , all statistics to the contrary notwithstanding , the mythical soft judge is the central political issue in this state . Brown and Bradley and the nuclear ' freeze will make the national headlines , but the returns on " Jerry 's Judges " will tell far more about the political direction in which California is going . ?                     