@@480770

discuss their own frailties , to show their feelings , this is not so much a ruse as a response to something deep and pervasive in society . To attract our votes , the candidates must find a path to our souls ; to do this , they must bare theirs . Campaign people have come to understand this . This has become a soul race , " Geoffrey Garin , a Democratic pollster , told the New York Times , " a race to show who has a soul . " The public votes for the candidate who professes openness and innocence ; or who seems as though he is untainted by his own political experience ; or who swears enmity to Washington and to professional statesmen and administrators , as Ronald Reagan did ; or who promises " I will never lie to you , " as Jimmy Carter did . The faux naifs we elect respond to a deep-rooted belief in American culture that political and personal virtue should be inseparable . In the Renaissance , virtus meant the capacity to act effectively ; in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . American innocence in these terms has long been a preoccupation of our writers ; Herman Melville once observed that the innocent are made rather than born . This will to innocence is made , I believe , in response to the difficulty we have had in creating our nation and maintaining it as an idea : one nation , indivisible . A political discourse grounded in openness and directness allows individ-uals who otherwise share little in common to believe themselves bound together . We have nothing to hide . **26;4059;TOOLONG is the discourse of national unity . Leaders who learn to speak this language flu-ently reassure us that they can be easily read as human beings , and that the world can be likewise made clear , legible , simple . Politicians who do n't learn the language , or refuse to speak it on principle , are banished . Only the " open " politician succeeds . But even so , the world does n't work as we wish it would . Our national fractures open up , our leaders " let us down , " and there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Per-haps as the presidential campaign commences , it is time to learn not so much about the character of each candidate but about this odd characteristic of our national political life . The President recently confessed to the American public that he Illustrations by Marc Yankus when the foundations fur our social life were ill-laid by the Puritans . Max Weber , in The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism , depicted the Puritans as men and women uncertain of their spiritual fate , and seeking through self-discipline in this world some reassurance of eternal life in the next . Modern scholarship has stressed a more earthly aspect of the Puritan " errand into the wilderness , " as Perry Miller once called it ? the Puritans ' belief that , even under this cloud of doubt , a new Jerusalem could be built . This making of a heaven on earth required distinctive exercises of power . It was a kind of regeneration , and rituals of regeneration often involve violent acts : through a sacrifice , a mutilation , the tribe purges itself . As the historian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfied this " primitive " need for purge by destroying the tribes of the Native Americans . Purgation certainly dictated the Puritan habits of cleanliness , which were the oddest thing about them culturally to Europeans in the seventeenth century , a quite filthy age by our standards . It is this cleanliness that gave rise to a new meaning to inspection . Inspection in the Middle Ages was a formal procedure performed by bureaucratic authority . Souls were inspected by properly certified clergymen ; alleged crimes were inspected by judges in dungeons or at assizes ; goods were inspected by customs officials at toll gates . The Puritans changed the terms of inspection . It became " de-bureaucratized " : in everyday life everyone began to perform acts of surveillance on everyone else . Parents began to inspect minutely the cleanliness of their children 's bodies and clothes . Members of the community listened attentively to each other 's speech , lest an impious expression appear on someone 's lips . And these lapses were not merely noticed but subsequently discussed in community meetings . Inspection became at once more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Puritans carried mutual surveillance , the practice had a religious logic . Man alone , in his sinfulness , is too weak to prove himself worthy in the eyes of God , and so the community must take part too . Inspection , open discussion of a moral lapse , public penitence ? by these means are men saved , and by these means the strings of the community are bound ever tighter . Individuals become fully known to one another . Their souls are rendered transparent . hand it means establishing moral dominance through economic success ; a man who has saved money by sacrificing pleasure has proved his moral worth . But there is another , more complex understanding of the Protestant ethic . Weber glimpses its origins in Calvin 's struggles over the meaning of God 's love : if God loves his human children , and if they seek to be good , why nonetheless ca n't his love be earned ? In his Institutes of the Christian Religion , Calvin speaks of man as " less than a speck of dust . " In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is unworthy of being loved , respected , even noticed . Weber wondered what would happen to this fear of invisibility if God vanished from the scene altogether , if men and women no longer sought God 's love . Under more secular conditions ? conditions much like our own ? how would people seek to earn recognition , if not love , from one another ? Here is the pollster Geoffrey Garin 's answer for 1988 : " What we 're looking for in politicians is people who know themselves ... when you 're frank about your vulnerabilities , it connotes some sense of honesty and self-examination . " Self-revealing language is the way Americans seek to exact recognition from one another . It is the living , virulent legacy of Calvin 's fear of the " speck of dust . " By so compulsively talking about who we are , Americans attempt to combat the fear that they are nothing . The political scientist James Q. Wilson wrote of his childhood in Southern California in the 1940s : " People had no identities except their personal identities , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collective nouns . " For those , like Ralph Ellison , who had only too clear a notion of what " ethnic group " meant , the problem of seeming invisible , a speck of dust in society , appeared in an equal if opposite way : how to gain personal recognition from those who only saw the color of one 's skin . The white working-class families Jonathan Cobb and I interviewed fifteen years ago for our book , The Hidden Injuries of Class , similarly felt overlooked by those above , the educated middle class . Now , in this time of celebrated success and sudden wealth , the invisibility of ordinary people ? a.k.a. the " losers " ? has only become worse . Lacking in America is any sense that the nation is a collectivity of difference , that the human community might indeed be enriched by the experience of the Other , of that which can not be rendered transparent . This is what sets up in all of us , winners and losers , the dread of not being recognized ; alien or different , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : we distrust anyone and anything we can not recognize . We are made uneasy by any kind of masking , no matter how trivial . A candidate shortens his last name , and we question his character . In America , we can44 HARPER 'S MAGAZINE /JULY not deal with difference . Abroad , we destroy or belittle difference . At home we try to break through differences , to get to know someone fast . In this there seems to me something grave , almost tragic . While celebrating individualism , we compulsively expose ourselves to view and seek recognition from each other : at last meeting a listener 's eyes in the course of our revelation or , the ultimate comfort , being told , " You could n't have lived otherwise than you did . " This desire for a sign discolors individuals . Experience becomes a series of demonstrations and beckonings . It discolors collective life as well : moving the nation forward has come to seem less important than rituals of mutual understanding between a leader and the people . generation before the Puritans embarked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of civilized Europe , when the northern Italian city-states were invaded by the French in the 1490s . This invasion provoked a new line of thinking about the relations between rulers and the ruled , a tough conceptual line quite different from the Puritan experiment . The Puritans of both England and New England aspired , not surprisingly , to the independence enjoyed by Florence or Venice during the height of the Renaissance . These city-states issued their own laws , conducted an independent foreign policy , organized religious life within their walls according to local custom . Their small scale encouraged a fierce sense of belonging ; natives of Venice could speak of men from Florence twenty years ' resident in their midst as " exiles . " Community was both a strength and a weakness . Internal political strife , constant and vicious , acquired its passion from the belief that life inside the walls mattered much more than life beyond them . When threatened by outside forces like the French armies , it was difficult for the inhabitants to put aside their grievances with each other ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? in order to make a common front . Among those who attempted to understand what had happened , the diplomat Machiavelli was the most thoughtful and ? from our vantage point ? most forward-looking . While Cotton Mather thought the state was founded on mutual moral understanding , Machiavelli , surveying the condition of Venice , Florence , Padua , Genoa , and Pisa , could hardly reach such a conclusion . ( There is a certain charm , however , in imagining the bloodthirsty and sensuous leaders of the Renaissance cities convened to consider a child 's dirty hands and the possible consequences for salvation . ) Interest , not understanding , would form the foundation of the Italy to be created . As Machiavelli wrote in the Discourses , to speak of Italy would be a fiction , but one everyone would acknowledge ? an emblem of common interest . Machiavelli believed there was no " higher " tendency toward nationalism harbored in the human breast , no heartfelt desire for the sacrifices and compromises necessary for collective survival . The human animal desired enough bread for tomorrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation based on self-interest to be ruled ? Machiavelli thought the ruler had to build unity by unnatural means . He conceived his prince not as a transparent soul but as a cunning actor . The famous chapters seventeen through twenty of The Prince are Machiavelli 's stage directions for the leader on how to discipline the people by inspiring them with a desire for the leader 's approval and a fear of his displeasure . In a course on foreign policy at Harvard in the 1960s , Henry Kissinger several times made a remark Machiavelli would have savored . He informed us , his cunning little charges , that leaders have two problems of " discretion . " One is to avoid being fathomed by one 's enemies , the other is to avoid being fathomed by one 's constituents . Since as college students we had n't yet learned that cynicism can be a cheap way to avoid the pain of life , we loved our professor in this mood , little knowing what was to come . Indeed , the Kissinger-Nixon bout of realpolitik ? the opening to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advances in disarmament as well as the innovations in burglary ? had a distinguished pedigree . Machiavelli would have thoroughly approved of it all , and cited Nixon 's being hounded from office because of a little graft , a minor theft , a little destruction of evidence , as proof of his basic proposition : the people are incapable of understanding their interests on a truly national scale . Machiavelli 's view is but the extreme of a recurring belief among those who have made new nations . Nation-building for them is not the political organization of a pre-existing culture . It is an act of political will , against the grain of cultural differences , struggling against the nearsightedness of human nature . Among the Founding Fathers , Madison and Hamilton thought this way , as did British imperial administrators , in defining the boundaries of African countries , and Lenin , in his writings on Communist Party organizing . Political realists all , engaged in the quixotic effort of imposing a political edifice ? be it the American Constitution or a revolutionary vanguard ? on a misshapen social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what will defeat the enterprise of nation-making is an open dialogue between the citizens and their rulers . Even Madison and Hamilton feared such unrestrained dialogue , a point which will be tactfully ignored in the coming hoopla over the bicentennial of the Constitution . Imagine that the people want to speak with their leader openly and freely as an equal , that between the citizen and the President there is a vast , common , human ground . We envision this ideal state whenever we commend a person in power by observing , " He is n't remote " or , " He seems like a decent , ordinary man . " Then we citizens quite logically assume that whatever is true of ourselves should be true of him . An ordinary guy is caught up in his family , taking care of his immediate concerns ; intimacy is more real to him than abstract policy . And so the same is expected of our leaders . ( People used to love Reagan because he would knock off for the weekend from being President and ride his horse . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with despair . It 's sometimes argued that **28;4087;TOOLONG communion of this sort does n't really have any effect ; the permanent government goes on whatever the noise of the electoral process . The experience of the Reagan years unfortunately makes this argument an exercise in wishful thinking . The diplomatic corps and the middle and upper ranks of the domestic civil services have been decimated , trained professionals replaced by zealous incompetents . These Reaganites share the electorate 's distrust and impatience with the necessary complexity and abstractness of big government . They want the rules to be like the rulers , clear and straightforward . The ultimate illusion : power without complication . Machiavelli remarks in his letters that hatred of civil servants poisons good government . The legacy of the Reagan years was determined from the day he ever-so-publicly mounted his horse to get away from the Washington bureaucrats : government is poison . Machiavelli 's remedy was to build walls between ruler and ruled ? the very opposite of the Puritan prescription . We want a participatory , democratic nation and thus reject his prescription as lethal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his medicine ? Could n't we build just a fence between ourselves and our leaders ? There must be procedures that would force us as citizens to concentrate on the substance of political discourse itself , rather than on the character of the speakers ; restraint among the news media in dealing with the private lives of politicians would be a place to start . But a renewal of the substance of democratic discussion presupposes that we first break with tradition , that we cast off the burden of Puritanism that has led us to become a nation of inspectors and confessors . A nation at last sick of its own compulsion to get close seems to me the only sort of nation likely to survive in an increasingly complex world . Listening to the speeches of the current crop of presidential candidates , however , is not reassuring . Wanting to open up to us , they are all so desperately , so fatally trying to be nice .                     