@@432032

 | A technological revolution now under way promises to give television viewers almost as many choices as the numbers on their TV dials . Cable networks are blossoming everywhere , bringing greater variety in programing and features aimed at specific audiences . New systems have been designed both to allow people to respond directly to what they see on the screen and to provide access to printed information through TV-computer linkups . Plans are being laid , too , for powerful satellite stations that beam programs directly into homes and offer still more viewing options . As a result , business is booming for the firms delivering these new services , although the investments required are tremendous . The changes may also force a revamping of federal laws regulating the communications industry . Leading the way in the explosion of TV technology is cable television . Developed initiallyasa-way. of .. i , tzpxraaaing. - reception for viewers in area far fromtm , the signals of local stations , cable now delivers a smorgas h ? t ofii forliaatiob and entertainment to some 15 million households . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to $10 a month to pull in from 15 to 30 different stations ? most offering network fare along with local productions . In more specialized cable systems , average monthly fees of $15 to $20 buy live , uncensored entertainment , firstrun movies , sports events and other shows not available on network TV . New technology also opens up experiments at the local level , In Columbus , Ohio , for example , a system called QUBE gives subscribers 10 channels of community-based programs that people can react to by pushing one of five response buttons on the channel-selec-76 for box . Viewers can participate in daily opinion polls on public-policy issues , bid for items in an auction , judge a talent show or take college exams . Station BCTV in Reading , Pa. , aims its two-way cable television system at the city 's large elderly population . Quiz shows , sing-alongs and social-service programs are among the 30 hours of weekly programing that allow audience response . Such two-way setups , experts say , will also be used before long to allow people to shop without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ City cable system are public-access channels , available free to virtually anyone who has a program to broadcast . For example , one music critic has used the channel to give reviews of performances at Manhattan jazz clubs . In Woodlands , Tex. , a Houston suburb , some homeowners use cable as part of a security system . Intruder and fire sensors detect a problem , and a signal is relayed to police or fire authorities through the cable channel . One of the most extensive applications of cable TV to education is in East Lansing , Mich : , where three of the 35 cable channels are used for instructional programs for Michigan State University and East Lansing public schools . No gas required . Communications experts believe that families will become even more eager to try these and other television innovations because of the increasing tendency to find entertainment that does not require leaving home . Says Sidney Pike , operations director of WTBS in Atlanta : " The more the cost of gasoline rises , the more TV viewers there will be . " The Atlanta executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , baby-sitters and parking , $15 a month for cable programs is n't much to pay for home entertainment . Pike 's station is one of four " superstations " in the U.S. that deliver special programs to subscribers in all parts of the country . Such stations , which originate from San Francisco , Atlanta , Chicago and New York , bounce their signals off satellites to earth stations that then use cable networks to serve individual homes . Atlanta millionaire yachtsman R. E. " Ted " Turner pioneered the superstation concept with WTBS , which grew in popularity by offering videotapes of sports programs . WTBS is beamed to 8 million homes in all states except Rhode Island and New Hampshire ? an audience that allows the station to charge national advertising rates for many programs , Also expanding are firms that deliver  | programs that are not available from either the superstations or local stations affiliated with networks . Using either cable or microwave signals beamed to decoders in residential buildings , these companies offer firstrun , uncut motion pictures , sports contests , Las Vegas shows and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biggest share of that market is Time-Life 's Home Box Office . The system began in 1972 with a modest 15,000 subscribers and now has 3 million . Others in the increasingly crowded field are Tele-Communications , Inc. , Hollywood Home Theater , Viacom , and Spanish International Network . Communications Satellite Corporation ? COMSAT ? will soon join the competition by beaming special programs from satellites to home antennas sold by Sears and other retailers . For details , see the box below . This mushrooming of electronic pathways to the nation 's homes has sparked a tremendous demand for new programing , which , if it is met , will threaten the dominance of the major TV networks . Says one industry veteran : " People realize that the 30-year-old empire is beginning to crumble . No one knows how it 's going to settle . " Already emerging from the new scramble for the viewer 's attention is programing aimed at a narrow segment of the TV audience . Examples of " narrowcasting " are programs delivered by cable over the Christian Broadcasting Network , Praise The Lord @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups offer TVwatchers such fare as continuous religious broadcasting , hours of children 's shows without commercials or violence and live debates from the U.S. House of Representatives . Alternatives to network-produced " sitcoms , " talk shows and sports events are being produced . Independent stations developed the production of Irwin Shaw 's " Top of the Hill . " WTBS of Atlanta produced a four-part series on energy . The final episode is an 8-hour telethon on April 26 that will join viewers of 1,400 cable-television systems . Atlanta 's " Ted " Turner also is taking aim on the national-news appetite with Cable News Network , which will begin this summer and offer around-theclock news and documentary features . In addition , black-college football games will be available this autumn to cable operators through the Black Entertainment Network . More evidence of this surge in viewer choices is seen in the new editions recently unveiled by TV Guide for cable subscribers . " In some parts of the country , editions are going to look like the Manhattan phone book , " jokes one TV Guide staff member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the entertainment offered through cable TV is recycled network fare . " In essence it 's the same kind of programing , " says one official . " But you not only get more National Football League games , you also get international soccer . " Still , many observers believe that the greater choice will lead to improved , quality in television . Says David Korfe of the Cable Television Industry Association : " With greater competition from cable , the networks will either have to offer the best available program for the mass audience or go after the specialized audience . Either way , TV should get better . " Although major networks stand to lose from the greater choice available to consumers , most industry experts view the new developments as a giant new opportunity and are looking for ways to get a piece of the action . Explains Alan Evans of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters : " The smart people are looking at this new technology not as a threat but as another communications device . " Meanwhile , such giants as RCA , ABC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ venturing into direct competition with their own subsidiaries . RCA and CBS work together to manufacture and distribute videodiscs ? records of movies , plays and other offerings that viewers can play back with the proper equipment . RCA , in competition with its subsidiary , the NBC network , also uses its satellite to beam programs to cable operators . CBS is experimenting with a technology called teletext that will link computerized information to home TV sets . Network officials hope someday to broadcast an " electronic magazine " of news , weather and other information Some of the most lucrative opportunities , however , are enjoyed by the cable firms . Observes St. Louis investment analyst Deborah Fikuart : " This is the time to move into cable . There 's money to be made everywhere . " Cable boom . Cable subscriber num bers have doubled since 1973 to 15 , million today ? about 20 percent of the ' viewing audience . The leader is TelePrompter Corporation , based in New York , with about 1.2 million cable subscribers in 32 states and revenues of 165 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . UA Columbia Cablevision of New Jersey had an even bigger surge in business last year . With about 300,000 subscribers , the company 's 40 million dollars in 1979 revenues amounted to a 37 percent increase over 1978 sales . John S. Reidy , investment analyst for the brokerage house of Drexel Burnham Lambert , Inc. , in New York , says that cable television may lure away at least 30 percent of network viewers by 1985 . Cable firms say their expansion is limited only by shortages of materials and the willingness of local communities to grant cable franchises . Not that the TV technology is without risks . The price for installing cable in a major city is about 80 million dollars . There are big gambles , too , in launching communications satellites . RCA 's SATCOM III satellite ? a 70-million-dollar investment ? disappeared shortly after its December launching . Even so , the creators of television 's expanded role believe that the opportunities by far outweigh the drawbacks . In effect , they see developments such as cable and satellite television evolving into a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without . Says Robert L. Johnson , president of Black Entertainment Television : " Cable is like the telephone . Once you 've got one in your home , you do n't disconnect it . " Next , Television Goes Into Orbit Satellites that now carry network TV broadcasts of such events as the Winter Olympics soon may beam special programs directly into millions of living rooms . This latest electronic miracle of the space age is the brainchild of Communications Satellite Corporation , the world leader in satellites that are being used for television and telephone service . Within 18 months , the company hopes to link three of its powerful satellites with home antennas that will cost about $200 to install and that will be sold in retail stores . Subscribers would pay the company a monthly fee of $15 to $20 ? comparable to cable-TV fees . More stations to tune inn The plan that COMSAT will present to the Federal Communications Commission for approval this spring calls for satellite service to all states but Hawaii and Alaska . The firm will offer two to six channels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from commercial networks . Similar systems already are in operation in rural Japan and northwestern Canada , where homes are so remote that conventional television systems are impossible . COMSAT officials maintain that their risky , 1-billion-dollar venture into the mass television market will not compete with networks and local stations . Says Richard Galkin , programing consultant for the company : " Frankly , I think the only people who need to fear us are the pay broadcasting systems . " Getting its FCC license will be a big hurdle for COMSAT . For the first time , the commission will be called upon to license a nationwide broadcasting service . Experts say such a license could conflict with the legal rights of local broadcasting stations . Skeptics in the television industry also think the public may not be prepared to pay for still another viewing option in the crowded television field . COMSAT , however , believes that it needs only a relatively small number of subscribers ? as few as 5 or 6 million ? to be financially successful . The company is now talking with Sears about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ultimate TV Set : It Shops , Buys , Teaches Television is becoming more than a vehicle for news and entertainment . Before long , the family set may well be the key to information of nearly every sort ? from algebra lessons to restaurant menus . That development will come about by the marriage of television and computers , an approach to be tested this summer in Florida by Viewdata Corporation of America , a subsidiary of Knight-Ridder Newspapers . In this experiment , called Viewtron , some 150 homes in Coral Gables will be equipped with Viewdata , a system that uses telephone lines to link television sets with computer data banks . Using a hand-held signal device , consumers will relay their requests to the computer and receive on their screens shopping information , news , travel schedules , home-study courses , games and more . Viewdata and Bell Telephone Company are sponsoring the test free of charge to see if the idea will be as acceptable in the U.S. as it has been in Western Europe , where similar systems have been in operation for several months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ search of a problem , " says Norman Morrison , Viewdata vice president supervising the test . " We do n't know if Americans want this yet , but the potential is here for a major new way for people to get information and do shopping at home . " Viewdata officials say that the system could be particularly useful in areas where people must drive long distances to reach stores . They reason that , as energy problems worsen , families may welcome a system that lets them shop without leaving their homes . With Viewtron , more than 12,000 " pages " of information will be available from the computer 18 hours each day . To retrieve the data they want , users press one of 11 buttons on their control device . A decoder in their TV set will then receive the information from the computer . For example , a list of an area 's Italian restaurants could be called up on the TV screen , complete with current menus and latest prices . Consumers also will be able to call up limited catalogs from department stores @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store , a ticket outlet and a caterer . Placing an order . To make a purchase , a consumer will fill out a purchase order appearing on the screen by punching a second electronic device that resembles the keyboard of a typewriter . The request is then relayed to the merchant . Also to be offered are adult-education courses in Spanish and other subjects . Again , users will respond to lessons on the screen by punching the keyboard . Viewdata officials say that they have no estimates yet on what the system will cost consumers once it is put on the market . However , in London , 2,500 customers of a similar system called Prestel are charged for the telephone call to the computer , for each " page " of information used and for the computer time consumed by the transaction . Average monthly cost is estimated at about $45.                     