@@431995

 |p52D  The classic method for evaluating a new drug is the " placebo control " study , in which half the patients get the new medication and half get an inert pill , the placebo . But the placebo approach can present researchers with a moral dilemma . Last month , a medical panel recommended that the Food and Drug Administration review a promising new drug called isoprinosine for a rare but usually fatal form of encephalitis . The FDA refused to evaluate the medication without placebo tests ? and some physicians protested that keeping a potentially life-prolonging drug from anyone with this disease would be unethical ( NEWSWEEK , July 7 ) . The case of isoprinosine is unusual , but it serves to point up some of the moral and practical decisions involved in the timehonored placebo-control system . In effect , the test requires doctors to keep from sick people a drug that may possibly help them . " What do you do , " wonders Dr. Sidney Wolfe of Ralph Nader 's Health Research Group , " if somewhere in the middle of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this ethical consideration lies a more pragmatic obstacle : recruiting patients to participate in a control study . The National Cancer Institute , for example , is conducting an investigation to compare several types of therapy for malignant melanoma . " When victims of this disease hear that one approach looks like the best treatment , " says Wolfe , " that 's the one they want . " Furthermore , patients can often get new , unlicensed drugs through their own physicians , who obtain the medicine after filing an " investigational new drug " application with the FDA . Pain : While the FDA regards control studies as the most reliable measure of drug efficacy , the agency makes many exceptions to the placebo procedure . " We want highquality data so that we know whether a treatment helps and if it causes problems , " explains Dr. Robert Temple of the FDA 's new-drug-evaluation division . " But if a drug has been shown to prevent death or irreversible deterioration , or to control pain , we would never ask for a placebocontrol test . " In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not enough evidence that the drug was effective to justify approval without placebo tests . The FDA reached this conclusion despite the fact that the drug has been used successfully in 35 nations , including England , France and West Germany . Doctors who have administered it claim that isoprinosine is free of toxic side effects and arrests degenerative symptoms in 75 per cent of children with the deadly encephalitis . The FDA allows alternatives to placebo studies for certain kinds of drugs . Promising anti-cancer medications , for example , are sometimes tested in what is known as an " active control " study . This means that half the patients get the new drug ; the other half receive a treatment whose effectiveness is well established . Other drugs are measured against " historical " controls : the new treatment is compared with clinical records of patients who were untreated or received other drugs at an earlier time . Sometimes , the patient serves in effect as his own control . If a drug clearly lowers blood pressure in patients with hypertension , for example , the FDA does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present special testing problems . Unproven cancer remedies , for example , may not be tried on patients until all other treatments have failed ; by then , it is difficult to evaluate the usefulness of any medication . Under just these circumstances , the controversial anti-cancer drug , Laetrile , went into its first large-scale clinical trials last week ? without controls . The drug DMSO , hailed by proponents as an arthritis remedy , has run into a most unusual difficulty . DMSO leaves a garliclike odor on the breath , making it obvious which subjects are getting the placebo and which ones the drug . Researchers are now testing DMSO against itself , using varying dosages . The efficacy of many useful drugs on the market today , in fact , was not proven by controlled studies but through physicians ' observations . Among them : digitalis , penicillin , morphine and quinine . " If people used to die , and the drug made them get better , formal testing was n't necessary , " says Dr. Robert Gordon of the National Institutes of Health . Still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more valid measure than clinical experience . In the case of isoprinosine , the FDA has quietly modified its position : it will still insist on controlled studies , but they need not involve a placebo . And until the testing process is completed , physicians will be allowed to continue to use isoprinosine for their patients who are critically ill.                     