@@432204

 | After years of bitter confrontation with the United States , a worried Cuban President Fidel Castro is now seeking a live-and-let-live arrangement with his powerful American adversary . Sobered by the conviction that a hostile Reagan administration is determined to reverse the expansion of Communism in the hemisphere , the Castro regime is sending out strong signals that this Communist island would rather try to strike a deal than do battle with the United States . As Cuban officials assess their lot : The choice is either to negotiate some kind of coexistence with President Reagan or to brace for increased American pressure , even a military attack , on their island fortress . The new Cuban tack , experts here and in Washington point out , does not mean that Castro is prepared to abandon either Communism or his close ties with the Soviet Union , his main source of economic and military aid . Nor is Castro seen as ready to give up his long-range revolutionary goals . " Good-faith effort . " What Havana is willing to pursue , Cuban officials insist , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan ? even in controversial areas such as Cuban support for leftist rebels in Central America . The American response is clearly skeptical . Even the Cubans concede that the prospects of success are not bright . Yet , the start of talks on refugees and immigration between high-level U.S. and Cuban representatives in New York City in mid-July ? the first since Reagan took office ? is cited here as evidence of the changing atmospherics in the Washington-Havana relationship . Behind the shifting attitudes in the Cuban capital are these major factors : 1 . Castro assumes that Reagan will be re-elected and will maintain his strong anti-Communist stance . Cubans regard Reagan as the most dangerous President they have had to contend with since Castro took power in January , 1959 . " He hates us ; he still wants to destroy us , " is how one senior official put it . 2 . Cubans realize that while Moscow is willing to keep military and economic aid flowing to Havana , it will not risk war with the U.S. ? even if the island were to be invaded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S.S.R. after the American invasion of Grenada last October already has led to a chill in Soviet-Cuban relations . 3 . Failure of the 750 Cubans on Grenada to resist to the death the American invasion force , although most were civilians , has undermined the regime 's confidence in the willingness of Cubans to fight in distant lands . Grumbles of discontent have surfaced in the Cuban population over aid to Marxist regimes in places such as Angola , Ethiopia and even Nicaragua . The deaths of 24 Cubans in the Grenada fighting , and more recently an additional 14 in Angola , are said to have led to rare criticism of the " adventuristic " policies of the nation 's leaders . Still a paradox . For all the fresh focus on diplomacy , Cuba still presents a paradox to a visitor from abroad . The land seems peaceful , it is true . Havana i ' crowded with tourist ; from Spain , Canada , Mexico and West Germany as well as from the Communist-bloc nations . Largely unheard is last year 's defiant public rhetoric in support @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widespread denunciations of capitalism seem limited to controlled television news programs . On the other hand , fear of the U.S. is equally apparent . Cuban military leaders discount an outright invasion of the island in the belief that the cost in American lives would be too great . But there is pervasive concern about a tougher U.S. economic embargo or even a bombing strike . As evidence of that , the drive to improve defense preparedness has not slackened . More than 500,000 members of the territorial militia now participate in volunteer " defense days , " building bomb shelters , staging fire drills and practicing evacuation procedures . Particularly demoralizing is the rift with the Soviet Union . While far from a  | break , relations have grown distant in the absence of Soviet pledges ? after the Grenada crisis ? to come to the aid of its ally in the event of future showdowns with the United States . Castro 's refusal to attend last June 's summit of Communist chiefs in Moscow , the first such meeting in 15 years , underscored the feeling of coolness . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidential candidate Jesse Jackson that Cuba carefully signaled its fresh tilt toward accommodation . Castro released to Jackson 26 Cuban political prisoners and 22 Americans held in Cuban prisons on criminal charges , most involving drugs . Then came agreement to hold the July talks in New York . On top of that , Castro himself declared during the Jackson visit that he viewed the renewal of diplomatic relations with the U.S. as " inevitable . " " If Washington ? . " Now , Cubans say , " If Washington is willing , all possibilities are open for cooperation . " That includes a major American bone of contention ? the acceptance by Cuba of some 1,000 criminals , still in U.S. jails , who were among 125,000 refugees allowed to leave from the Cuban port of Mariel in the chaotic 1980 boatlift . In return , Cuba wants an immigration agreement that would permit the departure over a several-year period of some 400,000 people who had signed up for the boatlift before Castro abruptly shut it down . Cuban officials openly admit that they would like to see these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this number of people poses obvious problems . But if negotiations proceed , the Cubans indicate , subsequent talks could range further , to include a new agreement on improving cooperation with the Coast Guard at sea and increased steps to deter aircraft hijacking . Beyond that , some diplomats feel , Castro may be ready to discuss , for the first time , the issue of Communist support for the Marxist revolutionaries in Nicaragua , El Salvador and elsewhere in Central America . Confronted by Reagan 's willingness to deploy American military power to avert future Communist takeovers , Castro is seen to be re-examining his strategies in the region . As one senior Cuban diplomat put it : " No one wants to commit suicide . " In particular , Cuba is focusing on Nicaragua , where the White House openly backs anti-Communist guerrilla forces seeking to overthrow the pro-Cuba Sandinista leadership . What Havana fears most is that after toppling the Sandinistas , the U.S. might turn on Cuba itself . " If Reagan invades Nicaragua , " says one Cuban , " not only will he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to hurt us , too . " That concern , coupled with American eagerness to halt Nicaragua 's subversive role in Central America , is viewed by some diplomats in Havana as offering the basis for compromise . Says one European envoy : " In making his own deal with the United States , Castro has something to offer ? Nicaragua . " According to this diplomat 's wellhedged scenario , Castro , after " successful " negotiations with the U.S. , would urge the Marxist rulers in Nicaragua to hold genuine elections and to cease support for Communist guerrillas in El Salvador . A rub : Cuban leaders insist that not even the influential Castro could sell Nicaragua 's Sandinista rulers a compromise they did not like . Not only in Central America and the Caribbean is an increasingly isolated Castro seen by Cuban leaders to be reexamining his options . Fast losing its glitter , according to these officials , is Cuba 's costly role as champion of national liberation movements overseas . Hints of troop withdrawal . Given as cases in point are Ethiopia and Angola , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Recently , some Cuban troops were pulled out of Ethiopia and hints are dropped here that forces in Angola will return home in 1985 . Instead , Cubans claim the emphasis from now on will be on furnishing expertise and technical aid to Third World nations . Over the past 25 years the regime has trained thousands of such technicians , nurses , teachers , doctors and other specialists . In 1983 , there were 12,000 Cuban civilian technicians at work in 34 countries . Does all this mean that Castro may be ready to abandon his revolutionary zeal ? Hardly anyone accepts that . Diplomats here believe Castro now sees his destiny linked to South America . Already , he has stepped up diplomatic efforts to improve ties . " Castro 's Messianic drive , " says a diplomat who knows him well , " now convinces him that he should strive to become a new liberator , a modern-day Simon Bolivar leading Latin America against the United States , especially on the issue of foreign debt owed to developed countries . " If so , that would complicate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the U.S.                     