@@492483

September ' 87 post-1985 recipients . We would also like to offer the test to any member who is contemplating becoming pregnant and wishes to be tested . The order form is on page 61 . Members are asked to use this form only  --  photocopies will not be accepted . The ELISA ( Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay ) test will be given at no cost and in the unlikely event it is positive , it will be repeated . If it is again positive , a Western Blot test will be given . Because many of our members live in communities where an anonymous AIDS test is not readily available , we will mail test packets that enable readers to have blood drawn at any hospital or commercial medical laboratory , without having to consult family physicians if readers are embarrassed . A lab will charge a few dollars for drawing blood and centrifuging off the serum before mailing it to us . Before launching an effort to help our members , the Post Society wanted to meet the public in order to learn more about how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We started using our AIDS MOBILE to give tests at the Dick Lugar Health Fair in Indianapolis . In 1985 we did spirometry screening on smokers at this fair in order to ferret out those smokers especially vulnerable to emphysema . In 1986 our Mammobile performed free breast X-rays to heighten the public 's awareness of the great need for more of this screening . It was quite logical to test the people at the 1987 Dick Lugar Health Fair who wished to have voluntary , free , anonymous AIDS testing with counseling . We augmented the counseling process with an hour-long videotape about AIDS . My staff and I had gone to the CDC in Atlanta to obtain an interview with Dr. James Curran , the director of the AIDS program at the CDC . His advice for AIDS-positive individuals is constructive . There have been some interesting surprises from the public during the testing . Most interestingly , we discovered how eager the public is to be tested  --  how little people seem to care about anonymity when it is offered and suggested . The attitude mostly is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about not passing AIDS on than they are in making sure that their own names are not used . Our phlebotomists and volunteers always pointed out that individuals can use a deceased relative 's name instead of their own . The drawing of 10cc of blood for the test requires only 1 1/2 minutes to administer , but we 've found that visitors to our mobile AIDS testing unit want to stay around for small talk after the sample of blood has been drawn . " A few tell jokes , others ask questions , but almost everyone wants information , " explains Andy Burnett , one of two phlebotomists manning the lab on wheels . " They 've heard the basic facts ; now they want specifics . They share personal experiences , like ' I had a blood transfusion three years ago and I was wondering if . . . " Frank Esparza , the other member of the phlebotomy team , adds , " It seems to be an all-or-nothing situation . If one person agrees to the procedure , pretty soon all of his friends , family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The stigma once attached to AIDS seems to have diminished , but the fear and danger remain . The numbers are known , and they are frightening : an estimated 1.5 million Americans are now infected with the AIDS virus , and , according to U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop , nearly 179,000 victims will die of the disease by 1991 . Stunned by these statistics and sobered by the predictions , people realize the disease is not the burden solely of homosexuals and drug users . AIDS has been identified in the ranks of such vulnerable persons ( like Amy Sloan ) who received blood transfusions prior to 1985 , when blood-screening tests were initiated ; sexual partners of transfusion patients ; newborn babies of AIDS victims , and a small but worrisome group of patients currently receiving tested but tainted blood donated by AIDS carriers who contracted the virus so recently it is n't yet evident in the lab . Our phlebotomist Andy Burnett explains : " Last week we were doing AIDS tests from the Mammobile , and when women finished their mammograms , we would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they felt they might have had an opportunity to have been exposed  --  i.e. , blood transfusion , spouse 's blood transfusion , unfaithful spouse , etc . " It frightened me to hear them say , ' Yes , I want to be tested . But the blood bank is going to be here tomorrow , and I 'll get tested by donating blood then . ' Some viewed it as safe as killing two birds with one stone  --  find out their AIDS status and give blood at the same time . " After this happened about ten times , 1 realized that these people believe that the antibody test is a good enough screen to protect the blood supply . It 's frightening , and it is obvious that these people just did n't understand that the AIDS antibody may not be obvious in the lab for three to six months after exposure . So such people who have lingering suspicions can pass the screening test , give blood , and unknowingly contaminate the supply . " When this occurs , painstaking and time-consuming efforts are required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task becomes increasingly complicated when a patient testing positive for AIDS has received multiple transfusions from multiple donors . Such was the case in Indiana when a critically ill patient was given transfusions of blood from about 175 donors . Because this blood was all given after mandatory screening tests were in effect , all units were believed to have been safe . However , infectious blood had apparently passed through the " window " during the antibody screening test at the blood bank . The " window " refers to the period when the donor is infectious but his antibodies have not yet developed . // The patient recovered from the original illness but later tested positive for the AIDS virus . The diagnosis touched off an intensive search-andidentify campaign by the regional blood center . Each of the 175 donors had to be located , alerted to the situation , and urged to undergo an immediate AIDS test . Donors to blood banks are not anonymous . Their names must be kept in the event that AIDS antibodies are discovered in a recipient of their blood . In this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 175 donors for this patient have been notified and are in the process of being retested . At this writing , the Central Indiana Regional Blood Center believes it could take six weeks to retest all the contacted donors to determine if the virus came from an infected donor . If this individual gave blood subsequently , it would , of course , be retrieved , or if it were transfused , the recipient would need to be tested for AIDS . " This is a difficult situation , " admits Jeannine Murphy , a spokeswoman for the Central Indiana Blood Center . Later , Dr. Margaret Waid , the associate medical director of the blood bank , told us : " We have found that about ten people have moved out of ( town since they donated , and the post office does n't have forwarding addresses . So we 'll probably never find out if there is such a thing as a putative donor , because we do n't know if the recipient got it from the blood or some other source . She was not tested prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of town and left no forwarding address , we really do n't have a way to chase them down . We 'll probably never know . We do this all the time with hepatitis investigations , and we never find a putative donor for hepatitis investigations , or rarely do . " When people get infected blood , the scientists always want proof that the person was n't already AIDS positive before the questionable blood was received . The Society advises our members to ask their doctors for a test before any surgery that may require a blood transfusion . This inexpensive baseline test showing negative would then prevent conjecture by blood banks that perhaps it was n't the transfusion but a prior high-risk life style that had caused the AIDS . As devastating as the disease is , the majority of people who test positive for it appear perfectly healthy , and by following certain guidelines , they can hope to remain that way for a long time , even indefinitely . Because the active AIDS virus overpowers white blood cells that normally defend against virus and bacteria , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pneumonia and influenza . Current research indicates victims should avoid immunosuppressants  --  that is , anything that will curb the body 's ability to fight infections . Included on the list of drugs to avoid are steroids , and such mild immunosuppressants as estrogen , some antibiotics , and aspirin . General advice is offered by Dr. James Curran of the Centers for Disease Control : " Avoiding smoking , excessive alcohol intake , and harmful drugs are logical recommen- .                     