@@325298

The KGB , the Soviet secret police and espionage agency , is the world 's largest information-gathering organization and certainly its most mysterious . For this week 's cover story on the shadowy secret service that nurtured the Soviet Union 's new leader , Yuri Andropov , TIME correspondents employed their own resourceful information-gathering techniques . In a dozen capitals , they pieced together anecdotes and insights from intelligence agents , diplomats , academic specialists and members of the Russian migr community . In London , TIME 'S Frank Melville met with Defector Vladimir Kuzichkin , a former KGB major . Washington Correspondent Christopher Redman talked with past and present members of U.S. intelligence and found them wary about revealing too much knowledge of KGB operations , lest it tip off Soviet spies to U.S. capabilities . Moscow Bureau Chief Erik Amfitheatrof probably had the most delicate assignment . " Soviet citizens are usually leery of talking about the KGB , " he reports . " But those willing to be interviewed provided insights available nowhere else . One person told me , ' If you walked down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the KGB would detain you , because all unauthorized action is prohibited . ' That said something very real to me about the KGB 's pervasive power . " In New York , on the receiving end of the gleanings from correspondents , were Senior Editor Donald Morrison , and Staff Writer John Kohan , who wrote the story . <P> Part of the cover package is a report on Bulgaria , written by Associate Editor Jim Kelly , which examines that Balkan nation 's reputation as an espionage surrogate for the Soviets , perhaps even in the 1981 assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II . Rome Correspondent Barry Kalb has followed the scenarios that have speculated on various countries ' possible roles in the affair . In Washington , Correspondent Ross H. Munro canvassed the intelligence community and pored over the Soviet press . Rome Bureau Chief Wilton Wynn went to Turkey to assess " the amazing Bulgarian involvement in arms and drugs , and Bulgarian activities aimed at destabilizing Turkey . " Eastern Europe Bureau Chief Richard Hornik traveled to Sofia , Bulgaria 's capital , and gained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the news because of an assassination plot , " Hornik says . " But with its ancient culture , beautiful scenery and relatively prosperous economy , Bulgaria is in itself a subject worthy of separate journalistic analysis . "                     