@@487716

The Reagan doctrine , the ideological core of the Administration 's foreign policy , is on the brink of obsolescence . The invasion of Grenada four years ago is still its only tangible success , and its Central America policy is crumbling under the threat of peace . Proponents of the doctrine are in desperate need of a victory and think they may have found an opportunity in Angola . But in fact the only beneficiary of the Administration 's Angola policy is South Africa , which has turned the Reagan doctrine into an insurance policy for apartheid . If the Reagan doctrine ca n't work in Angola , it ca n't work anywhere . The conflict seems tailor-made for it . For one , Angola is an easier target for covert operations than Central America is . The Iran/contra hearings graphically illustrated the degree of Congressional apathy and confusion over Angola . Presented with evidence that the Nicaragua arms pipeline was closely linked to the machinery that brought arms to Jonas Savimbi 's National Union for the Total Independence of Angola , or Unita , Congressional probers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieut . Col. Oliver North , a vocal backer of Unita , and retired Maj. Gen. Richard Secord , who possibly participated in illegal operations to arm Savimbi , may never be called on to tell what they know . On Capitol Hill , support for Unita is strong , with Senators Jesse Helms and Robert Dole and Representative Jack Kemp among the leaders preaching that U.S. strategic interests are threatened by the Cubans and Russians in Luanda . For those who have doubts about the wisdom of backing the contras , Angola offers the opportunity to take a tough stand against Communism , with few political repercussions . Angola itself is in many ways what Reagan doctrine supporters might have wished Nicaragua to be . Angola 's ruling party , the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola ( M.P.L.A. ) , is bolstered by at least 27,000 Cuban troops and several thousand Soviet-bloc advisers  --  hard evidence of Communist involvement . The stated goal of U.S. policy under Reagan has been to get the Cubans out  --  by supporting Unita , an " anti-Communist " rebel movement . Unita @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unlike the contra leaders who move around Washington in their tailored suits , Unita head Savimbi has the look of a Michael Maren , who writes extensively on African affairs , is now somewhere in West Africa . real revolutionary . His charisma is legendary . He is black , sports a thick beard , wears fatigues and a beret and carries guns . In Savimbi the right has found its Che , its Fidel , its revolutionary icon . He was working against Portuguese colonialism while Reagan was still in Hollywood . He undeniably has a wide following in Angola , though mostly among his own Ovimbundu ethnic group , and he is competent , needing no guidance or instruction books from the Central Intelligence Agency . Just guns and money . Savimbi is now receiving at least $15 million per year in " covert " assistance from the United States , including Stinger antiaircraft missiles . The current level of aid was approved after Congress repealed the Clark amendment , which had prohibited aid to Unita , in August 1985 . But Savimbi was clearly receiving at least indirect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reagan Administration , in line with the President 's own pre-election comment that , " Well , frankly , I would provide them Unita with weapons . " When Reagan took office in 1981 , Unita was at the nadir of its military power , one of the two losing factions in the postindependence battle that saw the Soviet-backed M.P.L.A. triumph over Unita and the National Front for the Liberation of Angola ( F.N.L.A. ) , led by Holden Roberto . The evidence indicates that within the first few months of the Reagan Administration , despite the Clark amendment , Saudi Arabia , as part of a general understanding on cooperation with the United States upon receipt of American Awacs planes , provided troop training to Unita in Morocco . The supply of arms to Unita through Zaire 's Kamina Air Base was probably Saudi-financed before 1986 , when the C.I.A . began to use Kamina after the repeal of the Clark amendment . Moral support from the Reagan Administration also emboldened South Africa , which began to increase its support for Savimbi . By the middle of 1982 Savimbi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then insisted that it would be in a better position to bring peace to Angola if the Clark amendment could be repealed . After some intensive lobbying it succeeded in pushing this through Congress in the summer of 1985 and embarked on the " overt covert " operation that was once and for all supposed to force the Angolan government to negotiate with Unita . In early 1986 the United States began to send Stingers to the rebels . This , Savimbi 's supporters proclaimed , would be the turning point . The columnists Rowland Evans and Robert Novak wrote , " No other decision points up Reagan 's heightened intent to bring to life his rhetoric . " If there is a blemish on Savimbi in the eyes of his supporters , it is his association with South Africa , from whom he has received arms , air cover and troop support for the last twelve years . But Unita 's supporters in Congress and the Administration dismiss the potentially embarrassing South African connection as a simple coincidence of purpose . U.S. support for Savimbi assumes that the South Africans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Cubans leave Angola and that the Angolan government , for some reason of its own , wants the troops to stay . Nothing could be further from the truth The Cubans cost the Angolan government dearly . Cuba is paid in foreign exchange funds that could be put to much better use . If they could , the Angolans would send the Cubans packing tomorrow . Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos has said on several occasions that he would be willing to negotiate a Cuban withdrawal if measures could be taken to assure his government 's security . Even if one accepts that a Cuban-free Angola is in the United States ' best interest , it is difficult to see how backing Unita will achieve that end . It is the pres  --  ure from Savimbi that makes the Cuban presence necessary . Without the Cubans , who fly combat missions , train M P.L.A . troops and serve as a last line of defense , the Angolan government would probably fall The United States is the only Western country  --  discounting South Africa  --  that has refused to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there might be room for a gradual and peaceful accommodation and ignore the fact that U.S businessmen have found Angola a cordial place to do business . They also ignore the fact that more than half Angola 's economy is in private hands . Angola has even applied for membership in the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund , a move supported by Britain , France and other Western allies . Admission would require Angola to open its economy to close examination and to pressures to adopt more market-oriented policies The Angolans have accepted this , but Treasury Secretary James Baker 3d has opposed the application , as have the pro-Unita forces in Congress . While U.S. policy toward Unita and Angola is as simpleminded as it sounds , the South Africans have a sophisticated strategy that is well served by Savimbi and his allies in Washington . Savimbi 's American backers are wrong in thinking that South Africa 's goal is to install a Savimbiled Unita government or to force a coalition with the M.P.L.A. ? a rationale that appeals to U.S. moderates . South Africa is interested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and crippling state of war . This was made apparent in October , when South Africa undertook a massive intervention of men and arms into southeastern Angola to rescue Savimbi from a major M.P.L.A. offensive . Unita was supplied with just enough materiel and troop support to stave off the offensive and maintain the status quo , making a military solution to the Angolan stalemate impossible . South Africa 's Defense Minister , Magnus Malan , said that his country 's intervention was needed to prevent a Unita defeat , which would have resulted in Communist domination of the region . Despite the fact that South African invasions have been commonplace over the past twelve years , this was the first time that South Africa has publicly admitted to intervening in Angola . An Angola that is torn by war and kept economically disrupted is an Angola that is pacified . An Angola that is at war denies access to ports to Zambia and Zimbabwe , keeping those countries dependent on South Africa 's transportation routes for their survival . War in Angola also offers the South Africans the opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ People 's Organization ( Swapo ) , who are fighting for the independence of Namibia from South Africa . And the Cuban presence in Angola , necessitated by the war , attracts U.S. support for South Africa 's occupation of Namibia under the policy of " linkage . " South Africa has persuaded the United States to see Namibia 's independence as a quid pro quo for a Cuban withdrawal from Angola  --  a fiction that Pretoria has no intention of carrying out . Finally , as the price of his reliance on South African arms and assistance , Jonas Savimbi will repay South Africa by preventing Swapo from using southern Angola as a base . The entire scenario in Angola serves only to perpetuate South Africa 's occupation of Namibia . The South Africans would see peace in Angola , even if it was presided over by Savimbi , as a threat . Whatever can be said about Savimbi , he is not a South African pawn . His long career has been marked by opportunism , and his current incarnation as an anti-Communist guerrilla is only the latest guise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Africans , who know him better than anyone , know that he is , at best , unpredictable . While Pretoria 's agenda is the defense of apartheid , Savimbi 's is personal power , even at the cost of a negotiated settlement . Sincerely or not , he has declared himself willing to sit down and talk with President dos Santos . Last month he added that he did not insist on the withdrawal of Cuban troops as a precondition . In keeping its black-ruled neighbors poor and dependent , the South African government is also playing to its domestic audience , perpetuating the myth that majority rule would mean ethnic warfare . South Africa also fears Angola 's economic potential . With only 8 million people , vast oil reserves , diamonds , coffee and other agricultural possibilities , Angola is one of the few African states with the immediate ability to break out of poverty . An economically vibrant Angola would enhance the economies of the entire region and encourage the formation of a strong united front against apartheid . The South Africans are thinking ahead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's resources and collapses its infrastructure , buying time for South Africa 's white minority regime . South Africa 's policy in Angola is an intensified version of its regional strategy of destabilization . In Mozambique , South Africa provides an arms lifeline for Renamo ( a Portuguese acronym for Mozambique National Resistance ) , a brutal band of terrorists whose only accomplishments have been the massacre and mutilation of thousands of civilians and the transformation of Mozambique into a country of refugees . As in Angola , the violence has closed the ports , keeping landlocked mineral exporters like Zambia and Zimbabwe completely dependent on South African ports . Renamo has no political agenda and no popular backing , and its forces are regarded by Mozambicans as bandidos armados ( " armed bandits " ) . Yet it has found political support in Washington . Robert Dole was one of Renamo 's major backers , lowering his profile only after publicity that followed a summer of particularly brutal killings by Renamo drew attention to the connection . On September 30 , even after the atrocities , Jack Kemp led sixteen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inviting him to America . The letter commended him for resistance to " Soviet-directed offenses against your freedom fighters " and ended with " best wishes for continued success . " In Zimbabwe , South Africa has provided support to a small group of renegade soldiers from Joshua Nkomo 's Zapu , who specialize in killing white citizens . These are the people responsible for the ax murders of sixteen white missionaries last month . Zimbabwe 's government-controlled paper , The Herald , said afterward that the killings were aimed at " demonstrating that the Government can not protect the white community . " For South Africa , the incident can be used as a parable of what happens when you have a black government . Against this background of South African-inspired havoc , U.S. conservatives have continued to press Savimbi 's case . Dole , writing in The Washington Times 's Insight magazine in March 1986 , claimed , " The Angolan Marxists are n't going to negotiate until they have to , but they wo n't have to unless Dr. Savimbi and his freedom fighters have the tools to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two years later , the Reagan doctrine is still allegedly at stake and Savimbi still needs a little more firepower to force the Marxists to negotiate . The M.P.L.A. 's failure to dislodge Unita in October means that the standoff will continue in Angola and that pressure in the United States to support Savimbi will increase . Savimbi 's South African-aided " victory " has earned him increased respect in Washington and encouraged his supporters , who like to see evidence that he , unlike the contras , can win on the battlefield . Conservative activism seems to be gaining momentum in Congress as frustration with the failures of the Reagan doctrine mounts . Dan Burton , Republican of Indiana and the ranking minority member of the House Africa subcommittee , has led a group of right-wing Congressmen , including such familiar names as Philip Crane , Robert Dornan and Newt Gingrich , in asking that Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Chester Crocker be fired . In letters to President Reagan and Secretary of State George Shultz last August , they accused Crocker of carrying out a renegade policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Crocker has pursued a policy in direct conflict with a fundamental tenet of your foreign policy : the United States should support legitimate , popular , nationalist movements fighting to remove regimes imposed and maintained by the force of Soviet arms . " Shultz declined to fire Crocker . Though this kind of talk can easily be dismissed as the ravings of the right-wing fringe , it is clear that Republican presidential candidates will be put to the test on Southern Africa , particularly Angola , if they want conservative support . The status of Angola in U.S. domestic politics , as a shibboleth of anti-Communism on Capitol Hill , completely avoids the real issues in Southern Africa , as well as U.S. interests there . The South Africans , who do clearly understand what is at stake in Angola , will no doubt be watching these antics in Washington with amused satisfaction . ?                     