@@480376

S THE United States is the last large society in the democratic West to freight a big religious population , it is meet and just that God has vouchsafed an answer to the prayers of the American faithful . After imprecation , supplication , and entreaty , the God of Good Things , of collection boxes and mailing lists , of holidays high and low , civic and patriotic , the God of radio and television , of the dollar bill and free choice , the God who reigneth over grassy golf course and befountained shopping center , God who recordeth the name and number of all who dial-a-prayer , God who annointeth the leading economic indicators and reproveth the lagging ones , the God of interest rates and laissez-faire and the balanced budget , God , Supreme Commander in Chief of the forces of freedom , atomic and conventional , God the Omnipotent Monothete whose grace penetrates the trade barriers of Shintoist Japan , our God , God of Twin Oaks and Tuxedo Park , God of the congressional prayer breakfast , this divjpity has heard the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what we have asked for : an honest man in the White House . OUR MOST dangerous president came clothed in the civic and political virtues we demand from our public men and seldom get . No one thought it would be the movie actor who would double-cross the nation by taking his own campaign promises seriously and consecrating himself to carrying them out . An overpromised electorate did not know that this candidate was the real thing , the Molieresque madman who would create plot , dramatic tension , and such denouement Nicholas von Hofiman 's most recent book is Make-Believe Presidents : The Illusion of Power from McKinley to Carter , published by Pantheon. as you 've never seen by being to his own self true . The newspapers and the television let us down , led us to believe that , au fond , on the bottom line , Ron ald Reagan was a flexible , realistic , pragmatic , reasonable , and practical fellow ? when , truth to tell , we have before us a stone fanatic . Fanatics are n't thought to be flexible , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Lenin . One step backward , two steps forward , retreat , sidle out of harm 's way until a better day , that 's the tactical waltz of men who are forced to wait their time and know what to do with power when they get it . For Americans , however , the archetypal fanatic 30 is Adolf Hitler , the dancing , ranting maniac emitting noise and saliva flecks , screaming into the field telephone , " Not one bootstep backward from Stalingrad . Stand where you are and die for Fiihrer and Faterland ! " If you do n't see anybody looking like that living in the White House , we thought , you do n't have to worry . It was the military dictator , the fascist , the invasion of the commie body snatchers we were schooled to guard against . Nobody prophesied a true believer in a sports coat with too much shoulder padding and a sheepish smile . Americans have mistaken Ronald Reagan for a mainline politician . It did n't occur to us who Ronald Reagan was , because the man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man smiled and spoke in a honeyed baritone . It did n't strike us that our ideologue would n't come in a brown shirt propounding ideas smelling of boiled cabbage or wiener schnitzel , trying to mix apple pie and fascism or hot dogs and collectivism . The American ideologue would come as Lincoln had come before , dressed in the raiment of our culture , a cartoon exaggeration of ourselves . He would be the boy next door grown old , the kid who got through college on an athletic scholarship , a Hollywood media hero , modest and patient , the early twentieth-century small-town equivalent of Father Abraham in his log cabin . Abe split rails and Ron broadcast for the Chicago Cubs . I ENIN AND HITLER were their own prophets : they foretold themselves , founded their political parties , shaped the ideologies associated with their names . Ronald Reagan did nothing of the sort . He was recruited into his political faith , catechized by his father-in-law and the schmancy friends Nancy Fancy introduced him to . In this respect , also , Reagan resembles Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a minority party ideologue in the White House . This is not to say that Reagan and Lincoln represent many values in common . Lincoln freed the slaves and Reagan thinks affirmative action should be recruiting a white superstar to take Kareem Abdul-Jabbar 's place on the Los Angeles Lakers . Nevertheless , the two men are the only presidents since Buchanan 's time , if not Jackson 's , who came to office as the spokesmen for an ideology , a bundled set of principles upheld and asserted by a political organization founded on those principles and kept together by shared faith in them . Though nominally the two men share a political party , Lincoln 's Republican faith is the diametric opposite of Reagan 's . Lincoln 's was the voice of industrial America coming to be ; his was the nation-building party . Reagan 's party represents a disinterred and demeaned Jeffersonianism , an angry and selfish anachronism using the catchwords and cultural material from the Fourth of Julys of long agoto disguise reaction and racism in flags and music and bunting . Lincoln was the apostle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supremacy , whereas Reagan and his cohorts are inching , worming , and squirming backward toward state sovereignty . Reagan 's New Federalism is tearing up the paper Lee was made to sign at Appomattox . The finishing of the symbol of power on the Potomac , the dome of the Capitol , so long delayed by gelatinous Jeffersonian politicians who mistrusted the government in which they served , was completed by the Lincoln administration in 1 8 63 . The Reagan administration aims to pull the pillars and send the dome rolling down Capitol Hill into the cast-iron and glass congressional greenhouses at the bottom . Where the Lincoln administration passed the first bills granting major federal aid to education , the Reagan administration would end them . Where the Lincoln administration invested in building the railroads , the Reagan administration would end expenditures for what they used to call national improvements . Nevertheless , there are political and organizational similarities in the way these two presidents came to power . They were candidates not of the customary consensus politics of fuzzily defined political parties but of concise ideological factions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and clearly thought out intentions . Ordinarily our presidential candidates do n't differ much . Same genus , same species , they capture and use the legal structures of their political parties the way hermit crabs move in and use any unoccupied shell . The shells are more or less alike , one will do as well as another . Richard Nixon , with minor adjustments in emphasis , could have been a Democrat . Franklin Roosevelt represented not a break with Herbert Hoover , but an extension of his policies and tendencies . Roosevelt went further than Hoover approved of ; but as Hoover himself at one point almost became a Wilsonian Democrat , so also Franklin Roosevelt , judged by what he was advocating in the early 1930s , could have been a Hoover Republican . With our two political parties ordinarily suctioned together tummy to tummy , like two tango dancers , the norm of presidential succession is continuity . From time to time , one party or the other has been temporarily captured by an ideological faction , such as the Democrats under Bryan in 1896 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has reacted in fright at perceived radicalism , because it might disturb the established pattern for distributing bonbons or rearrange the structure of the prevailing political capitalism . Radicals do n't get elected . But Ronald Reagan did , because he and his managers tricked us into seeing him as a middle-of-the-road politician , albeit a unique variant of one , and because , fed up and angered at the incompetent vacuities of Carterism , we tricked ourselves by lis-31 tening to Reagan with a selective ear . The record was there for us to read , if we had wanted to read it . Ronald Reagan did n't hop out of his bunny suit to reveal himself as a hard-core reactionary in the first hours after he took the oath of dace . He 's been saying what he says now for years . We have n't been listening . As far back as October 1975 , he was sketching out his New Federalism , suggesting that $90 billion worth of federal programs be given over to the states . " What I propose is nothing less than a systematic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ program of creative federalism .... Federal authority has clearly failed to do the job . Indeed , it has created more problems in welfare , education , housing , food stamps , Medicaid , community development and revenue sharing , to name a few . " By January of the next year , he was running for the nomination and from the stink his proposal for the $90 billion cut was causing him . Then , like David Stockman testifying before Congress , he took it back with his toes crossed , declaring , " I never did pay any attention to that list . That was just some stuff the economists gave me . I did n't even agree with all the things on that list . " Now there he was lying , but , quintessentially , he 's a truth-teller because he 's a true believer , and true believers do n't want to dissemble ; they want to preach and convert , not conceal and manipulate . So by 1978 , he was again going about saying he favored an " orderly , planned transfer of functions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more general terms in his acceptance speech to the Republican National Convention . But millions of us who were watching heard what we picked out to hear . Authoritative voices warned us , the loudest being that of the discredited , nasty nebbish James Earl Carter , Jr. , he of the persnickety smile and the droning detail , he with the heart as full of guile as of Jesus . We were not going to listen to that slack-jawed , droopy-assed , bent-kneed politician when he warned us that the guy with the aw-shucks smile is an atomic-bomb thrower , Nor were we going to dig it out for ourselves , which we might have done by consulting the man 's 1965 autobiography , in which he has this to say of the anti-nukers of seventeen years ago : " The trouble with such men is that they have never lived either on their feet or their knees . They have lived on their fat fannies . " CT CARING to know what Reagan has con-sistently said throughout thirty years of politics is but one of the ways we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrug of the shoulders , and all ? this is a harsh and dangerous man . Instead of accepting that in this instance , at least , a very tough guy has come in a pretty package , we delude ourselves by think-ing he is the harmlessly vapid male lead of the movie parts he once played . Instead of seeing that this is a mean son of a bitch who can countenance 10 million out of work and out of unemployment compensation to satisfy the punishing theories of the reactionary right , we have been off at the Bijou , snickering at the midnight showing of Bedtime for Bonzo . We 've been like the daffy soap-opera devotees we patronize for confusing the actor with the role . We ca n't stop ourselves from looking down at him as an empty performer before the movie cameras . A third-rate actor , perhaps , but Ronald Reagan found his vocation in his thirties when he got active in the Screen Actors Guild and was intoxicated by politics . By most accounts , politics so obliterated other interests and obligations that his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the house . Whatever else he may be , Ronald Reagan is n't a political amateur , an accidental figure . By persisting in thinking of him as a vacuous dabbler , we make it easy for him by underestimating him . We are encouraged to underestimate him the more because we think he 's weak on his civics , that he gets his facts wrong . Actually he gets our facts wrong ; he gets his facts right . When he asserts at a press conference that there were once two separate nations , one North and one South Vietnam , he 's getting our facts wrong , not his . In the social and political circles he 's lived in for the last three decades , there were two nations , one of which invaded the other . It is a fact . What we call the errors , mistakes , and inaccuracies that come out of Ronald Reagan 's mouth are of a pattern conforming to the reactionary view of the world 's geography . That 's why , whether it 's Vietnam or some inane tale of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on one , it is pulled back , the names are changed , and it is spoken again . For the ideologue , facts are what you believe are facts . Reagan , like a hard-core Marxist-Leninist , holds no brief for bourgeois objectivity . People like you and me have a different standard for what truth is , and how it is tested , from that of people like Ronald Reagan . Get someone to take you to a Saturday-night party at the country club , and you 'll meet a lot more who believe as the president does . When Ronald Reagan is scorned as unread , ill informed , and uninformed , it is but another way of underestimating and dismissing him . He is informed for his purposes , not ours . He has no need to cultivate the open-mindedness that is disciplined by fact and renewed by novel hypothesis . To the contrary , such a mentality would be a paralyzing impediment . We are dealing with a man who knows what he wants to do , who is not weighing alternatives in the balance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his mind . Ronald Reagan made up his mind thirty years ago . Ever since , his sight and sound receptors have been set to block information that does not lend support to what he 's determined to do . An unnerving mental configuration in a president ; a common one in a true believer . Living in a world of facts called into existence by ideological conviction , the true believer can proceed , confident that all his worst fears are true . If all revolutions attempted after 1776 are Marxist-Leninist , that 's the kind of revolutions they are having in El Salvador and Nicaragua . But treat a government as though it is Marxist-Leninist , and that 's what you 'll turn it into . Among the drawbacks of having fanatics at the helm of state is that they make enemies where there were none . EOP LE mislead themselves about Ronald Reagan because they make excuses for him that they would n't make for another person , much less another president . Anyone else in public life , anyone less of a charmer , less able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Forgive them , Father , for they know not what they do " expression on his puss , anyone with a less amiable public persona , would have been recognized and categorized as a racist long since , With Reagan , who , after all , does not come to press conferences wearing a white hood and a sheet , we say he 's " insensitive . " It would take more group therapy or sensitivity training than you 'd care to pay for to turn this guy into something other than what he is , which is asmooth-talking bigot . The succession of Amos ' n ' Andys , Stepin Fetchits , and minstrel-show clowns he has appointed to high office , when he has appointed any blacks to high office , is no inexplicable deviation from a heretofore exemplary record on race . When Reagan was governor of California between 1966 and 1971 , out of 3,709 appointments to new state jobs , nine went to blacks , according to one reckoning . The excuse being offered for an identical record in Washington is that most blacks are Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The same thing was true for the Democrats when they came to power in 1932 . A Negro Democrat in that period was a contradiction in terms . Nobody had ever seen or heard of one . To be black was to be Republican . But Roosevelt and his dispenser of patronage , Postmaster General James Farley , made black Democrats by giving them jobs . The difference is that they wanted blacks in their party and Ronald Reagan and his friends do n't . He does n't even want blacks to vote for him . ( Remember how hard it is for the true believer to pretend , even when it 's to his advantage . ) Otherwise he would not have gone to Philadelphia , Mississippi ? where the murderers of three civil-rights workers were caught only because the FBI was sent in over the objections of local authorities ? there to tell the multitudes at the Neshoba County Fair , " I believe in states ' rights . " It is as close as we need come to having a president endorse lynching and mob action . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he toured the South , deploring the ease with which " young bucks " got " T-bone steaks " with their food stamps . Or this verbatim gem from a 1970 press conference : A great deal of the problem in the whole so-called hunger problem in the country and certainly here in California is in many instances malnutrition , that is , the result of a lack of knowledge of proper nutritional diet and of ethnic eating patterns and habits . And the result is that you do have a malnutrition problem that is not in any way associated in some instances with need or with lack of funds . .. . There are certain localities in the country where the children themselves think a very tasty meal is bread with sorghum on it and because they like it and it is kind of customary and that 's what they get and it is hardly what we call a balanced meal . In other words , you 'll get rickets and scurvy on a steady diet of watermelon and frijoles . Whatever the private opinions of his predecessors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office since Woodrow Wilson , who fired black white-collar federal employees and resegregated government offices . Grumble , mumble , and delay as other presidents did , Reagan is the only one since Wilson to attempt to take away from blacks gains they have already secured . Where others may have said , this 33 is enough , no more for now , Reagan alone has undertaken a rollback . Always smiling , always covertly vicious , he has found out how to exploit poor programs , or the poor execution of good ones , to go for black people . The courts may have driven the little yellow school buses down the road to reductio ad absurdum , but Reagan has not merely let the air out of their tires . He has replaced them with nothing , no program , no assistance to make sure that at last there is one generation of black children in the United States that gets a halfway-decent education , Ketchup is declared a vegetable in the school lunch program , college aid and money for vocational training are eliminated , and this in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional schools was declining before the Great Communicator was sworn in . MM HAT these things are done in an atmosphere I of swinish opulence should have helped liberals to rediscover who they are , but they are too cowed . The most effective political protest comes in the form of Johnny Carson 's one-liners between imaginary golf swings . Nancy Fancy is n't the first presidential wife to make a career of being a clothes horse . For tasteless , self-centered , mindlessly unaware conspicuous consumption , Jackie Kennedy matched Ronald Reagan 's wife Givenchy for Givenchy . The Kennedys , however , knew how to cultivate the illusion that they were making a grand gesture , that they were giving out with a little noblesse oblige in Camelot , where the Grand Vizier would have nixed any proposal to pass out five-pound lumps of processed cheese to the poor . The Kennedys liked the poor because the poor admired them ; it was out of the mouths of the poor that the deepest 000hhhs ! and aaaahhhhs ! came when the carriage rolled by . The Reagans do n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deformed , grasping , tricky , and ungrateful , revulsive objects on which to bestow tatty prizes : Velveeta cheese and pure white lard . For blacks or poverelli of other hues , Reagan offers one program ? his enterprise zones . These are inner-city economic free-fire areas where entrepreneurs are supposed to locate because they will be wholly unregulated . ( The liberal approach is to offer tax incentives to locate new plants where the need for jobs is greatest , but since Reagan , with the help of many a Democratic congressional vote , has de facto abolished the corporation tax , there are no more incentives left to offer . ) The only thing left in the larder to use as a lure is perfect business freedom , freedom from health regulations , freedom from fire and safety codes , freedom from the minimum wage ? a return , in short , to the economic liberties that Theodore Roosevelt and an earlier generation of Republicans considered too monstrous to tolerate . Eventually , under the doctrines of the Reagan Reaction , everybody with a job is going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new vision arising : Coolie America , where even the white-collar masses will be forced to live by scrabble and snatch in a competition for work and wages unknown perhaps to all but the oldest of us . Never before has an incumbent administration attempted to stimulate unemployment , underemployment , and lower wages . Consider what Reagan is doing simultaneously in a society that for a decade or more has already seen the " normal " unemployment rate move upward year after year until the acceptable level of joblessness has about doubled , from 3.5 to 7 percent . In this situation , Reagan has moved first to dump tens of thousands of government workers , federal , state , and local , off the payrolls . Undeniably , disgustingly large numbers of them were making no other contribution to the commonweal but spending their paychecks , thereby helping to maintain a healthy level of demand for goods and services . You can argue that one of the many ways Jimmy Carter opened the door to Reaganism was by failing in his promise to see that people on the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of work five times a week . Nevertheless , public employment , even if no more useful than as a disguised form of welfare for college-trained office workers , acted to sponge hundreds of thousands off the job market . At the same time , Reagan has rejigged the tax 34 laws to give business a subsidy for the purchase of equipment ? a prize for replacing people with machines . Labor-saving machinery really and truly does save labor , which means it puts people out of work . If these changes occur through the play of those vaunted market forces , they may lead to an expanding economy and new employment possibilities . When they occur because of a distortion of market forces , as in this case , they just mean fewer jobs . Lastly , Reagan has made it holy writ that American labor has " priced itself out of the market " and must " again " become competitive . From the Lincoln administration onward , it was never our policy to keep American wages competitive . It was the reverse . For generations , the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world was considered proof of the greatness of our civilization . That was what William McKinley 's campaign slogan , " A Full Dinner Pail , " was about . The plutocrats who dominated the turn-of-the-century Republican ascendancy detested labor unions with the same ferocity as the people Ronald Reagan has to dinner at the White House . But it never occurred to them that the American work force deserved no better than the coolies of the sweatshops of Asia . Cut , cut , cut the wage till it 's the same in Pontiac and Flint as it is in Yokohama , but with a difference . American workers will be reduced to the purchasing power of their Japanese counterparts , but without the protection and the job guarantees you get on the far side of the Pacific . The Reaganites go further . This president has proposed we help some of the lowest wage areas in the world set up plants to compete against us . Haiti , Guatemala , places like that , are to become the locus of American tax incentives for investment by American capital in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover of international charity , this is another scheme to help American business escape the American worker . 1 = OR ALL his schmooze and yukety-yuk about m how he can sympathize with the nine-tofivers commuting on the freeway , Reagan shares the irritation of the millionaires he hangs out with about how we 've had it so good and had it so easy . When these guys used to say , " What this country needs is a first-class recession , " they were n't kidding . They had more in mind than rescuing the bond market and the inflation-battered creditor class . They meant we needed a hiding ; we needed adversity to teach us to appreciate having less , to learn us to give an honest day 's work for a day 's pay , to make us punctual and respectful . Tug on your forelock , son , when you address Mr. Moneybags , and do n't be impudently looking him in the eye . The social-discipline strain in Reaganism takes several forms . We have the out-and-out Christian cruelty of a Jesse Helms warbling , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his wife , Evangeline , tell the fifteen-year-old rape-incest victim that God demands she have the baby . Or we have George F. Will 's seigneurial disdain for lesser people 's unfathomable preference for socialized medicine . But George has never visited the substandard nursing homes where there are no attendants to change the nappies of whining , incontinent old people . Against a mosaic of such social values , one of the ? Reagan Reaction 's favorite buzzwords ought to be appreciated . The word is " voluntarism . " A majestic word , suggestive of de Tocqueville and the staunch yeomanry of the Federalist period , when the government that governs least was best , and governing America ? that pre-adamite minute in the American garden , before the interventionist serpent began to usurp the responsibilities and services that neighbors accorded each other . Such an arrangement can exist only in a society where all men and women are roughly equal , as men like James Madison knew . The voluntarism Reaganism preaches depends on an equality it despises . Jefferson without justice , without a squashed and flattened @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pep up one 's position in the opinion polls , as this passage from a Reagan speech , delivered at the Waldorf Astoria- Hotel to a Grand Ballroom full of millionaires , illustrates : Now there are volunteer groups across the nation called Gleaners .... One of the first of these was formed by a student at my alma mater , a little tiny college out in Illinois , Eureka College . He got the idea a few years back when there was so much talk at the time of world hunger . He and members of his fraternity got permission to go into the fields after harvest and pick up what had been missed . In California , a local charity group called Gleaners Statewide works in fields and orchards salvaging acres of produce that would be left unpicked or lying on the ground to rot because labor costs have made it uneconomic to salvage .... Do n't tell us we ca n't cope with our problems . Do n't tell us that America 's best days are behind her . Reagan 's voluntarism is stale food gleanings and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a soup-kitchen ladle . Lady Bountiful is back distributing charity 's degrading crust . Voluntarism is Nancy Fancy in a suitably understated Galanos , evoking the Queen Mother , circa 1913 , touring a new Borstal and smiling in indifferent condescension at the dirty-faced juvenile delinquent sons of Welsh colliers . Reagan 's voluntarism is social control , the well-to-do volunteering to give a little to proper charities , which do not encourage hedonistic self-expression or the striking of histrionic , possibly destabilizing , political poses . The underclass can no longer be allowed to be dependent on a 35 bureaucratized social-welfare apparatus that has a built-in tendency to make common cause for common benefit with the clients . The 1960s and 1970s showed the dangers of allowing the control of charity to slide , even a mite , into less than friendly hands . You will not see voluntarism applied to the financing of aircraft carriers , however . During the Great Depression , one highly placed business idiot suggested that restaurants collect table scraps in buckets so that the half-eaten food could ? be served to the unemployed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , failed to endorse that one , and might have paused before committing himself to feeding the hungry by gleaning half-rotten food from the fields and spoiled comestibles from the docks . But Hoover , a self-made man of breathtaking accomplishment , did not have the Reagan group 's sense of superiority over people with less money , nor did he share their conviction that those who are without work wo n't work . Slops are good enough for malingerers . OT LONG AGO , President Reagan was asked an unemployment question at a press conference . He answered that in the previous Sunday 's issue of the Washington Post there had been pages upon pages of help-wanted ads . In 1975 , during the Ford recession , he remarked on his syndicated radio show that " the classified-ad pages of the newspapers are often carrying record numbers of help-wanted ads . " When he was still governor of California , he gave the same answer to the unemployment question at a 1971 press conference . Recession , depression , you 'll never convince Ronald Reagan you ca n't get a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comes from spending his early adulthood in the Great Depression . Reagan 's rich friends in his age group share it . You 've heard a variant of it yourself when you 've bumped into a successful man in his late sixties or early seventies . They tell you , " Sonny , you do n't know what tough is . You got it easy . All you kids growin ' up now got it easy , not like me , not like when I was a kid coming up . " They 'd smash you over the head with their canes if you answered that they were actually the luckiest generation in our history . Too young to lose any thing in the crash , they came out of school in time to cash in on the longest sustained economic rocket ride any nation has enjoyed since the onset of the industrial revolution . They had nothing to do with it but count their money and get rich . These were the lucky bums who were standing there with a tuba in their hands the day it rained gold . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as though they had something to do with arranging World War II and the other factors that made the period a uniquely prosperous one . 36 solute American global hegemony , it comes from being poured into the mold of maturity looking at newsreels of the Five-Star General of the Armies , Douglas MacArthur , giving the law to the cringing Japanese on the foredeck of the U.S.S. Missouri . Reagan and Al Haig and the other palsied personalities in high places , with their pacemakers and coronary bypasses , want to reactivate the battleships , whether they know it or not , for a sea passage back to that time when foreign-policy questions were simple because we had all the power and the rest of the world had none . A trillion and a half dollars for armaments is n't too much if it enables 220 million Americans to put on their foam-rubber Number One mittens and bunny hop around the world in an equatorial conga line . As Reagan ages , Reagan gets more dangerous . The years do not make all of us mellow . Vide King Lear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reckless willfulness , a perverted purity of principle that rivals the craziest behavior of youth . You can see it in Reagan , whom the years have n't endowed with wisdom . You can see it in his emotional inability to take advantage of the China policy that Richard Nixon bequeathed to his successors . Age and his ideological arteriosclerosis rob Reagan of nimbleness and subtlety . And he is abetted and egged on by the myriads of capitalist-youth marching and chanting societies , the Jousters for Jesus , the Young Americans for Freedom , the Helms Helpers . Organized on every campus and in every church , the youth brigades emit a constant white-noise roar of approval through which these hard old men pursue the work of finding and refining the unalloyed abstract values so dear to demented idealism , . Reagan would be just another right-wing crackpot . The ideological activity that brought Lincoln to power ? the music , the books , like " The Battle Hymn of the Republic " and Uncle Tom 's Cabin ? were as nothing compared with the backup Reagan has : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In-stitute , the centers for the study of this and that . All in all , several hundred million dollars are spent every year on an enormous whore corps of academics , journalists , and media hustlers , to dominate every platform and podium with the propaganda of reac-tion . This interlocking chain of institutions recruits , trains , and plans for the political agglomeration that embodies the ideology . There has been nothing like it in our national government before . The compar-isons that have occasionally been made between the staffing and stocking of the Reagan administration and the New Deai are erroneous . Roosevelt 's re-cruiting out of a few Ivy League schools was unsys-tematic and unplanned , catch-as-catch-can contrasted with the computer printouts and personnel dossiers the Reagan people use . The reactionary apparatchiks give the tone to what has happened in Washington behind the leading man 's smile . They grin their heads off whenever a reporter comes around and make themselves available for endless interviews in which the same inconsequential nonsense is repeated and noted ad nauseam . The cumulative effect is to make the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ low-key government where doors are always open and ears are always ready to hear the other side of an argument . The real tone of this administration can be picked up by watching James Watt at the Department of Interior as he prays on his knees next to his desk . It is Watt who said there are two kinds of people in this country , Americans and liberals , That was n't a joke . Watt is not a funny man , he is a scary one . His department is where they keep the enemies list of people and organizations and where , if you have the wrong background ? like being in the Carter administration ? they 'll not only hound you out of government , which you ca n't object to if you believe as I do in giving the victor the spoils , but will also try to get you blacklisted in the private sector . Ultimately , a president is responsible for the tone and type of person who dominates his administration . Reagan has stocked his with stereotypical right-wing paranoids : gross corruptionists using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; hypocritical moral majoritarians who do n't live the way they preach ; proud , arrogant , mean , dishonest , Jew-hating , black-hating white men with hard , clinging wives who spend their lives having lunch and shopping . In a year and a half , they have turned around the social climate of Washington so that you now hear language and demeaning jokes that some of us thought had been stamped out of our national life , even at the country club . Not so . Just the other day , one of Ronald Reagan 's oldest and closest personal and political associates was heard in the dining room of the Metropolitan Club , the city 's hoity-toitiest citadel of white maledom , carrying on at the top of his voice about " the niggers . " Ronald Reagan has also destroyed the best chance we had for governmental reform . Lord knows , after a full term of Carterism the country was pining for it , but the Reagan record is so bad that he has opened the door for the rehabilitation and return of liberal hacks like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House , we will never have to worry that the FBI will open our mail , but we will have to worry about whether the postperson will deliver it . America is a good country as countries go , certainly one that deserves a better future than one infinitely oscillating twixt compassionate incompetents and vile-spirited fanatics . Ronald Reagan , I do n't like you .                     