@@492197

BABIES FOR INFERTILE COUPLES Part 2 ... for Males Artificial insemination , using " adopted sperm , " is now the most popular and realistic solution for couples when the husband 's infertility can not be cured . by Sherman J. Silber , M.D. Editor 's Note : Last month , Dr. Sherman J. Silber discussed how a couple can greatly increase their conception chances . A well-known fertility expert , he writes here about how couples can find hope when the husband 's infertility can not be cured . T en years ago , when a couple reached a dead end in their quest to have a baby , the solution would have been to adopt . Society was burdened with a relatively large supply of unwanted children . Since the increase in abortions and a wide variety of birth control measures , there are now very few babies available for adoption , and the wait for those couples who are successful is often more than five years . The solution today for couples who are unable to adopt a child ( when the wife 's infertility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is simply to " adopt sperm . " Since unwanted babies are no longer easily available , the only choice , in a sense , is to adopt the baby at a much earlier stage , i.e. , prior to conception . Artificial insemination , using the sperm of an anonymous donor , is now the most popular and realistic solution for couples in which the husband 's infertility can not be cured . From a medical point of view , artificial insemination is extraordinarily simple . It was first successfully used in women by the famous physician John Hunter in England in the 18th century . A sperm specimen obtained from the donor through masturbation is drawn up into a syringe , and then simply squirted into the vagina near the cervix . Since the sperm are only capable of fertilization for 24 to 48 hours in the female reproductive tract , and since the egg is only capable of being fertilized within eight hours of ovulation , the insemination must be timed appropriately just before ovulation . Artificial insemination was first successfully performed in the United States in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was almost exclusively that of the husband . Later , in 1890 , Dr. Robert Dickinson of New York started using artificial insemination with donor sperm when the husband had untreatable infertility . This early use of artificial insemination by donor was carried out in great secrecy . However , it has now become so popular that more than ten thousand babies are born every year in the United States as a result of it . Patients are accepting it when there is no other solution , and many of the psychological , social and legal fears about it are beginning to disappear . Georgia , in 1964 , was the first state to issue legislation that guarantees that a child conceived in this manner will be considered legitimate . Oklahoma passed a similar law in 1967 , and Kansas in 1968 . Even prior to these legislative decrees , common law provided some protection for the legitimacy of such children . Unless it is proved that the husband had no access to the wife , any child born of her is considered to be his by the law . Whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the legal father of any child born to his wife while they are living together . I recently saw a patient who had had a vasectomy performed in 1974 , thinking he would not want to have children . Later , he and his wife changed their views and became very anxious to have a family . He had two attempts at vasectomy reversal elsewhere , which failed to restore any sperm to his ejaculate . Subsequently , his wife underwent artificial insemination with semen from an anonymous donor , and she became pregnant . They had a beautiful little baby by artificial insemination . She was three months old when the patient was first referred to me . I felt that by using microsurgical techniques we could restore his fertility , but wished first to explore his feelings about the daughter he already had . The patient clearly loved her very much from the minute that she was born , and if this surgery was not successful , he was perfectly ready to have another child by artificial insemination . The patient did not feel that the genetic contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and so we performed a reversal operation . The patient regained a normal sperm count and impregnated his wife one year later . They now have two children and love them equally . Prior to the wife 's undergoing artificial insemination , the doctor will always have both wife and husband sign a special consent form which states : ( 1 ) that any children produced by artificial insemination will be their own legitimate children and their heirs ; ( 2 ) that they waive forever any right to disclaim such a child as their own ; and ( 3 ) that the nature of the agreement will make it confidential among the husband , the wife and the doctor . The agreement will state that the husband and wife rely upon the judgment and discretion of the doctor to choose a donor whose Continued on page 105 ning out of the kitchen yelling , " Daddy 's at the organ ! Daddy 's home ! " " Where is he ? " somebody asked . " Where is Norman ? " " He 's playing the organ ! " Candis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the crowd . " That 's not your father playing the organ , " someone said . " It is ! " she insisted . " That 's the way he plays ! " Candis finally reached the organ and saw Dr. Morton at the keyboard . That was when the disguise was penetrated . The grumpy " Dr. Morton " smiled broadly through his beard . He continued to play , this time an old popular number , " All the Things You Are , " and we knew we had been had . Norman had turned our surprise party right around . Dev Freeman told us the reason we had all been fooled was that Norman had stopped off at Universal Studios where Dev had arranged , at Norman 's request , for Norman to have a professional makeup job . Norman had made Dev his confederate , then had gone to the famous movie lot after his visit with Bucky Fuller at the hospital . It was such a complete disguise that , when Norman stopped at Dev 's house , Dev was unable to relate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Norman standing there . I know how Dev felt . I still ca n't believe Norman could fool me so completely , could hold my hand , and that I would n't recognize him  --  after 43 years of marriage . But he did and I did n't . It developed that we were betrayed by all the chickens the night before the party . Norman had guessed the surprise when he came into the kitchen . That was when he decided to turn the tables . He never fails to surprise me . Everyone else at the " surprise party " felt the same way . 7/i Conceive continued from page 73 physical and mental characteristics are compatible with those of the husband . They then must agree that they understand the doctor can not be held responsible for any physical or mental characteristics of any child so produced . At the moment of conception the husband must automatically accept the child as his own . Frequently , the husband has a very low sperm count , one which would have a very small chance of ever resulting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present . Such a patient can never be sure that a child Continued on page 112 Conceive continued from page 105 conceived while his wife undergoes artificial insemination is not a product of his sperm . The wife is often told to have intercourse with her husband shortly after artificial donor insemination . There is always the possibility . however slight , that a sperm of the husband 's may very well be the one finally to fertilize the egg . How Is It Done ? The woman 's ovulatory pattern as determined by basal body temperature charts , cervical mucus production and dilation of the cervix are required to pinpoint the time of ovulation so that the sperm can be introduced on the best day . However , sometimes the precise timing of ovulation becomes impossible , because the emotional stress placed upon the wife affects her hypothalamus to the extent that she may ovulate late , or she may even fail to ovulate . For this reason , the bedside ' manner of the physician is very important . If the wife is terrified by an inadequate understanding of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ovulating altogether . In such cases , ironically , when the program of artifical insemination is abandoned , her periods often return to normal and she begins to ovulate again . Because of the difficul ty of pinpointing the exact time of ovulation under the psychological stress of artificial insemination , the physician may place the wife on Clomid or HCG to induce regular ovulation . Women treated with Clomid tend to ovulate right at mid-cycle , around day 14 or 15 , despite the emotional stress that might otherwise interfere with their cycles . The patient is placed on one Clomid tablet each day for five days beginning on the fifth day of her cycle . Then about five days after completion of the Clomid treatment , usually day 14 of her cycle , artificial insemination is performed . Using this approach , a number of doctors have reported a higher pregnancy rate within a fewer number of cycles than when the time of ovulation is not artificially controlled . Regardless of whether ovulation is induced with drugs or allowed to proceed spontaneously , the woman must continue to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on what he thinks is the day before ovulation and again two days later if her temperature has not risen one day after the first insemination . Since the sperm are only able to fertilize the egg for a period of 48 hours , if the temperature does not rise one day after the first insemination , she will he inseminated again with the hope that , even though she is ovulating somewhat later than expected , the second insemination may allow her to conceive as planned . The actual technique of artificial insemination is simple and entirely painless . The patient is placed in position as for a routine pelvic exam and the vaginal speculum is inserted just as though she were having a Pap smear . The donor 's semen is then either squirted against the cervix into the recesses of the vagina or placed in a plastic-type cap which is then put over the cervix and allowed to stay in position for a half hour to three hours . Whichever method is used , the patient is usually requested to remain in position for one half hour , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the cervical mucus . After that first half hour , most of the sperm that would have any chance of reaching the egg will have already entered , and the patient is then allowed to leave . Insemination is only performed if the woman 's cervix opening is dilated and if she is about to ovulate . If her cervix is not yet " ripe . " the physician may ask her to return one or two days later . If on the other hand her cervix appears " ripe , " and she undergoes insemination but her temperature does not go up , she will have to be inseminated again in two days . Donor Selection Selection of an appropriate donor is probably the physician 's heaviest responsibility in artificial insemination . Obviously the donor has to be of excellent physical and mental stock , with proven fertility . Skin , hair and eye color should match the patient 's husband as closely as possible , and their blood types should be compatible . The donor is asked to abstain from intercourse for two days , and then masturbate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specimen is examined microscopically to make sure that he has a good sperm sample and to make sure there are no bacteria such as gonorrhea in the specimen . The remainder is used for the insemination . The donor must always be anonymous . Occasionally the couple may request a particular donor , but many problems exist when the biological lather is known to the couple . In actuality , most donors turn out to be medical students or interns who are healthy and readily available in the medical community . Donors are paid for their Continued on page 126 Conceive continued from pate 112 services . Just as their identity is never revealed to the couple , the couple 's identity is never revealed to the donor . Pregnancy Rates With Artificial Insemination In most artificial insemination clinics , 90 percent of the women who eventually get pregnant do so within the first six months . This has led to the erroneous notion that if the woman is not pregnant within six months , it might be wise for her to give up , since she is not likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 80 percent will achieve pregnancy within one year , but very few pregnancies will occur after that . Because the majority of women become pregnant relatively soon , and the percentage of women who achieve pregnancy after six months is relatively small , many patients who are fertile ( and who should have a normal 20 percent expectation of pregnancy with each insemination ) are erroneously told that they might as well just give up and not go through the frustration of more failures . However , pregnancy rates with artificial insemination are as good as normally occurring pregnancy rates in an otherwise fertile population . Frozen Sperm and Sperm Banks All men dream from time to time about the possibility of immortality . Science-fiction novelists frequently toy with the idea of human beings being placed in a deep freeze just prior to the moment of death , to be revived perhaps 200 years later , at which time science may have better treatments for illnesses and a way of prolonging life indefinitely . Life is , in a sense , a series of chemical events proceeding irreversibly toward death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 400 ? . Thus if an organism can be placed in a deep freeze , it could be preserved until a future century and revived with subsequent warming . Of course , freezing large animals would kill them immediately because of damage created by crystallization of water within their cells during the freezing process . However , it has been known since 1776 that human sperm are remarkably resistant to the damaging effects of freezing . In that year , an Italian scientist exposed spermatozoa to freezing temperatures and noted that after warming , some of them regained their motility . A full 90 years later , another Italian scientist again demonstrated that human sperm can be frozen and survive thawing , and he speculated that in the future ( remember , this was in 1866 ) frozen semen might be used not only in breeding the finest farm animals , but for saving the sperm of a man going off to war so that his wife might have a legitimate child from him even though he died on the battlefield . Although these relatively crude early studies established that sperm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surviving was so small ( fewer than 10 percent ) that there was no possibility of practical application . But in 1949 , British scientists discovered completely by accident that if a relatively common chemical , glycerol , is added to the semen before it is frozen , the majority of the sperm survive freezing and thawing uneventfully . The researchers who made this discovery were so surprised to find live , healthy sperm in large concentrations after thawing that they had to go back to their laboratory shelf to find out which of the chemicals accidentally added to their sperm suspension was the one that protected the sperm against freezing . They finally discovered that it was glycerol . It took very little time after their remarkable discovery in 1949 for frozen-sperm banks to rapidly find acceptance in the field of cattle breeding , and today the vast majority of calves horn in the world are the result of artificial insemination from frozen bull semen . In 1953 , four years after this discovery , it was demonstrated that frozen and thawed human sperm could result in pregnancy and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established in 1954 . Doctors originally thought that , using this method of freezing sperm , a husband with a very low sperm count could have as many as 50 ejaculates frozen and stored for use in artificial insemination of the wife ; they hoped that with such a large number of sperm , the wife would be more likely to get pregnant . These hopes were dashed by the discovery that sperm from infertile men tolerate the freezing process very poorly . There is so much sperm death caused by freezing , even with glycerol , that a decent specimen could never be obtained for inseminating the wife . Doctors have since come to understand that some men 's sperm do tolerate freezing better than others . Even men whose sperm usually would freeze well will have variations from ejaculate to ejaculate . Sometimes their ejaculates freeze and thaw without any significant loss , and at other times , they freeze and thaw very poorly . The technique for freezing and storing the sperm is extremely simple . A fresh semen specimen is collected in a sterile container , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volume of the specimen , are added to the jar . This mixture is then drawn up into a straw . The specimen is held over the vapors of liquid nitrogen to freeze it , and it is then inserted into the liquid nitrogen bath for permanent storage . When the time comes to thaw the frozen sperm , the plastic straw is simply removed from the liquid nitrogen bath and either placed in warm water for one minute or left on a table at room temperature to thaw . Although some doctors report no loss of viability of sperm for a period of at least 10 years in liquid nitrogen , others have demonstrated a definite though slow loss of fertility in an increasing percentage of the samples after three years of storage . If the patient 's sperm tolerate a rapid freeze-thaw test well , then most of his samples , though not all of them , are Continued on following page likely to survive well for at least three years in liquid nitrogen . There have been births of normal children from sperm that have been stored more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than the rule . The major benefit of sperm-banking at the present stage of our knowledge is to create easier and more convenient programs of artificial insemination in cases where the husband 's infertility is not treatable . The ability of sperm freezing to preserve our genes indefinitely , for use at a future date , is presently limited to the few lucky individuals whose sperm freezes and stores consistently well . Artificial Insemination of the Husband 's Sperm Many doctors have tried to increase the chances of pregnancy in a woman whose husband has a very low sperm count by placing his semen directly on her cervix . Unfortunately , many studies by doctors around the country have shown that , except in certain special cases , this approach is no better than natural intercourse for getting the wife pregnant and certainly is less enjoyable . Of the sperm deposited in the vagina , 99.9 percent never reach the uterus . Therefore , a number of gynecologists have attempted to solve the problem of low sperm counts by introducing the sperm directly into the woman 's uterus , eliminating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Northern Ireland have reported a 38 percent pregnancy rate in wives of men with sperm counts under 10 million sperm per cc . This approach is potentially dangerous . Only a small volume of semen can be instilled into the uterus safely . If the entire ejaculate were to be instilled into the uterus , it would cause severe cramps and a very painful reaction . Despite these difficulties , the idea of instilling sperm directly into the uterus to overcome the cervical barrier sounds like an attractive concept . Conclusion Naturally , most couples prefer to have a baby conceived with sperm from the husband . But this is impossible for some couples when the husband 's infertility can not be cured by surgery or medication . For them , artificial insemination with donor spermoffers hope for a healthy family . The legal and moral problems associated with artificial insemination have , for the most part , vanished . Literally tens of thousands of babies have been born in this country alone by artificial insemination . This method of impregnation may be a second choice , but children born by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and are integrated into the family as closely as any routinely conceived biological child . A Medical Mailbox continued from page 124 terest to vegetarians , including the observation that the bowels of people who eat meat contain greater amounts of mutagenic substances than do the bowels of those who abstain from eating meat . Also cited were observations that the intestinal bacterial flora of meat eaters include certain species that interfere with so-called glucuronide linkages necessary to complete the excretion of estrogen delivered to the gut in bile . It is theorized by some that such " unlinked " estrogens are reabsorbed in the large bowel of meat eaters , a circumstance leading possibly to higher estrogen levels and a greater chance of cancer-producing effects . A Nathaniel Crosby continued from page 114 Nate today . " But just because someone is n't invited this year , it does n't mean they 're banned forever from the tournament . " And as Crosby has matured , he 's taken on greater responsibility in his host role . " He had to grow up quickly when he realized that , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Durein . " But he 's shown poise and class . And I ca n't think of a single time he 's stubbed his toe . " Speaking of class , Crosby is now a junior at the University of Miami , a school he chose in part to be close to Toney Penna , a famed golf-club designer and teacher . But while college life for most students is beer , books and frisbees , for Nathaniel it is an off-campus apartment , weekend golf lessons and occasional trips to play in tournaments . " We have trouble finding him half the time , " chuckles an employee of the school 's sports-information department . Still , Crosby manages a B average and is majoring in political science . And though the classifieds list few positions for political scientists , he 's put getting a degree as his top priority . As for professional golf , " In a couple years , my game will let me know if I can make it , " he says . On the university team , Crosby usually plays in the No. 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collegiate standout . " I did n't know he could play that well until the U.S. Amateur last year , " says Ver Brugge . " I 've never seen him so pumped up or show so many emotions . But he showed great determination in match play . " The U.S. Amateur win has brought Crosby automatic invitations to several major golf tournaments , including the U.S. Open and the Masters . " It has been a dream of mine to play in those tournaments , " says Crosby . " But I think I 've been intimidated by some of the Tour events I 've played in so far . " Still , these events , approached properly , can only serve to elevate his level of skill . There is some pressure on him to succeed , this child of Bing . But he diffuses such matters with humor . " My father was successful , my mother ( an actress ) is successful and so is my brother Harry . My sister even shot J.R . I had to win the U.S. Amateur . " So he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his father 's  --  no , make that his  --  tournament , is bringing Nathaniel Crosby out from under the long shadow of Bing . Although the kid may not be able to sing a lick , the old crooner could never play golf as well as his son has . Nate is indeed going his own way , noon doubt about it . But it is a direction in which his father would be most pleased . A                     