@@494008

Who Is Afraid ? The editors of the New York Times believe that if the Soviets invade Poland , they will do so because they are afraid . That 's one way of looking at it Of course , the Russians do fear the spread of the Polish example . But if the Soviets invade Poland , they will do so precisely because they are not afraid , and because they believe that an invasion will gain them more than it will lose . The debit side , to be sure , would not be inconsequential . There would be , for example , the tremendous price of floating the Polish economy and preventing or relieving the imminent winter famine . But their reckoning is not a bookkeeper 's calculation , the sort one expects from a conservative and cautious , even tired , leadership , which the Cyrus Vances of our diplomatic establishment so sagely have reassured us has been at the helm in Moscow for years . Already the massive military maneuvers on the Polish borders , the orchestration of hostile propaganda from Warsaw Pact capitals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same places evoke a criminal daring on the part of Russia 's ruling elite . This daring is altoPether alien to the sort of prudence which , it was said , had come to characterize our partners in detente . It is not different from the daring that struck down the drives for freedom in Hungary in 1956 ( in Poland then , too ) and in Czechoslovakia in 1968 . At this late date , the Soviets should not have been capable of such daring . Foe 63 years , their society has suffered an encroaching desert of economic backwardness and primitive social conditions , as measured by infant mortality , life expectancy , the reappearance of dormant diseases at home , and the failure of the export model to produce either goods or a good life . But the American responses first to Angola , then to Ethiopia , and lastly and mostly to the Russian engineered putsch , the subsequent invasion , and the ongoing military occupation of Afghanistan have taught the Soviets that daring may not be required to get what they want . The US may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race ? a reckless and self-defeating reaction ? but it will do nothing that is politically effective and difficult , or economically costly . Yes , the Soviets will suffer an assault of Western opprobrium if they move batallions across the Polish frontiers , and possibly even the suspension of trade and credits . But they wo n't experience these for long ? not given the cupidity of the multinational banks and corporations , which probably would prefer the stability imposed by the boots of the Red Army to the contingent chaos inherent in the freedoms sought by workers spontaneously ( and in a Catholic country almost mystically ) joined in Solidarity . They can hope that with the Russians running Poland , there would be some postponement of demands for rescheduling of Poland 's $24 billion foreign debt . This subject has been the prime obsession of the financial press since the initial strikes in Gdansk , an accurate enough reflection of advanced capitalism 's tendency to equate national interests with pecuniary ones- No , the Kremlin is not paralyzed by the fear of political discomfort . It survived the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , thank you . Condemnation by the Islamic Conference after the Afghan enormity of last Christmas has not impeded Soviet relationships with the PLO , Algeria , Libya , South Yemen , Syria , Syria 's enemy Iraq , or even Iraq 's enemy Iran . If anything , these precedents may suggest to the Russians that boldness , however cruel , exacts respect , however grudging . The world 's acquiescence in the virtual annexation of Afghanistan to the USSR must have been especially encouraging for those who planned the adventure . For this Soviet move south toward the Gulf was not in that curious jurisdiction recognized as the Russian sphere of influence , lines hitherto scrupulously respected in Moscow as defining the limits of direct intervention . Afghanistan had been outside the Soviet sphere of influence , but now it is fallen to the Russian bear ? not quite without protest , but altogether without intercession . In these very days , Indira Gandhi is entertaining Comrade Brezhnev in the hope that his avarice for chunks of central Asia is sated . Well , some cynics say , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so we 'll not leave them to grim destiny . A feW say that and mean it . More say so and do n't mean it . Others do n't say so at all , saying instead cool and dispassionate and callous things , admittedly " difficult for people emotionally committed to free dom . " Willy Brandt , for example , last week in Wash ington trotted out the argument from spheres of interest , not to defend Afghanistan from the Soviets but to betray Poland to them . It all goes back to Yalta , he reminded his listeners , and in one short press con ference casually conceded what liberals , under pres sure from the historical revision of the right , had been stoutly denying about the meaning of FDR 's last con cessions to Stalin . Now here 's a man who takes his osfpolitik seriously : in an uncanny echoing of Tess and Pravda , Brandt urged the West to let Poland and Rossi resolve their " internal problems " internally . We 'd already agreed to do that , he said , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . So those who argued then that recognition of Moscow 's postwar conquests was simply perfunctory now urge that it binds us to complicity in whatever Moscow wants , however Moscow wants it . And the compensating " basket " of human rights , which the Soviet Union had accepted as norms for itself , in an ostensible break with the routines of oppression , now turn out to be just that -- norms , like the Ten Commandments , consistently violated and traduced . It may be that Helsinki 's Basket Three gave hope to imprisoned souls everywhere . It also made for thrilling rhetoric subsequently in Belgrade and Madrid . What it did not do was open the doors of emigration , reunite families , empty the mental hospitals of political prisoners , end the practice of enforced internal exile to forsaken and isolated places , allow information and opinion to be exchanged freely , curtail systematic and official anti-Semitism or discrimination against other national minorities and religious groups , or reinstate dismissed dissidents to their jobs . The litany of violations by the Soviet Union and its satellites of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this becomes vivid to us in the West because the victim is some eminent figure like Andrei Sakharov , whose prominence makes him visible even through the curtains obscuring communist reality . But the reality is most grim for the nameless ones , in the millions , whose heroism is in surviving and who know that fear should not be a way of life . The other aspects of the Helsinki Agreement have fared rather better than the human rights provisions , and none more so than those encouraging East-West trade . The web of commercial arrangements that has grown since Helsinki shows the structural flaws of that agreement . The political , economic , and human rights components of the accords were supposed to reinforce each other . Instead the financial nexus has taken on a logic of its own , buttressing whatever politcal arrangements the powers can impose and battering those human rights the people have been promised . After Afghanistan it could n't have been more obvious , The US effort to organize a Western Alliance grain and high-technology boycott of the Soviet Union foundered on the rock @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profits of this trade with the countries of the communist bloc may turn out to be more illusory than real , with Western borrowings of extortionate and recycled petrodollars being repaid in much devalued currency . It 's the dream that counts , and the dream that mesmerizes . In any event , our own policy of embargo was scarcely consistent or exemplary . When the Japanese and Canadians made it clear late last month that they were giving up the pretense of being associated with the embargo , we long ago had made it a near-hollow shell ourselves . Not till Soviet troops were poised to strike on the Polish borders did the Carter administration act to restrain the Dresser Industries oil equipment deal with the USSR . By then the work was all but completed , and allot the familiar old saws could be invoked : they 'll finish the project anyway by themselves or with our competitors ; canceling it will cause more unemployment in America ; it 's unfair to punish lust one company ; and so on . Lest anyone think that the flaccidness of US @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credible Ronald Reagan 's hard line must seem , both to our friends and to the Russians , when viewed in the context of his extreme solicitude for American farmers and his opposition to withholding grain from the Soviet aggressor . So business goes on as usual . On the very day that the Polish government was being particularly heavy-handed in trying to intimidate the rebellious workers , the European Economic Commission announced its intention to sell cut-rate beef and butter to Warsaw , even though the Poles have refused to recognize the Community , insisting that it is somehow just another consortium of imperialists . The East Germans , who in recent weeks have intensified repression in their own country and intensified pressure on Poland , have proven that such behavior carries little risk to what they see as thew chosen ofeutak ? es . They have ' watt ! , to Prove , as the London Financial Times put it , that the regime of Erich Honecker can " exclude trade between the two Germanies from the current freeze in politicalrelations . " And what company is theinstrument fo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . appropriate : it 's Friedrich Krupp Industries of Essen which will be building a new advanced technology power plant for the East Germans . Add to these and other entanglements the fresh dependence of Western Europe and Japan on Soviet gas ? to the extent of roughly 30 percent of their needs ? and You have a situation in which virtually ' no Soviet provocation could elicit anything remotely like a meaningful protest or retribution from the West . One understandable response to these developments is to pretend that manifestations of the Soviet Union 's advantage and confidence are actually manifestations of its insecurity . Secretary of State Muskie , for example , in what turned out to be only the first in a series of post-election valedictories , announced that the Soviet Union was seeking " a face-saving way out of Afghanistan. - Almost as if to ridicule his wishful thinking , the Soviets promptly launched another big offensive , bombed defenseless villages , reported record kill ratios , and increased the number of their troops in the country . This did n't even ignite Muskie 's legendary temper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ed , skis , llNivas- " mi edlidnam - This latter kind of action , we now should make clear to the Russians and to our allies , does not exhaust possible responses by the US to further Soviet aggression . Moscow should begin to fear for supply routes to its vulnerable clients , particularly to Cuba . And the Europeans should know it would not be without cost to them were they to try to undercut American economic measures against a USSR that has invaded Poland : a French plane that lands in Leningrad under certain circumstances may be denied the right to land in Chicago . What can we hope for Poland ? Certainly that the Soviets do not invade and flood the country in blood . But much as it would not be for us to counsel the Poles in bravery , it 's not for us to counsel them in timidity or even in restraint , The struggle against the Soviet heel is one we 've decided against , but they live under it and not us . For years they have lived according to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , exile , and cunning . " They now may be eager to confront the brute directly , goad him on , and lay the truth of his rule out for all to see . And perhaps , by so doing , they may move closer in some way to defeating him and ending his terror . We should not dishonor their struggle by pretending it is against something more manageable and less onerous than those who experience it think it is . In a moving memoir of his own ideological journey , In Quest ( Columbia University Press ) , the democratic radical sociologist and historian Sigmund Diamond recounts a conversation with a Polish intellectual in Krakow : " As for the United States , you are a great people , a generous people , but why are you so naive and gullible ? How can you take Helsinki seriously ? " That is a query that should haunt us for years .                     