@@330266

Early one morning late last week a band of South African army commandos moved furtively through the streets of Gaborone , Botswana 's capital , five miles from the South African border . Spreading out in small groups through the city of 60,000 , they struck at nine homes and an office , ripping through doors and windows with automatic-rifle fire and hand grenades . Their targets : members of the African National Congress , the main guerrilla organization opposed to South Africa 's policy of apartheid . According to the South Africans , the 35- min. attack left 13 ANC guerrillas dead . At least two other people also died , according to authorities in Botswana , including a six-year-old girl and a Dutch social worker . <P> The attack came less than a month after nine South African commandos were ambushed , and one captured , during a clandestine foray into Angola . It showed South Africa 's determination to continue hitting foreign ANC bases , even in nominally friendly countries like Botswana , in defiance of international opinion . Already angered by the Angola raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ambassador Herman Nickel home for " consultations , " a gesture intended to show extreme displeasure . State Department Spokesman Bernard Kalb declared that the two incidents raised " the most serious questions " about South Africa 's recent actions . The U.S. response , the angriest since Ronald Reagan became President , could be a sign that the Administration is responding to domestic pressure to take a tougher stand on South Africa . Both the House and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee have called for economic sanctions against the country . <P> General Constand Viljoen , head of the South African Defense Force , accused the ANC of carrying out dozens of terrorist acts in South Africa from bases in Botswana . He said the organization was planning an assassination campaign against government officials and black and mixed-race moderates . The South African raid resembled a 1982 attack on ANC bases in Lesotho and later operations against guerrillas in Mozambique . South African officials contend that the guerrillas regrouped in Botswana and Angola after being driven from Mozambique , Swaziland and Lesotho . Foreign Minister Roelof ( " Pik " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about harboring terrorists . " We will not allow ourselves to be attacked with impunity , " he declared . <P> Botswana rejected South African claims that the dead were ANC guerrillas , referring to them instead as " South African refugees . " It has accused South Africa of trying to bring pressure on Botswana to sign a formal nonaggression treaty similar to the ones it now has with Swaziland and Mozambique . Last week 's raid also appeared to be designed to cause maximum embarrassment to the ANC just before the organization 's planned weekend " summit " meeting at an undisclosed location in southern Africa , where the rebels were expected to plan their future campaign against the South African government .                     