@@334142

Journalese , the native tongue of newsgatherers and pundits , retains a faint similarity to English but is actually closer to Latin . Like Latin , it is primarily a written language , prized for its incantatory powers , and is best learned early , while the mind is still supple . Every cub reporter , for instance , knows that fires rage out of control , minor mischief is perpetrated by Vandals ( never Visigoths , Franks or a single Vandal working alone ) and key labor accords are hammered out by weary negotiators in marathon , round-the- clock bargaining sessions , thus narrowly averting threatened walkouts . The discipline required for a winter storm report is awesome . The first reference to seasonal precipitation is " snow , " followed by " the white stuff , " then either " it " or " the flakes , " but not both . The word snow may be used once again toward the end of the report , directly after discussion of ice-slicked roads and the grim highway toll . <P> Every so often , an inexperienced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or " impressive . " This is incorrect . In journalese , all homes are either modest or stately . When confronted with a truly ramshackle fixer-upper , knowing scribes will deflect attention to the surrounding area , describing the residence as " off the beaten track " or " in a developing area , " that is , a slum . Distaste for the suburbs is conveyed by mentioning " trimmed lawns and neat flower beds , " thus artfully suggesting both compulsiveness and a high level of intolerance for life in its hearty , untrimmed state . <P> Journalese is rich in mystic nouns : gentrification , quichification , greenmail , dealignment , watershed elections and apron strings ( the political coattails of a female candidate ) . But students of the language agree that adjectives do most of the work , smuggling in actual information under the guise of normal journalism . Thus the use of soft-spoken ( mousy ) , loyal ( dumb ) , high-minded ( inept ) , hardworking ( plodding ) , self-made ( crooked ) and pragmatic ( totally immoral ) . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described as a fierce competitor or gut fighter , and a meddler who can not leave his subordinates alone is a hands-on executive . When strung together properly , apparently innocent modifiers can acquire megaton force . For instance , a journalist may write , " A private , deliberate man , Frobisher dislikes small talk , but can be charming when he wants to . " In translation this means , " An antisocial , sullen plodder , Frobisher is obnoxious and about as articulate as a cantaloupe . " The familiar phrase " can be charming " is as central to good journalese as " affordable " is to automobile ads and " excellence " is to education reports . It indicates that Frobisher 's charm production is a rare result of mighty exertion , yet it manages to end the revelation about his dismal character on an upbeat note .                     