@@494339

Are the Sandinistas serious ? That 's the question of the day in Central America . For the past several weeks ? come to think of it , ever since the American invasion of Grenada ? they have been running around doing conciliatory things . The list is long and unimpressive : ( 1 . ) They have been sending Cubans home in droves , although it 's not clear whether these Cubans were teaching Nicaraguans how to read or how to fire an AK47 , or whether they were return ? ing home on their regular Christmas rotation . ( 2 . ) The Sandinistas have ostentatiously told some Salvadoran guerrilla leaders to set up headquarters elsewhere , al ? though it is not clear whether the infrastructure of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front has really had to evacuate Managua . ( 3 . ) They have made a conciliatory gesture to the Church , though it was " an exchange of views , nothing more , " according to Reverend Bismarck Carballo , the spokesman for the Church hierarchy ; as for government censorship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday mass , " There has been no progress on any of these points , " Reverend Carballo says . ( Even more disturbing is the fact that the Sandinista leadership ever sought to suppress the Church , the most powerful institution in Nicaragua and at first sympathetic to the revolution ; it is an index of how intent the top leadership has been upon controlling any possible rival center of power. ) ( 4 . ) Censorship on La Prensa has been relaxed , though there has been no real extension of free ? dom of the press ; La Prensa remains the last independent source of news in the country . ( 5 . ) The government an ? nounced that it was pardoning all Miskito Indians convict ? ed of political offenses , and claimed that it had released 307 from prison . But according to officials of the Independ ent Permanent Commission for Human Rights , no list of those freed has been issued , and religious workers in the Miskito area believe other Miskitos remain in jail despite the decree . " Speaking conservatively , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who have never seen a judge , " said Marta Patricia 13altodano , na ? tional coordinator of the commission . ( 6 . ) The government offered to antigovernment guerrillas amnesty and a resto ? ration of the right to vote and to be elected , but made sure to exclude all but the humblest contra foot soldier , which makes the amnesty very partial , and the part about " the right to be elected " empty . As you can see , we 're skeptical . Others are not . The Boston Globe , for example , has decided that " heeding ad ? vice from Fidel Castro and warnings from Mexico and other Latin American democracies as well as the European states , the Sandinistas have shown that they are ready to accept nonalignment and pluralism in order to preserve their revolution . " Pluralism ? A junta holds a monopoly of power and rules by decree . Some of these decrees give the appearance of moderating repression of formerly inde ? pendent , in some cases revolutionary , sectors of society . These measures are characterized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declares itself to be an act of " revolu ? tionary generosity ( by the Junta of the National Recon ? struction Government . " ) When that happens in Chile it 's not called pluralism , and rightly so . It is no less so in Nicaragua . Pluralism means a dispersion of power . The Sandinistas announced that on February 21 they will announce the date for national elections in 1985 . There has been no indication that they will be willing to cede any power in these elections ? which is what real , as opposed to sham , elections are about ? or that opposition groups will be per ? mitted adequate access to media and other resources nec ? essary to ensure a fair competition . Until that is made clear , talk of pluralism is premature . Those who talk of the virtues of real power-sharing in places like Beirut and San Salvador might pause a bit before declaring these at-best ambiguous Sandinista promises to be proof of pluralism . As for nonalignment , Managua proposes to send home foreign military advisers and reduce outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This is not quite as equitable a deal as it appears . The Sandinista Army is by far the largest and most powerful in the region . It is a threat to all of its neighbors , not only Honduras and El Salvador , but Costa Rica too . And how would with ? drawal of Nicaraguan and Cuban support to the guerrillas in El Salvador be verified ? The Sandinistas deny giving any support in the first place . American support for the regime in El Salvador is official and verifiable , and its withdrawal would almost certainly mean military victory for the left . IN SHORT , what has come out of Managua in the last 1 several weeks are good signs . But good only in relation to the previous situation : suppression of the Church , re pression of the opposition , severe strictures on the press , and war on the Miskito Indians . The direction of move ? ment is good , but the distance thus far traveled minimal . And they are still only signs . The announcements have been made with great publicity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the government refuses to provide a list of people that it 's holding , or even to say how many prisons there are and where they are located , " according to officials of the Independent Permanent Commission for Human Rights , what exactly does amnesty , let alone plu ? ralism or nonalignment , mean ? Are the Sandinistas serious ? The most that we can say now is that they are scared . The carrot held out by Presi ? dent Carter failed to moderate their drive toward a one-party state ; the verbal stick employed by the Reagan Ad ? ministration for the first year or so appears only to have accelerated that drive ; the recent two-by-four of guerrilla war , American troops in Honduras , and the invasion of Grenada appears to have gotten their attention . A wise policy now for the United States would be to keep it and test it . That makes for a two-track policy . First , apply the pres ? sure that brought them to their current conciliatory mood . This is no time to let up . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Are they truly ready to trade the Salva ? doran revolution for their own ? Are they willing to abide by the Contadora principles of noninterference and nonin ? tervention in the affairs of their neighbors ? Not only has the regime in Managua been supporting ( and denying its support of ) the insurgency in El Salvador , it has been stirring up trouble in Honduras and even in Costa Rica . Last month a column of a hundred guerrillas trained andsent from Nicaragua moved across the border to begin a guerrilla war in Honduras . A remarkably successful Hon ? duran Army operation completely destroyed this unit . But the demonstration of Nicaragua 's potential for mischief in the area was unmistakable . Testing the intentions of the Sandinistas means more than merely accepting a promise of nonintervention or nonalignment . It means pressing in any negotiation with the Sandinistas ? and now is the time to begin negotiat ? ing ? for true pluralism within the country . Opening up the political system in Nicaragua is not merely a good in itself ; it is the only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitments . Given Nicaragua 's regional activities , given the history elsewhere of Leninist prom ? ises of noninterference and nonaggression in the affairs of neighbors , one has reason to doubt that an agreement signed with such a regime will last beyond the current emergency . The best guarantee for nonaggression is the presence within the Nicaraguan government of elements who have no interest in spreading subversion . Pluralism in Nicaragua would not only be good for Nicaragua , it would be good for all of Central America . It would be the only reliable guarantor of nonintervention . Which is why the proposal made by a group of Nicara ? guan rebel leaders meeting in early December with Special Envoy Richard Stone in Panama is a good one . They de ? clared their willingness to enter into negotiations with the government for free elections and an open political sys ? tem . If they are willing to stand for elections , why are n't the Sandinistas ? Particularly since the Sandinistas ( and American political pilgrims like Senator Paul Tsongas ) re ? peatedly tell us that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If these rebels are indeed Somocistas , they should n't stand a chance in any open electoral contest . As expected , the Managua regime rejected out of hand the suggestion of negotiations . Foreign Minister Miguel d'Escoto said , We want to talk to the puppeteers , not the puppets . " Mere dependence on foreign assistance seems to us not to delegitimize a guerrilla movement . ( If so , the National Liberation Front in South Vietnam should never have been allowed to a negotiating table . ) Nor is it true that the guerrilla leaders who met with Mr. Stone are all Somocistas . No doubt there are former guardsmen in the military command of the major group , the F.D.N. , but it is hard to level the charge of Somocismo against another group , M3 ( the Third Way ) , led by a former Sandinista agriculture minister ; or at the Miskito Indians , one of the groups to join the call for elections and pluralism . The Sandinistas object that the revolution is irreversible . We should be willing to grant that principle immediately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ortega has the right to claim , " la revolution c'est rnoi . " The revolution may be irreversible , but the same should not be said of a one-party state ; or repression of Church , press , and political opposition ; or Committees for the Defense of the Revolution on every block . It is also important to remember that the kind of democ racy and pluralism demanded by the guerrillas is not a North American import . What is being demanded is pre ? cisely the promise of democracy and pluralism made by the Sandinistas before they achieved power , and which they have systematically betrayed . This is the age of two-track policies : pressure and nego ? tiation . Our hope is that this Administration , which has certainly not labored under any illusions that negotiation is enough , will similarly not succumb to the illusion that pressure is enough . Even the C.I.A . concludes that the guerrilla armies are in no position to overthrow the San ? dinistas . Unless the Administration is prepared to engage the United States in a brutal , bloody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is no alternative to a policy of negotiation and pressure . And to negotiate a settlement which yields a more plural and open Nicaraguan society is infinitely pref ? erable to an American-backed regime fighting Sandinistas in the hills , which would be the likely and terrible outcome of even a successful one-track military policy . A PARALLEL POLICY in El Salvador has also attempt ? ed to keep itself on two tracks : military support for the government , and American pressure for economic and social reforms and human rights improvements . With President Reagan 's pocket veto of the requirement that every six months the Administration certify human rights improvements in El Salvador , one of those tracks has been abruptly lost . This development will not only be a great blow to the victims of human rights abuses in El Salvador ( see " Behind the Death Squads , " by Christopher Dickey , TNR , December 26 ) ; it is a threat to El Salvador itself and to American hopes for the country . The loss of any instrument to restrain the brutal death squads in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tion protests that it has made its unhappiness with the death squads extremely evident , with tough statements from Undersecretary of Defense Fred Ikle ( one of the staunchest supporters of current policy in El Salvador ) , from Deputy Secretary of State Kenneth Dam , from the new U.S. ambassador , Thomas Pickering . And the State Department spokesman who explained why Roberto d'Aubuisson was refused a visa to the United States ( in an evenhanded gesture to balance the banning of one of the Sandinista leaders , Tomas Borge ) for the first time explicit ? ly referred to his involvement with death squads . Nonetheless , certification was an additional form of pressure , and now it is gone . It was perhaps the worst mechanism for exerting pressure on the Administration , but it was better than any of the rest . It was the worst because it allowed Congress to snipe at Administration policy without taking responsibility for the consequences of its own opposition . Thus critics protested that the Ad ? ministration was disingenuously claiming at previous cer ? tification sessions that progress was being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then have been prepared for the total cutoff of aid that is required by the legislation ? Would they be prepared to accept responsibility for the consequences of such an action , including a leftist take ? over ? And what of the human rights situation then ? Expe ? rience in Vietnam and elsewhere gives us little reason to believe that such an outcome makes for improvement in human rights . Still , this kind of pressure is better than the rest , because the threat of cutting off aid is one of the few types of persuasion to which Mr. d'Aubuisson and his gang are susceptible . Officially renouncing the threat sends an unfortunate signal . Secretary of State George Shultz has admitted that he would not have been able to certify improvements in hu ? man rights at the next scheduled session in January . There has been an increase in death squad killings in the last few months . If the legislation had not been vetoed , and Secre ? tary Shultz was not able to certify improvements in human rights , he would have had only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the government in El Salvador , or to invoke the national security waiver which forces the United States to admit that for geopolitical reasons it no longer binds itself to human rights criteria . That , in effect , is what Mr. Schultz has done . Yet alternatives are not easy to devise . More pressure on the government , yes . More attempts to undercut Mr. d'Aubuisson and prevent his accession to power in the coming election , yes . But the only real an ? swer to political murder in El Salvador is an American takeover of the government . To do in El Salvador what we did with the thugs in Grenada : seize the country and throw them out . Who 's for that ? It would be best to remind the Salvadorans every six months that they may lose everything ? meaning their critical American support ? if they continue to permit death squads to operate . Even without such a threat , it is obvious that the more such killings continue , the less chance there is for any center to form , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The government is losing the war with the guerrillas on the left and with the killers on the right . We may soon be relieved of our moral dilem ? mas about saving such a government . There may soon be nothing left to save .                     