@@334641

" Affection without any ambivalence , " rhapsodized Sigmund Freud , " a feeling of close relationship , of undeniably belonging together . " He was speaking not of mothers or even of psychoanalysts but about Jo-fi , his pet dog . Americans understand . An estimated 52 million dogs reside in U.S. homes . Also 56 million cats , 45 million birds , 250 million fish and 125 million other assorted creatures . Yet despite the antiquity and ubiquity of the human-animal bond , neither Freud nor anyone else has shed much scientific light on the phenomenon . " Animals are so taken for granted , " says Alan Beck , director of the University of Pennsylvania 's Center for the Interaction of Animals and Society . " We have the gut feeling they 're good for you , but how they 're good and what can be done with that , we do n't know . " Now things are beginning to change . A variety of health professionals have started to assess rigorously pets ' impact on physical and mental health . Meanwhile , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not much care about cool science but are warmly grateful for what amounts to animal therapy . A groundbreaking study came in 1980 , when researchers from the Universities of Maryland and Pennsylvania reported on the survival rate of 92 patients with serious heart trouble . Of the 39 without pets , eleven were dead within a year . The remaining 53 had animals ranging from an iguana and Bantams to the typical cats , dogs and fish ; just three of those patients died . The results were not due to increased exercise , like walking a dog . Even owning fish proved a boon . Later research provided a partial explanation : an animal 's presence helps lower blood pressure and reduce stress . <P> More recent studies suggest other pluses . In a 1984 Philadelphia study of patients about to undergo dental surgery , some were hypnotized , others were told to look at an aquarium full of fish , and the rest sat quietly for 20 minutes . The first two groups experienced the least discomfort . Surprisingly , watching fish was as effective as being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mystery . Psychiatrist Aaron Katcher of the University of Pennsylvania speculates that stroking animals and talking to them stimulates &lt; the brain 's production of its pleasure chemicals , the endorphins . <P> Psychological benefits have also been documented . Troubled teenagers , for example , are more likely to open up when a therapist brings a dog along . Carol Antoinette Peacock , a psychologist in Watertown , Mass. , starts treatment of new adolescent patients with an introduction to her dog Toffy . " It helps them to trust me , " says Peacock , who finds that patients sometimes express their feelings through the animal . " They 'll say , ' Your dog looks pretty sad , ' meaning ' I 'm pretty sad . ' "                     