@@487681

Dorothy Day , founder of the Catholic Worker movement , frequently traveled with Mary Heaton Vorse to the scenes of strikes and labor protests . She remembered Vorse as being valiant in the cause of the workers but never free from the need to help " support her children and her children 's children . " These two imperatives of Vorse 's life ? her devotion to her work and her struggle to respond to the needs of her family  --  more often than not incompatible , shape Dee Garrison 's extensive and well-researched biography . The extent is dictated by the length and remarkable activism of Vorse 's life . Born to a well-to-do family in Amherst , Massachusetts , in 1874 , Vorse worked as a writer and advocate for justice through the 1950s . She engaged in " her last campaign " at the age of 91 , supporting a young clergyman who was one of the first to protest the Vietnam War . Vorse died in 1966 in Provincetown , in the house she had bought in 1907 and that had provided a quiet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With her first husband , Bert Vorse , Mary Heaton Vorse was the earliest of the New Yorkers to come to Province-town . The town 's subsequent fame as a center for bohemian culture and the arts is in many ways traceable to her . As Garrison points out , Vorse is most often remembered not for the large and imCarol Hurd Green is Associate Dean of Arts and Sciences at Boston College and co-editor of Notable American Women : The Modern Period ( Harvard University Press ) . standing of her characters ' crotchets , motives and ideas , and a different , layered treatment of their development . Were Drabble to sink within the experience of her characters as they evolved , she also might be less ticked off about her job . Who , after all , wants to keep on polishing that same unrelievedly expansive surface ? For Drabble , down could be the way out . ? portant body of her writing but because the Provincetown Players had their beginnings on her dock . She was rarely in Provincetown , however : In her 80s , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make sense of it , she ruefully noted the long periods of time when she was far from home . Baptized into the labor movement by the Lawrence textile strike in 1912 , she became a faithful convert and increasingly prominent spokesperson for workers struggling for justice . Vorse had gone to Lawrence with Joe O'Brien , a lively , passionate socialist whom she married that year . ( Bert Vorse had died in 1910 , on the same day as her mother , while Vorse was on her first European assignment as a journalist ; the marriage had long been troubled . ) In Lawrence she met Elizabeth Gurley Flynn , Carlo Tres-ca and Bill Haywood , responded to the sense of community among workers and found a way to orient her life : The " new career of labor reporter was born at Lawrence . " Vorse was " too critical to believe in a perfect society and too comfortable to accept the life of a union organizer , " Garrison notes . In addition , her " choices were severely restricted by the need to care for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one thing . She could try to make others as angry as she was . " Joe O'Brien died in 1915 , once more leaving Vorse a widow without financial resources and now responsible for three children . ( She was in her 60s before all of her children were self-supporting , a somber thought in these days of late parenthood . ) Frequently away from them on assignments , always placating live-in nurses , she felt guilty but also exhilarated by her work and by her roles : as the " foremost pioneer of labor journalism , " an international correspondent and a " distinguished novelist , " as a local paper described her when she arrived in Pottsville , Pennsylvania , to involve herself in the Amalgamated Clothing Workers ' organizing drive . Moving away from the liberalism of her background , Vorse embraced political and cultural radicalism and aligned herself with feminist causes and groups . She loved to defy convention . She was a member of Heterodoxy , that remarkable group of Greenwich Village women leaders who gathered to affirm a prophetic feminism and to support one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on relief efforts , she " scandalized " the city , according to the manager of the Red Cross office there , by chain-smoking in public and addressing revolutionary meetings . She " actually ate with a fork in one hand and a cigarette in the other , " he reported indignantly . Early introduced to the Village gospel of sexual freedom , she enjoyed affairs and flirtations . Usually in charge of such matters , she suffered deeply from her rejection by Robert Minor , the radical political cartoonist and organizer . She had delighted in Minor 's vitality and devotion to work : Never before had she " met anyone .. . who seemed as unafraid of life as I. " Pregnant by him at 47 , she suffered a miscarriage just before he announced that he was leaving her . Morphine was part of the prescribed treatment ; it led to a tragic addiction and a " smashup , " from which she was long in recovering . Minor 's involvement with the Communist Party brought Vorse under increasing suspicion and surveillance during the Red Scare of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Garrison defends Vorse against the charges of Stalinism leveled at her by many on the socialist left , but she is ambivalent about her political judgment . Vorse 's views would have seemed " uninformed and utopian " to either the " great Allied leaders " or the " great Marxist rulers . " Her " social thought , in 1919 as for the rest of her life , had carried her into the no man 's land of political philosophy cordoned off and marked ' effeminate , " visionary , " unrealistic . ' " Garrison 's devotion to the task of bringing to Vorse the historical attention she deserves falters when she can not praise . Later in the book , describing Vorse in a lonely old age , she quotes without comment an unpleasant assessment by Ann Craton Blankenhorn , who had worked with Vorse in Pottsville : Mary had lived too long , she was " petulant , nervous , and poor . . . . I have decided she has no inner life . " While Garrison 's account of Murray Kempton 's positive assessment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure a response , her reluctance to make analytical judgments leaves the reader puzzled . Dee Garrison sees Vorse 's disappearance from history as a direct result of the effects of sexism and the cold war , and she makes a good case for Vorse 's importance as a pioneering feminist and labor journalist . Vorse was everywhere from 1912 on : reporting on significant strikes , from the Mesabi Range in 1916 and the tragedy of the 1919 steel strike ( in which she was deeply involved ) to Passaic in 1926 and Gastonia in 1929 . She was with fellow journalist and novelist Josephine Herbst at Flint in 1937 and at the scene of other C.I.O. organizing struggles . She was on the Peace Ship with Jane Addams in 1915 , she reported on the rise of Hitler in the 1930s and she was " perhaps the oldest official American war correspondent in World War II . " She also published large numbers of stories , most of them " lollypops " to earn money , most concerned with the plight of the modern woman confined ( as her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's biography is also a survey of the history of American social movements in the twentieth century . That is both a reason to read the book and a reason for some of its shortcomings . While she documents the tensions and tragedies of Vorse 's long career , Garrison does not in the end bring her subject fully to life . She too often paraphrases Vorse when we need to hear her words directly . The problem may lie in the subject : The central importance of Vorse 's life is in her presence at so many of the important events of her lifetime and the sympathetic and effective accounts she provided of them . It is difficult to turn that history into biography . ?                     