@@492038

AFRICA NEEDS LIFESAVING HIGH-LYSINE CORN If it had n't been for Dr. Edwin Mertz ' high-lysine corn , I would not have gone to Ethiopia . I tried to persuade Dr. Mertz , the Purdue University professor who developed high-lysine corn , to go , but he declined reluctantly , although he assured me the trip was necessary . " Those children need far more protein than the adults do to survive , " he said . " We should send high-lysine corn and earmark it for the children only . " Adults can survive on regular corn . That 's why I wanted to go to Ethiopia  --  because I wanted to see the children with kwashiorkor and then see if the disease could be prevented by providing the youngsters with high-lysine corn instead of regular corn . We wanted to see if it was possible to establish channels and get the corn with the higher lysine content right to the children who need it . Kwashiorkor is a disease of children , not from insufficient calories but from insufficient protein . Guess which protein building block @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their mostly grain diet ? Our old friend lysine is particularly deficient in the maize ( corn ) they eat . Dr. Mertz , as Post readers know , has been recommended by us and others to receive the Nobel Prize for discovering , with his colleagues in the Purdue University agronomy department , the mutation that made the breeding of Opaque 2 high-lysine corn possible . This corn contains about twice as much quality protein as regular corn . It has become known as high-lysine corn . When the lysine content is high , the contents of tryptophan and other essential amino acids are also increased . These protein building blocks can only be utilized for nutrition as long as they are all available . In other words , your corn is only as good as the least prevalent amino acid . When you run out of the least-prevalent amino acid , the other essential amino acids available are often wasted  --  then growth or repair of body tissue ca n't go on . All of our muscles , brain cells and vital organs are made of protein . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells as well as to replace blood cells . An adult 's neurological endowment is all set , and a little fasting does n't do irreparable harm . For a child , protein deficiency can change the rest of his life or end it . The word " kwashiorkor " comes from the Ghan language and means " the disease the baby gets when the next baby comes . " The No. 1 baby gets it when he or she is deposed from the mother 's breast for the No. 2 baby  --  that 's what mothers in Africa have known for a long time . Some say the word also means " red " and was used to describe the reddish-brown hair a child with kwashiorkor developed . " Pluckable hair , " the nurs- 59 es call it . The children lose the curl in their hair ; it becomes straight with streaks of orange , red and gray . Pigment leaves the skin , which develops a reddish cast . Without the protein building blocks , not enough albumin can be made , and fluid from the blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face a puffy , full look that might deceptively belie the child 's dire prognosis . The fluid seeps into the child 's legs first and causes them to swell like an elderly person 's legs swollen from congestive heart failure . Gradually the swelling works up the body , until it may eventually cover the entire body . Most of the time , however , the arms remain spindly and the legs may be three times the size of the arms . The abdomen becomes bloated with what doctors call ascites , or fluid in the peritoneal cavity . The starving child loses something else  --  his appetite . He is consuming his own body 's protein for energy . Because of a continuing lack of calories , the total body protein is being utilized . His muscle tissue , his brain cells . . . all are cannibalized by catabolism , a kind of metabolism where the body feeds on itself . The child becomes cross , refuses to eat and must be fed through a nasogastric tube or intravenously . As with so many diseases of mankind , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I had studied kwashiorkor with special interest in medical school because I had a suppressed desire to be a medical missionary someday and help solve a few of the enormous world health problems . My knowledge of the disease was all from textbooks  --  I had never seen kwashiorkor in U.S. hospitals . I wanted to see if the Ethiopians were treating the kwashiorkor with calorie-dense foods sufficiently high in protein . Given the debilitation and death caused by kwashiorkor , it would be not only humane but also imperative to prevent it by simply changing the kind of maize the children eat . Preventing kwashiorkor is obviously the only answer , because facilities for treatment are virtually nonexistent . Dr. Mertz could n't join me , but our new director of educational services at the Saturday Evening Post Society , Peter Michael , wanted to go . He grew up in Africa as the son of medical missionaries , and for him , " It would be like going home , " he said . Peter is himself an ordained minister . Once the subject was broached , he must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moment he became involved , everything happened with a certain determination . Peter had a good friend , Roger Schrock , a missionary in neighboring Sudan , who gave us good advice about the people 's needs . Through Tom Fellows , who works for Food for the Hungry in Ethiopia , we were able to expedite our visas . At the last moment , the Ethiopian government seemed to be holding them up for whatever reasons  --  we did n't know why . The Ethiopians know and respect Tom and his whole family . His parents have spent most of their lives working for the Sudan Interior Mission , and because he grew up there , Tom speaks their language fluently . Without Tom 's intercession , we probably would n't have been able to get the visas . Before leaving for Ethiopia , we made phone calls to Ajinomoto U.S.A. , Inc. , to see if we could obtain some powdered lysine for the African children who need it . I had difficulty communicating with the officials of the Japanese company because of the language barrier , but Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch office in Los Angeles , was very interested in what I was trying to explain to him about kwashiorkor . Dr. Ted Yamamori , the president of Food for the Hungry , who was also going to Ethiopia , was able to meet with Dr. Ueda and explain the project to him in Japanese . As a result of their meeting , Dr. Yamamori was able to bring samples of fermented lysine to us in Ethiopia . Not until we began researching lysine several years ago did we discover none is manufac-tured ( fermented ) in the United States . All our U.S. packagers of lysine pills buy the product from Japanese firms , who , early on , began L. ) 11 ... personal signatures . " That chili we serve in the snack bar is Dorothy 's own recipe , " says Wilson with unmistakable pride , " and it 's just the best doggone chili in the South . " As they can in most time-sharing concepts , a family can " trade " their unit for one or more weeks with someone who owns a similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ around the world . " That 's why the Orlando area is an excellent location for a time-sharing project , " says Wilson in his Tennessee drawl . " Our buyers know they wo n't have any difficulty swapping with others , because so many people want to visit Walt Disney World . " " It 's not your typical time-sharing resort , " says Wilfred Hagen , the Netherlands-born general manager of the facility . At what other similar resort , for instance , would the likes of Billie Jean King , Rod Laver and Virginia Wade help dedicate the tennis stadium with exhibition matches on center court ? Which one would host the U.S. versus Canada Olympic boxing match ? Many shady operators once converted cheap apartments into second-rate projects and used high-pressure tactics to sell them . " There 's no question that a lot of people were into it for a fast buck , " said Wilson , " but I think most of the bad apples have been shaken out of the tree . " No family need purchase a timesharing package to enjoy the comforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be rented on a daily basis , as with any other hotel . Why would Wilson , a man who has earned enough money to maintain a luxurious lifestyle for the rest of his life , undertake such new projects ? He answers that question himself : " Retirement is n't for me . I need to create jobs for myself . I like to work half a day . I do n't care if it 's the first 12 hours or the second 12 hours . I just put in my half day every day . It keeps you out of trouble . " His staff agrees . George Glover , the president of the Wilson Hotel Management Company , says : " I 'm 35 years old ; he 's more than twice my age , yet his pace wears me out . " Kemmons Wilson calls Orange Lake Country Club his " second dream , " but on Fridays , as he leaves for Memphis , he has a faraway look in his eyes that leaves the impression this is certainly not his last . 