@@492139

HOW TO KEEP THE LOVELIGHT GLOWING t a sex clinic recently , a man in his mid-20s explained that he was there at the insistence of his wife . After the honeymoon , his sexual desire for her had stopped . Another man was there because he found his wife sexually repugnant since the birth of their first baby . A 36-year-old woman told a psychiatrist there that she wanted to revive her sexual interest in her husband  --  an interest that had dissipated when she fell in love with her tennis pro . A middle-aged woman said that she had never experienced much desire for her husband in the 15 years of their marriage , but now she felt she had been missing out on something . These husbands and wives , typical of many being seen in sex clinics , are suffering from what psychiatrists and sex therapists have dubbed " inhibited sexual desire . " It is now listed , for the first time , under sexual dysfunctions in the newly revised edition of The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders of the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wives , and vice versa , is , of course , nothing new . Still , it was n't until very recently that serious scientific attention began being paid . Previously , the focus in sex research , from Kinsey to Masters and Johnson , had largely been on activity , rather than inactivity . Two articles in important medical journals in the last three years called attention to the fact that there was a lot less sex in a lot more marriages than was previously assumed . A study of 100 couples , published in The New En-gland Journal of Medicine last year in July , found that 33 percent of the husbands and wives were having intercourse two or three times a month or less . A previous study of 365 husbands and wives by two Ph.D.s , John Edwards and Alan Booth , published in The American Journal of Psychiatry , revealed that one-third of them had ceased having intercourse for long periods of time . The median period of abstinence was eight weeks , but some husbands and wives had gone without sex for three months or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 38 years of age , a time in life when most healthy couples generally have intercourse two or three times a week . How prevalent is lack of desire in marriage ? Dr. Harold Lief , professor of psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine and director of the Marriage Council of Philadelphia , over a period of three months monitored 115 consecutive cases of patients with sexual problems . He found inhibited sexual desire to be the No. 1 complaint . At Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York , lack of desire trails behind impotence , premature ejaculation and inability to achieve orgasm . But Dr. Raul Schiavi , director of the human-sexuality program and professor of psychiatry , reports that although both married and single people suffer from other sexual dysfunctions , every male patient who has sought treatment for lack of desire has been married . Is inhibited sexual desire increasing ? Is there something in our culture that feeds this inhibition ? Or is the destruction of passion built into marriage itself ? " We are not sure whether lack of desire is increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are more aware of it than in the past . We ca n't be certain whether our awareness is just uncovering more cases that always existed . It seems to me , though , that more people are complaining about it . " " Doctors hear more complaints , " says Dr. Helen Singer Kaplan , head of the human-sexuality program at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center , " because people now know that help is available and they are asking for it . There is no upsurge in lack of desire . People just called it something else  --  impotence , lack of orgasm , or they would simply say , ' I have a sex problem . ' Naturally , if you do n't feel much desire , you are n't going to enjoy sex . " There is agreement among experts that rising sexual expectations created by our culture , which Dr. Lief terms " sex-obsessed , " account , in part , for the large numbers of husbands and wives seek ing treatment . Everybody wants a better sex life these days , but women in particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " For many years the sexual experience in marriage was controlled by the husband , " he says . " The wife was passive , acquiescent . She was not expected to enjoy sex . Also , women were expected to stay in marriage no matter what went on , so they put up with a husband who ignored them . " Dr. Lief finds the number of women complaining about their husbands today " striking , " and he agrees that a great reversal has occurred : It used to be husbands who complained that their wives were n't interested enough in sex ; now it is the wives complaining about their husbands . Dr. Kaplan , author of a forthcoming book called Disorders of Sexual Desire , feels this to be particularly true about women in middle age , when sexual desire often increases . " The woman wakes up suddenly at a time in life when the man is tired ' ? his desire is decreasing , " she says . " But among young couples in their 20s , it is more often the husband who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Most men and women being treated for inhibited sexual desire are in their 30s and 40s , but there are people of all ages . Both Dr. Lief and Dr. Kaplan have noticed an increase in the number of husbands and wives under 30 . This does n't necessarily mean that more young people are suffering from the dysfunction . Rather , according to Dr. Kaplan , there is more openness about sex these days and young people do n't let the problem linger . The quicker the problem is caught , the better the chances for successful treatment . There is no one answer to why husbands and wives lose interest in sex . A joke Dr. Lief tells is part of a large body of humor on the subject : A man recovering from illness is told not to get too excited about sex . " That 's easy , " he says . " I 'll make love to my wife . " Many men feel that making love to the same woman inevitably becomes boring . Not so , says Dr. Otto Kernberg , medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division , a psychiatric hospital : " A couple with a deep , stable relationship maintains sexual interest . Interest can go up or down according to tensions or irritations between the couple or according to whether one feels closer or more distant to a partner at different times , but the sexual interest never disappears . " He continues , " Boredom sets in when there is a great deal of unconscious hostility . There is boredom when one is trying to avoid awareness that one is very angry or disappointed with the other person . Boredom is a coverup for feelings that are not recognized or expressed openly . Generally , ' bored ' husbands and wives do n't understand that hatred is as much a part of a relationship as love . Each must be able to tolerate both love and hatred toward a marriage partner . If a person ca n't , then he or she is unable to have an emotional relationship of depth , and sex becomes more and more mechanical and unfulfilling . It is then that one begins to think about change and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the boring , mechanical lovemaking . " Dr. Lief disagrees somewhat . He feels that boredom most often is a symptom of other troubles in a relationship but once in a while , he says , he does find couples with basically good , stable relationships who have simply fallen into a rut  --  sex in the same old way , at the same old time . Dr. Kaplan says that occasionally she sees husbands and wives with good relationships who have only mild , superficial problems that cause sexual boredom . Often such minor problems are due to a simple failure to communicate what one does or does n't want . An example of this is a husband who loved his wife but lost interest in her sexually because their lovemaking lacked variety . He felt he could n't suggest innovations because she would realize he 'd had different and better experiences with other women and would become jealous . In another instance , a wife liked her husband in other ways but was turned off only because he always touched her in a clumsy , rough manner . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cure are simple when boredom occurs because of mild problems like those above or when husbands and wives have fallen into the kind of rut Dr. Lief describes . Couples are taught to speak openly about their likes and dislikes and they are assigned specific behavioral sex-therapy exercises designed to make them more sensual , unin hibited , imaginative or effective with each other in lovemaking . For instance , the wife who was turned off by her husband 's rough touch was told by the therapist to place her hand on her husband 's and gently guide him . In this way , she was able to show him the pressure , rhythms and places that pleased her most during lovemaking . Interestingly , it was by studying failures for other problems that Dr. Kaplan found that the functional difficulties that brought patients into treatment were not always the problem . They were really secondary symptoms . Many of those who did not respond to standard sex therapy were trying to have sex without really wanting to . They lacked desire . She reached the same conclusion that Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a missing link in the sex act as it had been conceptualized previously . Until very recently , sex experts had worked on the Masters-Johnson theory that there were four major stages of human sexual response where dysfunctions occur  --  the excitement , plateau , orgasm and resolution phases . Now , thanks largely to Dr. Kaplan and Dr. Lief , who began writing and speaking at professional meetings about it , there is general recognition of a fifth crucial phase  --  desire , a separate , distinct initial stage of lovemaking . If a person does not feel desire , he is suffering from a sexual problem like any other . Once the desire phase was distinguished , experts could zero in on what interfered with it . What they found was a set of problems that were most often deeper , more complex and more resistant to treatment than the generally mild sexual anxieties and conflicts behind other dysfunctions . To begin with , sex therapists today recognize the existence of two major categories of people who lack desire . There are those whose lack of appetite is general @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are those who turn off selectively  --  they are unresponsive only to their spouses . Many who suffer from selective inhibited desire find , in affairs , the sexual excitement missing at home . Although men have traditionally turned to affairs as a solution to lost desire for their wives , experts today are seeing more and more women willing to travel the same route . Illicit sex is indeed on the rise among wives . Psychiatrists point out that the affair itself may be what causes desire to die in certain instances . Many husbands and wives un consciously turn themselves off to their mates when they want to have an affair . Then , when they ca n't work up any excitement at home , they feel justified in finding a good sex life elsewhere . The reverse can also be true . Some men and women start an affair and then begin to feel guilty about it . Their guilt makes them lose all desire for the " wronged " mate . Very often sexual appetite disappears because of long-standing personal psychological problems brought into the marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this is a young woman who was able to have passionate sex with her husband during their courtship . Once married , however , the same man who had excited her suddenly left her cold . During therapy she said : " My mother never dreamed I would have sex before marriage , so I felt free to have it . After I was married , she knew I was having sex . She was in the bedroom with me , and I turned off . " Parents can enter bedrooms in other ways , too , extinguishing desire . Dr. Kaplan explains : " When a woman , no matter what her age , gains a lot of weight and begins to look matronly , often her husband will begin to identify her with his own mother . He is , in effect , looking at his mother in bed , and , of course , he ca n't get excited . This can cause a man great despair because he still likes his wife . He thinks she is a lovely person , but he ca n't feel anything @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , can be true for women . " When a man starts to get a potbelly , be careless about his appearance or act like her father , the woman can get turned off , too . For many men , unconscious identification of a wife as a " good " woman is what destroys passion . Men like this suffer from the madonna-prostitute syndrome , which therapists often find lurking in the male psyche . In this , women get divided into two camps , the good ( madonna ) and bad ( prostitute ) ; the bad women are for sex , the good ones are not to be touched . The man mentioned at the beginning of this article , the one who lost interest in his wife after the honeymoon , exemplifies this syndrome . Among women , the sense of a mission accomplished sometimes snuffs out sex . These victims of inhibited sexual desire feel that their only role in life is to become a wife and a mother . One business executive complained bitterly : " My wife could n't get enough sex all through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child . Then , all of a sudden , she did n't want any sex any more . " Dr. Lief explains , " Certain women have a lifelong inhibition about sex , but they cloak it . They can act and even feel sexual because it is a way of getting a man or having their children . But after getting what they want , their job is done . " Other men and women are reacting to the fear of intimacy . " In our society , " says Dr. Kaplan , " intimacy is more frightening than sex . This is somewhat more of a problem for men , but it is also true of women . " Losing interest in sex is a way of loosening the bonds of closeness that some people view as a snare . The same is true of those with anxieties about commitment , fear of which , according to Dr. Lief , makes large numbers of men start affairs when a wife is pregnant or gives birth . Children tighten the commitment knot . Still others , says Dr. Kaplan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They are generally people with a poor sense of self-esteem . They do n't feel worthy of the good things in life ; and so , for instance , when a big promotion comes their way , they are compelled to create disaster in another area . Losing desire for a mate is a devious way of compensating for their good fortune . The wrong attitude toward aging contributes to the waning of desire in some men . They feel they should be losing interest in sex as they grow older and so they do . The prevalence of narcissism in our times also plays into the lackof-desire syndrome . Dr. Kernberg , a leading authority on narcissistic personalities , explains : " Once the narcissistic man possesses his mate he devalues her and sex becomes mechanical , unfulfilling . He also places a great deal of value on physical attractiveness , and he may lose interest in a woman as she ages . For some narcissistic women , sex is used as merchandise to obtain a man 's favors . They are n't much interested in sex to begin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress and depression  --  are leading causes of a generalized lack of desire that makes one immune to the charms not only of a mate , but of everyone . For a smaller number of people , desire is gradually killed off by the persistence of some other sexual dysfunction that makes them wish to avoid further failures in bed . Illnesses , such as hepatitis , and certain drugs , such as those used to treat hypertension , alcoholism and a low hormonal level , in a very few cases have been implicated in causing lack of desire . But by far , say the experts , the leading reason why sex dies in marriage is the relationship itself . " Fifty percent of the cases I see are caused by marital interaction , " says Dr. Lief . Underlying rage is generally so strong that it even outweighs the pleasure principle  --  the psychological theory that holds that human beings tend to want to repeat gratifying experiences . Apparently , no pleasure is strong enough to overcome the overt or covert battle that exists between certain husbands and wives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lack of desire somehow get inveigled into sex , they find it enjoyable , but they are so subliminally hostile to their partners that they are not easily tempted to repeat the pleasurable experience . What makes the new treatment of lack of desire different from therapy for other sexual problems ? For one thing , time . For orgasmic difficulties , treatment lasts about 14 sessions . It is not unusual to rack up 30 sessions in the treatment of inhibited sexual desire . Techniques differ markedly as well . The usual sex therapy relies heavily on sexual exercises and tasks that the patient is asked to perform in private . Although these are sometimes used as well , the emphasis in the treatment of blocked desire is on psychotherapy of one kind or another . The actual treatment chosen depends upon the cause . Physical illnesses or drugs that inhibit sexuality are ruled out first . If depression is found , that is what gets treated rather than the dysfunction . Antidepressant drugs work in most cases , and once the depression lifts , sexual interest generally returns automatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the matter , marital therapy is recommended . If the problem turns out to be mostly a personal one , individual psychotherapy is chosen . Sometimes specific sexual exercises are recommended in conjunction with other treatments . Recently , Dr. Lief has been experimenting with group therapy for desire disorders . In all forms of treatment , what is stressed is the fact that a patient is able to control whether he turns off or not much more than he realizes . He is taught to recognize whatever it is that switches off desire in him . In one recent therapy session with Dr. Kaplan , a husband was asked to tell her what had happened the previous night when he had felt like making love but suddenly turned off . A few sessions later , this patient complained that , the night before , his wife had left dishes piled up in the kitchen and it had made him so angry that he did n't feel like sex . After listening to similar excuses on several more occasions , Dr. Kaplan asked : " Why do you suppose you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lovemaking is immi-nent ? " " What do you mean ? " the patient exclaimed . " That 's not what happens . " But after further discussion and introspection in therapy , he began to realize that , indeed , there was a hidden pattern and purpose to his actions . Armed with new knowledge that he was , in fact , turning himself off , the patient was able to ignore or banish his anti-erotic thoughts when they occurred and flow with his sexual feelings instead . As important as what is being treated is what is not being treated  --  specifically , Dr. Kaplan emphasizes , impossible situations . These might include a husband whose wife is obese and crippled by arthritis , or a wife in love with her tennis instructor . " The husband 's lack of attraction has a basis in reality , " Dr. Kaplan says , and as far as the wife is concerned , " there is no way you can train someone to desire a spouse if they are in love with someone else . " If a husband or wife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chance of success that it will not be attempted unless the other person is given up . Dr. Kaplan also points to a third kind of imposssible situation . People often marry for a variety of reasons that have nothing to do with attraction  --  financial security , status , the desire for a stable life . " If a wife married her physician-husband because he was a good catch , ' but he is staid , compulsive , unathletic and short , and she really goes for tall , hip-looking , active , emotional men , nothing is going to make him sexually attractive to her , " she says . The chances of being cured of sexual ennui have improved tremendously in the last three or four years . Although official figures are n't available yet , one source estimates that the success rate has more than tripled . The husbands and wives who stand the greatest chance of being helped are those whose anger does n't run too deep , who have n't let the sexual moratorium go on for too many years , and who still would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome . There is another , final bit of good news about sex in marriage coming from the world of sex research . The thrill really can last forever , says Dr. Kaplan . Sex may calm down after the first two years together , as it does in nearly every marriage . Desire may occasionally dim due to the many stresses and strains in a couple 's life , but passion per se need not die . In her current study of happy , long-term relationships , Dr. Kaplan has found men and women whose eyes still light up when one sees the other enter a room , even after decades of marriage . And the sex ? After 20 , 30 or 40 years , they still find it terrific . Baltimore . Dr. London and his associates have been using vitamin E on fibrocystic patients for several years . Some of the patients even fly long distances for treatment , seeking relief from the painful benign lumps which afflict about 20 percent of American women , says Dr. London . In their most recent study , funded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women between ages 23 and 40 who were diagnosed with middle-stage mammary dysplasia . The women received 600 IU of vitamin E a day for eight weeks . The lumps completely disappeared in 10 of the patients , and 12 others showed improvement . Meanwhile , Dr. John Peter Minton at Ohio State University College of Medicine has been successfully treating " more advanced " cases by putting patients on a no-caffeine regimen . He advises women to stop consuming colas , tea , coffee and chocolate , and to stop using drugs which contain methylxanthines ( which include caffeine , theophylline and theobromine ) . He also recommends they stop smoking . Out of 20 women patients who stopped methylxanthine intake and quit smoking , 16 showed complete withdrawal of symptoms and four reported improvement .                     