@@339042

Following the doctor 's prescription used to be simple enough . You dutifully swallowed your pills , smeared on your ointment or gulped down your medicine . And that was it . But physicians are finding that the old-fashioned ways of delivering medication can render treatment hopelessly ineffective  --  even dangerous . Some people just forget to take pills , and repeated trips to the doctor for shots can be unpleasant and expensive . Tablets and injections can flood the bloodstream with drugs and disperse them unevenly through the system . And drugs can have toxic side effects . With an array of potent , highly specialized new therapeutic drugs on the market , scientists are busy developing a dazzling assortment of space-age techniques that promise to deliver the drugs to the body in safe and effective dosages . <P> The new methods , many still in the experimental stage , are myriad and mind boggling . Tiny biodegradable capsules are under development that can be embedded in a woman 's thigh or arm and will automatically dispense contraceptive hormones for a year . Researchers at the Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are implanted in the brain and slowly release an antitumor drug for cancer victims . The day is not far off when most diabetics will be able to give themselves insulin with a nasal spray . In California doctors are working on drug-loaded bubbles of fat that bind themselves to diseased cells . Says Robert Langer , a biomedical engineer at M.I.T. : " It 's an explosive field with enormous potential . " <P> Controlled-release systems first appeared in the 1950s with the introduction of Dexedrine 's " tiny time capsules . " Variations have included slowly dissolving wax-coated pills and small adhesive skin patches capable of delivering doses of medication . The new drug-delivery systems , based on advances in molecular biology , represent a dramatic improvement over their predecessors . Take the plastic wafer , about the size of a quarter , that can carry powerful drugs to brain-cancer victims . Researchers have known for some time that disks formed of chemical structures called polymers work well for dispensing small molecules like nitroglycerin , a pain reliever commonly used for heart patients . But the polymers seemed stubbornly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ growth hormones in the slow , steady doses needed for diabetics and underdeveloped children . <P> To solve the problem , Langer and his colleagues reconfigured the structure of polymers to enable drugs to be dispensed in measured doses . Explains Langer : " Because its route is so tortuous , the drug gets out , but slowly . " Langer is now testing an injectable system for diabetics in which enzymes sensitive to glucose in the bloodstream are placed in microscopic polymers along with insulin . The drug is released through the complex , porous polymer structure . Because the solubility of insulin increases in the presence of glucose , the more glucose in the blood , the more drug is released . This " intelligent " method represents a potential revolution in the treatment of diabetes , since blood-sugar levels in diabetics are thought to be best controlled by the continuous release of insulin each day , supplemented by increased doses around mealtimes.                     