@@330469

Brisk and confident , treated more like a ranking diplomat than a preacher , Jerry Falwell concluded an inspection tour of South Africa by spending not only six hours with Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha but an hour with State President P.W . Botha . Upon his return to the U.S. last week , Falwell denounced the drive in Congress for economic sanctions against South Africa and urged " reinvestment " instead of divestment . Falwell opposes apartheid , but professed faith that Botha will dismantle the system eventually , if only everyone is patient . The alternative , he said , is either a more draconian white regime or a Soviet-aligned revolution . Falwell also insisted that nonwhite South Africans agree with him . Referring to one who does not , Nobel- Prizewinning Bishop Desmond Tutu , Falwell said , " I think he 's a phony , period , as far as representing the black people of South Africa . " <P> Falwell 's bellicose entry into the South Africa tangle produced an unholy uproar . A leading U.S. clergyman , President Philip Cousin of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a segregationist . " Even the State Department appeared embarrassed . A spokesman termed Tutu a " recognized black leader " and a " voice of moderation in the midst of violence and repression . " Last Friday Falwell said on CNN that his use of phony was " unfortunate , " and wired an apology to Tutu . He planned further explanation on his own Sunday TV show . <P> He was heating up an issue that has engaged churches internationally for a quarter-century . A phalanx of Christian groups in and outside South Africa is demanding an immediate end to apartheid as immoral . Falwell 's agreement with Botha and his soft-pedaling of the anguish faced by South Africa 's blacks infuriated many commentators . In addition , says Evangelical Historian Richard Lovelace , Falwell 's visit " detoured around the local Christian community , " and , he concludes , " his reputation is bound to suffer . "                     