@@432104

 | On the face of it , President Reagan is waging a hopeless crusade to restore some measure of democratic freedom in Poland . U.S. allies are unwilling to support the economic sanctions that he is applying in an effort to pressure Communist leaders in Warsaw and Moscow . Without allied backing , the measures are deemed relatively ineffective . On top of that , Reagan is bucking a history of futile U.S. efforts aimed at restraining Russia 's brutal suppression of freedom movements in satellite nations ? in Hungary in 1956 , Czechoslovakia in 1968 and Afghanistan in 1979 . Yet , some analysts with intimate knowledge of Poland say that the outlook this time , grim as it may be , is by no means hopeless . The reason : The economic and political realities that confront Communist leaders in the Polish crisis are working in favor of compromise rather than toward total repression or outright Soviet military intervention . One reality cited by experienced observers : Poland 's military ruler , Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski , can not hope to reverse his country 's plunge toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cooperation from workers and from the powerful Catholic Church and regains financial help from the West . This requires a compromise embracing at least some of the reforms won by the independent Solidarity union since August , 1980 . Another reality pointed up by Soviet-affairs experts : The Kremlin has a strong incentive to accept virtually any compromise that Polish Communist leaders are able to negotiate ? as long as the power of the party is not again challenged . Moscow 's aging leaders , say these experts , are anxious to avoid a continuing crisis in Poland and the possibility of Soviet military intervention that would entail enormous economic , political and strategic costs . Walesa ? the key . In the wake of the December 13 military crackdown that resulted in at least eight deaths ? by government count ? the critical question was whether , and how , Jaruzelski could persuade detained Solidarity leader Lech Walesa to negotiate a deal that would end passive resistance by workers and secure their future cooperation . In this situation , what is the likely impact of President Reagan 's policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then against the Soviet Union ? The administration 's hope is that the measures will provide an incentive to Polish leaders to end martial law quickly , release the thousands of union leaders and others who have been detained ? often under extremely harsh conditions ? and enter into serious negotiations with Solidarity . With Russia , the aim of the White House is to deter Kremlin leaders from forcing Polish Communists to intensify the crackdown . By threatening even severer penalties , the President seeks to discourage the Soviets from contemplating armed intervention . Administration officials privately concede that the tangible effects of the American sanctions will be marginal . Polish leaders , in fact , contend that economic pressure from the West inevitably will drive them into greater dependence on Moscow and thereby reduce their room for maneuver in seeking a political solution to the Polish crisis . As for effects on Russia , administration sources acknowledge that Soviet leaders easily can endure punishment imposed by Reagan for what he called the Kremlin 's " heavy and direct responsibility for the repression in Poland . " Observers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will do little  | more than add to the difficulties of building a natural-gas pipeline from Siberia to Western Europe by withholding pipe-laying equipment . The President has refrained so far from taking one step ? imposing a new grain embargo ? that could be hurtful in view of Russia 's third straight crop disaster . He hinted that he is holding this weapon in reserve to be used if the Soviets send their Army into Poland . Limited as they are , the effectiveness of the U.S. actions ? especially tighter controls on high-technology exports ? is blunted further by noncooperation of U.S. allies in Europe and Japan . Key allied governments ? above all , West Germany ? reject both Washington 's interpretation of what is happening in Poland and its prescription of what the West should do about it . Other views . Bonn , eager to preserve economic and political benefits of detente with Moscow , made no attempt to disguise its fundamental disagreement with Reagan 's stance . As an official spokesman put it : " The question is whether martial law was an autonomous Polish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ belief is true that . . the Soviet Union was behind the action . We do not share the American view . " While some allied governments ? notably Socialist France ? condemn the military crackdown in Poland , most do not share Washington 's conviction that the Soviet Union is the prime culprit . At year 's end , they showed no signs of following Reagan 's lead in imposing sanctions against either the Polish Communist regime or the Kremlin . Rather than risk a divisive battle with allies over collective sanctions , Reagan chose to go it alone . The administration hopes European governments and Japan will follow soon or ? to quote a State Department official ? " at the very least not undermine what we have done . " The official explanation for Reagan 's unilateral moves came from Secretary of State Alexander Haig : " We just could not go on doing business as usual while freedom is being trampled in Poland . " Aside from moral considerations , practical political factors figured in Reagan 's decisions . He was influenced by the large Polish American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for tough action . Equally important , say informed officials , was this argument : In light of his harsh anti-Soviet rhetoric , Reagan would have lost credibility had he stood by passively while a democratic workers ' movement was being crushed in Poland with Soviet complicity . Invidious comparisons , it is pointed out , would have been drawn with former President Carter 's tough response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan . Even so , Reagan 's reaction to the Polish crisis is widely viewed as measured and moderate . He has so far rejected proposals that the U.S. boycott the Geneva nuclear-arms negotiations and renounce the Helsinki agreement , which implicitly granted Western recognition of Moscow 's hegemony over Eastern Europe in exchange for Soviet guarantees on human rights . In fact , the President continues to express interest in a summit meeting with Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev by next fall . However , he has put the Soviets on notice that future Soviet-American relations hinge on events in Poland . His words : " We are prepared to proceed in whatever direction the Soviet Union decides upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a harsh and less rewarding path . " Life goes on under shadow of guns , but Polish economy remains semiparalyzed . Pinpointing Poland as the litmus test , the President 's message adds : " We will watch events in Poland closely in coming days and weeks . Further steps may be necessary , and I will be prepared to take them . " Russian response . The Kremlin is reacting with defiance to Reagan 's pressure and threats . The Soviet Union , says an official statement , " is a great power which has never allowed and will never allow anyone to speak to it in the language of blackmail and diktat . " Nevertheless , the evidence to date indicates that Moscow is intent on avoiding overt military involvement in Poland that would escalate the confrontation with Washington . Soviet leaders appear satisfied that the Polish Army has effectively neutralized Soli- darity and the danger of a political challenge to the Communist Party . Now , in the view of observers in Moscow , the men in the Kremlin are anxious to defuse the crisis . Having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the workers ' revolution started in August , 1980 , the Soviets do not relish the prospect of supporting a virtually bankrupt satellite ? all the more so in view of Russia 's own deepening economic problems . Nor do they relish the possibility that a protracted crisis might endanger detente in Europe and insure the deployment of new American nuclear missiles capable of striking Soviet targets . A special case . Ever since the Communists took over power in Warsaw after World War II , the Kremlin has treated Poland as a special case because of its size , its strategic location athwart communications lines to Soviet forces in East Germany , its long history of passionate nationalism and the powerful influence of the Catholic Church . The church has been allowed to operate with unusual freedom ; private farming has been permitted to survive , and an unusual degree of intellectual freedom has been tolerated . Given all that , U.S. officials believe that Soviet leaders may be inclined to allow General Jaruzelski considerable latitude in his efforts to reach an accord with Solidarity leader Walesa and Catholic Archbishop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Poland tacitly admits that he can not rebuild the country 's shattered economy without such an accommodation . Through a spokesman , he has promised to preserve " the fundamental principles of renewal " ? meaning social , political and economic reforms achieved since the workers ' revolt almost 18 months ago . Jaruzelski professes willingness to accept an independent Solidarity trade union that deals with labor relations and avoids political activities challenging the primacy of the Communist Party . In a conciliatory gesture at yearend , he announced that several key Solidarity demands would be met ? a 42-hour workweek and no work on three out of four Saturdays . But Jaruzelski faces an acute dilemma as he apparently undertakes an effort at national reconciliation . Observers in Warsaw say that he has scant hope of winning popular support while martial law is in force but that he can relax military rule only at the risk of renewed social unrest . Solidarity 's Walesa faced a dilemma , too , as he reportedly prepared to go into negotiations with Poland 's military rulers . In view of the harsh methods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he will be hard pressed to strike a bargain without destroying his credibility among Polish workers . From Stewart Powell of the magazine 's International Staff , recently returned from Poland , comes this assessment of the outlook now : " Talks between the government , the church and Solidarity remain essential for peaceful resolution of the political and economic crisis that has beset Poland for the past 18 months . " Even if Jaruzelski manages an accommodation with a reconstituted Solidarity and the Catholic Church , the future is grim for the 36 million Poles . Daily life will only get harder for an illfed , cold and exhausted population . " In a nation that consumed 150 pounds of meat per person each year , rations are being cut even below the stark levels of the past 18 months . Shortages of other essentials continue despite the promised efficiency of military rule . " Prices of food will skyrocket as the government seeks to end costly subsidies and start charging world market prices for key commodities . Even if things go reasonably well and Jaruzelski introduces the reforms that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain ? economists predict that it will take at least five years before Poles will see the tangible benefits of economic reconstruction . " Out of the tragedy and turmoil that characterizes today 's Poland , one inescapable lesson is emerging : The Communists controlling that country 's destiny ? whether in Warsaw or Moscow ? have the choice of tolerating a measure of democratic freedom or facing an ever worsening economic disaster . Thus , top U.S. officials believe that the President , despite seemingly insurmountable odds , in the end may be able to claim success for his campaign to end repression of Polish workers .                     