@@487682

While Garrison 's account of Murray Kempton 's positive assessment of Vorse in Part of Our Time is in some measure a response , her reluctance to make analytical judgments leaves the reader puzzled . Dee Garrison sees Vorse 's disappearance from history as a direct result of the effects of sexism and the cold war , and she makes a good case for Vorse 's importance as a pioneering feminist and labor journalist . Vorse was everywhere from 1912 on : reporting on significant strikes , from the Mesabi Range in 1916 and the tragedy of the 1919 steel strike ( in which she was deeply involved ) to Passaic in 1926 and Gastonia in 1929 . She was with fellow journalist and novelist Josephine Herbst at Flint in 1937 and at the scene of other C.I.O. organizing struggles . She was on the Peace Ship with Jane Addams in 1915 , she reported on the rise of Hitler in the 1930s and she was " perhaps the oldest official American BILL FARRELL DARK JOURNEY : Black Mississippians in the Age of Jim Crow . By Neil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $27.50 . Though blacks throughout the South faced disenfranchisement , racial violence , a biased legal system , inadequate edu-cation and extreme poverty in the early twentieth century , those in Mississippi endured the greatest repression . Although the majority of its inhabitants were black , no state spent less on black education between 1890 and 1940 . White violence against blacks was consistently more ferocious in Mississippi . Between 1889 and 1945 , Mississippi accounted for nearly 13 percent of all recorded lynchings . As Neil McMillen , a professor of history at the University of Southern Mississippi , explains in Dark Journey : Black Mississippians in the Age of Jim Crow , " The dominant race throughout the long Jim Crow era , even as in slavery , looked to physical intimidation as an essential tool in the ' management ' of Negroes . " At its worst , lynching could mean Bill Farrell is an attorney and freelance writer in the New York metropolitan area who writes frequently about Southern history . war correspondent in World War II . " She also published large numbers of stories , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most concerned with the plight of the modern woman confined ( as her powerful mother had been ) by social expectations . Garrison 's biography is also a survey of the history of American social movements in the twentieth century . That is both a reason to read the book and a reason for some of its shortcomings . While she documents the tensions and tragedies of Vorse 's long career , Garrison does not in the end bring her subject fully to life . She too often paraphrases Vorse when we need to hear her words directly . The problem may lie in the subject : The central importance of Vorse 's life is in her presence at so many of the important events of her lifetime and the sympathetic and effective accounts she provided of them . It is difficult to turn that history into biography . ? either burning or torturing the victim to death . Accusations that a black man had raped a white woman frequently resulted in the black being burned at the stake . Though " chivalry " was often the excuse for a lynching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 1889 and 1935 had been accused of rape . The allegation of murdering a white was the most frequent pretext for lynching , but lesser affronts  --  such as " talking disrespectfully " to a white , owing 50 cents , organizing sharecroppers and being " too prosperous " ? also provoked lynchings . Until well after World War I , members of a lynch mob rarely attempted to conceal their identities , for they knew that their actions would be condoned by white society . Occasionally , newspapers and other white institutions might condemn a " bad " lynching ? a mob action that was unduly brutal , badly organized or resulted in assaults on the black community . Conversely , a well-organized , disciplined lynching , resulting in the hanging of one victim , would be praised as " good . " In at least one incident , a lynching during which the victim was burned to death was so described . Lynching distorted the judicial system in Mississippi . In order to avoid a lynching when a criminal case involved a black defendant and a white victim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial ? often less than one hour ? and sentence him to death . Under these circumstances , conviction usually was assured . The judges believed , usually incorrectly , that they could thereby prevent mob violence and upholdtthe " majesty of the law . " Jim Crow corrupted justice in other ways . A black convicted of murdering a white might be lynched if he were sentenced to life imprisonment . A black defendant acquitted of such a charge could be murdered after he was released . Thus , in Clarksdale in 1925 , a jury found Lindsey Coleman not guilty of murdering a white plantation manager . During the trial , Coleman 's lawyer , Thomas Ward  --  who was Grand Dragon of Mississippi 's Ku Klux Klan ? continually warned authorities that his client might fall victim to mob violence . After his acquittal , Coleman was seized as he left the courtroom with his attorney and shot to death . ( After Coleman 's murder , the Grand Dragon supported legislation making it easier to remove sheriffs who did not protect prisoners from mob violence . ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , often faced an indulgent prosecutor offering a favorable plea bargain . The intervention of a prominent white could readily change the situation in the defendant 's favor . Thus , in one case a planter 's intercession led to the release of a murderer after one year in prison so he could return to the fields . In another instance , a black man was acquitted of murder because of the influence of a prominent white , causing the victim 's widow to comment that Mississippi 's whites did not want to lose a good hand to prison because " the live nigger is worth more than the dead one . " Clearly , as McMillen illustrates , planters and other powerful whites could manipulate the legal system to guarantee their labor supply . Yet this raises other questions that he ignores . Did white intervention reinforce the authority of the planter and make him even more central to the lives of the laborers ? Could this intervention have separated blacks and poor whites even further , thus strengthening the position of the upper classes ? Mennen 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them rather than reporting them to the authorities and risking losing their labor if they went to jail strongly suggests that planters acted to increase their own authority at the expense of formal law . Yet he addresses none of these questions , and his lack of analysis is frustrating . Mississippi blacks never accepted inferior status . Occasionally they fought back against mob violence , but in most cases such resistance was suicidal . Between the 1890s and the outbreak of World War I , black leaders pursued economic , not political , advancement . They sought alliance with upper-class whites , never recognizing that elite whites were as unsympathetic to black aspirations as lower-class whites . Based upon flawed assumptions , this strategy failed , yet there were no real alternatives . World War I heightened white racial anxieties , engendering fear of black violence . White violence against blacks increased , particularly against veterans . However , the war also opened up job opportunities in industries for blacks willing to go north . Between 1915 and 1920 , half a million Southern blacks trekked north , 100,000 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whites attempted to stop the migration . Sometimes this meant refusing to sell blacks train tickets to the North . A few white leaders recognized that black living conditions needed improvement . In the early 1920s , planters offered tenants higher wages , better housing , greater autonomy and healthier diets . When the labor shortage ceased , however , so did white interest in racial conciliation . In fact , between the wars black economic opportunity contracted . Blacks achieved progress in Mississippi only after national socioeconomic developments allowed it . However , McMillen does not elaborate on these changes . He notes that World War II substantially eroded barriers to social change , but does not examine its impact in detail . Instead , focusing on its ideological implications , McMillen writes , Sternberg " The war against Hitler 's master race ideology marks the beginning of Jim Crow 's end , the moment when the gathering challenge of black unrest began the sharp , rapid ascent that would make it a black revolution . " As blacks began to envision a new future , they developed new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the 1950s and 1960s . ? BOOK NOTES . NICE WORK . By David Lodge . Viking . 277 pp. $18.95 . I n England , David Lodge is always compared to Kingsley Amis ? which is unfair because , although they both write comedies of bad manners , Amis has n't really been funny since Lucky Jim , and Lodge gets funnier with every novel , from The British Museum Is Falling Down to Changing Places to Small World , with time off for four books of criticism and a quarter-century of professing English literature at the University of Birmingham . Besides , Lodge is clearly a much nicer person . In Nice Work he 's kind to almost everybody he makes fun of , and both sexes . Half of Nice Work , inside the redbrick University of Rummidge , is the sort of college novel likely to remind readers less of Arms than of Mary McCarthy 's The Groves of Academe or Randall Jarrell 's Pictures From an Institution . It 's about the knowledge factory gone berserk . " In this place , " says Robyn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And what we produce is meaning . " But the other half of Nice Work is about another sort of factory , producing car parts instead of knowledge , motors instead of meaning . When these two modes of production meet , there 's a very messy dialectic . Robyn is young , feminist and Marxist , with a bad case of semiotics . She teaches the nineteenth-century English Industrial Novel , in which worthies like Dickens and Disraeli felt bad , of course , about the dark satanic mills but " failed to resolve the ideological contradictions inherent in their own situation in society . " Because anything like a revolution was unthinkable for such novelists , they solved the personal problems of their characters by fortuitous marriage , miraculous inheritance , sudden death or emigration to Australia . Personally , Robyn does n't believe in " character " ; it'sa " bourgeois myth . " Nor does she believe in love : " Sexual desire was a play of signifiers , an infinite deferment and displacement of anticipated pleasure which the brute coupling of the signifieds temporarily interrupted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " He or she invents a product which consumers did n't know they wanted until it was made available , manufactures it with the assistance of purveyors of risk capital known as publishers , and sells it in competition with makers of marginally different products of the same kind . " For reasons too preposterous to go into , Robyn teams up with Vic Wilcox , managing director of a recession-threatened engineering firm of " metal-bashers , " a blacking factory every bit as frightful as anything in Dickens . Vic does n't believe in love , either . Until he finds Robyn in his arms in unlikely Frankfurt , all he believes in is the profit motive . From Robyn , Vic learns how to feel . From Vic , Robyn learns to get real . Would n't you know it : Their personal problems and ideological contradictions are resolved by a legacy . . . and a marriage proposal . . . and emigration ? by every coincidence except death . Meanwhile , we 're treated to a romp through the competing jargons of the academy and postmodern capitalism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England and the anachronistic peculiarities of the nineteenth-century English mindset gone twentieth-century bananas . Very nice .                     