@@334146

A new drama appeared to be building around an increasingly battered and bomb- shocked Lebanon late last week . It was a development that began not in the hills and valleys of southern Lebanon , where withdrawing Israeli forces faced violent resistance from Shi'ite Muslim militants , but off the Spanish island of Majorca in the western Mediterranean . There , on Thursday evening , two nuclear-powered American warships , the aircraft carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower and the guided-missile cruiser Mississippi , cut short a visit so abruptly that more than 100 crew members were left behind . For 24 hours , the U.S. would say only that the ships were " at sea in the western Mediterranean at this time . " By week 's end it seemed that the ships were in fact heading toward the coast of Lebanon , where they would " show the flag , " as a senior Administration official put it . If necessary , they would also be available to evacuate the estimated 1,400 Americans left in Lebanon . <P> Earlier in the week , 36 Americans working with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Threats against Americans had increased as the Shi'ite-dominated resistance movement became more active in the region . The warnings also coincided with a U.N . debate over a Lebanese-sponsored resolution condemning Israeli actions during the current withdrawal . Since the U.S. is virtually certain to veto the resolution , the Administration was clearly well-advised to take steps to minimize the risk of retaliation . <P> The American warships had been out of Majorca for less than a day when the apparent object of their mission , Beirut , became the scene of one of the worst acts of carnage since the truck-bomb explosions of Oct. 23 , 1983 , when 241 U.S. and 58 French servicemen of the multinational peacekeeping force perished . On Friday , not far from a crowded mosque in a densely populated Shi'ite Muslim suburb of the Lebanese capital , another car bomb took its toll , killing 75 people and injuring more than 250 . The blast damaged an eight- story apartment building as well as the mosque , where worshipers were gathering for prayers . <P> The explosion occurred near the home of one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a pro-Iranian cleric with close links to the extremist Hizballah ( Party of God ) organization . The sheik was unhurt , but five of his bodyguards were killed . Hizballah , which is believed to have been responsible for the truck bombing of the U.S. Marine headquarters as well as attacks on two U.S. embassy buildings in Beirut , has recently been trying to capture the leadership of Lebanon 's Shi'ite community with a call for the establishment of an Islamic republic in the country . The group has many enemies , ranging from the Christian Phalangist party to the relatively secular , mainstream Shi'ite Amal movement . Syria , despite its close ties with Iran , is also less than happy over Hizballah 's recent attempts to stir up trouble in Lebanon . Thus , as in so much of the devastation that has racked Lebanon over the past decade , there was no shortage of suspects .                     