@@432006

 | Despite centuries of dogged missionary effort , Christianity has failed to attract even 1 per cent of Japan 's teeming population . One reason is that waves of fierce persecution have produced many Christian martyrs , but few converts . But the principal explanation , argues Japanese Roman Catholic novelist Shusaku Endo , is that Christianity in Japan has remained a religion imported from the West , a faith that needs to be transformed into something wholly Japanese if it is ever going to prosper . At 57 , Endo is the foremost herald of that transformation and ? what is highly unusual for a writer devoted to Christian themes ? one of the best-selling authors in Japan . Among other unlikely accomplishments , he is also a celebrity talk-show host on Japanese television , a film actor and a popular humorist . But it is his sober pursuit of spiritual truth that has made Endo an author of international repute . In a series of harrowing novels and one play , Endo has created a cast of apostate Catholics drawn from Japanese history , who , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only after they confront their own wavering faith . Defeated in body and spirit , these renegades become the paradigms of a new and more authentic Japanese Christianity . Thus Endo 's books can be seen as parables of the painful rite of passage the author feels Japan 's Christians must still experience in order to make Jesus intelligible to the Japanese consciousness . " The religious mentality of the Japanese , " Endo argues , " is just as it was at the time when the people accepted Buddhism ? responsive to one who suffers with us ' and who allows for our weakness ' . " Deceit and Betrayal : The strength of Endo 's themes and the historic resonance of his plots have given his books an appeal far beyond the country 's 920,000 Christians ( out of a population of 115 million ) . His Japanese interpretation of " A Life of Jesus " has sold more than 300,000 copies , and his widely acclaimed 1966 best seller , " Silence , " has been translated into eight foreign languages and turned into a popular film . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ death endured by Christians during the sixteenth- and seventeenth-century persecutions in Japan . But in his fiction he manages to turn these tales into more tenuous affirmations of faith . In his latest novel , " Samurai , " which will be published in the United States next year , Endo fictionalizes the true story of Hasekura Tsunenaga , a Japanese warrior who converted to Catholicism only in the interests of a mission to obtain the consent of the Spanish Government for trade between Japan and Mexico . In the novel , as in real life , Hasekura is rewarded upon his return to Japan with a convert 's death at the stake , even though he never really embraced the Christian religion . But for Endo , Hasekura 's deceit and betrayal become the necessary preconditions for discovering the suffering Christ . Spiritual Failure : Endo 's most celebrated fictive hero is Jesuit Sebastian Rodrigues , the protagonist of " Silence . " Superficially , " Silence " is a drama of spiritual failure : Rodrigues , a seventeenthcentury Portuguese missionary , is assigned to Japan to work secretly among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former teacher , Father Ferreira . Eventually , Rodrigues is betrayed by one of his followers and tortured . In order to save the lives of three other imprisoned Christians , the young missionary reluctantly consents to desecrate a fumie , or image of Christ . In the climactic scene , the apostate Ferreira appears in his cell and cunningly tells Rodrigues that Christ , too , if forced to choose , " would certainly have apostasized to help men . " Rodrigues succumbs to Ferreira 's reasoning and accepts the stigma of public apostasy . But in his anguished act of betrayal , he finds a Jesus who forgives his weakness and confirms his faith . When it first appeared in 1966 , " Silence " outraged many Japanese Catholics , who by tradition are very formal in their faith and protective of their martyred forebears . But Endo 's underlying theme ? the need for Christians to reconcile their imported Western faith with their indigenous Eastern experience ? was applauded by such literary luminaries as John Updike and the late Japanese novelist Yukio Mishima . Says critic Jun Eto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the presence of Jesus within his own flesh " by rejecting the romantic Western image of Christ the king in favor of " the Jesus who is spreading his skinny arms , wearing a crown of thorns on an ugly face . " Maternal Image : In his public life , Endo hardly plays the part of the tormented spiritual sojourner . Most Japanese know him best as a witty television conversationalist on his own nighttime talk show , where he has earned the nickname " Horafuki , " or teller of tall tales . A lean . ascetic man with heavy glasses , Endo also has acted in a film and founded a troupe of amateur actors . And writing under the pen name of " Prof. Korian , " he periodically produces books of humor . But off the public stage , his chief interest is his serious religious fiction . Baptized into the Catholic Church at the age of 11 , Endo studied French literature at Keio University . Then , in the 1950s , he spent three years in France , where he fell under the austere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not write novels to prove the truth of Christianity , " Endo insists , echoing Mauriac , " but to depict what man is . " What man is , Endo seems to be saying . is what Jesus was : weak , vulnerable , a revelation of love in the flesh . Thus what Endo rejects in Western Christianity is its undue emphasis on the fatherhood of God , with its overtones of patriarchal omnipotence and judgment . ( The four most awful things on earth , according to an old Japanese saying , are " fires , earthquakes , thunderbolts and fathers . " ) Instead , he urges a " motherhood " of God which he feels is truer both to the New Testament and to Japanese experience . The Japanese venerate their mothers and , in religion . the maternal image . Christianity , Endo concludes , will thrive in Japan only when the church appropriates this feeling to its traditional Son of God .                     