@@494332

HUNGARY 'S APPETITES rr HERE is a Hungarian joke that runs something like 1 this : Ronald Reagan boasts to Janos Kadar , " Even the poorest American citizen earns $10,000 a year and can get by on $5,000 . And they 're free to spend what 's left over any way they like . " Kadar retorts : " The average Hungarian citizen earns $2,000 a year and can get by on $5,000 . And he 's free to make up the difference any way he likes . " The joke is not as critical of Kadar as it sounds . Official wages are indeed extremely low ( monthly average , $147 ) , yet Hungary does now have the most liberal economy in Eastern Europe . Thanks to an ever-increasing degree of tolerance for the forces of the market , Hungarians are allowed ? by law and by official eyewinking ? to indulge in a wider measure of free enterprise than any other people in the Eastern bloc . They seem to he grateful for it . It is widely accepted that Kadar , once hated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unpopular leader east of the Iron Curtain . At least it is assumed without him things would almost certainly be worse . ( And because Yuri Andropov was Soviet ambassador to Hungary in 1956 , when Kadar was installed after the revolt was crushed , he too is seen as partly responsible for making the economic experiment possible . ) It is , of course , old hat that privilege and corruption mock the pretensions of Europe 's Communist societies , especially that of the Soviet Union , to being genuinely egalitarian ( though Kadar himself is self-effacing and puritanical ) . Just before the imposition of martial law I spent a day with a Polish peasant farmer near Warsaw as he set about solving humdrum problems of fuel , fertilizer , transport , marketing . Only by bribing officialdom at every step could the work be done . In Hungary there is a difference : the authorities not merely seem to turn a blind eye to it all ; they actually appear to encourage it . A doctor earning a paltry 7,000 forint or so per month ( a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a day as a result of " tips " from his patients . Even the poorest worker feels obliged to donate one or two thousand forints for delivering a baby . Officially the service is free . A destitute Hungarian can get by without making a payment , but most Hungarians would expect inferior treatment if no " present " is given . " Moonlighting " is common even in Western democracies with high levels of taxation , but nowhere , to my knowledge , has the lunar process gone as far as in Hungary . Hungarians joke that workers rest up during their official working hours so they can work harder later on . In agriculture , workers in cooperatives spend more and more of their time on their individual plots , less and less on collective tasks . Much equipment for the private work is inevitably " borrowed " from the collective domain . One well-known vice president of a cooperative near Lake Balaton has five thousand hens laying eggs ? on his private plot . In fact , most East European countries , including the Soviet Union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Communist Hungary is that the profit motive has been sanctified and private enterprise increasingly legalized and encouraged . A year ago , state-owned restaurants sold over a thousand five-year leases in Hungary by auction , so that individual restauranteurs can offer whatever food and service at whatever prices they like . In early 1982 new legislation granted much wider scope for individuals to set up private enterprises so long as they do n't threaten activities in which the state may already be engaged . Private language schools , for instance , are a popular new scam that requires little investment capital . Every sort of artisan is thinking up ways to multiply personal wealth . Workers on state farms , in cooperatives , and in big factories are even being allowed by law ( while previously they acted sub rosa ) to borrow public equipment from their daytime workplace to embark on private schemes after dark . The new rules , especially over taxes , are not yet completely clear , but Hungarians are already flocking into private enterprise . Only half in jest , it has been called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberal individual- ism , . the economy has been steadily benefiting over the past decade from government policies of decentralization , so that state operations and cooperatives enjoy much more autonomy than elsewhere in East Europe . They can respond much more flexibly to market demands.There are also worker profit-sharing schemes whose effectiveness is , however , hard to measure : some workers prefer to work in a sluggish and amiably lax firm , where there is plenty of room for shirking , filching , and moonlighting , than to work in one where they may earn a somewhat larger share of profit . N OWHERE is Hungary 's market success more visible than in agriculture . In contrast to the rest of East Europe , food in shops ? whether operated under private license or by cooperatives ? is plentiful and cheap . For the East European consumer , Hungary is the envy of the Communist world . The citizens of Budapest put it all down to the New Economic Mechanism , followed , with a conservative hiccup in the mid-1970s , to the present day . Still , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade is now with the West , and the world recession is beginning to bite . The country has few natural resources of its own and is heavily dependent on raw material from the Soviet Union and elsewhere . Unemployment , traditionally disguised in Communist countries as massive underemployment , is probably realistically gauged at 10 percent . The external debt of some $7 to $9 billion is as high per capita as thenotorious Polish debt , though in Hungary it has been holding steady . In May Hungary became a member of the International Monetary Fund and in June a member of the World Bank . But commercial Western banks are leery of lending a dime or deutsche mark to any East European , in light of the Polish and Rumanian fiascos . There was a wave of relief in Budapest 's financial circles when President Reagan said that East European countries should be treated by the West on individual merit . The most interesting question is whether there is a direct link between economic and political liberalization . Must the former , willy nilly , drag in its wake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular , has the Polish political miracle , dazzling while it lasted even if it became a mirage , given the Hungarians their own vision of an exhilarating radical rush toward pluralism and democracy ? At present , Hungarians have no political say in their lives whatsoever . The conventional wisdom is that they are prepared to sacrifice the ideals of freedom on the altar of economic prosperity . Their hard-nosed ? some would say smug ? attitude toward the Poles certainly bears this theory out . Not that Hungarians have any illusions about the Soviet system . They simply do not consider it sensible to try ? as the Poles did ? to break out of the system altogether . Hungary has experienced its full share of terror , after the Communist takeover in 1948 , through the bloody calamity of 1956 , until the early right on 1960s . Only then did Kadar think it safe to relax the iron grip . Magyar chauvinism is fierce . It militates against any movement in favor of solidarity among different Eastern peoples against the Soviet system . The Russians , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 30,000 or so extra Soviet personnel and hangers-on , are disliked . But Hungarians seem to take some pleasure from the misfortunes of their neighbors ? especially the traditionally loathed Rumanians , who oppress two million ethnic Magyars . This chauvinism makes it unlikely the Hungarians will risk their relative prosperity for the sake of the Poles or anyone else . In addition , there is no national church to act as the repository of nationalism or to furnish people with a moral counterweight to the Communist establishment . The Catholics barely outnumber the Lutherans and Reformists ( Calvinists ) , so there is no single focus of spiritually motivated dissent . And the Party has so successfully accommodated the churches ' leadership that the Cardinal and most of the bishops can be counted upon to carry out their own punishment of priests who become too political . Possibly it is presumptuous and premature to deduce that the Hungarian worker has been bought off . But he is understandably cautious . Though there is no sign of a spontaneous Solidarity-type workers ' movement , many Hungarian workers undoubtedly sympathized at first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and increasingly political , Hungarian workers became worried that the hot waves of Soviet anger could easily wash over and sink the Hungarian experiment , if " those lazy Poles " ? as they are often called in Budapest ? were allowed to rock the East European boat . Even now , Hungarians dread a direct Soviet intervention in Poland because , with its economy increasingly knitted into the Western fabric of trade , Hungary would be among the first victims of a general breakdown of East-West trade and credit facilities . A further paradox in Hungary is that , although there is no open democracy at all , the authorities can afford to tolerate the handful of brave intellectuals who do oppose the system . No one seems to pay them much attention . Oppositionist Budapest intellectuals appear to have little contact with the industrial workers . There is no Hungarian equivalent of K.O.R. , the Polish Committee for Workers ' Defense , which gave Lech Walesa 's industrial movement its crucial intellectual hacking . I was told repeatedly that in Hungary people are grateful for concessions , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hungarian peasant is said to he grateful for state permission to increase his private activities within the collective ; the Pole insists that the land is his by right . In any case , no one in Hungary is allowed to demur . At the last elections to the rubber-stamp parliament , only 15 out of 315 seats were contested . Not even tame fellow-traveler parties are permitted , as in Poland . There was a minor frisson when elections at the Writers ' Congress were held by secret ballot and a few Party sycophants lost their jobs . But there is barely a whisper of pluralistic discussion in the wake of economic liberalism . Kadar himself likes to be as inconspicuous as possible , though everyone knows he is boss . He pretends to be part of a triumvirate . There is no cult of personality . The Party in Hungary is small : 800,000 members out of a population of 10.7 million . Kadar 's reforms have slimmed and challenged the bureaucracy , through the enforced mergers ? still under way ? of several cumbersome ministries . The growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithful are being devalued as anti-Communists come to share them . ( True to form , many top Party men send their children to special schools . For instance , there is a church-run boarding school , a sort of Eton for top Communists , where the holy establishment accepts substantial charitable offerings to secure places for the sons of the Marxist mighty . ) But as long as Hungary enjoys greater overall prosperity than its Eastern neighbors , as is now the case , then even the Party apparatchiks will probably accept a gradual closure of the gap between themselves and the people . Even now , let it be noted , the New Economic Mechanism 's profit-sharing schemes are designed so that management gets a much higher percentage of the profits than do the shop-floor workers : egalitarianism , it was reckoned , should how to managerial incentive . Of course , as the Marxists put it , there must be an " inherent contradiction " between liberal free enterpriseand the official insistence that Hungary is still proceeding , under the leadership of the workers ' own Communist Party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Kadar 's foreign policy and his continuing avowal of Marxism-Leninism , the Party " dogmatists " ( as the hardliners are known ) and not a few old men in the Kremlin must occasionally wince at the brazen bourgeois consumerism of modern Hungary . When material times are good , people may indeed be bought off by the taste of good food enhanced by the apathy that prevailed , thanks to years of Stalinist ( and immediate post-Stalinist ) terror . But the closer the materialism leads Hungary into the economic embrace of the West , the greater the risk of political contagion . Now , in a country where neither metaphor nor social convention seems to allow for feminism , the wags of Budapest ask you : " Why is there no difference between socialism and your wife ? " Answer : " She is here whether you like it or not ; and she has to be loved . "                     