@@432420

 | The class of ' 88 is in luck . Although graduates will step out of ivied walls into shifting sands ? an economy where no career path is secure ? they will find entry-level job openings plentiful . Schools , hospitals , corporations and , yes , even investment banks are recruiting zealously . Accounting firms , which tend to set the salary pace for business professions , are offering new hires as much as $28,000 ? or 20 percent more than last year . " It 's going to be a good year , " says Sharon Baughan , head of career counseling and placement at Johns Hopkins University . Indeed , while mergers and restructurings have put many middle managers out on the pavement , neophytes have an edge : They can be hired for less money than seasoned candidates . Fresh out of the starting gate , they tend to be enthusiastic and competitive . In some professions ? computer science and construction engineering , for example ? recent graduates may be more qualified than experienced pros because of their stateof-the-art knowledge . Where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as employes move up or out . Even on Wall Street , where the postcrash retrenchment has led to layoffs of some 25,000 people since October , investment banks still need a regular fix of research analysts , who typically join the firms for a two-year stint and then move on . Right now , graduates are being actively recruited on campus for analyst-training programs . " A snowstorm at O'Hare Airport did more to disrupt recruiting efforts than the stockmarket crash , " notes Dan Blanco , a coordinator for career development and placement at Iowa State University . Demand is particularly hot this year for people to fill entry-level positions in accounting , management-information systems , computer science , purchasing and marketing . Consumer-goods manufacturers , hotel chains , airlines and financial-services firms are among those clamoring most loudly for new hires . Still , a rosy immediate-term job outlook does n't mean that college students and recent graduates can afford to assume that their futures are secure . The days are past when a degree and a first job in just about any given field were first steps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often led from the lower echelons to the upper reaches of the same organization . Indeed , young workers could find themselves back at square one if they 're unprepared to keep a sharp eye on their company 's health , to jump to another firm if necessary or to get further training as advancing technology overtakes their skills . New , computer-aided technology has virtually eliminated the need for architectural drafters , for example , and modular-construction techniques have cooled the need for carpenters . Most new entrants in the job market can look forward to a career that progresses with all the predictability of a ball ricocheting inside a pinball machine , says Howard Figler , director of the career center at the University of Texas at Austin and author of The Complete Job Search Handbook ( Henry Holt , $11.95 ) . To get ahead , he says , " you may have to bounce somewhere else . " In fact , unless you 're aiming for a  | position in a technically oriented field such as computer programing , your strongest selling point ? and your life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of specialization . One of the qualities employers in the business world look for in new hires is the ability to flex ? to transfer skills from one function to another . Recruiters in fields from banking to sales increasingly prefer applicants with a liberal-arts education . They feel that someone who has studied politics , philosophy , the sciences and the humanities and who has learned how to question has a broader perspective on problem solving and the ability to become competent in a variety of jobs . Says Glenn Blake , director of employment and management development at General Mills : " People who are too narrowly focused are in the greatest risk ' category . " Blake looks for students with many interests who want to run a business and can move into a variety of management positions . He would rather hire someone for an accounting slot who is educated in the arts and has some training in accounting than an accounting major with a 3.9 average and no background in anything else . Successful practice in motivating people counts , too . " We see companies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " says Pamela Bolen , director of the office of career planning and placement at New York University . Procter &; Gamble , for example , wants " impact players " ? highly motivated students who are leaders on campus . That said , industry has been forced by rapid technological change to compete for those capable of designing and applying the technology . Consequently , the top starting salaries go to graduates with specialized engineering degrees . At Michigan State University , for example , electrical-engineering graduates are getting average salary offers of $29,300 . But a recent study by AT &T; shows that about seven years down the road , the more generally educated worker tends to catch up and pass ? both in pay and responsibility ? the worker with only technical training . Finding all those openings Sales experience may offer the generalist the best odds of gaining that responsibility . " The sales function is probably the fast track into management , " says Vincent Clark , a 1988 graduate of Michigan State University who has accepted a job in sales with Procter &; Gamble . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end up . " Career counselors point out that salespeople are tapped later for  | managerial positions in marketing and finance because they have front-line combat experience , intimate knowledge of a firm 's products and exposure to the way a business operates . There 's a conundrum at work this year : While openings may be plentiful , they wo n't be as easy to find as in years past . The high cost of campus recruiting has tended to force companies to limit their college visits to the biggest schools or to those with the greatest diversity of graduates . Only three years ago , for example , Westinghouse Electric Corporation fanned out to about 200 campuses across the country ; it now targets just 75 schools proven to be sources of highquality hires . Recruiters identify job candidates by talking to faculty members about student leaders , then inviting those leaders to dine with company representatives for preliminary interviews . You 'll most likely attract recruiters if you were active in campus clubs and service organizations , held an elective office or worked as a residence-hall adviser . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , do n't despair : Recruiters represent a minute portion of all employers seeking new graduates . Companies with fewer than 500 employes ? which rarely send recruiters to campuses ? account for 3 out of 5 new jobs created in the private sector , and nearly half of those are professional , technical or managerial . Marcia Fox , senior vice president at Drake Beam Morin , a New York careercounseling service , estimates that some 75 percent of job seekers get jobs by asking for referrals and contacts from personal acquaintances ? and from acquaintances of acquaintances . Before you start placing calls , though , here 's a tip : The key to job satisfaction is self-knowledge . Furthermore , interviewers will not be impressed if you communicate vagueness ( " I 'd like to work with people " ) or confusion about what you want to accomplish ( " I 'm not really sure what I want to do , but I like your company " ) . It 's important to define your goals as best you can , keeping in mind your aptitudes , values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ placement office may be able to assist in this . Through testing and discussion , counselors can help you focus your job search . Getting to the Right Job , by Steve Cohen and Paulo de Oliveira ( Workman Publishing , $6.95 ) , offers written exercises to help you pin down your aptitudes . If you have a personal computer , $95 and several hours to invest , consider Career Navigator , a software program designed by Drake Beam Morin and sold at most campus bookstores . It forces you to inventory your skills , then produces an outline of your resume . Many students put off the job search until the last semester of their senior year . That 's a mistake . " The student who comes meandering in to the placement office two weeks before commencement will find most of the positions filled , " warns Edwin Fitzpatrick , acting director of placement services at Michigan State University . You can find clues to potential openings by reading newspapers and trade journals for information about the economy and about specific companies . A news tidbit disclosing formation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or announcing a new product may translate as an immediate need for staff . Family , friends and acquaintances are all possible sources for connections . It may be wise to invest in an answering machine , since few employers will bother to write to invite you for an interview . It 's easy , once you 're immersed in an interview , to get caught up in impressing a prospective employer and to neglect to find out if you want that position ? or that company . Tough questions demand answers : Is the business in a secure , highgrowth industry ? Or is the company at least a market leader in a slow-growth industry ? Can the firm give you a straightforward answer about your prospective career track ? Does the job promise added responsibility later on ? Does the corporate culture appeal to you ? Developing fast feet Snaring the right job the first time is a major achievement , but it 's only the beginning of a never ending process . Circumstances will change ? your employer may be acquired or merged , the economy will expand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the survivors will be those fast enough on their feet to respond quickly and creatively to the challenges . You must stay abreast of changes in the business climate , in technology and in your company 's fortunes that might affect your career . And you 'll need to reassess periodically whether it 's time to change employers or industries ? or even to go back to school . According to Drake Beam Morin research , some 70 percent of the work force between the ages of 25 and 35 returns for more education . " You want to have long-term goals -- but anyone who sticks to them is crazy , " says Patricia Rose , director of career planning and placement at the University of Pennsylvania . No matter what career stage you 're in , success depends on your keeping a sharp eye for opportunity and having the agility to grab it .                     