@@321599

They would not go away , those pushy women circling the Plaza de Mayo silently , as if under water , photographs of their sons , daughters and husbands swinging on chains from their necks like good-luck charms . Sometimes the women would bear the photographs on placards ; sometimes they would hold a snapshot delicately out in front of them between the index finger and the thumb , presenting unassailable proof to anyone who cared to look that the subject of the picture did , at one time , exist . Every Thursday the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo performed their half-hour ritual across the street from the presidential Pink House , and then dispersed for a week . But they would not go away . In many of the photographs the children posed formally , in dresses and coats and ties . In several , they looked saucy before the camera . That was in better days , before the subjects came to be counted among the desaparecidos ; thousands , possibly tens of thousands of men , women and children who , as alleged enemies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Argentina in the late 1970s . <P> Not that they really disappeared . Even the powerful Argentine generals , with so many instruments of annihilation at their fingertips , could not actually make people disappear . They did what they could : abduct , torture , shoot , behead and bury their enemies in mass and secret graves . What they hoped most recently , since ending their " dirty war " of antiterrorism. was that the issue of the desaparecidos would itself disappear . If the newly elected President of Argentina , Raul Alfonsin , had any sense of custom or propriety , that is precisely what would have happened . But Alfonsin seemed unaware that one does not put the military on trial ; and , in any event , graves seemed to be popping up all over the countryside at an alarming rate ; and there were those irritating women , of course , relentless ambulatory photograph albums . So the issue never did disappear . It must be very discouraging for the military , all that work for nothing . <P> They could not even dispose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dispose of . Murderers do it frequently , with a tub full of acid ; even the teeth will go eventually . Ideas are something else , however . Much more difficult to get rid of them . Memories are peculiarly tenacious . Hitler may have discovered as much after the German High Command issued its Nacht und Nebel decree in the western occupied territories , enabling authorities to snatch citizens off the street and out of their homes under night and fog . " The prisoners will vanish without a trace , " read the decree . They did not . They were traced in the minds of those who survived . Feelings are still harder to dispose of . The Argentine mothers were not patrolling the Plaza de Mayo in the name of revolutionary ideas , but because they missed those they love .                     