@@480356

yOCRE the sixth reporter I 've talked to this week , " Bud Weinstein told me . In fact , that was the very first thing he told me , and it was particularly impressive because it was only Wednesday when we talked . He continued : " I 'll tell you what kind of story to write . " He got the sort of speculative glint in the eye that David 0 . Selznick must have had ; my story was taking shape in his mind . " Call it ' Searching for the Sunbelt . ' Say it 's a lot of nonsense that it 's an uninterrupted sea of prosperity . " Well , all right . The Sunbelt . Gleaming . Burgeoning . Nonunion . My search for the Sunbelt . What did it mean , I wondered this complex and contradictory region , famed for its growth and prosperity , yet marred by the tawdry poverty that lies just beneath its gleaming surface ? The time had come for me to venture forth and feel its pulse . I left the gleaming office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ airport , passing near booming nonunion semiconductor factories . I got on a booming , entrepreneurial Southwest Airlines plane and flew to Dallas , passing over gleaming defense plants that exist in stark contrast to the Bible Belt farmland that surrounds them . It 's a lot of nonsense , I thought as my plane circled Dallas 's gleaming skyline and burgeoning suburbs , that the Sunbelt is an uninterrupted sea of prosperity . As soon as I got to Dallas I went to see ' Weinstein , whose full name is Bernard L. Weinstein and who is Nicholas Lemann is executive editor of Texas Monthly . professor of economics and political economy and associate director of the Center for Policy Studies at the University of Texas at Dallas . I was , after all , searching for the Sunbelt. and everyone who undertakes that mission ends up knocking on Weinstein 's door . He is the world 's greatest expert on the Sunbelt , and he , more than any other single person . shapes its destiny . The reason he has so much power over the Sunbelt ? this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a suburban university you 've never heard of ? is that the Sunbelt is not really a region . People in Los Angeles do n't think of themselves as being in common cause with people in Waycross , Georgia . There 's no shared culture . The economies are completely different . Politically , if the United States is split in half . it 's east versus west , not north versus south . The Sunbelt is really a concept , a category , and therefore its stewards are not politicians or businessmen but professors and journalists . F YOU are an ambitious journalist who wants to do more than cover fires and murders , or a worldly professor who does n't want to spend his life in the library , then you will surely be visited by the temptation to categorize . By creating a category , you are at once appearing to be insightful and increasing your role in the world . Let me categorize . There are two kinds of categories : those that flow upward to the press and professoriat , and those that flow downward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ category is that of Communist Nations , which first declare themselves to be that and only then are discovered by the media . The American South is another example ; it thought of itself as the South without needing the media to tell it so . The members of the second kind of category , on the other hand , first discover their kinship when they read about it in the paper . For example , did anyone realize spontaneously that he was living in the Fourth World , or , for that matter , in the New Hollywood , or Middle America , or the Sunbelt ? Unlikely . A successful category , once invented , takes on a life of its own . It becomes the subject of books and articles and three-day seminars . People stake their careers on it . Legislation is passed . Trends occur within the category ( " The New Hollywood : The Kids Crow Up " ; " The Fourth World Goes Third World " ) . The parsing of categories into trends can keep many people employed . If you take just @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunbelt , poverty ) and combine them imaginatively , you can fill up the front page of every Sunday paper in America ( Sunday is trend day ) from now until the year 2000. when the round of sixty-four-part series on the new millennium will begin . You could write about Hispanics in the suburbs , suburbs in the Sunbelt , the Sunbelt discovering poverty , poverty among Hispanics , and so on . Many great newspapers have already tackled all these themes . S O FAR as I can determine , the Sunbelt was invented by Kevin P. Phillips , the Republican journalist , in his 1969 book The Emerging Republican Majority . " As of the present , " he wrote , " an-other population shift ? the huge The New York Times , June 3,1981 , page 1 . postwar white middle-class push to the Florida-California Sun country elsewhere he called it , primitively , the Sun Belt ? ... seems to be forging a new , conservative political era in the South , Southwest , and Heartland . " Could Phillips have known what he was starting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them , millions of people were living in the Sunbelt without one of them realizing it . They thought of themselves as Southerners or Texans or Los Angelenos ; many of them , in fact , still think that . In this respect they are different from , say , Frenchmen , who would realize they were Frenchmen even if no one ever wrote an article about France . The Sunbelt had no premedia life . By defining the Sunbelt as conservative , and therefore good , Phillips and other Republicans were laying down the gauntlet for journalists on the left , who immediately picked it up and began writing that the Sunbelt was conservative , and therefore bad . Even in the Sixties , the SDS theoretician Carl Oglesby was writing about " Yankees " versus " Cowboys . " In 1975 Kirkpatrick Sale wrote Power Shift , which described the rise of a cowboy-populated " Southern Rim , " right-wing and rich in oil , defense contracts , and high-technology businesses . Sale then offered a convoluted theory of recent American politics based on Yankee-Cowboy antagonism . Unfortunately for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was populated by " Rimsters , " by the way ) never caught on , and so rather than leading a regal , oped-piece-writing life today , Sale is hawking another category he calls Human Scale . Meanwhile , as 1976 began , the Sunbelt was , as journalistic categories go . in a position roughly resembling that of a widely respected character actor . It was always working ? appearing in a textbook here . a TV documentary there ? but it was not a star . On the morning of February 9 , 1976 , however , everything changed for the Sunbelt . It became the subject of a five-part series in The New York Times . SUNBELT REGION LEADS NATION IN GROWTH OF POPULATION , said the first day 's headline . " Area Spans Southern Half of Country . " The news peg was a Census Bureau report , released the day before , showing that only in the South and Southwest had metropolitan areas grown in the early 1970s . In fairness , this was an interesting and important fact , left on its own . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extrapolated from and made to define a new region that was changing American history . The first day 's main story began : ALONG INTERSTATE 95 IN VIRGINIA ? All day and through the lonely night , the moving vans push southward , 11-wheeled boxcars of the highway , changing the demographic face of America . They load up in Boston , New York , Philadelphia and W mington , riding low and heavy , bound for seaside communities in the Carolinas , the rolling suburbs outside Atlanta. , the retirement villages of Florida . West of here , other trucks and highways carry a similar cargo , bound from Cleveland , Detroit or Chicago to Houston , Phoenix or California . They return toward the North in a few days , riding high and empty , racing to shoehorn another household into the rig in Providence or Pittsburgh for transplanting to the nation 's fastest-growing region , the Sunbelt , a warm-climate band that sweeps across the southern rim of the country from Virginia to southern California . Leaving aside the question of how a reporter standing on Interstate 95 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all that ( and where did he put his typewriter ? ) , the Sunbelt was now , thanks to the Times , in the big time of categories . In the course of a week , virtually every one of today 's cliches about the Sunbelt was set forth ( FEDERAL FUNDS POUR INTO SOUTHERN STATES ; HOUSTON , AS ENERGY CAPITAL , SETS PACE IN SUNBELT BOOM ) . Immediately , the rest of the press started to crank up on the subject . At this point the Sunbelt notion was a big hit with editors in New York because it dovetailed so perfectly with the fiscal crisis that was going on before their eyes , but it had yet to catch on among editors in Washington . Then , in June 1976 , National Journal , a magazine for institutions that do business with the federal government , came out with a long and detailed examination of federal spending by region , which showed that northern states paid more in taxes than they got back in federal spending , while Sunbelt states got back more than they paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the North . This was essentially the Times 's " federal funds pour into southern states " story spun out in great detail , but the addition of the specific , quantifiable " balance of payments " gimmick was enough to wake Washington up to the Sunbelt . Rep. Michael Harrington ( Dem. - Mass. ) started a Northeast-Midwest Economic Advancement Coalition designed to get the federal government to spend more money in the North . In retaliation , the Southern Growth Policies Board , a sleepy North Carolina foundation , started a Washington office to do the opposite . Now earnest young staff members could be hired to study the Sunbelt , and consultants ' studies could be commissioned , and Houston bureaus could be opened , and in many other ways the Sunbelt could begin actually to provide people with a livelihood . In the early days of the Sunbelt , Bernard Weinstein was living in Albany , New York , and working at the Institute for Public Policy Alternatives . Then he lost his job , not because of the decline of the North but because New York got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institute because it was a creation of Nelson Rockefeller . Weinstein sent his r ? sum ? around , and the University of Texas at Dallas had a job open . He moved in the fall of 1975 and immediately wrote an article for Society magazine called " What New York Can Learn From Texas . " So when the Times series and the National Journal story broke , he seen his opportunities and he took ' em . " I got interested in the politics of it , " he says . " I did popular writing . I got on the Sunbelt-Frosthelt circuit . You might say circus . We traveled around having seminars . " He set up a little center , which helped attract to Dallas a crack group of Sunbeltologists from the North . He went to Washington for two years to lobby for the Southern Growth Policies Board . He came back to Dallas . Reporters began calling him a lot . Weinstein and his circle have , if I may grossly oversimplify their work , two main points . First , the Sunbelt is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive atmosphere , and if migration there causes the North to wither , so much the better . One of Weinstein 's colleagues at UT Dallas , Don Hicks , got a job working for the National Commission on an Agenda for the 1980s , and that was essentially the point he made in the Commission 's report early in 1981 ? setting off , by the way , a new avalanche of Sunbelt coverage . Their second point is that the Sunbelt is n't really all that great , and therefore desperately needs the federal balance-of-payments surplus in order to alleviate the grinding poverty that is the region 's legacy . This comes close enough to contradicting the first point to make the whole business of Sunbelt advocacy a tricky one . But somebody 's got to do it . C OVERAGE of an artificial category like the Sunbelt is a challenge , because it 's only rarely that anything actually happens on your beat . Instead , you have to write about trends , and that requires a little hard sell . For in stance , when the press @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the region 's previous condition in order to make the trend prosperity ? stand out in dramatic relief . In Newsweek 's 1977 cover story " Texas ! The Superstate , " Texas was described as having started the decade as " Nothing more than a left turn on the way to California , a god-awful won't-it-ever-end stretch of monotony . " But now , magically , it was " the geographic and economic heart of the American Sun Belt , that recently recognized crescent that runs from the tidewater of Virginia to the sands of southern California . " The Times called Houston " a steamy little southeast Texas swamp town commanding little attention and less respect " that suddenly became " no less than the newest , most prosperous , fastest-growing urban industrial center in America . " Once the Sunbelt had been established as booming , the market for stories that began , " Formerly a two-bit piece of nowhere , Phoenix today ... " took a sharp downturn . A new trend was needed . That was where Bud Weinstein came in . He would tell you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you could visit a slum or two , find a plant that had laid people off , drive over a couple of potholes , and write a story called " The Other Sunbelt . " Under the gleaming fa ? ade of Houston , there were deep problems , and so on . You could go see David Perry and Al Watkins , the Sunbeltologists at the University of Texas at Austin , who are way to the left of Weinstein and his group but who also like to talk about the Sunbelt 's problems . Now the Other Sunbelt trend ( and its cousin , the Northern Cities Bounce Back trend 1 seems to have run its course , and it 's unclear what will come next . We seem to be in a complex period in which trend succeeds The New York Times , August 18 , 1981 , page 1 . 18 trend rapidly , and this will probably continue until the northern media close their Houston bureaus . Last June 3 , the Times ran a front-page story called NEW WAVE OF JOBLESS MIGRANTS REVERSES OLD PATH @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Midwest to Texas . On August 18 , ten short weeks later , the trend had already ended , and the Times front-page carried a story ? by the same reporter ? called UNSKILLED NORTHERNERS FIND SUN BELT JOB CLIMATE COOLING . Weinstein was quoted at length . " Dallas is really becoming more like Cleveland , " he said . In recent months Weinstein has put forth the view ? and so , consequently , has The New York Times ? that the real battle is n't North versus South , but East versus West , and that the Sunbelt has been supplanted by the Growth Belt . It 's still too early to tell whether this new category will take off , even with the backing of the Times . T - HE ONE small disappointment in Weinstein 's career is that he has not made much of an impact among people who actually live and work in Texas and the rest of the alleged Sunbelt . In particular . the business establishment of Dallas seems just to breeze along in its gleaming skyscrapers without feeling the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he says , " that we have done policy analysis with national recognition but we 're rarely called in to do work locally . That 's why I used to do all this B.S. in the local press ? to get recognition locally . Now I just want the national press . I 've developed relationships 4 with The New York Times in Houston and Denver and with the Washington Post , and that really pays off . Maybe they do n't want to hear the bad news here . " He 's partly right . Also , they do n't want to listen to professors and journalists here as much as they do in the Northeast . While extremely different culturally , in terms of its economic development Texas is at roughly the moment that Howells and Dreiser wrote about in their novels when it happened in the North . A society that is growing this fast makes businessmen its heroes . In Washington , where I used to live , a daily newspaper reporter who goes to a party full of bank vice presidents will find himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of party , he 'll find the people he talks to casting desperate glances over his shoulder to see if there 's anybody more important around . The newspapers in Houston do n't promote categories and trends because they are n't good enough to have bad ideas . The notion that Texas is thriving because of federal policies , so appealing in New York and Washington . does n't have many adherents here , because it 's no fun to believe it . Stories in the papers here that make reference to the Sunbelt are usually traceable to Weinstein or Don Hicks or David Perry : businessmen and politicians talk about the Sunbelt only when trying to con the Yankees . For the home audience , there is a different myth here . It 's the saga of Texas a land of hardworking people with a ranching tradition , rougher and less moony than the South , neither as flaky nor as glamorous as California , now in the midst of obtaining sweet revenge on its northern oppressors . It 's fun to ascribe the revenge to moral superiority ? or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supply of human capital ? but in fairness it must be mentioned , too , that the OPEC embargo of 1973 , and the subsequent tenfold increase in the price of Texas 's basic commodity , has helped . That last point is not a big part of the official mythology here . But then neither is it a big part of the official mythology of the Sunbelt , which would have you think that Texas prosperity comes from federal dollars . The facts are n't really crucial to either myth . When a national magazine does a cover story on Texas , it 's all gleaming office spires and luxurious suburbs . At Texas Monthly , marketed to the very occupants of this world , our best-selling cover was a picture of a cowboy on a horse .                     