@@494334

Next on their agenda : nativist neo-populism . HARD TIMES FOR THE HARD RIGHT BY MORTON KONDRACKE THE RADICAL RIGHT , you should be happy to hear , is battered and dispirited . It lost ground in the 1982 elections and it feels abandoned by its old hero , Ronald Reagan . But the movement is not dead . It is regrouping ? looking for new leaders and new ways to cause trouble . Its latest proposed strategy is - neo- populism , " an effort to radicalize hard-pressed workers and other alienated Middle Americans by blaming their woes on " elitists " ( including multinational corporations , big banks , and the media ) and also on illegal aliens and treacherous foreigners . A turn toward nationalism , protectionism , racism , and irrationalism could split the right , with traditional conservatives turning away in disgust from New Right radicals . But in bad economic times , such themes could find popular support . If so , it would n't take long for a leader to leap to the front of the mob to challenge President Reagan or Vice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nomination if Reagan does n't run , or even to mount a third-party challenge . The names most discussed by New Righters to fill such a role are fairly familiar : Jesse Helms , Jack Kemp , Senator Bill Armstrong of Colorado , and Senator Paul Laxalt of Nevada . But the lesson of 1976 is not lost on the right , either . That lesson is that in this era of media politics , even a one-term ex-governor of Georgia can come from nowhere and become President . Just now , the right is eyeing a no-term , not-quite governor of New York , Lew Lehrman . But before trying to elect a President again , the New Right needs to lick its wounds . The 1982 election conferred no great mandate on liberals to run the country , but it did seem to withdraw the 1980 mandate ofextreme conservatism . With 26 fewer Republicans in the House , President Reagan will have to make midcourse corrections toward the center . What 's even better is the list of New Right hotheads who bit the dust in November , including @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Albert Lee Smith in Alabama , ex-John Bircher John Rousselot in California , and the whole of Jesse Helms 's slate of Congressional Club reactionaries in North Carolina . In fact , the best news of 1982 may be that Helms , political dean of the New Right , first failed to get his battery of anti-abortion , anti-busing , and court-stripping bills through Congress , then got shellacked in his effort to take control of North Carolina politics , and now faces the prospect of personal defeat in 1984 at the hands of moderate Democratic Governor Jim Hunt . A piece of equally good news is the collapse of Terry Dolan 's notorious NCPAC , whose negative advertising seemed to help candidates it was designed to hurt and which ended the campaign with a Senate score ( depending on the score-keeper ) of one win against 14 , 17 , or 20 losses . More good news : A computer analysis by the Chicago Sun-Times indicates that the most conservative fifth of the U.S. House of Representatives suffered the worst losses ( 37 percent ) of any ideological group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As they ought to be , leaders of the conservative movement are unhappy with the election results . Paul Weyrich of the Free Congress Foundation calls it " a disaster , a rout , " and says it was " worse even than a lot of people think " because yen though Republicans kept the Senate , they lost 20 of the 33 Senate races run in 1982 and came very close to losing five more . And Republicans now control neither house in the legislatures of 34 states . Yet the Republican defeat does not mean the demise of the New Right . " The New Right is alive and reasonably well , " says Weyrich . According to anti-rightist Tony Podesta of People for the American Way , " they lost more than they won by any measure , but it would be over-hasty to write any obituaries . " For one thing , New Right candidates and causes did not lose everywhere . The three new Republican Senators elected this year ? Paul Trible in Virginia , Chic Hecht in Nevada , and Pete Wilson in California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than their predecessors . The abortion issue seems to have helped Minnesota Senator David Durenberger keep his seat , and the gun-control referendum in California ( defeated by a margin of 63 percent to 37 percent ) apparently turned out voters who helped elect George Deukmejian as Governor over Tom Bradley . Despite high unemployment , rightist gubernatorial candidates Lew Lehrman and Richard Head-lee did surprisingly well in New York and Michigan , and Terry Branstad did win in Iowa . And , despite hoots of joy from liberal enemies and even some scowls from within the conservative movement , Terry Dolan and NCPAC did not actually do as badly as advertised . When Congressional Quarterly surveyed NcrAc 's performance in House as well as Senate races , it found the score was 69 wins , 19 losses . Whatever losses the right has suffered lately , both at the White House and at the polls , it still has considerable assets , including money , technical ingenuity , boundless self-confidence , and a keen instinct for jugular issues . Tony Podesta estimates that right-wing religious and political organizations alone have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counting gun clubs , pro-life groups , educational foundations , and business PACs . On a technical level , right-winger Richard Viguerie practically invented single-issue direct-mail politics , and still is far ahead of liberal groups in perfect-ing it . He plans to start three new companies in coming months to exploit the " neo-populist " agenda and is beginning at least two new conservative cable TV pro-grams . And Terry Dolan , regardless of what his correct score was in 1982 , certainly deserves acknowledgment as the man who reinvented the negative advertising that both parties now use on television . The New Right 's spokesmen argue , too , that the issues upon which the movement organized so effectively prior to and during the 1980 election have not gone away ? they simply have not been exploited by the Reagan Administration . " You liberals say that Jesse Helms was defeated because the anti-abortion bill did n't get passed , " one organizer said . " But when did a national abortion ban ever get to the Senate floor before ? And what would have happened if Ronald Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the power of his Presidency behind it ? " Anyway , exit polls and other indicators suggest that abortion is less potent than some other conservative issues that may yet be exploited more fully . ABC 's poll , for example , showed that voters favor the death penalty by a margin of 79 to 21 percent and school prayer by a margin of 71 to 29 percent . ( At the same time , they favor a nuclear freeze by 57 to 43 percent ) . Asked to define their politics , 24 percent said they were liberal , while 38 percent each said they were conservative and middle-of-the-road . A Roper poll , though , shows that 45 percent of the population considers itself conservative , 33 percent middle-of-the-road , and 19 percent liberal . The New Right 's complaint with President Reagan is that he failed to govern or to campaign in 1982 on the social issues that helped get him elected in 1980 . The New Right 's complaint with itself is that it spent too much of period from 1980 to 1982 trying to get him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Review 's postelection " Letter from Washington " sums up the rightists ' analysis . Reagan , it says , " played the game entirely on his twenty-yard line , and any effort to make the election a grand realignment was abandoned . The game plan was sharply limited : prevent the opposition from scoring too often . Therefore , conservative activists were n't needed . " The conservatives almost unanimously think that in allowing economics to be the main issue of 1982 , the President " played on the Democrats ' turf " and was bound to lose . A , ALTERNATIVE STRATEGY was recommended to White House chief of staff James Baker in a meeting at Blair House on September 15 . According to several participants , Weyrich presented a memo listing twelve tactics for the Republicans to use . The key to all twelve was confrontation , attack . " The theme of the election should he , ' Do you want to return to the kind of welfare state and elitist rule that we had before 1980 ? ' " Weyrich was quoted as saying . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how things were going under the Democrats ? on prayer , busing , quotas , cultural and neighborhood issues , and inflation ? and to tell people how things would be again if Tip and Teddy were in control . " Weyrich also proposed tagging Congressional candidates endorsed by the National Education Association , the National Organization for Women , and other liberal groups with those organizations ' most extreme positions . " We wanted Democrats to be asked : ' You take money from NOW . How do you stand on lesbian rights ? ' We wanted to make them pay for that support . " Another proposal was to go back through the records of leading Democrats ? Tip O'Neill , Edward Kennedy , and Walter Mondale ? and tag the whole Democratic Party with the least defensible ideas they ever advocated . Another was to schedule a series of several " confrontation votes " in Congress just before the election to create campaign issues , and Weyrich suggested that Reagan then use the U.S. Chamber of Commerce 's highly sophisticated Busnet system to campaign on those issues by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest groups . " Of the twelve proposals , Baker led us to believe the White House would accept ten , " said one participant . " But nothing ever happened , or to the extent it did , it was too little and too late . The White House figured that conservatives had nowhere else to go on Election Day than with the Republicans , but that was wrong . The place they had to go was home , and that is where they stayed . " In 1980 , according to Weyrich , the Moral Majority registered five million voters . In 1982 the organization is three times as large as it was then , but instead of campaigning , top state and national M.M. leadersheld a convention in the Bahamas during the weekend before the election . The Religious Roundtable , which held huge rallies for Reagan in 1980 , sponsored hone in 1982 . The right chiefly blames James Baker for the President 's failure to go on the attack . Baker tried to patch things up with the right-wingers in a luncheon meeting held on November @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was Senator Joseph McCarthy 's former aide , New York lawyer Roy Cohn . Baker reportedly tried to assure the right-wingers ? including Viguerie , Dolan , Human Events editor Allan Rvskind , and Robert Heckman of the Fund for a Conservative Majority ? that he is not an enemy . He is said to have told them that it was he who argued against Secretary of State George Shultz 's suggestion that President Reagan go to Moscow to attend Leonid Brezhnev 's funeral . The rightists , however , regard Baker as an " elitist " and a moderate , a watcher of opinion polls rather than an ideologue . They think it 's Baker 's fault that the Reagan Administration , once such a receptacle of hope for the right wing , has " changed nothing in Washington . " As with other Republicans ? Eisenhower , Nixon , and Ford ? " the system that the liberals put in place is still there , it 's just not as well funded , " complains Weyrich . T HE NEW RIGHT itself committed a " strategic error , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much . We spent too much time running to meetings and trying to influence personnel and policy . I 'm hard-pressed to see how we changed much of anything . " According to Howard Phillips of the Conservative Caucus , " It 's silly for conservatives to waste an ounce of energy anymore ? and the last two years have been a total waste ? to get a 72-year-old leopard to change his spots . We 've got to write this Administration off . This is riot our Administration . Our job now is to go back to playing our game ? not the Washington game , but the out-in-the-country game . Our job is to get ready to lead as fast as we can . I 'm convinced our turn will come , I just do n't know when . " According to Phillips , conservatives should " declare independence " from the Reagan Administration and possibly from the Republican Party , ceasing to be its dependable right wing and becoming instead a " third force " in American politics . Howard Phillips 's thinking sounds like a leaf from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , who argues that American politics is de-aligning , and that as many as four parties might field candidates in 1984 : corporation-oriented Republicans , labor-oriented Democrats , suburbanite liberal followers of John Anderson , and " populist " right-wingers . Kevin Phillips thinks that middle- and lower middle-class Americans are ripe for radicalizing around cultural and economic issues , especially if hard times leave them alienated from the government and the establishment . Richard Viguerie , master pusher of people 's " hot buttons " via direct mail , thinks the same . In the October issue of his magazine , Conservative Digest , Viguerie proposes fomenting a " populist revolution " against " elitists . " In an article entitled " Who 's Messing Up Your Life and What You Can Do About It , " Viguerie argues : " There are millions of Americans who feel that neither liberals nor conservatives , Democrats nor Republicans really care about their concerns . These are people who feel strongly about issues such as crime , illegal drug use , pornography , illegal aliens , countries that flood America with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ busing and drunk driving , to mention a few . " Viguerie writes , " I believe the ruling elite has inflicted us sic with most of these problems .. . . About 90 percent of our major problems are caused by 1 percent of our citizens . " They are the presumptive targets of right-wing neo-populism : " big business executives who seek profits by selling high technology to the Soviets . . . TV executives who flood our homes with TV shows glorifying crime ... executives of big banks that have loaned hundreds of billions of their depositors ' money to Communist and bankrupt third world countries ... judges and lawyers that turn loose dangerous repeat-rapists , arsonists , muggers and murderers .... " Also , the National Education Association , the A.F.L.-C.1.0. , the National Conference of Catholic Bishops , the media , and sundry graduates of Harvard , Yale , Princeton , and Dartmouth . COME OF the specific proposals one can anticipate L./ from New Right populism are a " world freedom tax , " which is another term for a tariff against Japan designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barriers and the cost to the U.S. government of defending Japan ; state and federal initiatives and referenda on the right 's favorite single issues ; recall of " lenient " judges and automatic reconfirmation of judges , including Supreme Court Justices ; removal of the Federal Reserve Board 's independence from political control ; and restrictions on the freedom of banks and corporations to export credit and jobs overseas . Some New Rightists want to organize parents of private school pupils to back tuition tax credits and perhaps de-fund " government schools . " Others want Americans to feel guilty ? if not threatened ? for driving foreign cars or watching Japanese television sets . Another new populist theme ? though it would send William Jennings Bryan spinning in his grave ? may be to put America back on the gold standard . At the moment , thank heavens , the New Right lacks a national leader . Conceivably , Helms could run for President in 1984 if President Reagan decides not to seek reelection , or as a " third force " opposition candidate . His weakness in North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and before dismissing him as a Southern demagogue without national following , one should remember Huey Long , who badly scared the national establishment in the 1930s , and George Wallace , who did the same in 1968 and 1972 . Jack Kemp is the darling of Republican conservatives and has endorsed some of the new populist themes , including the gold standard , political control of the Fed , and a constitutional amendment to allow citizens to initiate national legislation directly . However , Kemp peeves some New Rightists because he lacks social-issue fire in his belly . Kemp also is a free marketeer who detests protectionism , and a growth-oriented supplysider who does n't want to chop the federal government to pieces . New Rightists are afraid that if they do not capitalize on working-class resentment of the Japanese , Democrats like Walter Mondale and Edward Kennedy will . The rightists also want to starve the civilian side of government because they believe it feeds their natural enemies , the liberals . If President Reagan decides not to run , some conservatives hope he can be pursuaded not to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Senator Laxalt , rather than Bush . If Bush is unavoidable , the right hopes to get him to pick Senator Armstrong as his running-mate , thereby putting a true-blue conservative in line of succession . Or else , as Richard Viguerie says , " Somebody could write a whole new textbook . You do n't need to be a Senator or a Governor to be elected nowadays . " The latest find of the New Rightists is Lew Lehrman , who lost the New York governorship by just 165,000 votes out of five million cast on themes of economic growth and toughness on criminals . Lehrman now is at work on a what-is-to-be-done book for Random House . He gives the impression of a man who thinks he knows . He abhors " incremental , improvised legislative compromises which have no impact on the intractable problems of inflation and unemployment . " He favors " basic , comprehensive " changes , notably a return to the gold standard for the U.S. and the rest of the world . It may take work and intellect to comprehend how gold will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , but that does n't mean it ca n't be made into a simple , potent political theme . It was done in 1898 . Why not 1984 ? Political control of the Federal Reserve ( or even gold ) may actually be advisable . They are worth thinking about . But other themes that the New Right is working up , in the guise of populism , require no thought . For political advantage , the rightists want to make Americans hate Japanese , Mexican immigrants , " elitists , " and " welfare cheats . " They are intent on plowing the same old nativist , nationalist , anti-intellectual ground that Father Coughlin and Pitchfork Ben Tillman dug before . Kevin Phillips reminds us that it is the same ground that Hitler and Mussolini plowed , in desperate times and successfully , in Germany and Italy . Because this is America and because we have lived through hard times before without electing our demagogues , the chances are that we can survive again with democracy intact . But the New Right seems intent on giving democracy another test @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @            