@@432106

 | The crisis in Poland is intensifying what has mushroomed into a massive global propaganda struggle between the United States and Soviet Union for the hearts and minds of the world 's billions . Despite Soviet jamming efforts , many people in Poland can listen each day now to the newly expanded Polishlanguage service of the Voice of America describing an outpouring of U.S. sympathy for their plight . Or they can hear Radio Moscow accuse the Central Intelligence Agency of undermining the Warsaw government . But Poland , prominent as it is in current world events , is only one small skirmish in an escalating war of ideas . The superpowers are spending billions of dollars and using armies of experts in efforts to discredit each other and mold opinion in scores of other countries as well . Among weapons used in that struggle : Around-the-clock radio broadcasts in dozens of languages , expensively produced magazines discussing everything from entertainment to heavy international issues , financing of local newspapers and other publications and ? most notably in the case of Russia ? planting of false accusations designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , America has long maintained an apparatus for presenting its story to the world . But seldom in modern times has this task been so critical to Washington as now . President Reagan is intent on projecting an image of a more muscular America willing to safeguard its interests anywhere in the world . At the same time , the U.S. is trying to counter a Soviet offensive that depicts America as a warmonger and PSE AF Russia as a peacemaker . Taking Lenin at His Word Poland today is the focal point of the struggle . Both sides have stepped up efforts there since the country was placed under martial law in midDecember . The Voice of America has doubled to 5 hours its daily 2 ? hours of Polish-language newscasts . Radio Moscow 's expanded broadcasts now carry long reports praising Poland 's military government and attacking Washington in vitriolic terms . In Poland as elsewhere , the Soviets are using the same brand of propaganda they have employed since Lenin pioneered it during the Bolshevik Revolution more than 60 years ago . " Ideas , " he declared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more important to the Kremlin . The U.S.S.R. devotes an estimated 3 billion dollars a year to propaganda ? far more than any other country . Leonid Zamyatin , chief foreign propagandist , is one of the most important officials in the Kremlin . The Russians have a full range of modern propaganda tools at their disposal . Among them are Radio Moscow , a worldwide shortwave broadcast service ; the official news agency Tass , whose dispatches are sent to thousands of outlets around the globe , and the press service Novosti , which is mainly a public-relations agency that specializes in features . The Soviets finance semiofficial broadcast services such as Radio Peace and Progress , plus many powerful clandestine stations such as the National Voice of Iran and Radio Ba Yi , which sends subversive broadcasts into China . Russia also churns out dozens of publications for foreign audiences . In addition , Soviet front organizations promote Moscow 's interests in other countries . One of the best known of these groups is the World Peace Council , which President Reagan has described as instrumental in building pacifist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ best , say experts , they can be skilled propagandists ? especially if they are handed a good issue . A current case in point : Soviet efforts to convince Western Europe that the U.S.S.R. is a force for peace and that America is ready to turn that part of the world into a nuclear battleground . Moscow has gone to great lengths to capitalize on pacifist opposition to U.S. plans to deploy a second generation of nuclear weapons on the soil of its  | allies in the region . Even American officials concede that the campaign has been highly successful . " No one would seriously suggest that this pacifism is wholly Soviet inspired , " says Terry Catherman , deputy director of the Voice of America . " But Russia is smart enough to know it is going with the tides of history . We lost Europe a long time ago ? with Vietnam , Cambodia and Watergate . The Soviets have exploited this feeling . The surprising thing is that it is happening while their own missiles are aimed at European capitals . Our mistake was in failing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On this highly charged issue , the Soviets have tried to avoid the strident tone that characterizes v. , - much of their propaganda . Moscow has turned to the Western press to carry its message . Premier Leonid Brezhnev and other normally inaccessible Soviet officials have suddenly made themselves available for interviews dominated by a single theme ? that Russia is eager to negotiate nucleararms reductions while the U.S. is dragging its feet . An Edge for Moscow The Soviet media campaign and Moscow 's jamming of Western broadcasts underscore a singular advantage that Russia holds when it comes to spreading propaganda : The Soviets have ready access to the media in other parts of the world . But because the Kremlin does not reciprocate , the U.S. and other governments face nearly insurmountable obstacles in efforts to reach people behind the Iron Curtain . The Russians have missed few chances to portray America as a nation busily preparing for nuclear war . Tass , for instance , recently announced that Washington had decided the elderly would be expendable in any atomic war . The basis for the story turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ various age groups . The Russian news agency referred to the authors as " nuclear madmen " who felt the old had " lived long enough and should therefore be the first to leave the bomb shelters so that other people could have enough food and water . " Soviet propagandists are equally intent on showing that the U.S. is bent on achieving dominance through subversive as well as nuclear means . This theme is particularly evident in propaganda aimed at Poland . Radio Moscow told Polish listeners on December 22 that " the first violin in subversive activities against Poland is played by certain circles in the U.S. " The broadcast warned that " a special coordinating staff with the cooperation of the CIA was created in the U.S. for subversive work in Poland . " Similar material has been beamed to the Middle East , Africa and Latin America . A recent Soviet newscast monitored in Syria linked America with terrorist acts by radical Islamic groups , including a Damascus bombing that killed 90 people . Radio Moscow transmitted to Africa a report alleging that the CIA had conspired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Latin American broadcasts have lately reported American Green Berets in command of government troops in El Salvador . " This kind of thing is so blatant that it would appear to be counterproductive , " says Ray Kline , a former deputy director of the CIA . " But it gains credibility through repetition . Say something loud and often enough , and people believe it . That is the key to Soviet propaganda . " Dirty Tricks , Kremlin Style In recent years , the Soviets have stepped up use of " disinformation " techniques aimed at discrediting the U.S. among its allies and other nations . CIA analysts estimate that Russia now spends as much as 200 million dollars a year to stir up trouble for Washington by planting carefully forged documents and using a variety of other dirty tricks . Some recent examples Ministers to a European defense conference in Madrid last September were given copies of what appeared to be a letter from President Reagan to King Juan Carlos bluntly pressing Spain to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . If genuine , such a letter would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , branded the letter a forgery that bore all the earmarks of Soviet disinformation . Indian newspapers cited undisclosed sources last March as having proof that the U.S. ambassador-designate , Harry Barnes , actually was being sent to India to lay the groundwork for a major CIA operation . First appearing in a pro-Moscow paper that previously had published other Soviet forgeries , the report came at a time of deteriorating relations between Washington and India . European peace groups recently produced copies of what they claimed were U.S. Army plans for the destruction of targets on the Continent if the Soviet Union were to overrun parts of Western Europe . Subtitled " Holocaust Again for Europe , " the papers ? dismissed by Washington as forgeries ? have been widely circulated . A Soviet publication distributed last June in Italy , URSS Oggi , contained an article implicating the U.S. in the shooting of Pope John Paul II . The Soviets claimed the opinions were those of the author , a journalist employed by Novosti , but the charges were not denied and the article continues to receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ While the Soviets may outgun Washington , the Americans are far from empty-handed in the propaganda war . The U.S. can muster considerable resources of its own , not to mention the parallel efforts of Britain and other allies . Spreading U.S. propaganda abroad is largely the function of the International Communication Agency , which runs the Voice of America and other functions with a staff of 7,500 and an annual budget of 489 million dollars . Two other U.S. broadcast services , Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty , are run by an independent federal agency called the Board for International Broadcasting . The three services have different functions . Washington-based VOA  | broadcasts worldwide , focusing mainly on describing life in the United States and foreign-policy developments . Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty , whose signals are aimed at Eastern Europe and the U.S.S.R. , respectively , specialize in reporting on events behind the Iron Curtain ? the closest thing to an alternative news source to official organs . All broadcast on several frequencies simultaneously . The United States is heavily involved in other aspects of propaganda as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material that presents a flattering view of America . There also have been disclosures that the CIA has engaged in disinformation projects of its own to put the Russians in a bad light . But nothing the U.S. does is judged more effective than broadcasting . Nobel laureate Andrei Sakharov has told of obtaining news of the outside world from his exile in Gorky by listening to Western broadcasts on a small transistor radio . And in the early days of Poland 's Solidarity movement , U.S. newscasts were a major communications link for unions . One sure gauge of radio 's impact is the effort put forth by Russia to keep people from listening . Moscow now disrupts the signals of all three American broadcasting stations transmitting to the Soviet Union , an operation that costs at least 100 million dollars a year . Also heavily jammed are the Polish broadcasts of VOA and Radio Free Europe . America 's propaganda strategy differs sharply from that of Russia . Where Moscow unabashedly pushes blatantly biased material , the U.S. tries to cultivate an image of objectivity . " The feeling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves , " explains John Hughes , associate director of the ICA . " The worst thing we can do is present a distorted view . It would cost us the most precious thing we have ? credibility . " Sticking to the Facts Differences between U.S. and Soviet propaganda techniques are especially striking in Poland . The Voice of America , for instance , has dropped commentary from its Polish programing and is concentrating on news that differs little from what Americans hear at home . " We are trying to do nothing that might exacerbate tensions in Poland , " explained Catherman , the deputy director . During one typical day of broadcasting in late December , the closest thing to overt propaganda by the Voice of America was a report tracing the rise and fall of Solidarity . It summed up events as " 16 months of growing freedom crushed by police gunfire " and cited unspecified reports as saying that the government was prodded by Moscow into acting . For its part , Radio Moscow on the same day accused Solidarity 's " extremist elite " of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crackdown . A Tass report declared that " counterrevolutionaries " were " preparing to implement their plans with the knowledge , the encouragement or on the direct instructions of Washington . " The U.S. often ignored such charges in the past as unworthy of comment . In cases where the Voice did decide to reply , the response often came many days after the Soviet allegation . But that will no longer be the practice if new policies take root . Reagan wants the ICA , and especially the Voice , to take an aggressive new tack with propaganda . In August , the President launched " Project Truth " under the leadership of ICA Director Charles Z. Wick . Its goal : Refute " misleading Soviet propaganda and disinformation " to highlight " the Soviet threat " to world security and to underline American commitment to peace . To accomplish this new mission , a special task force was created within the agency . VOA 's new deputy director for commentary and analysis , Phillip Nicolaides , has urged that broadcasts abandon their recent " tendency toward mush " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showing up in sharply increased efforts to counter opposition to the U.S. nucleararms buildup in Western Europe . Among other things , the ICA and the Pentagon have begun briefing influential foreign reporters in an attempt to obtain more favorable coverage . The Voice , too , is devoting more commentary to the strategic-arms issue . These changes in Voice of America tactics have generated considerable controversy . Some members of Congress are concerned that " Project Truth " could end up destroying the credibility of the Voice and its parent agency . That fear is shared by some veteran Voice employes . Bernard H. Kamenske , who disagreed with the new policies , quit in December as director of the Voice news division . Wick , however , has promised that newscasts will remain objective and that commentary will not shrink the time the Voice allots to straight news . He also says any commentary will be clearly labeled as such . Still , doubts persist . " If they are not careful , " commented one former VOA director , " they are going to lose the credibility that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the end , that will destroy whatever propaganda value the broadcasts have . " Winners and Losers When victories and defeats are toted up in the propaganda war , both sides can claim a number of successes ? if only limited ones . The Soviets clearly have made advances in Europe and some Third  | World countries , although their gains may be more the fruit of U.S. policy than of any propagandizing expertise by Moscow . " If a policy is distasteful , " commented one VOA official , " you simply can not sell it , no matter how clever or diligent you may be . All you can hope for is to contain the damage . And usually not even that is possible . " India , for example , is presently regarded by Washington as almost a hopeless cause because the U.S. is widely seen there as unsympathetic to Indian problems ? a perception that has been fully exploited by the Soviets . America 's propaganda effort in India , observers report , has been completely overwhelmed . " No amount of official propaganda can break @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says Bhabani Sengupta of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi . " The Soviet clout in India is not a gift of Soviet propaganda ? but of Moscow 's foreign policy . " Russia holds a slimmer propaganda edge in the Middle East , another area of widespread anti-Americanism . Radio Moscow is widely ignored , and little of what Tass provides ever sees print . But the Soviets have built a base of support among leftist parties and use this network to hammer away at two themes of universal appeal to Arabs ? the threat posed by Israel and the right of Palestinians to a homeland . The U.S. is doing little beyond transmitting Arabic broadcasts that arouse slight interest . American embassies have become a nearly invisible presence . Big Effort , Small Results In Italy , the Soviets are waging a vast , well-coordinated and costly propaganda campaign that has the backing of Western Europe 's largest Communist Party , which itself pumps 14 million dollars a year into the effort . By comparison , American efforts seem low-key and diffuse . Yet Russia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still among the staunchest pro-Americans in Western Europe . The Russians also are mounting a more active propaganda campaign in France , but with similarly poor results . The only pro-Soviet newspaper in France , L'Humanite , is in serious financial trouble despite support from Moscow . When Soviet propaganda specialist Boris Ponomarov attended the French Socialist Party Congress in France last October , he was roundly booed . French officials say the U.S. has scored points by concentrating on influencing decision makers . South America is another place where Washington has made a concerted effort to swamp the Soviet propaganda machine . In Brazil , Latin America 's largest nation and a longtime U.S. ally , Russia now makes only desultory propaganda efforts . The ICA , by contrast , saturates the country with material . The story is different in Central America , where Soviet propaganda supplemented by Radio Havana has been able to exploit America 's troubled relationship with the region . Increased attention from Washington has brought results in Japan and China . The Voice of America holds a dramatic ratings lead over Radio Moscow in China @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Diplomats say the Chinese , partly because of bitter SinoSoviet enmity , attach far more credibility to the pronouncements of Washington than to those of Moscow . Over all , the Soviets these days appear to be living up to their reputation as master propagandists in only a few parts of the world . The verdict from many experts is that Russian propaganda is more pervasive than ever ? but often ignored . Says one intellectual in Kenya : " Can Communism be as dull as they paint it on Radio Moscow ? "                     