@@332964

Violation of the established order in preparation for the tests . . . violation of the testing program itself and carelessness in control of the reactor installation . . . inadequate understanding on the part of the personnel of the operating processes in a nuclear reactor . . . loss of a sense of danger . <P> The language was thick and bureaucratic , but there it was in black and white . In an official report to the International Atomic Energy Agency ( IAEA ) , the Soviet Union admitted that the men and women operating the Chernobyl atomic- power power plant were responsible for the worst nuclear-reactor accident in history . Said Andronik M. Petrosyants , chairman of the Soviet Committee for the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy : " The accident took place as a result of a whole series of gross violations of operating regulations by the workers . " <P> In most other societies , an admission of human error might seem commonplace . But not in the Soviet Union , where for decades official failures have seldom been acknowledged , official sins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are like trees falling in was immediately after last April 's accident at Chernobyl , in the Ukraine . Only after furious protests and demands for information from Sweden and other Western countries did the Soviets even admit that anything had occurred , and then they limited themselves to terse statements that only increased anxiety over the nature and extent of the mishap . The result , of course , was runaway rumors . In the absence of credible official information , stories began to circulate of 2,000 or more people dead and mass graves dug in the countryside . <P> The report delivered to the IAEA and outlined at a Soviet press conference in Moscow last week , was one of the more startling examples of a new Soviet openness . Not only does the two-volume , 430- page document assign guilt for the catastrophe but it includes page after page of statistics , charts and drawings explaining the design and operation of Soviet nuclear reactors . The report will serve as a working paper at an IAEA meeting this week to discuss the international implications of the Chernobyl disaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Participants are expected to approve a new accord in September for the sharing of information about any future nuclear accidents . Said Petrosyants : " The accident at the Chernobyl atomic-power station badly affected Soviet atomic-power engineering , and will undoubtedly have an effect on the world 's atomic-power industry as a whole . " <P> While some Westerners found the report 's analysis distorted and incomplete , most were impressed by its thoroughness , its spirit of self-criticism and the promptness with which it was prepared . Said Kennedy Maize , a senior analyst at the Washington office of the Union of Concerned Scientists , a group that has been critical of the nuclear-power industry : " I must confess that I think we know more at this stage about Chernobyl than was the case four months after Three Mile Island , " the much less serious 1979 nuclear accident near Harrisburg , Pa.                     