@@432072

 | The body of a black youth was recently found hanging from a tree in Mobile , Ala . Local blacks called it a lynching . Near Chicago , a young white man was charged with murdering three Laotian refugees by torching their home . Roman Catholics complain about widespread sales of comic books they regard as viciously anti-Catholic . Such incidents ? plus hundreds of others across the nation ? are stirring fears that the U.S. may be headed for an outbreak of ethnic and religious strife on a scale unknown for decades . While civil-rights leaders say that tolerance among the vast majority of Americans has probably never been greater , a spate of ugly incidents has officials worried . The fear : That rising tensions could reverse years of hardwon progress in improving relations between races and religious groups . " Recently in this nation there has been a disturbing reoccurrence of bigotry and violence , " President Reagan told the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Denver on June 29 . Pledging vigorous investigation of all cases involving federal laws , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ racism and religious prejudice . " One case that has become a cause celebre among many blacks is the alleged lynching in Mobile . A grand jury in early June refused to indict three white men arrested in the crime , saying that the prosecution 's case was based on perjured testimony . Civil rights leaders are concerned that tensions will continue to rise unless the murder is solved . Dr. Robert W. Gilliard , local president of the NAACP , notes : " I told a group of people almost two weeks before this happened that racism had become so permeated in this community that any type of incident was possible . " Minorities have been the target of attacks in other parts of the country as well . After a string of murders in Buffalo and New York City , police charged a white Army recruit , Joseph G. Christopher , with the killings of three blacks and one Hispanic . Prosecutors say the slayings may be part of a statewide rampage in which at least 11 dark-skinned men were brutally shot and cut to death , four of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the crimes . In another case , an avowed racist , Joseph Paul Franklin , has been linked by prosecutors to a six-state chain of ambushes aimed mostly at black men seen in the company of white women . Franklin , sentenced to life in prison for killing two Salt Lake City blacks , also faces trials or investigations in 10 other shootings ? nine murders and the wounding of National Urban League President Vernon Jordan in Indiana . Extremist revival ? Jews also have reported an increase in attacks , mostly against property . The Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith reported 377 anti-Semitic incidents in 1980 , nearly three times the number noted the previous year . They included fire bombings , swastika daubings and other forms of vandalism in 29 states and the District of Columbia . Some of the trouble is attributed to resurgent extremist groups , such as various factions of Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan . Estimates by the Anti-Defamation League indicate two-year membership gains of as much as 25 percent in some Klan factions , plus a doubling in the number of sympathizers over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10,000 and sympathizers at about 100,000 . " At the same time , " according to the league 's report , " there has been a perceptible change in the Kluxers ' stance and tactics : They have become more violent and confrontational . " On May 25 , federal agents defused a bomb outside a Nashville synagogue , one of three Jewish properties targeted for destruction by the local Klan . An increase in Klan activities has prompted Maryland 's chapter of the NAACP to hold a June 21 " war session " to devise " offensive strategies " against the KKK . One result was a pledge by 70 of Maryland 's 135 black state troopers to provide off-duty protection for the local NAACP president , who said he had received several death threats from the Klan in recent weeks . Complaints of police brutality against blacks are also increasing tensions in some cities . On June 19 , nine black protesters stormed the office of New Orleans 's first black mayor , Ernest Morial , and occupied it for two days . They demanded , without success , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of four blacks in a series of raids that followed the murder of a white police officer . Other clashes have involved Hispanics , immigrants , refugees and illegal aliens pouring into the country from countries such as Cuba and Vietnam . In January , a 20-year-old white man  | was arrested in the murder of three Laotians killed by arson in a northwestern suburb of Chicago . Since then , another Laotian community has been frightened by a series of fires set at their homes . In a third Chicago suburb , the house of an immigrant family from India was pelted by rocks and BB 's . The lawn was torn up by marauding cars , and the family 's car was set afire . Hispanic children in Cleveland schools complain they are frequently beaten up because of their ancestry . Friction has also sparked violence against whites in places such as Miami , where several whites were among the 18 persons killed in ghetto riots last year . Members of a black-militant group called Alkebu-lan were blamed for the 22 stab wounds inflicted on James Earl Ray , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at a Tennessee prison in early June . On the Gulf Coast of Texas , two Vietnamese , who claimed it was selfdefense , were acquitted in the fatal shooting of a white man in a dispute over commercial-fishing rights . Search for scapegoats . A main reason cited for the rise in bigotry is America 's troubled economy . Cleveland lawyer Harry M. Brown , regional executive of a Jewish group called the Commission on Law and Public Affairs , explains by saying : " In periods of economic conflict , there ai n't enough pie to go around , and people look for a scapegoat . Minorities are conventionally it . " Civil libertarians say that conflict also has been increased by the drive of conservatives to cut social-welfare programs and civil-rights rules , such as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 . Joseph Madison , an NAACP official in Detroit , observes : " People are getting signals that the reason the economy is in such a state is because too many poor , black families are taken care of by the government . " One place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerged from the racial turmoil of the 1960s with a reputation as the " city too busy to hate . " More recently , the city has been troubled by the murders of more than two dozen young blacks over the last two years , causing fears that at least some of the killings might have been race related . On June 21 , police arrested a 23-year-old black as a suspect in one of the slayings . Whatever the outcome of the cases , says Tyrone Brooks , a black state legislator , " there are people who are convinced that there are racist conspiracies of white cops , the Klan , or any other group of white racists . Whether we believe it or not is n't as important as the fact that they perceive it to be real . " Attacks on religious groups , though less violent , are also reported on the rise . The Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights , for example , has become concerned about widespread sales of illustrated cartoon books that paint Catholicism in a bad light . The books @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jack T. Chick , claim the Vatican has a " death list " and is conspiring to destroy Protestant churches by infiltrating them with Jesuit agents . Divide and conquer . Another development worrying many theologians is the growing tendency of some believers to denigrate other religious groups . One example cited is a New York magazine interview in which an official of the fundamentalist Moral Majority was trying to back up his assertion that " Christians have never been anti-Semitic . " When pressed to acknowledge anti-Semitism in the Spanish Inquisition , the preacher replied : " Those were n't Christians . They were Roman Catholics . " The Catholic League fears such incidents may reflect deeper attitudes that could prove troublesome . Director Orlan Love explains , " We think they 're tapping a large undercurrent of antiCatholicism that has been latent for a long time . " Despite such incidents , many theologians are convinced that the strife is the work of a minority of Americans . Recent studies indicate that most acts of violence against religious or ethnic groups are usually committed by troubled loners or adolescents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , analysts say , Americans are probably more tolerant than ever before . A poll by the American Jewish Committee on the question " Do Jews have too much power ? " shows 8 percent of the public agreeing last October , compared with 26 percent in 1975 and 58 percent in 1946 . Other surveys show only small vestiges of prejudice against Catholics and smoother relations between whites and blacks . But sociologists worry that such advances could be undercut if rising unemployment and declining government benefits cause more competition among rival groups . Accordingly , authorities are trying to deal with current troubles before they get out of hand . On June 2 , Connecticut enacted a law banning paramilitary training camps of the kind opened by the Ku Klux Klan , from Illinois and Connecticut to Texas and Alabama . Similar legislation is pending in nearly a dozen other states . Attempts by Klansmen and Nazis to win converts among students in high schools are meeting strong resistance from educators in several communities . The New York City Police Department has formed a 14-member " **26;376;TOOLONG unit . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revival of a similar squad , which was disbanded with the ebbing of racial troubles in 1977 . Rallying round . Some authorities point to Evansville , Ind. , as a landmark example of what communitywide efforts can achieve in fighting bigotry . Earlier this year , that city was shocked when obscenities against blacks and Jews were spray-painted on the walls of Temple Adath B'nai Israel . The temple cemetery also was defaced . Community leaders of many faiths and racial origins responded immediately . City officials publicly announced that such acts would not be tolerated , and a group of clergy wrote a full-page open letter in the local newspaper decrying the events and explaining them to area children . Eventually , two adults were arrested . One pleaded guilty , and the other is awaiting trial . Sociologists and clergymen say that similar denunciations are needed by leaders of the nation 's rightward shift if the recent wave of bigotry is to be brought under control . Prof. Jeffrey K. Hadden and the Rev. Charles E. Swann , in their new book Prime Time Preachers , say prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they can define the boundaries of lunacy by firmly denouncing those who have no regard for or understanding of human rights in a pluralistic society . "                     