@@298726

He favors regular hours and punctilious habits , but admires , and often exemplifies , a debonair style . He savors jokes , but does not tell them . And even though he rarely raises his voice , he has always been fired by passionate convictions . As Menachem Begin 's successor , Yitzhak Shamir , 67 , is at once less strident and more uncompromising than his former boss . Instead of denouncing or defending Begin 's policies , the small ( 5 ft. 4 in. ) man with deep-set eyes and a shock of gray-black hair may simply take to investing them with his distinct brand of quiet , guarded authority . " He is , " says a Jerusalem editor , " the only man I know who can strut while he 's sitting down . " <P> Ever since his youth in Rozana , Poland ( as Yitzhak Yezernitzky ) , Shamir has dedicated himself to militant Zionism . While a law student at the University of Warsaw , he threw all his energies into Vladimir Jabotinsky 's aggressive movement pledged to the creation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British-ruled Palestine in 1935 , Shamir entered the law school of Jerusalem 's Hebrew University , only to drop out in 1937 , as the Arab revolt against the burgeoning Jewish presence in Palestine intensified . That same year , he joined Irgun Zrai Leumi ( National Military Organization ) , the radical terrorist group whose subsequent leader was Menachem Begin . <P> When Jewish Nationalist Avraham Stern formed an even more bellicose splinter group , the Lohamei Herut Israel ( Israel Freedom Fighters ) in 1940 , Shamir promptly enlisted and began acting on Stern 's assumption that Zionism 's principal foe was not Germany but Britain . He soon became a leader of the notorious , sometimes ruthless " Stern Gang , " which in 1944 assassinated the British resident minister in Cairo , and is believed to have committed the 1948 murder of Swedish U.N . Mediator Folke Bernadotte . Twice Shamir was imprisoned by the British , and twice he escaped . In 1941 he stole out of detention , grew a full beard and traveled around the country disguised as a rabbi ; in 1946 he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fled to Ethiopia and sought asylum in France . When the British quit Palestine in 1948 , following the creation of the state of Israel , Shamir returned at last to Tel Aviv . He later entered the shadowy realm of Israel 's intelligence agency , MOSSAD . It was not until 1969 , after he had become the manager of a small rubber fac tory , that Shamir began to attend meetings of Begin 's Herut Party . Employing his adroit administrative skills , he established a department to attract members from the flood of Jewish immigrants who had arrived in the wake of the 1967 war . In 1973 , he won a seat in the Knesset and , following his re-election four years later , he was appointed Speaker of the body . Although Shamir had irritated Begin by refusing to support the Camp David agreements , the Prime Minister recognized in him an invaluable ally . In 1980 Begin made Shamir his Foreign Minister .                     