@@432306

 | A Philippine election tainted by fraud and violence has yielded what Washington most hoped to avoid : A Marcos government widely discredited , yet determined to rule . In the aftermath of the February 7 election , President Reagan at first appeared to stumble , tilting toward President Ferdinand Marcos , then settled for neutrality between Marcos and challenger Corazon Aquino . But that was not good enough for many U.S. lawmakers , including some conservatives , or even for the President 's own State Department . Secretary of State George Shultz was said to have urged Reagan to take greater distance from Marcos , who , U.S. diplomats said bluntly , stole the election . In the growing storm , Senator Sam Nunn ( D-Ga. ) , a respected member of the Armed Services and Intelligence committees , sent Reagan a biting letter to argue that U.S. bases near Manila did not justify supporting a leader who clung to power by " fraud , intimidation and murder . " Senator Richard Lugar ( R-Ind. ) , chairman of an official U.S. election-observer team , said aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shared with others ? if the February 7 vote turns out to be " fatally flawed . " The U.S. now provides the Philippines $250 million a year in general aid and pays $180 million more in rent for bases . Administration officials said they regarded the threat of congressional revolt as serious . A warning from Aquino The President 's first concrete step was a quick decision to send Philip Habib , a retired diplomatic troubleshooter , to Manila to " assess the desires and needs of the Filipino people . " Habib scheduled meetings with business and religious leaders as well as government and opposition politicians in a search for policy recommendations . For his part , Marcos discounted evidence of massive cheating by his supporters and prepared to begin a new six-year term . Aquino , holding out as the official vote count ? controlled by Marcos ? rose against her , warned the U.S. not to " support a failing dictator . " In most U.S. assessments , she would have won the election by any accurate count . Early demonstrations on her behalf , with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The powerful Council of Catholic Bishops in Manila condemned the elections as " unparalleled in the fraudulence of their conduct " and for showing " a criminal use of power to thwart the sovereign will of the people . " The statement by the bishops , spiritual leaders of more than 80 percent of the population , summoned Filipinos for a " nonviolent struggle " that would force the government to respect popular sentiment for political change . Analysts in Washington , wrestling with future American policy , said the election 's bitter aftermath could include anything from new rounds of street violence to , more remote , a military coup . Though the Philippine military ? especially favored senior officers ? has been loyal to Marcos , that could be changing . A significant number of middle-level officers , with the apparent approval of at least some generals , have been increasingly critical of the regime 's corruption , economic failure , and ineptitude against a swelling Communist insurgency . Confronted with so many uncertainties , the administration had clear interests but no clear policy . At a February 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " the possibility of fraud . " But he added that fraud could have occurred " on both sides . " In fact , most charges of fraud were directed against Marcos 's supporters , few against Aquino 's . One of Reagan 's advisers explained , however , that the President was trying to " position " himself for damage control rather than making a serious judgment . The hope of U.S. officials in recent weeks , since shattered , was that a reasonably clean election would produce a genuine mandate for either Marcos or Aquino , preferably the latter . The Philippine government then might have the strength and credibility to combat a growing Communist insurgency and push ahead with economic and political reforms . Instead , the election 's disputed outcome now confronts Reagan with an array of options , none of them certain to produce success Continue business-as-usual relations with a weakened Philippine power structure , risking an increase in the already evident anti-American backlash among Marcos 's opponents . Marcos 's fragile health has become an in- creasingly important factor in the present political uncertainty , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term . ? Increase pressure on Marcos to step aside , risking defiance by him while winning points with reformers . The approach could be self-defeating , adding to confusion in a nation uncertain about the future and perhaps creating greater opportunities for Communist guerrillas of the New People 's Army . ? Offer increased aid in return for reforms and cooperation between Marcos and Aquino . Some variation on this approach seems to be the administration 's early choice . The most important factor by far in shaping U.S. policy is the need to maintain operational security for Subic Bay Naval Base and Clark Air Base , the two largest American military facilities outside the United States . " One can not minimize the importance of those bases , not only to us , but to the Western World and certainly to the Philippines troubleshooter Habib to help develop U.S. role In growing tumult , Reagan dispatches diplomatic sized at his press conference . " I do n't know of any more important bases than the bases in the Philippines . " In Congress and within the administration , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great . Some officials ? apparently including the President ? argue that overwhelming strategic concerns leave no practical alternative to continuing to work with Marcos , pressing for reforms but overlooking his shortcomings as U.S. inter est demands . Others dismiss that judgment as dangerously shortsighted , claiming it will push Aquino 's moderate supporters toward the anti-American left and hasten the time when insurgents can pose a physical threat to the bases . If Marcos remains in power , " Congress must take steps to make it very clear that our top priority is democracy , " insists Senator John Kerry ( DMass. ) , a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an official U.S. observer at the election . " We need to take a risk with our bases ? and they are very important ? but they must be secondary to backing democracy and to the Philippine people . If not , we will lose the bases anyway . " Widespread abuses The most immediate worry is a lack of certainty that the results will be sufficiently palatable to Filipinos to forestall chaos . " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Washington who professed to be surprised but " not astounded " by the extent of cheating . Several U.S. and other international observers who witnessed the voting said they were dismayed by Election Day abuses that included vote buying , multiple voting , threats against voters , stealing of ballot boxes , tampering with returns and the intimidation , injury or even killing of some Aquino workers . American officials are acutely aware that their ability to force change on Marcos is limited , even if they threaten to cut aid or limit new funds . Among other examples , he has resisted pressure to retire Gen. Fabian Ver , the armed forces chief of staff who was tried and acquitted in the 1983 assassination of Aquino 's husband Benigno . Adding to U.S. disappointment is the election 's failure to resolve doubts about a successor to Marcos . The obviously feeble President is thought to be suffering from a degenerative disease . His vice-presidential candidate , Arturo Tolentino , is 75 and not a powerful independent player in the maelstrom of Philippine politics . The potential vacuum raises the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ post-Marcos power struggle among old-line politicians , the military and his ambitious , controversial wife Imelda . The elections that the U.S. encouraged in the Philippines as it turned out settled nothing . They did , as Reagan said , demonstrate the vigor of Philippine politics . But as long as the outcome was to be settled by raw power , the enduring value of that merit was yet to be tested .                     