@@432197

 | Peering into the 21st century , authorities on the future see extraordinary changes that will make today 's world seem as outdated as the era of the Model T. Whether in the home , the workplace or outer space , many of these changes will be of the sort that seemed unthinkable only a few years ago ? cars that can spot their own parking places , household appliances that talk back , factories in orbit and computers powered by protein cells , to name a few . Yet these and other technological advances could be swept away or rendered meaningless to all but a favored few by other visions of the future ? uncontrolled population growth , food and energy shortages , environmental disasters or nuclear wars . Experts attending a recent World Future Society convention in Washington , D.C. , and other futurists interviewed by US.News &; World Report paint this picture of life ahead as a new century approaches Technology : Is It Machine or Human ? New scientific breakthroughs will allow machines to take on more tasks that the human brain has traditionally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will make more decisions . Machines that tell doctors today what symptoms the patients have may soon be recommending surgery . Others will design new buildings after questioning buyers about their preferences . Increasingly , human thought processes and even values are being programed into computers , according to Earl Joseph , president of Anticipatory Sciences , a Minneapolis consulting firm . " Imagine machines which are smarter and more intelligent than humans and , with their embedded initiative , ca n't wait to tell you about it , " he says . In everyday life , the future will mean talking directly to computers without pushing buttons . Just tell a toaster , stove or other kitchen device what to do , and it will hear the message . The oven may even decide itself how long to cook the roast . Tell the television , " I want to watch Channel 12 at 8 p.m. , but store the show for next week , " and the job will be done . The computer will talk back , too . Already some soft-drink machines complain loudly if you do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine may someday tell you , " You forgot to turn off the basement light . " Computers are already embedded in such household devices as television sets , telephones , stereos and thermostats . Some of them provide home message delivery and banking information . Consumer psychologist Robert Lee envisions audio-visual encyclopedias that combine text , pictures and sound . For example , call up Beethoven on the computer screen and the student reads text , watches a short film and hears the symphonies themselves . Increasingly , there 's talk of viewer participation in television . Two-way TV programs will make it possible to take part in a soap opera or football game as if the viewer were there . The spectator will be given choices to make , and once a football play or an alternative plot is selected the story will resume . There are likely to be interactive classes in home repair , dealing with teenagers , the art of negotiation , and health and fitness . Bridge and other card games , social events and business conducted long distance by computer will change the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microcomputer will replace the telephone as the predominant means of interpersonal and group communications , " says Kevin Kelly , editor of the Whole Earth Software Review . Some say the portable radio with headphones is only the first step in escapist , all-encompassing entertainment . Eventually , scientists believe , one person 's mental pictures may be transferred by brain waves onto tape and then replayed later into someone else 's brain . For example , one person could sunbathe at the beach , and the mental image could be replayed later for others too busy to make the trip . Away from home , the automobile of the future will think for itself . Ove Sviden , a Swedish automotive consultant , predicts that drivers will feed destinations into a computer that would then explain what route to take and even tell where parking spaces are available . A city 's traffic-control system might instruct the car 's computer how fast to go in heavy traffic and whether to change lanes . " The cars would be like electronically coupled trains , " he explains . For all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genetic engineering , in which DNA ? the genetic blueprint of life ? can be altered . Scientists hold out hope that it will transform everything from medicine and agriculture to computer technology and industry . A few near-term prospects : Oral insulin for diabetics , hepatitis vaccine , and drugs to detect cancer and treat severe retardation . In agriculture , possibilities include larger trees , increased grain yields and even square tomatoes , easily packaged with less water content . It is possible to breed cows the size of elephants that could produce 40 percent more milk , some experts say . Scientists talk of using protein to replace the silicon in  | computer chips to allow billions of times more information to be contained in the same space . There is worry that genetic engineering may lead to mistakes ? for example , new killer bees or gypsy moths that will leave the laboratories and raise havoc . Though this science remains in its infancy , such apprehensions have yet to be borne out . Says Gershon Fishbein , publisher of Genetic Engineering Letter : " The fear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way to the idea that this is a serious branch of experimental science . " Space : Factories in Orbit ? Private enterprise will become the driving force behind space launches , the futurists say . Commercial space activities " will probably grow beyond the government 's civilian space program in the coming decades , " remarks Charles Eldred of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration . Businesses will launch their own space shuttles to create weightless factories in space . Uses could include manufacturing pharmaceutical drugs , making ball bearings and growing crystals for computer chips . There is even talk of eventually sending tourists on shuttle flights ? though the air fare would be exorbitant . Scientists say that government construction of a multibillion-dollar , permanent space station by the mid-1990s could aid in detecting natural disasters on earth in advance , conducting medical research and collecting solar energy to transmit back . Pentagon officials hope to be able to send off rays from a space station to hit missiles fired from earth . The space station may be used as well to stage long-distance flights to the moon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on distant planets ? Not for the next half-century , in the view of most experts , but nuclear or laser-powered propulsion systems may make such voyages feasible in later decades . Resources : Shortages of Food , Energy On earth , soaring demand for food and fuel will create strains on the world that will require attention from both scientists and politicians . Soil erosion , dwindling forests in developing countries and population growth will increase pressure to find new forms of food . Now the world 's breadbasket , the United States could become a net importer of food after the year 2000 , according to Gary Imhoff , executive director of Carrying Capacity , a Washington-based research organization . Imhoff is particularly worried about the rate of soil erosion and the pace of population growth . He recommends a shift to crops that prevent erosion and that require less energy , fertilizer and water . Help may come from the seas . Scientists hold out hope for farming seaweed , spirulina and other forms of microalgae as sources of food ? though making them tasty is less assured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't to find space to grow food , but to use available land and distribute harvests . " At present , only one half of the world 's good arable land is actually being farmed , " asserts former Agriculture Secretary Orville Freeman . " Most of the other half does not have the necessary infrastructure , and opening it up will require major capital investment . " As it becomes increasingly expensive to recover oil , scientists count on alternative forms of energy to replace it ? solar energy , wind energy , recycled garbage and grain alcohol , to name several possibilities that are already being explored . Homes and workplaces of the future will be designed to capture the heat of the sun and to draw other power from coal-fired or nuclear plants . Lifestyle : Live to 110 The next 25 years will be noted for increases in lifespan , better health and a greater role for women . " With much disease wiped out , robust good health maintained far into the later ages and perhaps even the aging process itself slowed down , we can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pensions , insurance and benefits , " remarks Geoffrey Calvert , a Canadian economist and actuary . The U.S. government predicts that by 2033 the life expectancy will increase by four years to 74.4 years for men and 82.7 for women . Yet , Calvert and others say it will not be uncommon for people to live to age 110 and beyond . There will be more pressure for people to work beyond 65 . Many of them will be retrained even in later years for new skills . Great numbers of the elderly will be called upon to teach the young . Innovations in health care will come rapidly By the year 2000 , miniature devices on the wrist will warn of illness and even influence metabolism and other body activities . Drugs will unclog arteries and prevent heart disease . Artificial blood vessels , hearts and kidneys will be used almost routinely in transplants . Vaccines will prevent most major forms of cancer . Women 's lives promise to change even more , as will those of their families . The proportion of women in prime child-bearing years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will cause men to assume more of the childrearing role . Another possibility is that more people will work at home by computer , allowing them to earn a living and yet remain close to their families . More education will take place in the home as well . Educators envision classes conducted by computer in homes , hospitals and vacation resorts , though instructors may be thousands of miles away . But few expect computer  | learning to make great inroads on face-to-face contact between teacher and student . " Competing with an effective teacher and stimulated students , educational technology will finish a very poor third , " says James Hall , president of Empire State College in Saratoga Springs , N.Y . Workplace : Robots Take Dangerous Jobs Machines and foreign competition will replace millions of American jobs . But work will be plentiful for people trained in the occupations of the future . The Labor Department predicts a net increase of 25 million new jobs in the U.S. by 1995 , with service-industry jobs growing three times as rapidly as factory jobs . " Work will shift @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ line and the typing pool to the more interesting challenge of the electronic service center , the design studio , the research laboratory , the education institute and the training school , " predicts Canadian economist Calvert . Jobs in high-tech fields will multiply fastest , but from a low base . In terms of actual numbers , more-mundane occupations will experience the biggest surge ? custodians , cashiers , secretaries , waiters and clerks . Yet much of the drudge work will be taken on by robots . The number of robots performing blue-collar tasks will increase from 3,000 in 1981 to 40,000 by 1990 , says John E. Taylor of the Human Resources Research Organization in Alexandria , Va . Robots might also be found in war zones , in space ? even in the office , perhaps making coffee , opening mail or delivering messages . One unsolved problem : What to do with workers displaced by high technology and foreign competition . Around the world , " the likelihood of growing permanent unemployment is becoming more accepted as a reality among social planners , " notes David @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile , the percentage of time people spend on the job is likely to continue to fall . Robert Theobald , author of Avoiding 1984 , fears that joblessness will lead to increasing depression , bitterness and unrest . " The dramatic consequences of such a shift on the Western psyche , which has made the job the way we value human beings , are almost incalculable , " he comments . Because of the constantly changing demand for job skills , Ron Kutschner , associate commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics , offers this advice for today 's high-school students : " Be prepared with a broad education , like the kind precollege students get ? basic math , science and English . " Prepare yourself to handle each new technology as it comes down the road . Then get technology training for your first job . That is the best steppingstone to the second and third jobs . " Nuclear , Population Time Bombs The same technology that makes life more comfortable for the developed world creates problems unheard of in human history . Nuclear warfare , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all threaten to unravel the carefully knit fabric that holds societies together . Of immediate concern is the mounting debt among less developed nations that imperils the world 's financial system . Jim Wheeler of the Hudson Institute describes the most likely scenario : " It will be a hard four or five years for many of these countries , with debt rescheduling , default and political upheaval . " Yet he sees a limit on interest rates and economic growth keeping the problem from reeling out of control . In the longer term , overpopulation is of greater concern . Rashmi Mayur , director of the Urban Environment Institute in Bombay , is among those who predict that today 's world population of 4.6 billion will swell to more than 10 billion before stabilizing after 2100 . The recent worldwide decline in birth rates will do little to help , according to Robert Fox of the Inter-American Development Bank : " The problem is the decline in mortality . Half of the population is under 17 , and as these people come into their reproductive years , they will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Huge , often unmanageable cities by 2000 will include Mexico City with 32 million people ; Sao Paulo , 26 million ; Tokyo-Yokohama , 24 million , and Shanghai , 23 million , says Mayur . Just transporting food , removing sewage and supplying water will be herculean tasks in such supercities . Mayur sees the Sikh rebellion in India as just the beginning of the rioting that will result from the tensions caused by overcrowding . " The revolutions you see are a product of these cities , " he remarks . " They will explode into crime , social unrest , political violence and coups . They are the real time bomb of the planet . " Even overpopulation pales beside the prospect of nuclear annihilation , which has hung over the world for 40 years . " We could have a 90 percent reduction in weapons and both the U.S. and U.S.S.R. would have enough weapons left to totally destroy the other society , " comments Theo Brown , executive director of Ground Zero , which does studies on nuclear war . The best many experts hope for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gets an edge . Gloom and doom everywhere ? No . In their book , The Resourceful Earth , Julian Simon and the late Herman Kahn maintain that the world will use technology to absorb the growing population and to solve environmental problems . They note that global per capita income has been rising and that more food is available . " If present trends continue , " Simon predicts , " the world in 2000 will be less crowded , less polluted , more stable ecologically and less vulnerable to resource-supply disruption than the world we live in now . "       