@@322308

Too many friendships provoke an incident in Peking <P> The agents of the Public Security Bureau seemed intent on terrorizing their victim , and they succeeded . It was 1 a.m. when they marched into Peking 's sprawling Friendship Hotel , where many foreigners working in China live . The police told room clerks to awaken American Teacher Lisa Wichser , 29 , and tell her that an urgent telegram had arrived for her . When the petite , sandy-haired and somewhat sleepy Wichser appeared to claim it , she was handcuffed and hustled without explanation into a police car . Technically , at least , the graduate student from Noblesville , Ind. , had not been arrested . She was merely being held in a Peking detention center , under investigation for " theft of state secrets , " a charge that could have brought a stiff sentence in China . <P> Wichser 's detention was the first such incident involving an American since the Cultural Revolution of 1966-69 . Government spokesmen insisted that she had confessed to stealing state secrets and pleaded for leniency . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to see her , heard quite a different story . Wichser has lived in China for two years , teaching English at Peking 's Foreign Languages Institute and researching Chinese agricultural economics to gain credit toward a doctorate from the University of Denver . The " internal documents " found in her possession , apparently concerning Chinese agriculture , were , said one source close to the case , " pretty innocent and innocuous stuff . " But in China , where even some street maps and the government 's daily translations of foreign press dispatches are restricted , the papers were official secrets . Wichser 's treatment , however , drew a protest from the U.S. State Department over China 's " excessively literal " interpretation of the consular convention covering U.S. citizens in China . Shortly thereafter , Wichser was released on the proviso that she depart the country within 48 hours . She did , leaving behind the Chinese economics student she had hoped to marry , as well as the unidentified Chinese who had given her the papers , all of whom were likely to be punished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a warning to foreigners , and any nationals who might befriend them , to chill such contacts . The Chinese xenophobia reached a peak during the Cultural Revolution but eased in 1976 after the death of Mao Tse-tung . Indeed , Mao 's successors " rectified " the error of his fear of foreigners by encouraging association with them as a basis for learning . At the time , of course , contact could be controlled : the diplomats lived in compounds , the foreign press was cautious , and the students and teachers who came were mostly believers in the Maoist revolution .                     