@@334159

Romantic love can evoke tenderness and gentle devotion . But in many people it can also trigger a frenzy of possessiveness and mistrust . They believe their infatuation entitles them to impose nonnegotiable demands on desired partners ; if disappointed they lash out , hoping to leave emotional wreckage in their wake . This adolescent view of love , celebrated in popular songs and puerile soap operas , is the besetting sin of the title character in The Loves of Anatol , a reworking of Arthur Schnitzler 's comedy of manners set in turn-of- the-century Vienna . To Anatol , the sweetest part of any affair is not an affectionate embrace but a self-aggrandizing recollection . Sex seems almost incidental to the autoerotic melodramas he concocts in his head . <P> Director Ellis Rabb and Collaborator Nicholas Martin have restructured Schnitzler 's episodic 1893 hit , and interpolated a separate later playlet about Anatol , less to modernize the surprisingly contemporary perspective than to point up the central character 's moral flaw . In what has become the framing story , Anatol ( Stephen Collins ) deposits with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cherished mementos . The memorabilia introduce each scene as a flashback but also serve a deeper purpose : it becomes clear that what Anatol sought in his affairs was simply the token , the keepsake , the emblem of conquest . This self-centered preoccupation kept him from recognizing true love when it was proffered and caused him to see deep devotion where there was none . In the most touching moment , the audience can recognize , but Anatol can not , that the woman he believes was the great love of his life ( Pamela Sousa ) could never abide his demands , and that she frolicked with Max precisely because he offered unfettered companionship . <P> Anatol , as Schnitzler titled the original play , is more often produced as a wry romance in which the hero seems dashing and vulnerable . But Rabb 's sardonic caricaturing of the self-delusory rakehell brings sense and coherence to the slapdash storytelling and echoes the mordant humor of Schnitzler 's better known Reigen , a sexual roundelay hinting at venereal disease that was filmed by Max Ophuls as La Ronde . Rabb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the exchange of titillating reminiscences between Anatol and Max . <P> Rabb 's cloyingly picturesque staging and Lawrence Miller 's mindlessly pretty set undercut the text , however , in an apparent attempt to make its bitter satire more palatable . During scene changes a pair of dancers dressed in dinner clothes move through conventional ballet and ballroom steps , introducing the very sentimentality the story means to blast . <P> Four actresses enjoy showy multiple roles , notably Michael Learned ( Olivia Walton in the CBS TV series The Waltons ) as both a brassy glamour girl and a cool society matron who wistfully deflects Anatol 's entreaties . Bosco plays all of Max 's scenes on one unctuous note . Collins brings energy if not enough desperate passion to Anatol 's farcical excess , and is quietly moving in the final scene when , his hormonal urges in decline , the older Anatol ruefully watches a younger man enmesh himself in the snares of pointless jealousy .                     