@@333642

Ronald Reagan loves to speak of dreamers . Of Founding Fathers who dreamed of creating a free nation , of immigrants who came to America dreaming of a better life . Though he rarely says so explicitly , the President has entertained a grand vision of his own : to transform American politics . In his dream , the " Reagan revolution " that began six years ago would culminate in a massive political realignment , one that would make the Republicans the majority party and pull down the curtain on half a century of liberal government activism . <P> In pursuit of that goal , the President this fall traveled to 16 states , waging the most vigorous midterm campaign by a President ever in an effort to save the endangered class of Republican Senators he had carried into office in 1980 . A vote for these candidates , he said over and over , was a vote to preserve the revolution . The voters , as much as they loved the messenger , seemed unmoved by the message . They trickled to the polls to pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In most of the hotly contested races for control of the Senate , these turned out to be Democrats . <P> As Sherlock Holmes noted in the curious case of the dog that did not bark in the night , the most important deductions involve things that did not happen . The fact that voters did not make it a referendum on Reagan 's record indicated that his personal popularity does not transfer to his policies . The fact that they did not vote along party lines dispelled Republican hopes that certain regions and voting blocs would become part of a fundamental realignment from the Democrats to the G.O.P. The fact that national issues played little role was a sign that while voters may be concerned about such important subjects as Star Wars , U.S. involvement in Nicaragua , the failing farm economy and trade imbalances , there is no political polarization over these issues . In part because the election was not a referendum on Reagan , it turned out to be his most resounding political defeat since he lost the presidential nomination to Gerald Ford in 1976 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they replaced a 53-to-47 Republican majority with a 55-to-45 majority of their own . The Teflon President seemed to have Teflon coattails : of the 16 Republican Senators who rode into office on the Reagan wave of 1980 , only half were re-elected last week ; only four ! Republican Senators won out of the 16 he had campaigned for since Labor Day . <P> The loss of the Senate was partly mitigated for the Republicans by a gain of eight governorships . Indeed , there was no overall partisan cast to the results . Democratic Senate candidates in the South and West showed surprising strength , but so did Republican gubernatorial candidates in the South . Nevertheless , by losing the Senate , Reagan and the Republicans lost the national political momentum they had been building during the 1980s.                     