@@494695

programs . Long an unusually prominent force in American social and cultural life , private charities have recently experienced a philosophical and problematic political renaissance . For all the virtues of private giving , charity among the rich and well-to-do is still an exceptional act , not a habit . The potential of voluntary giving can perhaps be measured best by realizing that the surplus wealth Howard Hughes accumulated in his lifetime was greater than the size of the endowment that Harvard , our richest private institution , accumulated from loyal alumni and friends over the course of 350 years . With President Reagan 's call to replace governmental support with private giving and volunteerism , the organizations of private philanthropy ( particularly the large foundations ) have suddenly been faced with unrealistic demands to satisfy expectations for basic services and benefits once supported by federal money : scholarships , funds for the disadvantaged , legal aid , aid to dependent children , increased support for medical and scientific research , and , after the creation of the National Endowments for the Humanities and the Arts in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This has put foundations in a tough predicament , accustomed as they have be come since World War II to starting projects , not sustaining them , and to supplementing the work of charitable institutions and guiding the direction of public policy . The recent turmoil marks the second crisis in the direction of foundation activities in recent years . In the late 1960s , a sense that philanthropic foundations were exerting an undue liberal influence on our lives ( or merely depriving the government of revenue for no good reason ) led to extensive congressional scrutiny of the foundation world . Was seemingly political and partisan advocacy in matters of public policy compatible with tax exempt status ? The Pat-man Reform Act of 1969 emerged out of hearings that aired a good deal of public resentment . Most of the reforms were salutary ( though the recent rise of conservative foundations actively supporting the Reagan administration 's agenda ? the Scaife , John M. Olin , Heritage , and Smith Richardson foundations are the best known ? suggests how limited the success of " depoliticization " has been ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their freedom of activity . Foundations were forced to disperse a certain percentage of their assets and income annually ; and they were prevented from operating businesses and from serving as little more than elaborate tax dodges . HAT ARE suitable expectations for the work of foundations ? And what limitations should be imposed on this work ? In his book Waldemar A. Nielsen tries to address these central questions as he surveys the foundation world . He characterizes and critically evaluates the large foundations . He outlines what they ought to be doing , given the shift in federal policies and the general political climate since the mid-1970s . But The Golden Donors is , unfortunately , an awful book . It is written by someone who is himself a creature of this special milieu . Nielsen is billed as " a leading consultant on philanthropy " who has advised a Rockefeller , a Getty , and Robert 0 . Anderson of Atlantic Richfield , and who has almost made a career of writing about foundations . Nielsen would like the reader to believe that his book is a candid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective and synthetic overview he intends , however , the book itself reveals many symptoms of the problems of the culture of foundation life . Like many in the foundation world , Nielsen is a zealous promoter of professionalism ; he looks down on the simple tastes and prejudices of a foundation 's original donors or lay trustees . He rankles at the presumption of a rich individual who seeks to determine where and to whom money should be given without much ado : wealth is itself not a sufficient basis for authority . Nielsen devotes a good deal of attention to exposing the personalities , habits , and family intrigues of the very rich . He repeats legends , familiar anecdotes , and platitudes about men such as William Randolph Hearst , W. L. Moody Jr. , and Alfred P Sloan , and rehashes near-libelous gossip about the Keck family . He uses his book to air , quite selectively , the dirty linen of the professional foundation world . He recounts in detail the struggle between Rod MacArthur and his fellow board members and the dismissal of longtime Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sagas of the staffing of the Pew and Clark foundations and of dissent among unidentified Rockefeller trustees . But Nielsen is disingenuous . This is not the evenhanded debunking candor it seems . Nielsen has vested interests and vendettas in the intricate politics of the                     