@@487919

There is one regrettable error in Fred J. Cook 's article " Alger Hiss ? A New Ball Game " The Nation , Oct. 11 . As the evidence quoted does go " to the heart of the case , in effect destroying Chambers 's credibility , " I must claim responsibility for that research . Chester Lane did not " obtain " documents from the Oxford University Press and statements from Paul Willert . This crucial evidence was.discovered in research for my book Whittaker Chambers , Agent Provocateur undertaken after Hiss was found guilty in the second trial , and was freely given to the Hiss defense , then headed by Lane . Elinor Ferry ARKANSAS MINISTER Pea Ridge , Ark . Of course we had a right , yes , even a " need " to know . The Titan " fiasco , " as you call it editorial , " Nuclear Fudge , " The Nation , Oct. 4 , was exactly that , and I appreciate your attention to it . At the time that the military was " neither confirming nor denying " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pulling away from the missile silo carrying canisters labeled " DO NOT DROP . " And before the trailers traveled to Little Rock Air Force Base ( during the peak of Little Rock 's rush-hour traffic ) , Arkansas 's respected newspaper The Arkansas Gazette had reported that the warhead had been blown some hundreds of yards from the silo ( and included another estimate that it had been thrown three miles away ) ! The irony of related incidents is so steep that it is alone incriminating : " Sirens were unnecessary and might cause panic and traffic jams in the event of future accidents , " The Arkansas Gazette reports the Air Force to have stated in a report made in May concerning the necessity of warning sirens around missile silos . However , during the Damascus accident , Air Force personnel were armed with machine guns and grenade launchers at the entrance to the silo ! Tell me , who seems to have panicked ? Finally , I am a new spbscriber to The Nation . In this editorial , it seems you write as if no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preachers and deputy sheriffs of the Ozarkswere all over the tube with exact fixes on where the object lay . . . " may help to lighten an otherwise very serious situation , it does not describe in a respectful way those persons wholad guts enough to say what they thought in the face of the military . ( Incidentally , I too am a preacher , born in the hills and raised in the hills  --  am I a " hillbilly " preacher ? ) And those " deputy sheriffs " you speak of were n't deputies , they were the county sheriffs themselves . Michael L. Mattox PUBLIC FOOTNOTE Pound Ridge , N. Y. A footnote from the public to your splendid personal tributes re-creating Harold Clurman 's spirit . An actor and actress in from the Coast because of the strike invited me to the Harold Clurman Theater . A new play that evening was enthusiastically received . The audience was clapping for one more curtain call when a man from the house came down front to say that Harold Clurman had died . Within moments of that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ READ LERNOUX Flushing , N. Y. I have just completed Penny Lernoux 's moving book , Cry of the People . I believe that by questioning the role of the Catholic Church as the major part of his critique , Peter Mann " Amazing Grace , " The Nation , Aug. 30-Sept. 6 omits the voluminous , not to say nauseating , evidence that Lernoux brings out to establish the continuous violations of human rights ( sanctioned , as she docunients , by President Jimmy Carter ) , the consistent support of corrupt and cruel dictatorial regimes , the outrageous profits of the multinationals at the expense of the poor masses , the scandalous bribery and corruption and other crime-connected actions by the multinationals , the hypocrisy of our " human rights " declarations and the rank overthrow of legally elected regimes such as Goulart 's , Allende 's and Juan Bosch 's . And why not honor the role of the priests ? And why is the Pope silent ? I think these matters should have been the burden of his self-serving review about religion . I believe that Lernoux @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unbridled capitalism-imperialism , intent upon profits , does to the entire Latin American continent which it dominates so vilely . Leonard Boyer ANSWERS BERNARD Lubbock , Tex . The letter from former Minnesota Congressman John T. Bernard The Nation , Oct. 4 dealing with the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 should not go unanswered . As the author of The Strangled Democracy : Czechoslovakia , 1948-1969 ( Caprock Press , 1970 ) , I would like to point out that the story of the thousands of " Nazi " tourists in Prague and the hundreds of American Central Intelligence agents in that city in 1968 is an unfounded invention of the Soviet press . As is the so-called invitation of the Czechoslovakian Government then under Alexander Dubcek for Russian troops to forestall a right-wing " conspiracy . " According to members of the Czechoslovakian Central Committee meeting with Leonid Brezhnev in Moscow in August 1968 , the latter 's chief complaint ( along with that of the right-wing military hawks on the Presidium who pushed through that invasion ) was that Dubcek had chanced the composition of his Cabinet without informing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russian propaganda charged that the " conspiracy " was engineered by Czech Communists with " Jewish " names and that it was a combination of Nazis , Zionists and international capitalist Jews who were attempting to turn Czechoslovakia over to Wall Street , the Pentagtm and the C.I.A . How naive must one be to swallow such propaganda ! And to refer to Russian totalitarianism as " socialism " is equally so . David Rodnick Professor Emeritus Texas Tech University                     