@@432248

 | With the boldest and swiftest Kremlin shake-up in recent times , Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev is embarking on a challenging new phase of Soviet-American relations and crucial reforms at home . The high priority that the Kremlin places on the superpower relationship is underscored by an announcement immediately after the reshuffle of a midNovember Gorbachev-Reagan summit . In the shake-up , Gorbachev 's principal rival , Grigory Romanov , was purged ; 75-year-old Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko was elevated to the largely ceremonial post of President , and named as his replacement was a virtual unknown , 57-year-old Eduard Shevardnadze , Communist-party boss of the southern republic of Georgia and a staunch Gorbachev loyalist . These moves leave Gorbachev with a firm grip on power and in a strong position for dealing with President Reagan when they meet in Geneva November 19-20 . The get-together is scheduled at a time when Soviet-American relations will be approaching a delicate juncture , particularly in the arms race . While no major agreements are anticipated , the meeting could have a significant impact on the future course of the superpower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months away , the summit already is shaping up as a critical test of wills for both leaders . Gorbachev has grown increasingly critical of America 's position in the arms negotiations and is determined to persuade Reagan to drop plans for a space-based defense against nuclear attack , to halt deployment of missiles in Western Europe and to freeze nuclear arsenals at present levels . Reagan , for his part , has made clear he will maintain his present course as long as the Soviet Union continues its massive weapons buildup and violates , in America 's view , existing arms agreements . Privately , both sides indicate neither leader is likely to back down at the summit , the first between superpower heads since President Jimmy Carter met with President Leonid Brezhnev in Vienna in 1979 . A first step . American officials hope that the Geneva talks , at the least , might lead to warmer , more personal relationships and an end to the sometimes bitter rhetoric exchanged between the two nations . At best , some optimistic experts believe , Gorbachev and Reagan might agree on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would end the danger of a new superpower arms race . In addition , American officials see the go-ahead for a summit as a sign of possible " substantive exchanges , " and perhaps agreements , on a number of commercial , consular and cultural issues currently under discussion . The first evidence of a possible new climate in Soviet-American relations could come July 31 in Helsinki . That is when Secretary of State Shultz and the new Soviet Foreign Minister , Eduard Shevardnadze , are to attend ceremonies for the 10th anniversary of the EastWest Helsinki Accord on Human Rights . The word that Gorbachev will visit French President Francois Mitterrand  | in Paris on October 2-5 served notice that the Soviet party chieftain did not intend to let the Washington-Moscow connection totally dominate the Kremlin 's global outlook . Emerging as another key element of Gorbachev 's international strategy : Push for closer Soviet ties with America 's allies in case Soviet-U.S. relations should fail to improve . The dramatic switches in the top level of Soviet decision makers foreshadowed a change of style , if not substance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adversaries . Barely 100 days in power , Gorbachev has displayed a control over the Politburo , the party 's ruling clique , that few of his predecessors managed to demonstrate over far longer spans . Especially significant was his success at the July 1-2 Central Committee meeting in ousting from the Politburo Grigory Romanov , who challenged Gorbachev for the leadership after the death of Konstantin Chernenko last March . Likely to follow him out the door in months ahead will be large numbers of middle-level bureaucrats close to Romanov and outmaneuvered cronies in the Communist Party hierarchy . The elevation to the Presidency of Gromyko , a fixture as Foreign Minister for nearly three decades , will still leave him with some influence in the foreign-policy machinery . But Western observers say Gorbachev and his new team will call the shots . Gorbachev 's influence over foreign policy is further enhanced by the appointment of Shevardnadze as Gromyko 's successor . While Shevardnadze is a foreign-affairs tyro , his choice not only satisfied promises by Gorbachev to promote ethnic minorities to the top echelons of Soviet power but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , also regarded as major targets of future Gorbachev diplomacy . Domestic-policy moves . For all of Gorbachev 's evident concern about his American adversary , the changes in the Kremlin power structure signal just as dramatically his determination to focus on economic reforms at home . The Kremlin leader , says one Western expert in Washington , is convinced that there can be no future for the Soviet Union as a world power until its creaking economy is modernized and made more productive . His conclusion : " The economy is not just a top priority ; it is Gorbachev 's only priority for now . There wo n't be any major foreignpolicy initiatives out of Moscow until he has tidied up everything he thinks has to be done to assure his control and get a start on economic reforms . " To accomplish that goal , Gorbachev has moved to stamp his mark on nearly every major source of power from the dreaded KGB to the party secretariat . While attention is focused on toplevel shifts , Gorbachev also is losing no time replacing provincial bureaucrats who have in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only the outlines of his reforms have been sketched so far . He recently rejected the draft of a five-year plan for 1986-90 and insisted on minimum 4 percent economic growth . He has attacked red tape and corruption , criticized government ministers by name and urged citizens at all levels to take initiatives on their own without waiting for instructions from above . Gorbachev has encouraged workers to assert their rights in factories , inGorbachev offers smile and handshake to Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze . cluding a part in factory management . Likewise , he has urged local governments , which traditionally take a back seat to Communist Party bosses , to take a more aggressive stance . What remains unclear is the nature of the structural reforms for improving the economy . There is no sign , for example , that Gorbachev intends some kind of limited return to private enterprise or radical agricultural innovations such as those undertaken by China 's Communist rulers . Still , the Soviet economic structure is so huge , so ponderous and so dominated by ideological constraints that even a drastic overhaul @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What Gorbachev is signaling with his dramatic shake-up of the Politburo , however , is that at home , as well as in East-West relations , he does not intend to stick to the status quo . After 28 years under the stonefaced scowl and professional grip of Andrei Gromyko , the Soviet Foreign Ministry is run now by a boss with earthy wit , the quick smile of a man running for office and a fresh view of world affairs . The traits belong to new Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze , 57 , a little-known regional political functionary clearly headed for a major leadership role that also includes membership in the ruling Politburo . While Communist Party boss of the southern Republic of Georgia , he won remarkable popularity as a leader close to the masses . He talked to workers on frequent factory tours , boosted local causes and even ordered polls to learn more about his countrymen 's views . Shevardnadze 's flair , unusual for a party apparatchik , was enhanced by his unrelenting battle against long flourishing corruption in Georgia . Instead of issuing stale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blasts at black marketeers living in plush villas . Hundreds were booted out of office and put in jail . While a novice in foreign policy , his knowledge of world affairs is not totally limited . He has visited Austria , Algeria , Brazil , Portugal and Tunisia . He has impressed American congressmen with a grasp of nuclear problems and detailed knowledge of China . No parrot . He is not afraid to sound , or even act , like a capitalist . " It is simply laughable to be afraid of economic incentives , " he says . On the social scene , he strikes an impressive figure , with flowing gray hair , natty Western suits and an easygoing manner . Western analysts are convinced that while Shevardnadze will faithfully carry out Gorbachev 's foreign-policy decisions , he will be no toady . Says one diplomat : " He is self-confident and presents his case well . He knows how to listen . When you meet him , you do n't get a lecture ; you feel you can communicate . "      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      