@@323597

An anthropologist fights Stanford over a code of ethics <P> His brilliance is unquestioned , and so is his ability as a researcher . But late last month , Steven Mosher , 34 , a candidate for a doctorate in anthropology at Stanford University , was expelled by his department without public explanation . Although the reasons why Mosher was so sternly punished remained murky , his case was being hotly debated last week by academics since it raised questions about the ethical standards and political difficulties of anthropological research . <P> Mosher , who speaks fluent Cantonese , won a coveted research grant to go to China in 1979 to study a community . The Chinese allowed him the unusual opportunity of choosing where to do his field work . He picked the Starwood Brigade , the ancestral village of his Hong Kong-born wife Maggie So , from whom he is now divorced . Officials even traveled from Peking to tell Brigade leaders to cooperate with Mosher . During the course of his nine-month stay , Mosher put together the most detailed firsthand account of village life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also became emotionally involved in the life of his villagers . Outraged to see women who were seven , eight , and even nine months pregnant forced to undergo abortions , he protested to then Vice Premier Chen Muhua , head of the national birth control program . Chinese officials were soon complaining to visiting American scholars that Mosher was abusing his status as a researcher . At various times the Chinese accused Mosher of traveling in forbidden areas , trying to smuggle old coins out of the country , bribing villagers to gain information and bringing in an unauthorized female companion from Hong Kong . Mosher has denied all those charges . <P> Mosher left China for Taiwan in June 1980 , and in May 1981 took a step that angered Peking and appalled many anthropologists as well : he published an article in the Times Weekly magazine in Taipei that described the mandatory birth control program in Chinese villages . The article was illustrated with photographs of women in advanced states of pregnancy who were about to have abortions . Peking saw the article as anti-Chinese propaganda . Zhao @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Social Sciences , warned Kenneth Prewitt , president of the Social Science Research Council , that if Mosher were not disciplined , there could be " negative consequences " for scholarly exchanges . In February 1982 , Fusan asked Stanford to " deal with this matter sternly . " <P> The university set up a fact-finding committee that looked into all the accusations against Mosher , including those by his exwife , who independently charged that he had acted unethically . After hearing Mosher 's side of the case , twelve mem bers of the anthropology department voted unanimously to expel him for " behavior inappropriate for an anthropologist . " Mosher , who plans to appeal the decision to the Stanford administration and may take the case to court , insists : " I was expelled because Stanford chose to believe the charges brought against me by the Chinese and chose to believe that by publishing articles and photographs in Taiwan that I gravely endangered innocent villagers . "                     