@@486968

In the bad old days of J. Edgar Hoover , the F.B.I . did not go in for undercover investigations of corruption . Hoover cultivated the F.B.I . ' s reputation as the fearless and squeaky-clean foe of the forces of godless communism and gunslinging bank robbers . To William Webster 's credit , today 's F.B.I . devotes much of its energy to investigating political payoffs and other crimes largely ignored in the Hoover era . But , , as a just-issued A.C.L.U. report on The Lessons of Abscam makes clear , the F.B.I . has not yet learned how to do its job in a manner that comports with principles of due process of law . This is not to deny that its task is sometimes difficult . The courts have not developed case law and Congress has not enacted guidelines - that protect the innocent from becoming targets of highly intrusive undercover investigations . The report documents how easy it is for carefully conceived investigations to slip over into operations that are vulnerable to manipulation by those who have political or bureaucratic motives rather than valid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how targets , of undercover investigations are chosen that is the main concern of the report . There should be evidence , the A.C.L.U. maintains , that a target is engaged in an ongoing pattern of criminal activity before an undercover investigation is launched . The report also-calls for continuing supervision of investigations to insure that safeguards are being respected , and it proposes civil damage remedies for victims of unwarranted undercover operations . We join in recommending the standards proposed by the A.C.L.U. If enacted into law , they would permit the F.B.I . to maintain its focus on political corruption and would help-assure that individual rights are protected . WHY-THEY CA N'T RULE THE RETREAT - OF THE RIGHT ALAN WOLFE As recently as four years ago , the prospects for the right in the developed world were brighter than at any time since World War H. Joining Margaret Thatcher in the Commonwealth were conservative Prime Ministers in Australia and Canada . The United States was mired in the , disillusionment with government that would bring Ronald Reagan his greatest starring role . One could not deny the outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continental Europe . Sweden 's Social Democrat &; had lost control of the government to conservatives for the first time in forty-four years . And in Israel , Menachern Begin had come to power , as much because of domestic unease as foreign policy designs . This will not be a conservative quarter-century ; the rout of the right has clearly begun . Norway and Denmark are experimenting with conservative coalitions , but these are notable for being unable to touch entrenched social policies rather than for enacting new programs . Australia still has Malcolm Fraser , but he is , according , to all polls , in deep political trouble . The Netherlands faces a stalemate that should result in a center-right government , but if it agrees to allow U.S. missiles on Dutch soil , it will face an uproar . Everywhere else  --  with the possible exception of an England condemned to the euphoria of winning a colonial war  --  the right has either been significantly defeated or-is beating a hasty retreat from its principles . Consider the global picture : ? Canada threw out its right-wing government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Trudeau in the absence of any alternative . ( Continued on Page 399 ) But beyond that , the exposed commuters became carriers , and took the bacteria with them as they traveled to their homes , to their offices or to hospitals to visit .. elderly relatives . One charming quality about Bacillus subtilis is that it can take on a nearly indestructible form as a spore , developing an armor-like coat that allows it to survive fOr a century or more . The Bacillus subtilis that was deposited in the subway system was in spore form . One may doubt whether , amid the dirt and chewing gum , a few trillion extra germs would bother anyone . But it is jarring to realize that most of the bacteria dropped in 1966 are still- there and may remain there into the second half of the twenty-first century. , - If few specialists now think that poses a danger , few in 1950 guessed that Serratia marcescens would turn out to be a hazard thirty years later . In the late 1970s , doctors in the San Francisco area reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. - John Mills of the University of California Medical Center estimated that the occurrence was five to ten times the national average . He wondered whether the 1950 Army test " could have seeded the Bay Area environment " with germs . We may be asking similar questions years from now about the New York City test . It is not likely that the people who run our biological warfare program , however , will be asking such questions . They seem to be quite sanguine about vulnerability tests . Larry Ware , the chief of scientific information at the biological warfare laboratories at Fort Detrick , has a soft voice tinged with Southern gentility . A microbiologist who has been at Fort Detrick since the early days of the open-air tests , he remains a strong supporter of the program . In a recent interview he made clear that people should not be - disturbed by such tests . Ware 's optimistic views , not surprisingly , parallel those of Dr. Phillips . " These organisms have never , been known to infect man , " says Ware . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminally ill patient , he allows , but certainly can not be considered pathogenic . Ware does not acknowledge that further bacterial spraying is being contemplated , but " of course we ca n't tell all of our secrets . " He tries to be reassuring . " You are far more at risk riding the buses in Philadelphia , or Washington , D.C. , or New York City than you would be in those areas where we had exposed the community . " After a thoughtful pause he explains : " Because when you get on the bus in Philadelphia or New York , you 're going to be riding with a bunch of people -- the Chinese , the Vietnamese , the blacks , the lower-class Irish and all these people  --  that may have tuberculosis and never know it , and be coughing in your face , and end up exposing you-to a far more serious type of organism than what was being sprayed about in the air . " Ethnic considerations aside , Ware 's comment overlooks a fundamental ethical consideration . People should be allowed to choose what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unwitting recipients of however many trillion bacilli the Army may decide to deal out to them . ? The Right ( Continued From Front Cover ) q Francois Mitterrand in France and Andreas Papandreou in Greece stunned everyone by winning substantial victories , and while both of their governments have had their troubles , neith , er has experienced the horror scenarios written by the right . q Olof Palme regained power for the Social Democrats in Sweden , and he seems determined to put into place a scheme by which the unions Would gradually take control of the biggest corporations . q Reaganomics went into decline , failing to produce its promised growth and leading to widespread predictions of a Democratic resurgence in 1982 , which has already been foreshadowed by the defeat of conservative Democratic gubernatorial candidates in the Massachusetts and New York primaries. , q Menachem Begin finally brought a modicum of unity to Israel , but it was unity around the demand for his resignation . q Helmut Schmidt masterminded a brilliant coup de theatre by isolating theGerman Free Democrats in such a way as . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dooming the possibility of a sharp turn to the right . q In Spain , the Socialists under Felipe Gonzalez show every sign of coming to power in the next election . The failure of the right should in no way be taken as evidence of a shift to the left , for all parties in power are going through a phase of impotence and rejection . But when discontent with conservative policies ranges all the way from Sacramento , where Jerry Brown is returning from political ' limbo , to Jerusalem , where Begin and Sharon appear determined to bring their opposition to power , something worthy of comment is taking place . The right , after all , has more than enough money . It ' went through a period of ideological retraining , teaching its intellectuals to be more modern , less abrasive and eccentric . It did not lack self-confidence , proclaiming itself the inheritor of a popular mandate whereVer it came to power . Its message  --  that there are limits to the welfare state and universal unease with big governmentLwas bought by the media and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its favor , has the right performed so badly ? At least four explanations suggest themselves . First , to a greater degree than is generally appreciated , the right can not govern for very long in a society that is both democratic and capitalist . Conservative governments made sense in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries , when universal suffrage , did not exist , working classes were weak and unorganized , and production was essentially local . But no one , least of all the conservatives , has figured out what it means to experiment with a right-wing agenda when 86 percent of the electorate  --  the figure that turned out in recent elections in the West German state of Hesse  --  cares enough to register its opinions . Moreover , modern , organized , bureaucratic capitalism is a far cry - from the market-base , d . chaos out of which it grew . It demands an active state , a degree of unionization ( at least in its monopoly sector ) and a program of economic stabilization . Conservative nostalgia can not transcend the material realities of the societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an age of state capitalism are based on an explosive combination of pain and hope . Accept pain now , the right wing suggests , and with faith your life will improve . Cutbacks in social services , higher tax burdens for those least able to afford them ' and increasing rates of unemployment are , it is claimed , the necessary price to pay for reindustrialization and eventual prosperity . Such an agenda can work only if a strong tradition of religious concern is accepted by all , for in the austerity of its vision , the conservative agenda bears a strong similarity to Calvinist sermons about luxury and laziness . In the United States , perhaps the most rhetorically religious country outside of the Persian Gulf , the conservative message has at least had a hearing . In more secular environments , it runs directly counter to the hedonism and the taste for immediate gratification so characteristic of modern capitalism . One can not ask people to enjoy their economic pleasure now but to postpone their political gratification until- the next wave of the business cycle . Right-wing governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It expects quick results , immediate consumption , instant pleasure . The political time needed for conservative programs to work is negated by every television commercial and money market fund . Conservatives are done in by the very rhetoric that brings them to power . Neither democracy nor capitalism gives a place of value to deliberation and patience , yet those qualities are exactly what conservatives require if they are to have any chance of success . , In the absence of either capitalism or democracy , the right 's program might work . The former , at least theo- ' retically , is riot as absurd as it sounds . Conservatives were not exactly overjoyed with the rise of capitalism two hundred years ago , and since then a populistic strain has been an important ideological component of right-wing govern ? ments around the world . But modern conservatives , to judge from experience , value respectability more than populism . Funded by important business firms and distrustful of pressure from below , conservatives would rather return to academia than see their populistic rhetoric taken seriously . Committed to perpetuating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful corporations , conservatives are unable to develop the kinds of controls over either capital mobility or narcissistic instincts that would give them the time and space to make good on their promises . - Unwilling to interfere with capitalism , modern conservatives can only place restrictions on democracy . Indeed , although the language of most conservative governments stresses economic themes , the agenda of the right is primarily political : economic austerity can work in a modern state only if political democracy is curtailed . Attacks on ' social spending are thinly disguised attacks on the political power of the deprived groups that won the right to receive such spending . Reassuring speeches and support for the so-called social issues are rooted in a desire to depoliticize and anesthetize mass sentiment . The right 's emphasis on national security and its demands leads naturally to restrictions on the political rights that makei democracy possible . Throughout the world , but especially in the United States , conservatives use the language of freedom and democracy to curb freedom and democracy . It is a trick that can work , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democracy are poorly understood . Even a slight rise in political consciousness is enough to undermine the legitimacy of the conservative alternative . A conservative government is always in a race with time . The question is whether its economic program can work before the awareness of its political costs becomes evident . If conservatives can not win this race in the United States , where political Consciousness is archaic , they can not win it anywhere , particularly in- European societies where labor movements are strong . A conservative government in a capitalistic democracy has two strategic choices , and both of them . fail . It can , as in Sweden , choose not to put its ideals into practice , in which case the voters will repudiate it for being hypocritical and unable to govern . Or it can , as in the United States , take its ideology seriously , in which case it will unify the labor movement and force back to the polls minority groups generally disinclined to vote . In short , conservative governments will either be repudiated sooner or repudiated later . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as they have been in the Soviet Union , could a conservative government hold on to power indefinitely . ( In fact , one has to look inside the Kremlin to find the only important conservative regime that has been in power an entire generation or more . ) To succeed under these circumstances , conservatives in power would have to be brutally honest and remarkably ' courageous . They would have to face the electorate and say something like the following : " Look , we are going to propose something you will not like and will not want to accept , for , it is blatantly unfair and against your self-interest . But if you trust us , we offer you the prospect of a long-term gain in your standard of living in return for a short-term sacrifice of your political rights . " That language may be appropriate for editorials in Business Week , but it is not likely to be said on the stump , not only because it would be unpopular but also because there are few conservative politicians with enough integrity to say what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a second factor that helps explain the retreat of the right : the inherent tendency of all conservative regimes to prefer demagogy to courage . Given the law of diminishing demagogic returns , conservatives can stay in power as long as their dishonesty is tolerated or overlooked , and not a moment longer . Conservative governments lie far more than governments of any other political coloration . This is not a judgment of their venality but an analysis of the precarious situation in which they find themselves . Liberal and social democratic governments make promises to the electorate that they often have difficulty keeping . But at least there is consistency in the political ideology out of which the promises come ; it is not our fault , liberals complain , when economic conditions undermine our programs or when conservatives block their implementation . Left governments , in a word , are hardly honest and truthful , but public discontent with them comes not from the belief that they cheat but from the belief that they are incompetent . Indeed , socialist and liberal governments suffer from a perception that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forthright were a na  --  ve response to the demands of modern politics . No one could accuse most conservative politicians of sincerity , Ronald Reagan 's camera presence notwithstanding . Modern conservatism is structurally dishonest , for if it were to proclaim its true intentions , it would necessarily have to insult the electorate , which must be flattered . Contemptuous of the masses , conservative leaders express their rage at the average person by pandering to his or her " innate wisdom , " assuming that flattery of a prejudice is the same as respect for a considered opinion . Conservative politicians are constantly struggling to control the contempt they feel for those who elect them , and when their true feelings break out  --  when , for example , New York City 's Mayor Koch lets upstate voters know how he really feels about rural life  --  the public , its eyes now open , returns the contempt in kind . If Iago were a modern politician , he would be a neoconservative . Inauthenticity is at the heart of the conservative dilemma . Conservative elitism , unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concealed . I am aware as I write this that no politicians are to be trusted and that there is little monopoly of virtue anywhere in modern politics . ( Fred Richmond , after all , is a liberal . ) Nor could anyone claim that politicians of any ideologicalstripe are models of healthy and balanced personality development . Yet right-wing politicians possess particular character structures : aggressive , bullying , contentious , even equipped with a cultivated and often quite brilliantly timed instability . Compare the personalities of Schmidt to Strauss , Haig to Vance , Begin and Sharon to Peres , Koch to Cuomo . Consider whether you would trust men like Howard Jarvis , Australian media baron Rupert Murdoch or Denmark 's convicted Mogens Glistrup . There are reasons why contemporary conservatives tend toward public displays of apparently unstable anger , compared with the generally more private and self-destructive psychological instability of liberals . It is not easy to hold offiCe when one must disguise one 's objectives , flatter those one despises and proclaim principles opposite from those one genuinely believes . Unlike traditional conservatives comfortable with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ internalize demagogy and transform it into principle . Their rage is enormous , their behavior unpredictable , their statements outlandish , their grasp of reality tenuous . Barely controlled rage is combined in many conservative leaders with the strictest possible dogmatism and surprisingly unbending partisanship . Modern politics is conducted by the rules of a gentlemen 's club : all parties , whatever their ideology or character , recognize commonly-agreed-upon codes of deportment . Right-wing politicians rarely play by such rules . Ronald Reagan , the most recent example , has gone beyond the bounds of political theater in his back-stabbing of Congress and in his attempts to blame the opposition party for the country 's economic troubles . Even if such single-minded contempt for the informal rules of the game does not get him into trouble with the electorate , it undermines his support among other politicians . Indeed , one reason Reagan and Begin are in increasing political trouble is the fact that ordinary politicians do not like being made scapegoats for their leaders ' failures . Both men are distrusted because they have broken the rules too easily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much respect for tradition is shown by social democrats and liberals and how little by politicians on the right . To be a modern conservative is generally to have undergone a " conversion experience . " There are numerous politicians and intellectuals on the right who were once , like Reagan and Koch , on the left , but there are precious few leftists who were once attracted to the right . Conservative beliefs often sit uneasily upon those who articulate them , requiring constant public affirmation and reiteration of first principles . Far more than liberals and social democrats , conservative heads of'state demand public adulation , repeated flattery , unswerving devotion to their ideology and total loyalty in their aides . Nixon-like paranoia is the logical result of the siege mentality brought on by the right-wing war against modernity . The psychological instability of many conservative political leaders is actually the source , for a time , of their appeal . People vote conservative out of anger and frustration ; voting for unstable personalities seems to satisfy a need to let off steam . No one votes for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moderate leftists are elected to be colorless and steady , to clean up the damage caused by the earlier ressentiment . ( There are , needless to say , eccentrics and unstable personalities on the left , but none of them possess nuclear weapons and only one , Qaddafi , holds state power . ) When times are tough , a little right-wing instability seems like a good thing . It was a conservative President , after all , who invented the appropriately named " madman " theory of foreign policy in the wake of AMerica 's frustration in Vietnam . While eccentric and unexpected behavior is sometimes craved , it is also often feared , and a third reason for the increasing unpopularity of the right , is  --  in a word  --  its recklessness . The right , whenever ' it comes ' to power , is dangerous . Conservatism kills . Wars are far more likely to be fought these days under right-wing governments than under social democratic ones . No doubt a " successful " war , such as the Falklands escapade , can be of great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won so cleanly . Even when military victory is clear-cut , as in Israel 's aggression in Lebanon , the political risks are often excessive . One is never certain what a conservative leader will do . For a time that can be a source of political strength , but at some point it begins to frighten the electorate  --  and when it does , the very longings that inspired the turn to the right work against the perpetuation of conservative regimes . There is great irony in the recklessness of contemporary conservatism . At a time when left ideologies appear to be exhausted , the right exudes self-confidence and faith . Yet ' whenever conservative programs are enacted , it becomes clear that the optimism of the right is based on an extraordinary , and ultimately unforgivable , hubris . Reagan 's insistence that supply-side policies would unleash new productive forces was quite reassuring . He seemed to be so certain , he acted so convincingly , that we really wanted to believe he knew more than we did . Of course he knew less ; not only did he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ histheories were based far more on disinformation than on empirically verifiable fact . All this would have been an academic exercise , except for one thing . Reagan 's charts and diagrams threw people out of work . His mistake was everyone else 's pain. - It is easy to be reckless , to gamble , to play the hunches , to stretch things to one 's advantage , when other people will pick up the tab for your mistakes . But those who pay the costs of your recklessness are not likely to vote for you again . As reckless as the right is in domestic policy , where the costs are economic , it is even more so in foreign policy , where life itself is at stake . Reagan treats numbers in arms control talks the way he treats them in economic policy . Facts and figures are not to be used with caution but are to be fit into a world view that calls on people to forgo present stability for dubious rewards in the future . Just as Reagan said that if we had a little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that if we tolerate a weeny arms race now we will have stability in weapons soon . Given the recklessness of his promises about jobs , who is going to believe his assurances about peace ? One base of support for the nuclear freeze is a conservative reaction to a reckless and dangerous foreign policy . If Reaganism is conservative , then the temperate and judicious American political mind wants less and less of it . In fairness to Reagan it must be pointed out that his recklessness is more-under control than that of his fellow right-wing heads of state . After all , he only threatened to send troops to Central America ; Thatcher and Begin have put their bellicosity into practice . ( In the recent past , liberals like Kennedy and Johnson acted dangerously . But both showed a capacity to learn from their recklessness ; no one could charge Reagan , Thatcher or Begin with experiential maturity . ) Contemporary conservatives appear to have an irresistible itch to send troops somewhere  --  which , so long as the drama is confined to newspapers and television , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learned , those who fight the war in the present are often dumped in the future . Conservative foreign policy , based on the threat of force in an age of nuclear weapons , can not inspire the security it offers to protect , a sure reason for its increasing unpopularity . The major war that conservatives fight is against the twentieth century , and the fact that they can not win it constitutes a fourth reason for the retreat of the right . Conservatives profOundly misunderstand the times in which they liVe , a miscalculation that becomes more apparent with every policy they attempt . Ideas matter  --  that is the lesson of modern times . For all its brutality and irrationality , this century has established the principle that no government can continue in power for long if its policies are not perceived as being in the interests of those affected by them . To be sure , governments can get by with symbols and with violence ; illegitimate regimes there will always be , as Poland reminds us every day . But the evidence is overwhelming that a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legitimation will eventually find itself trying to comprehend its repudiation . - Conservatives have developed often brilliant strategies for appealing to the electorate . They use manipulative methods  --  public relations techniques , slick advertising , coded language , effective symbols  --  far more seductively than the left . The problem is not with the right 's form but with its content : all the impressive instruments it uses to convey its message can not conceal forever that there is ' no message to convey . The right , to be blunt , has no credible ideas . It has not been able to figure out why capitalist democracies are in trouble , and as a result it has no solutions that might bring them out of it . There is no question that the right understands the importance of ideas . Unlike previous periods of conservative hegemony , when anti-intellectualism and babbittry were in vogue , conservative regimes today have close ties to think tanks and benefit from the investments that corporations have made in academic and public policy , institutions . What is remarkable is that , despite all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appearances on MacNeil / Lehrer , the right has come up with so little in the way of a comprehensive analysis of our malaise . There seems to be no alternative to monetarism besides a discredited flirtation with voodoo . No conservative thinker has developed a strategy capable of dealing with a world fractured into increasingly intense rivalries . We have yet to hear a , right-wing solution to the tension between free trade and protectionism , nor is there a macroeconomic program that would put people to work without creating excessive inflation . Conservatives have been unable to explain why families are in turmoil , schools in disrepair , the public infrastructure in collapse . They do not know how to restore productivity and competition . They fail to recognize existing social problems , let alone make an effort to solve them . Their policies would intensify crime and speed urban decay . They know something is wrong , but how it got that way and what could make it better  --  in actuality , not in campaign rhetoric  --  is beyond their ken . Conservatives pride themSelves on their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like it is . According to their self-image , conservatives are fed up with the wooly-headed utopianism of left-wing social engineering and offer in its place an agenda that works with , not against , human nature . It sounds appealing until it is put into practice , when the agenda proves to be as sentimental and utopian as what it replaced . Conservatives live in a fantasy land , and their only comfort is the subconscious sense that when their time in office is over , a liberal or a socialist will come along and try to pick up the pieces . The best thing right-wing parties have going for them is the fact that they generate so much opposition : if they had a free hand to put their programs into effect , not even they could survive . ? One can appeal to baseness , prejudice and irrationality for only so long before one is victimized by those very appeals . In modern politics there is always an accounting , and when judgments are made , concrete results count for morethan successfully ' stirring up resentment and hostility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , incompetent at keeping it . Unlike liberals and social democrats , when conservatives - offend they offend deeply . Those who rise to power by mobilizing anger find the anger directed against them that much stronger when it finally erupts , as Spiro Agnew and Richard Nixon can testify . A Willy Brandt would never experience total repudiation , for no matter how serious his mistakes he was not contemptuous or venal. - Conservatism is arrogance ; performers like Ronald Reagan ' can hide their contempt , but only by total concentration and complete packaging . Arrogance remains the single greatest- political liability in modern democracy . ConServatives are being repudiated because they conserve so little and demand so much . One expects demands from revolutionaries because they offer utopia in return . But conservatives promise only to fill the coffers of the already rich , and for that they seek sacrifice , tolerance of their mistakes and public adoration . Their agenda is so outrageous it seems positively attractive  --  until the reality of its unreality sinks home . There is very little in the agenda of the left that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political absurdity to new heights , conservatives may do the left the dastardly deed of bringing it back to power prematurely . The left needed a generation to think through its mistakes . The right is giving it a decade . There will continue to be right-wing governments in the world so long as liberals and social democrats are unable to come up with solutions to the global crisis . Given the level of potential anger and frustration , the right can never be pronounced dead . But for all the talk about a conservative era , for all the sense that social'democracy had reached its limits and for all the sentiment against altruism in a no-growth age , the right has botched its golden opportunity . It already finds itself in the same position so recently occupied by liberals : on the-defensive , apologetic , searching for scapegoats . But unlike the left , which was victimized by forces outside its control as much as by its internal flaws , the right has only itself to blame . It had the money and it took the power , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictive ideas . And the more conservatives try to force it , the sooner public enchantment with their alternatives will wane .                     