@@378078

It was hardly his first major summit , but former President Jimmy Carter found trekking through the Himalayas in northern Nepal to be a challenge nonetheless . The goal of his two-week expedition was the pinnacle of 18,192-ft. - high Mount Kala Pattar , one of the scenic peaks in the valley surrounded by the loftier Lhotse and Everest . Accompanied by Rosalynn , Carter quickly outpaced four of his Secret Service men , who had to return to camp because of altitude sickness . When the group reached a rarefied 15,000 ft. , his wife was flown out by helicopter while he proceeded to the top . The next day , while visiting a jungle lodge , the Carters were charmed by the sight of an elephant painted as they often are in Nepal . " The scenery was more spectacular and breathtaking than I imagined , " said Carter , who was back home in Plains last week . " Nepal is the most beautiful country in the world , certainly the most beautiful I have ever seen . " One advantage of being out of office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tempered by diplomatic concerns . <P> He reaches the autumnal age of 85 this week , but in every other respect Aaron Copland seems to be basking in an Appalachian spring . To honor the quintessential American composer , public television will broadcast live on his birthday an all-Copland retrospective by the New York Philharmonic , led by Zubin Mehta and Guest Conductor Leonard Bernstein . The special performance will range from Copland 's First Symphony ( composed in 1928 ) to a newly orchestrated version of his recent piano piece , Proclamation , a span that delights the still octavely active octogenarian . " It is one of the most interesting programs of my work imaginable , " says Copland , con brio . " It even makes me look forward to being 85 ! " <P> He is not known for his love of journalists , unless , of course , the interviewer happens to be his own daughter Nancy , 45 . During a rare on-camera chat , to be broadcast in two parts on the syndicated Hour Magazine this week , Frank Sinatra , 69 , again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I never had anything to do with that kind of world , " he explains . " I may have been introduced to people in nightclubs who owned them and who hired us , but I 'm not alone there . Everyone in our business has done the same thing . " Father and daughter are planning a TV mini-series on his life , and he talked to her about his longtime regimen of swimming and running ( " before it became fashionable " ) , hoofing it with Gene Kelly in Anchors Aweigh ( " he kind of danced down to me , which was wonderful of him " ) and Rocker Bruce Springsteen ( " I think he is a tremendous performer " ) . Obviously , the Chairman of the Board knows something about some kinds of Bosses .                     