@@494146

ON THE HELL NNUCLEAR UNSAFEGUARDS NOT MANY would care to quarrel with Senator Charles Percy , the Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , when he says that the spread of nuclear weapons is the " most important problem we face . " Yet when his committee held public hearings on the subject last week , the response was dismal . Only 4 of the 17 senators on the committee turned up ; the hearing was not reported at all in the New York Times , and the Washington Post carried a wire service version buried at the bottom of page 17 . Such apparent lack of concern is but one symptom of a disconcerting reluctance , especially on the part of the Republican-controlled Senate and the Reagan Administration , to take more than a weak-hearted interest in the problem . Only two Democratic Senators , John Glenn of Ohio and Alan Cranston of California , have been actively pursuing an oversight of the nonproliferation effort . A third , Gary Hart of Colorado , is semiactive , and Joe Biden of Delaware is supportive . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern , and attempts to protect the Administration against quite justified charges that its nonproliferation rhetoric ? " We are concerned and we are doing all we can " ? is empty nonsense . Indeed , the gap between the rhetoric and the reality is about as wide as it could be . Under Reagan , America 's efforts to halt the spread of nuclear weapons have been steadily eroded . The Senate has voted to give aid to Pakistan by waiving a law prohibiting assistance to a country trying to make nuclear weapons ( something Pakistan , most experts agree , is doing ) . The Administration has been unwilling to use diplomatic leverage against France for supplying nuclear fuel rods to South Africa ( a country that refuses to accept international safeguards on its nuclear facilities ) ; has agreed to supply Australia with classified uranium enrichment technology ; has allowed Japan to reprocess ( extract plutonium from ) U.S.-supplied nuclear fuel ; and , it seems , may soon permit India to do the same , despite India 's refusal to accept full safeguards . In the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Percy 's committee took a long overdue step in deciding to hold the first-ever hearings on the centerpiece of nonproliferation ? the system of international safeguards imposed by nuclear supplier nations on states that want to have nuclear programs . In the event , the background to the hearings became as noteworthy as the hearings themselves . They had been prompted by an unusual stirring of dissent in the ranks of the nuclear establishment . Last March a former International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards inspector , Emanuel Morgan , caused a flurry at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission with a report stating boldly that the Vienna-based IAEA is " incapable of detecting the diversion of a significant quantity-of nuclear fuel " in any state with a moderate to large nuclear energy establishment . " In keeping with a well-established practice of institutional self-interest , the Morgan report was stamped " Classified , " but word of its existence spread to Capitol Hill , In June the Israelis bombed the Iraqi reactor and in subsequent congressional hearings another IAEA inspector told of more failings of the safeguards system . In sum , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ notice of a country 's diversion of bomb-grade material to give other IAEA member nations a chance to use diplomatic leverage to stop the production of an actual weapon . To the experts these " revelations " were nothing new . The nuclear establishment had known about the shortcomings of safeguards for years ; it had just not been in their interest to tell anyone . Neither the nuclear industry ( which sought the spreading of nuclear power ) nor the governments of the supplier nations ( which wanted their countries to have a slice of this new , exciting , and promising export trade ) were willing to admit that in selling nuclear plants to less developed nations they might actually be selling bombs . The cover was safeguards . But over the years the negotiators of the safeguards system never managed to tie the development and deployment of safeguards to the development and deployment of nuclear power . The negotiators thought they had only to ensure a " continuity of knowledge " about the workings of a nation 's nuclear plants , and they were content to allow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? to be decided on an ad hoc basis . As the number of power plants under safeguards grew , so did the problems of the IAEA inspectors . There were simply not enough inspectors to do the job . Bomb-grade material in the form of highly enriched uranium was being supplied in increasing quantities ( by France to Iraq , for example ) and the " plutonium economy " was just around the corner . The coming of the breeder reactor , the one that makes more plutonium than it uses , would mean hundreds of tons of bomb-grade plutonium on the commercial market . If some crazy dictator did n't make a bomb out of it , surely a terrorist would . The nuclear community still managed to fool Congress into believing that somehow the safeguards system would work , but Congress had a history of being bewitched by the magic of the atom . In the wake of the propaganda triumph of Eisenhower 's Atoms for Peace Program , Congress had agreed to rewrite the Atomic Energy Act of 1946 , omitting a key paragraph , Section 10a(1) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declares by joint resolution that effective and enforceable international safeguards against the use of atomic energy for destructive purposes have been established , there shall be no exchange of information with other nations with respect to the use of atomic energy for industrial purposes . . . " Nobody bothered to examine whether safeguards were effective . We now know , from the persistent digging of Glenn , Cranston , and others that the IAEA 's failings are even greater than some of the nuclear community insiders on the Hill believed . For example , when the IAEA negotiates a safeguards agreement with a particular country , it lists the type of surveillance equipment and the number of inspections required to ensure that no bomb-grade material is diverted during the reactor process . But in some cases the agency has negotiated these agreements knowing that the equipment will not do the job . Also , because of the increasing work load , some reactors , subject to safeguards , were not inspected at all last year . As Senator Hart told the Percy committee , " The IAEA safeguards are little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morgan told the committee bluntly , " . . . the fundamental objective of IAEA safeguards , to detect diversion of sensitive nuclear materials , can not presently be met and will not be met in the foreseeable future . There is clear evidence of the fact that safeguards are not being met in the ! AEA 'S Safeguards Implementation Reports , published annually for the years 1976-1980 . These reports identify numerous gaps in the safeguards system , but inexplicably conclude that there has been no diversion of sensitive materials .. It appears to me that most U.S. officials are not aware of the degree of inadequacy of IAEA safeguards . " It was difficult for the nuclear community to dismiss Morgan as a disaffected employee : the NRC itself had endorsed his findings by announcing a few days before the hearing that it could no longer be " confident " that member nations of the IAEA " would be notified of a diversion in a timely fashion . " In the Administration 's behalf , Under Secretary of State Richard Kennedy sought to curb criticism of the IAEA by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ job , and that the job could be improved with more staff and a bigger budget . He omitted to tell the committee that the U.S. contribution to the agency has in fact been cut from $5.5 million to $4 million . Two key witnesses , Victor Gilinsky , an NRC commissioner , and Paul Leventhal , a former Senate staffer and veteran campaigner for a stronger nonproliferation effort , argued that the first step to a better safeguards system is for the IAEA to open up its books . Leventhal , now president of the Nuclear Club , a nonprofit group opposed to the further spread of nuclear weapons , said : " Only in laying bare the technical and political limits of IAEA safeguards is there any hope to steer commercial nuclear enterprise away from technological paths that are unsafeguardable and , therefore , too inherently dangerous to be pursued forpeaceful purposes . " He was referring to the commercial use of highly enriched uranium and plutonium . In response , Kennedy warned of the fragile nature of the IAEA safeguard inspections , which involve a unique compromise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagree with him . But now that IAEA insiders are prepared to come clean about the failings of the system , critics like Leventhal are arguing that to save it from self-destructing , these failings must be aired and corrected . The question is whether the Percy committee can summon a greater sense of urgency and concern . At the recent hearings the committee never came close to asking the right questions . This was partly bad luck : Senator Glenn , who said he had a host of questions for Kennedy , never had a chance to ask them because he was called away to vote . With the lack of leadership in the White House it may yet take another nuclear explosion ? from , say , Pakistan ? before members of Congress will sit up and take notice .                     