@@494119

reverse his course , even if what he is doing is making midcourse corrections . The White House fears that a zig-zag could make Reagan appear " another Carter . " And then there is Social Security , which is described by one aide as " more than a hot potato . It 's a hand grenade . " In private most Democratic and Republican leaders agree that some compromise combination of tax increases , benefit adjustments , postponement of the retirement age , and coverage of federal workers is neces ? sary to save the system . In public , Democrats tend to oppose benefit cuts , Republicans oppose tax increases , and both are terrified of the aged , especially the new chairman of the House Rules Committee , 83-year-old Representative Claude Pepper . At the same time , failure to solve Social Security 's fiscal crisis could undermine public faith in the American political system ? not to mention the current crop of political leaders . So some sort of compromise probably will come , but the process may be painful . OTHER DIFFICULTIES facing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff and the prospect that Congress has lost much of its awe of President Reagan . The widely reported tension between James Baker on the " operational " side and Edwin Meese on the " policy " side apparently is not ideological or even personal . In fact , it is said to exist not so much between those two top aides as between their under ? lings . Each set of subordinates is said to be unhappy with the way the other runs its shop . Each group would like a unified command structure ? under its boss . But unless one of the bosses is willing to go to President Reagan and say , " This is intolerable . Accept my resigna ? tion , " nothing is likely to happen to change the current , restive situation . As to Congress , there is a small chance ( one in fifty , said one aide ) that a grand compromise can be worked out early next year . It 's more likely that President Rea ? gan will send up a wildly unbalanced budget , with many severe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again would reject it , as in 1982 , and compro ? mise would come only after a series of test votes . In 1983 , though , it will be harder for the White House to pre-cook the compromises and make them look like Presidential victories . Most of Reagan 's top advisers say they operate on the assumption that he will run again in 1984 . They are holding meetings and drafting memos on what the President should do if he does intend to run , and on how money should be spent by the Republican National Committee and a Presidential campaign committee if and when it 's formed . But most aides acknowledge that everything depends upon the fate of Reaganomics . If it fails , Reagan fails . And if Reagan fails , even if the fault is Reagan 's , the Constitution will be blamed just as it nears its 200th Anniversary . This land is your land , for a price . THOSE WHO IMAGINE that the midterm elections woke the Reagan Administration from its supply-side dream of simultaneously cutting taxes and reducing the deficit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course , the Administration is sticking to one of its worst ideas for " revenue enhancement " : to sell off government properties and federal lands , mostly to private buyers . It 's an idea that conservatives find ideo ? logically irresistible , and they claim that a windfall is there for the taking . But the Administration has been uncharacteristically quiet about this proposal , for two reasons . First , " privati ? zation , " if ever seriously put forward on the scale its proponents would like , will not be popular , particularly among those who now use public lands ? a group that happens to include a great many Westerners . And sec ? ond , the Administration has little idea how to proceed with its vast real estate sale . The Administration expects to receive $1 billion in fiscal year 1983 from the sale of federal government property , and $4 billion a year for four years thereafter from the sale of public lands . Congressional committees do n't know how the White House came up with these figures , how much property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ targets , or even what legislation will have to be passed to permit the Interior Department to sell enough land to bring in that much money . The Congressional Budget Office thinks the government may receive half of what it expects in the next three years , though it cautions that even this figure is " optimistic . " Last February President Reagan established a Prop ? erty Review Board to expedite the sale of " unneeded " federal buildings and land . Included in a preliminary list of 307 unappraised parcels to be.offered for sale in 1983 were seventeen acres of beach-front property on Ha ? waii 's Waikiki Beach , now owned by the Department of Defense but open to the public ; the old New York Assay Office , a vacant building on Wall Street ; a chunk of California 's Big Sur ; and thousands of acres of govern ? ment property across the country . It wo n't be easy to sell everything listed . A law passed in 1968 , for example , requires Congressional approval before the Hawaiian beach-front property can he sold , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ selling it . Cities and states will have the right of first refusal to buy land offered for sale within their jurisdictions . But the Board promises to extract fair-market value regardless of buyer , and cash-strapped local and state treasuries will not find it easy to compete with commercial enterprises . Government properties have , of course , been sold in the past . In fiscal 1982 the General Services Administra ? tion sold one hundred fifty properties for $93 million . But this is trifling compared to the Administration 's goals . It is not the sale of government property that is expected to yield vast proceeds , but of public lands . Yet , according to Secretary Watt , the Interior Department will offer only small , isolated , difficult-to-manage tracts of land as well as land in or near Western urban areas , emphasizing that national parks , wilderness areas , or lands that contain mineral resources will not be sold " under any circumstances . " Secretary Watt promised a Senate audience that he could conceive of selling no more than 5 percent of the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than seven hundred million the government owns . He nonetheless refuses to say where so much " surplus " federal land actually is , or who will he able or willing to pay so much for it . ROPONENTS OF public land sales like to point out 1 that this is not a new idea . At one time the federal government held title to four-fifths of the total land area of the United States , territory it had acquired by pur ? chase , annexation , and foreign cession . During the 1800s land was not scarce , and Congress sought to transfer federal lands to states , corporations , and indi ? viduals as quickly as possible . For the most part , the policy was successful , and America 's agricultural lands were developed , though more often by railroads and other corporations than by the mythic yeoman farmer . But the arid territory west of the hundredth meridan was not settled so easily , and most of this land remained in the public domain , subject to the claims of lumbermen , miners , stockmen , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern for long-range development . Responding to fears that the forests , and the water ? sheds they protected , were endangered , in 1891 Con ? congress authorized the President to set aside forest re ? serves . Theodore Roosevelt and his chief forester , Gifford Pinchot , introduced new conceptions of federal responsibility for natural resources and public lands . Believing in the beneficent power of nonpartisan good government , and committed to the principles of scien ? tific management , Roosevelt and Pinchot sought to se ? cure federal ownership for all but the most fertile land remaining in the public domain . They aimed less to preserve wilderness , as conservationists like John Muir would have preferred , than to manage development intelligently . They created national forests , parks , wild ? life refuges , and reclamation projects , and left the legacy of government involvement in land management deci ? sions that so upsets their Republican successors today . As late as the Depression , however , the United States had no clearly defined official policy regarding public lands . Most of this land , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for grazing . Unregulated overuse by cattlemen and sheep raisers was debasing soil condi ? tions . The Hoover Administration offered to give these lands to the states , but they refused : the lands seemed worthless without their mineral rights , which the federalgovernment meant to keep . But something had to be done . With Western dust in their lungs , legislators passed the Taylor Grazing Act of 1934 , effectively end ? ing the era of free access to public lands . The act made the Department of the Interior responsible for the " or ? derly use , improvement , and development " of the pub ? lic range , and gave the Secretary the authority to require users to obtain a permit , pay for it , and obey federal grazing regulations . - In 1976 , when Congress passed the Federal Land Policy and Management Act , which mandated for the first time that federal lands be held publicly in perpetu ? ity for the benefit of the entire nation , the government still owned some 760 million acres . This land , over 90 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the lower forty-eight states . Included are many of our national parks , wilderness areas , wildlife refuges , and national forests , as well as over three hundred million acres of public land managed by the Bureau of Land Management , which contain accessible deposits of oil , gas , coal , and other hard rock minerals , and which are used widely both for grazing and recreation . By law , the forests and the range are managed according to the principles first espoused by Roosevelt and Pinchot ; they are available for lumbering , drilling , mining , and graz ? ing , subject to certain conditions , while protected by the government for future use . HOWEVER , many Westerners , even while reaping the benefits of federal management , chafed under the new restrictions . Politicians argued that federal regu ? lations stifled growth and that the land should be turned over to the states so that it could be developed in accordance with Western wishes . Forgetting that the arid land of the West required government management for the collective welfare , as one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the huge sums of money that Washington " returned " to the states in oil , gas , and coal royalties , and in payment in lieu of taxes , Western politicians successfully marketed their protest by giving it a new name ? the Sagebrush Rebel ? lion ? and by adopting the popular antigovernment rhetoric of the day . When Reagan captured the White House and selected James Watt , one of the chief spokesmen of the Sage ? brush Rebellion , to be Secretary of the Interior , Western ? ers between the Rockies and the Sierra Nevada were elated . But their hopes to establish a new economic hegemony based upon the transfer of federal lands to the states were soon deflated by the requirements of new right theology . The man chiefly responsible for derailing the Sage ? brush Rebellion was not some ardent environmentalist , but a senior economist on the President 's Council of Economic Advisers , Steve Hanke . Hanke , a neoclassical , supply-side economist , believes that government man ? agement , or " bureaucratic socialism , " is inefficient be ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of human and natural resources : the bottom line . But Hanke opposed the Sagebrush Rebels ' desire to transfer authority from Washington to the Western state capitals . In a speech to the Public Lands Council in September 1981 that captured the imagination of the Administra ? tion , Hanke pointed out the theoretical fallacy of the Sagebrush Rebellion . " It makes no difference whether there is federal or state control over public lands . . . . The only way to improve the productivity and efficiency of public lands is to privatize them . " According to Hanke , not only would the land become more productive ( and taxable ) if it were privately owned , but Washington could also stop wasting millions of tax dollars to pay the bumbling bureaucrats who mismanage the grazing , for ? est , and minerals programs for the government . HANKE WANTS to reverse the resource manage ? ment trends of the past ninety years . His propos ? als to " privatize " the public domain appeal to the likes of libertarian John Baden , who proposes selling the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Director of the Office of Policy Analysis in the Department of the Interior , who believes that industry will protect the forests and the range better than govern ? ment . But Hanke 's visions ventured beyond the pale of political acceptability , even in this era of radical conser ? vatism . Along with other true believers in the supply-side revolution , Hanke resigned when the gap between Reagan 's rhetoric and actions grew too large and the demands of government too frustrating . But Hanke had had an impact . His idea of selling public lands to make them more productive was seized upon by officials at the Office of Management and Budget , who quickly calculated that they could raise $17 billion over the next five years . Senator Paul Laxalt of Nevada explains : " Given a similar economic mess , any rational businessman would begin selling off excess capital assets . " In the meantime , an unlikely coalition has emerged to criticize what Governor Ed Herschler of Wyoming called " the ambiguous and uncertain nature of the current privatization proposals . " Last May @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Com ? mittee the folly of sacrificing future revenue from royal ? ties and grazing fees by selling land to reduce the present deficit . Afraid that the simplicity of the plan would appeal to many in search of a quick fix to the budget problem , he warned that a large-scale disposal program would depress the Western real estate market , causing both private and federal property values to plummet . Herschler said he also feared that ranchers and lumbermen who use the public domain for grazing and logging might not be able to afford to buy the land they need , particularly if confronted with corporate and foreign competition . ( Hanke and Laxalt have proposed that ranchers at least be given the right of first refusal to buy at reduced rates the land they now use , even though the suggestion conflicts with their twin goals of reducingthe deficit and letting the market determine the best use for the land . ) Finally , Herschler reminded his audience that if the government ignores such " non-market val ? ues " as the preservation of open spaces and wildlife @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of life in the West will suffer . Apparently the Administration 's new philosophy has made the Governor of Watt 's home state a defender of environmentalism . Herschler was soon joined by other spokesmen for Western interests , including Governors Lamm and Matheson of Colorado and Utah , who presented their views to the House Subcommittee on Public Lands and National Parks . Norman Glaser , a Nevada State Senator and a leading exponent of the Sagebrush Rebellion , declared his state 's vehement opposition to any plan that would " privatize " public land . While Glaser and other state officials approve of Watt 's " Good Neighbor Policy , " under which thousands of acres of public land will eventually be given to state and local governments , they fear having to purchase the land they want or need . But pressure from David Stockman and Senator Charles Percy , who , like Laxalt , thinks the government should he more businesslike about its holdings , has forced Watt to terminate his policy of turning over federal lands gratis " except in special circumstances . " IF THE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective opposition from local and state govern ? ments before valuable federal land in their jurisdictions is sold and the public 's access limited . Just before Cape Henlopen State Park on the coast of Delaware , for example , was to be turned over to the state , Senator Percy suggested that it be sold rather than granted to Delaware . If the state did not want to buy it , he told Senator Biden of Delaware , who was testifying before his subcommittee , then the federal government should find someone who would pay cash . Biden shook his fist at Percy and replied , " If this does n't go back to the State of Delaware , I 'm telling you we 'll call out the National Guard to keep any other owner from crossing our park . No sucker is going to get in and out of there without a helicopter . " Delaware got its park . The Administration 's plan has alienated state and local government officials , cattlemen , sheep raisers , and the millions of people who use the public lands for recreation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boasts that federal land sales will turn sheep pastures into industrial sites and deserts into resorts ) . This pervasive opposition is not surprising : the only group likely to profit from federal land sales would he speculators , both foreign and American , who will willingly buy at bottom dollar whatever valuable prop ? erty Uncle Sam wants to sell them .                     