@@325005

Offenbach 's Tales of Hoffmann returns the Met to top form <P> From a distance , seemingly beyond the stage , the workshop of an eccentric inventor swims into view , its cheery interior alive with whirring mechanical toys that no child has ever imagined . Gondolas glide serenely through the perfumed , decadent atmosphere of La Serenissima-Venice , dark and dangerous . A placid bourgeois home suddenly explodes with the nightmarish visitation of a sinister , cadaverous physician who walks through walls and bursts from fireplaces in a ball of flame . <P> The phantasmagorical spirit of E.T.A . Hoffmann lurks everywhere in the Metropolitan Opera 's brilliant new production of Jacques Offenbach 's Les Contes d'Hoffmann ( The Tales of Hoffmann ) , which opened last week . Vividly directed by Otto Schenk and imaginatively designed by Gnther Schneider-Siemssen , Hoffmann is the Met 's most successful , satisfying effort in months . It is all the more welcome because the season , still somewhat colored by 1980 's labor disputes , began in a lackluster fashion . Soprano Renata Scotto was booed in her opening-night @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rheingold and Siegfried ) fizzled out in something less than Wagnerian glory . It was in December , with Franco Zeffirelli 's lavish cast-of-thousands production of La Bohme , that the company began the return to form . <P> Hoffmann is best seen as the progression of a soul . There is the comic slapstick of Act I , in which the eponymous poet falls in love with Olympia , a mechanical doll . Next there is the sobering disappointment of Act II , in which the hero falls in love with a faithless Venetian courtesan . Finally , there is the tragic catharsis of Act III , in which Hoffmann 's sincere love for the simple , shy singer Antonia is destroyed by the vicious machinations of the evil Dr. Miracle . Each affair should appear to be more intense than the last . <P> The production illustrates the progression perfectly . The first act-all bright colors and gaily spinning contraptions-is an extended divertissement , with Hoffmann the butt of a joke shared by everyone except him . Olympia , the crowning achievement of Spalanzani 's workshop , is obviously @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ touch , Director Schenk has the inventor 's assistant twist each of her fingers to produce the dazzling coloratura of her famous Doll 's Song . The mood turns passionate when Hoffmann meets the sensuous Giulietta , and Schneider-Siemssen 's Venice creates an atmosphere of dark mystery , with shadowy palazzi looming over dark canals whose waters hold untold secrets . The intensity deepens and comes to a climax in the third act : as in a horror movie , the normality of Antonia 's surroundings only heightens the terror prescribed by Dr. Miracle . The epilogue finds Hoffmann back in the tavern where he began the evening-drunken , disheveled and disabused of idealistic notions , but inspired to write his feverish tales . For all its legerdemain , the staging provides an unsentimental , clear-eyed view of the only serious opera by the man whom Rossini called the " Mozart of the Champs Elyses. "                     