@@492132

FIRST GERMAN KIDNEY STONE CRUSHER ARRIVES IN U.S. More than 1,000 patients have already been safely relieved of their stones with this " Star Wars " like equipment that eliminates surgery and the need for general anesthetic. by Cory SerVaas , M.D. f you have a " surgical " I kidney stone , there is only one place to be in the United States , and that is Indianapolis at Methodist Hospital . We can report unequivocally that if your stone meets the criteria for pulverizing with the new German extracorporeal ( outside the body ) kidney stone crusher , then you should n't consider any other procedure . The newly arrived equipment cost $2 million and was two years in the making by the Dorflier Corporation , a German manufacturer . We went to Germany to see this procedure at the Munich Klinikum Grosshadern when the 13th kidney stone patient was treated there . They have now successfully treated more than 1,000 patients with this most innovative method of removing stones . There is a two-year waiting list in Germany for patients wanting to have their stones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ German inventors have favored the United States with the equipment before installing more machines in Germany . Indianapolis ' Methodist Hospital officials are grateful . The Kidney Stone Formers Club is happy to further report that these Star Wars machines have also been ordered for Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston , Methodist Hospital in Houston , New York Hospital in New York City and Shands Teaching Hospital in Gainesville , Florida . Even though 1,000 patients have been treated without side effects or complications , this was all done in cols until it officially approves the equipment for general use . One of the provisions in the protocol for the first patients in Indianapolis will be that only stones that are actually in the kidney will be removed with the pulverizer . In Germany , those patients with stones high in the ureter can have their stones treated with the shock waves if their stones have n't been lodged in the ureter longer than 60 days . Eventually , and after the FDA approves the equipment , kidney stones lodged in ureters will also be removed here . In some instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be pushed back into the kidney so they classify for treatment in Indianapolis . This procedure is better than surgery  --  and a completely non-invasive method for removing stones that once could be reached only by the most painful surgery . Patients refer to the traditional surgery necessary to remove stones as going " from the navel to the spine , " a painful , debilitating affair , cutting through muscles and requiring months before their former strength is restored . My husband Beurt 's reluctance to be sidelined from his rigorous daily athletic and office activities led him to search diligently for a better way when his kidney stone was diagnosed as too large to pass . He found an obscure reference to a German doctor 's use of shock waves to disintegrate stones into sand without surgery . After some study and investigation , my husband decided that this method could be a revolutionary breakthrough . Even though the doctors in Germany assured him by phone that at that time they were n't permitted to do stones in the ureter , suited in great benefit for other kidney stone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ machine to America have borne fruit . The lithotripter is now in action in Indianapolis . Dr. Daniel Newman of Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis tells us : " Every medical center in the world wants one of these iithotripters . They want them in Arabia , South Africa . Canada wants to buy five or ten of them right now and put them across their country because they know how cost-effective it is . Everyone is banging on their door . " His colleague , Dr. James Lingeman , adds , " Many of the patients have previously had surgery on a kidney . One of the very appealing aspects of this new technology is that it can be applied repetitively to patients without increasing the risk of damage to the kidneys . In the past , each time an operation has been performed on a kidney , that tended to increase the risk of damage or need for removal of the kidney . " The Indianapolis doctors conducting the first U.S. lithotripter procedures are totally dedicated to the patients . Dr. Phillip Mosbaugh explains : " Our feeling is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as we can on the phone . We want to avoid letting people fly or drive all the way to Indianapolis and then find when they get here that they are not a candidate . That would infuriate me if I were they . To avoid that we will just tell them While the patient is " floated " in a tank of water , the real objective of locating the kidney stone in the X-ray sights of the shock wave generator is accomplished . Shock waves go through water to disintegrate the kidney stone . to send us their X-ray films through their doctor . That is how we will know whether or not we can treat their stones . " Our research certainly indicates that the lithotripter is the best possible method for removing stones that will not pass . Lest readers be confused by reports of another method of " avoiding major surgery , " let us explain other new methods for removing kidney stones . One procedure now being done at Duke University , Mayo Clinic and numerous other sites across the country is ultrasonic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly the same thing ? " stone crushing . " The means by which the stone is crushed , however , differs from shock-wave lithotripsy in that ultrasonic waves instead of electrically generated shock waves are used to disintegrate the stone . The ultrasonic method requires that a probe actually touch the stone before it will be able to effectively break up the stone . Therefore , a " stab wound " the size of a man 's thumb is made in the patient 's side and a hollow tube is inserted through the body into the kidney . Although a much quicker recovery can be expected from this operation than when the traditional 10- to 12-inch incision is made , it is still surgery and carries all the risks of surgery . Infection , laceration of the kidney or ureter and excessive bleeding are all possible , as well as loss of the kidney . Dr. George Brannen , a urologist at Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle , has used the ultrasonic procedure and believes the risks are " about comparable " to traditional surgery . But he notes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one week and that there is much less pain . With this procedure the stone fragments are removed by suction rather than having to pass through the ureter . Another approach to put the ultrasonic probe in contact with the stone is through the urethra , bladder and up the ureter into the kidney . Doctors at the University of Chicago have been inserting a small , rigid tube that can sometimes be passed all the way up to the kidney if necessary to reach a stone . The ultrasonic probe is then pushed up the tube , the stone is fragmented and the particles are collected and removed in a grasping device called a basket . The procedure does require general anesthesia , for it is quite uncomfortable , and muscle relaxation is necessary to insert the tube into the tiny ureter . It is still an invasive procedure , and infection of the kidney and other serious complications , including loss of a kidney , have resulted . In addition , in one study of 36 patients with kidney stones in the ureter and kidney , 25 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that could not be retrieved through the ureteroscope . All the urologists we have contacted who are presently using other methods of stone removal are unanimous in proclaiming shock-wave lithotripsy a superior method for treating kidney stones . They all made comments such as , " The extracorporeal lithotripter is going to be the best way to go . It 's nice not to have somebody put a hole in you or make an incision for removal of kidney stones . " Any readers who have stones and are agonizing about possible surgery may feel free to call or write the following officers of the Kidney Stone Formers Club , all of whom have been to Germany to have their stones removed . These individuals are so grateful for their own good fortune in having their stones removed without surgery that they will drop whatever they are do-ing to help fellow stone sufferers . Dr. James Nicolette , Vice president 101 East Main Street Mount Pleasant , PA 15666 ( 412 ) 887-3195 Mr. Robert V. Bullock , Vice president 6 Warwick Lane Frankfort , KY 40601 ( 502 ) 695-5157 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ OH 43085 ( 614 ) 888-2252 Mr. Howard Fine , Treasurer 750 Park Avenue New York , NY 10021 ( 305 ) 358-7325 The club 's president , Dr. Beurt SerVaas , can be reached at ( 317 ) 636-8881 or ( 317 ) 634-1100 . For the present , the lithotripter offers the best solution to ridding the body of kidney stones . Mrs. Marlene Price , who made the trip to Germany when she heard about the new treatment , is enthusiastic about the results of her experience . She describes the treatment in detail for the Post . " I was diagnosed with a kidney stone when I was in the hospital for emergency surgery on another matter . I chose to go to Munich , Germany , to have my kidney stone pulverized by shock-wave therapy because I felt it too risky to undergo major surgery again within a six-month period . I was hospitalized in Munich for five days . It was a totally pain-free procedure . " On the day of the shock-wave procedure I was given a spinal anesthetic , which anesthetized me from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ put on the litter , and the litter was submerged into a large stainless-steel tank of water . There were TV monitors that were showing on the screen the site of the kidney stone , and after I received approximately 100 shock waves , I was X-rayed to see that the kidney stone was actually being pulverized . With that I was administered approximately 700 more shock waves . I could feel nothing due to the anesthetic and was just aware of the intense sound . I understand some people do benefit by listening to music at that time , but that was not available that day for me . I would highly recommend that because it does get your mind on something else . I counted up to about 500 , and decided I 'd better start thinking about something else . I was in the tank for about an hour . By five o'clock that evening , I no longer had a catheter , the IV was removed and was a person without a kidney stone  --  just a little remaining sand in my ureter , which I passed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ procedure , and I hoped then that very soon we would have kidney machines in the United States so everyone benefits from this . " Part of my therapy the day following the shock-wave treatment was to go to the 13th floor at the clinic in Grosshadern and yump , ' as the Germans call it  --  jump down 20 stairs per floor of the 13 floors in order to benefit by gravity in helping the sand that was in my ureter pass . This treatment , along with drinking plenty of fluids , whether itbe beer or water , was my postprocedure therapy . " Having had major surgery in January , and having taken several weeks to recover after that , I know exactly what is involved , and I am so grateful that I did not have to go through that experience in order to have my kidney stone removed . This pulverization was the most incredible thing I could ever imagine . " Dr. James Nicolette , past president of the Kidney Stone Formers Club , experienced severe pain from his kidney stone prior to its successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning , I awoke with the most severe , excruciating pain 1 had ever experienced , and I thought that somebody had put a knife in my back . The pain was so excruciating that I was actually crying and praying that I would die . " Conventional surgery entailed an incision 10 to 12 inches long extending from the navel to the spine and a hospital stay of 10 to 12 days and then a recuperative stay of possibly 2 to 6 months . " When I got back home from Munich , Germany , and started reflecting on my experiences , I realized that I was a very lucky individual , and believe me , I 've thanked God many times since then . But I happened to be on a talk show in Cincinnati where the host had about 250 people in the audience , and we started discussing renal pain or kidney pain from a kidney stone and tried to find out just how tremendous the pain is in comparison toother types of pain . He asked if anybody in the audience had had a baby and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ her hand and she did have both . He asked her which was more painful , and she said the kidney stone by far . He also asked if anybody had had a heart attack and a kidney stone . Another gentleman who had had a massive coronary put up his hand , and he also stated that the kidney pain was much more severe . " I do n't think that anybody can clearly define kidney pain , and it 's been described throughout history as the most severe pain that one can encounter . After my own experiences I agree . I pray to God that I 'll never have any pain like that again . " Robert Bullock , Kentucky 's assistant attorney general , has had a kidney stone removed by the basketing procedure , in which instruments are used to grasp the painful offender and pull it out . A second stone was tolerated until it doubled in size and he began passing blood . After a year of waiting , he traveled to the Klinikum Grosshadern in Munich for the German procedure of crushing kidney @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spinal anesthetic , " he says , " three men placed me on a saddle seat , fastened me in with straps across my legs and chest and secured my wrists to a crossbeam above the seat . Then a machine lifted the seat , with me in it , into the air , and 1 was lowered into a tank of pleasant , 75-degree continued on page 112 // Seventh-day Adventist continued from page 42 lion of health foods became common features of Adventist missionary work . Special health-food features began to appear within the evangelistic program for the edification of the prospective convert . Wherever the missionaries went there was emphasis on health and healing , so that today the Adventist Church operates 345 hospitals , sanitariums , clinics and dispensaries in various parts of the world , and many local churches hold nutrition classes open to the public . ( continued from page 42 ) who are not Seventh-day Adventists to become vegetarians . Not only do Seventh-day Adventists have fewer heart attacks , they also have less cancer-50 percent less than the general population  --  and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cigarettes and liquor . Adventists are better educated as a whole than the general population , says Dr. Scharffenberg , and better-educated people have a decreased rate of cancer in general . But even in comparison to a highly educated population surveyed by the American Cancer Society , Adventists still have a cancer rate only 60 percent of the expected rate . Their rate of lung cancer is only 21 percent of the expected rate and their colon-rectal cancer is 60 percent of expected . " The reason for this , " Dr. Scharffenberg says , " may be because Adventists eat more vegetables , seeds , beans and get more vitamin A and C. which probably has a protective effect . " There is also more fiber in Adventists ' diets  --  they use only unrefined , whole-grain flour . Adventists also have a reduced risk of prostatic cancer , which shows no significant relationship to meat eating ; but when consumption of all animal products is considered , it 's been found that heavy meat , egg , milk and cheese consumers have three times the risk of prostatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supplied with proper nutrition , the church operates 47 health-food factories throughout In 1905 , when she was 78 , Mrs. White chose the site of Loma Linda University . This university , which for years was called the College of Medical Evangelists , includes one of the world 's leading medical schools . It also features schools of dentistry , nursing , health and allied health professions . The university is the heart of the city of Loma Linda , a pleasant community of about 10,000 people between San Bernardino and Redlands . It is approximately 65 percent Seventh-day Adventist . An interesting adjunct owned and operated by the university is the - - ? the world that supply whole-grain breakfast cereals , fruit beverages , soy milk , seasonings and other foods . The church maintains 166 hospitals and sanitariums as well as many clinics and dispensaries around the world . Education  --  medical as well as general  --  receives strong support from Adventists . Three times as many members have completed college compared to the general population . The church operates ten liberal arts colleges and two universities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Loma Linda University in California . And health education  --  in particular the " Five-day Plan to Stop Smoking " ? is propagated wherever Adventists go . Adventists prefer constructive entertainment , the kind they believe will benefit their physical and mental health most , such as walking , swimming , nature study , golfing , tennis and boating . In conjunction , they advocate improving personal appearance by natural means , by smiling more and using less make-up . Perhaps their pragmatic approach to better life is best summed up in their attitude toward jewelry : " To spend money on nonessentials such as jewelry when there are millions in the earth who lack even the bare essentials of life , " they contend , " is poor stewardship of the funds which God has 4 entrusted in man . " That same logic is applied to health . Adventists believe that a Christian is obligated to maintain physical health to serve God acceptably. supermarket . It 's just a large market with a parking lot amid the cluster of university and " downtown " buildings  --  a pleasant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 6,000 different items on its shelves , and not one of them contains meat , with the sole exception of canned pet food . There is no liquor or beer , no coffee or tea or cola drinks , no tobacco . There are no products made with animal shortening and refined sugar , such as cookies and cakes . All such products are made with liquid vegetable shortening , mostly corn oil . There is no bread made with bleached flour . But what the market does have is equally interesting  --  a seemingly endless variety of fruits and vegetables and nuts , huge bags of all kinds of whole grains , dried fruits and beans and legumes . There are shelves and shelves of meat-substitute canned goods with unfamiliar labels , produced at Adventist plants such as the one at Arlington and at other non-Adventist firms now producing such products . An unusual kind of market , perhaps , but it grosses more than $3 million a year , and its customers come from all over Southern California , and as far away as Arizona , to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in other Adventist centers throughout the world . And it seems they are healthier for doing so . ? Andy Rooney continued from page 65 variety of experiences and assignments Rooney has tackled over the years . He 's always been in journalism , or so it seems  --  having launched his career as a copyboy on his hometown newspaper back in Albany . He later attended Colgate University and worked on the campus weekly until he joined the Army . His stint as a Stars and Stripes reporter was followed by a hungry two-year period as a freelancer and eventually writing jobs for Arthur Godfrey , Victor Borge , Herb Shriner and Sam Levinson . As a gag writer he learned the importance of timing in comedy and also became accomplished at picking up on different styles of delivery . Shriner was 