@@494807

A careful reader of the speeches of William Bennett and A. Bartlett Giamatti will note that they agree on much more than meets the ear . In these two collections of speeches delivered in office , the former secretary of education and the former president of Yale express allegiance to many of the same goals for education in America . Beneath their agreements , however , lies a deep difference , which is reflected in their rhetoric ? a difference in the education in which they engage in these books , education by their own example . Bennett and Giamatti concur on many of the educational " basics . " Bennett emphasizes the need for schools to inculcate moral character , but he also defends the teaching of critical reasoning . ( " Well , if we 're going to give up critical judgment , we 'd better give up the game of education altogether . " ) Although Giamatti emphasizes the commitment of a liberal university to critical reasoning and intellectual diversity , he also recognizes the need for shared values within a liberal university , values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freedom can flourish . Bennett criticizes the relativistic connotations of the term " values , " citing a friend who " once said , when he hears the word ' values ' he reaches for his Sears catalog . " But Bennett uses the term as often as Giamatti . Bennett notes , for example , the " need for schools to transmit social and political values . " Like most liberals , Giamatti treats the values of honesty , rational inquiry , and mutual respect not as matters of personal preference , but as the essential moral foundation for a good university and a just society . Both educators insist on the need not only to teach , but also to enforce , the values on which democracy depends . These are not the only disputes that dissolve on close reading . Bennett suggests that liberals ( or " certain elite circlesin the academy and the media " ) have " a fastidious disdain for the public expression of religious values . " But Giamatti is a counterexample to the rule for which Bennett offers no examples . Giamatti 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious texts ( the Revelation given to Saint John on the Isle of Patmos and a saying of Rabbi Tarphon in Pirke /Iva , " You are not required to complete the work , but neither are you free to desist from it " ) . Giamatti does disdain , however , the public expression of a particular kind of religious value . For " those who presume to know what God alone knows , " Giamatti reserves his harshest words : From the maw of this " morality " rise the tax-exempt Savonarolas who believe they , and they alone , possess the truth . There is no debate , no discussion , no dissent . They know . There is only one set of overarching political and spiritual and social beliefs ; whatever view does not conform to these views is by definition relativistic , negative , secular , immoral , against the family , anti-free enterprise , un-American . What nonsense . Bennett seems less troubled by the Moral Majority , but he , too , criticizes those who would convert this country into a " Christian Sparta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of neutrality that lies at the core of contemporary liberalism : " Not content to bring religious values into the public square , they would deny the government 's constitutional obligation to be neutral among particular religious communities . " Sometimes even the most acrimonious dispute appears to be largely rhetorical . One of Bennett 's " fundamental convictions is this : there is an extraordinary gap between the rhetoric and the reality of American higher education . " Bennett accuses the spokesmen of higher education of speech that is " often exceedingly pious , self-congratulatory , and suffused with an aura of moral superiority . " Giamatti 's criticism of higher education is no less severe . He decries " the gap between grand , traditional , and almost wholly unexamined professions of high principle , lofty mission , and splendid purpose , and institutional behavior that is often venal , self-serving , and shoddy . " Whereas Bennett directs his critical energy toward the courses in Harvard 's core curriculum , which he misleadingly suggests have been " plucked " from preexisting departmental courses , Giamatti provides better evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the abuses of college athletics and proposals to remedy them . Many of our largest colleges and universities violate virtually all of their educational standards to serve as minor league clubs for the NFL and the NBA ; the commercialization of college athletics is one of the more serious moral failures of higher education . Bennett never says a word about it . He criticizes universities for blaming everyone else but themselves for the world 's sins . Giamatti places the blame squarely with " the academic leadership , not with evil external forces . " With the important exception of his discussion of sports , Giamatti is like Bennett in his tendency to avoid the hard job of defending specific policies . W ERE BENNETT and Giamatti both to speak more about specific policies , however , their goals for American education would seem much less similar . Their agreements on abstract principles conceal disagreements over the actual implications of those principles . But their most fundamental difference , also concealed by their agreement on abstract principle , is reflected in their rhetoric , in their styles of speaking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ruminative and suggestive . Bennett speaks as plainly as the truths he wishes to affirm : " Allow me to emphasize the obvious : not all systems of government are equal . Some forms of government are better than others ; some are more just , less oppressive , more open , less resistant to needed reforms . And first among these forms of government is the liberal democracy of the West . " On the philosophy of his model principal : " I like Joe Clark 's philosophy : Accept no incompetence . Period . " On the subject of AIDS : " It is time that we tell the truth and face the facts about AIDS . The truth is this : AIDS kills . ' Giamatti has fewer periods . Such education occurs when you pursue knowledge because you are motivated to experience and absorb what comes of thinking ? thinking about the traditions of our common human heritage in all its forms , thinking about new patterns or designs in what the world proffers today ? whether in philosophic texts or financial markets or chemical combinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will then explore . Giamatti imagines the challenge a career-oriented student might make to the pursuit of learning for its own sake : " That is very touching , that is all very well , but . . . what is the earthly use of all this kind of education later on , in the practical , real world ? " His answer defies summary , but in full it has a logic , and persuasive power : The world will not provide you with sustenance or emp/oyment . You will have to work for it . I am instead speaking of another dimension of your lives , the dimension of your spirit that will last longer than a job , that will outlast a profession , that will represent by the end of your time on earth the sum of your human significance . That is the dimension of human existence represented by the mind unfettered , " freely ranging onley within the Zodiack of his owne wit , " as the old poet said . There is not greater power a human being can develop for the individual 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expectations of public deliberation . Giamatti 's rhetoric aims at inclusion . It is designed to convince those with whom he disagrees . He does n't assume that reasoned rhetoric always persuades even reasonable people . If I fail to convince you , Giamatti says to skeptical students , " nevertheless I welcome you to a liberal education 's rigorous and demanding pleasures . " Bennett 's declarative rhetoric , typified by his repeated assertions that the truth is understood by " the American people " rather than the " educational establishment " or " elite circles , " aims to unite the faithful by exclusion . In the name of anti-elitism , Bennett labels millions of American citizens ? notably liberals , members of teachers ' unions , residents of Brookline and Cambridge ? unAmerican . In a piece called " The Future of American Conservatism , " Bennett offers a rationale for his rhetoric : " While contemporary liberalism has moved away from ? in some cases , even against ? the mainstream of American political life , today 's conservatism is at home with the common sense and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhetoric may be politically effective , it may rally conservatives , but it does not meet any respectable test of truth . Many conservatives are less " at home " than liberals with the mainstream belief that government should be neutral among particular communities , nonreligious as well as religious . If Bennett means to narrow the principle of neutrality to exclude non-religious communities , then the belief , whether or not it is common , is not commonsensical ; nor is it morally defensible . Bennett invokes philosophy carelessly when he cites John Locke 's view that " those that by their atheism undermine and destroy all religion can have no pretense of religion whereupon to challenge the privilege of a toleration . " He fails to mention that Locke also excluded Catholics from the privilege of toleration . Liberals since Locke have secularized his argument for toleration , making it more inclusive . I doubt that Bennett 's less liberal rhetoric reflects the common sense of the American people on this matter . But if it does , we should be all the more critical of it , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the spirit as well as the name of " openness , honesty , intellectual inquiry for the truth , and mutual respect . " B ENNETT 'S populist rhetoric dangerously exaggerates the extent and the significance of the agreements that bind Americans together . Most Americans , including most liberals and members of the educational establishment , agree on certain values , such as religious toleration and the importance of cultivating moral character in children . Yet they often disagree on what educational policies best manifest these values . These disagreements are legitimately the stuff of partisan politics . But partisan politics oversteps the bounds of what Giamatti calls civility when it cloaks its policies in the language of absolute truth , which one can dispute only at the risk of being labeled un-American ( or " Far , far , far to the left of the views of most Americans " ) . Civility does not demand agreement , gentility , or even politeness . It asks for mutual respect and reasoned argument among people who have reasonable differences of opinion . Consider the controversy over teaching moral character . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept the principle that " in education the development of intellect and character go hand in hand . " Neither our agreement with Bennett , nor the philosophical soundness of the principle , extends to the partisan policy of permitting voluntary prayer in public schools , which is what Bennett unsuccessfully championed , on these same general grounds , on behalf of the Reagan administration . Liberals often oppose voluntary prayer in public schools for reasons precisely the opposite of those implied by Bennett 's rhetoric . They do n't dispute the abstract principle that schools should cultivate good character . They simply argue that by asking children to pray in public , public schools are likely to cultivate bad character . Some children will feel pressured into praying to someone in whom , or something in which , they do not believe , or do not understand , ( What is a teacher supposed to say when some students ask to whom and for what they should be praying ? ) Other children will be regarded ( by their peers or teachers ) as un-American because they do not believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prayer , even though nobody has shown that either belief is necessary for good citizenship or character . Many liberals do not , therefore , " fastidiously disdain " religion , as Bennett suggests . Liberals believe that the most effective means of respecting religion is to prevent governments from overstepping the bounds of their citizens ' consciences and their own competence . Whether or not liberals are right on this matter , Bennett 's dismissal of liberalism as relativistic and irreligious is clearly wrong , for the strongest liberal arguments against voluntary prayer depend on the very values that Bennett accuses liberals of disdaining . B ENNETT DOES start off on the right track . Honesty , courage , kindness , compassion , loyalty , modesty , respect for the rights of others are indeed among the many virtues schools should try to develop in children . But then he offers simplistic solutions to difficult problems , which he variously labels " what works in education , " " the common sense and common beliefs of the American people , " the " truth . " Here is a typical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ works in education ; teaching by example works ; schools must therefore hire teachers who exemplify good moral character ; and parents must pay attention to who is teaching their children in sex education classes . Bennett says nothing more explicit about what parents or teachers should do . If we must find teachers who teach by example , then we presumably must find out about the sexual lives of the teachers who teach our children about sex . Here is a truth about sex according to Bennett : " To the girls , teachers ... must not be afraid to use words like ' modesty ' and ' chastity . ' " Bennett adds that " the boys need to hear things too . " But teachers need not be so courageous as to use words like " modesty " and " chastity " around boys . Now , what kind of truth is this ? Where are the reasoned arguments addressed to reasonable people who criticize an education that selectively cultivates its values , that inculcates modesty and chastity in girls but not in boys ? Bennett must know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many Americans ; but he does n't bother to answer its critics . Instead he cloaks partisan policy in the rhetoric of universal truth . Of course character education is " a matter of common sense , " but the specific policies that Bennett supports in its name are not . Bennett has no patience for the moral and empirical controversies that surround specific suggestions . He does not appreciate how such controversies , patiently pursued , can educate citizens in democratic discourse , and serve the nonpartisan political cause of cultivating mutual respect among citizens . /THE DIFFERENCES between Bennett I and Giamatti can not be explained away by the requirements of their respective institutional roles . Giamatti 's style reflects a commitment to the open and reasoned discourse at the heart of a truly liberal university , but not every university president speaks in a way that reflects a commitment to open and reasoned discourse . Bennett 's rhetoric reflects a partisan attempt to attach the conservative label to a set of nonpartisan education ideals , but a secretary of education need not adopt the partisan language and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predecessor , T. H. Bell , did not . Perhaps Bell would have remained in office longer if he had been more partisan ; but surely he would not have accomplished as much . It was Bell , after all , not Bennett , who commissioned the report ( A Nation at Risk ) that sparked the recent revival of interest in educational reform . Many educators who otherwise disagree with Bennett 's policies give him credit for keeping education in the news . Has Bennett thereby helped American education ? Bennett brought more critical attention to institutions of higher education , for example , than they would otherwise have attracted , and American colleges and universities certainly can benefit from being criticized . But Bennett directed his criticism almost entirely at two aspects of higher education ? tuitions at the most selective colleges and universities , and their curriculum in the humanities and social sciences . This af fects a very small portion ( less than ten percent ) of college students . More troubling than Bennett 's selective concern for the most affluent and the best educated is his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display a disregard for the whole truth , for that standard to which he holds the educational establishment but from which he evidently exempts himself . Bennett claims that colleges and universities are " ripping off " their students , but he does not discuss the causes of rising costs , such as expanding career and counseling services for students , modernizing facilities for scientific research , and raising faculty salaries that fell far behind inflation in the 1970s . Nor does he mention that high tuitions enable the most selective colleges to provide full financial aid for poor and lower-middle-class students . Criticizing a report of the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences , Bennett claims that " there is no evidence that making contraceptive methods more available is the surest strategy for preventing pregnancy ? to say nothing about preventing sexual activity . " But there is evidence for the Council 's conclusion : in other countries , such as Sweden , where teenagers have greater access to contraception , the pregnancy rate and the rate of abortion among teenagers is significantly lower than in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course , that contraception was the surest way to prevent sexual activity. ) rr HE SECRETARY of education is not 1 . alone responsible for running any schools , dictating any curriculum , or even deciding how much the federal government should spend on education . Of course , he may be partly or indirectly responsible for all of these aspects of American education , and more ; but he is most singularly and directly responsible for how well he teaches by example . Whether or not we agree with the policies Bennett defends , we should be disturbed by the way he defends them : selectively citing evidence , cloaking partisan policies in the rhetoric of self-evident truth , sidestepping careful argument , insinuating that millions of citizens who disagree with those policies are un-American , that their points of view not worthy of serious consideration . Liberalism is on the defensive these days . Politicians are avoiding the label " liberal " like the plague . But the plague is already upon them ( and us ) if they are afraid to stand up for a virtue distinctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disagree , a respect that is exemplified by the willingness and ability to engage in reasoned and informed discussion of our political differences . There are many things wrong with American education . Some of them are called to our attention by both Bennett and Giamatti ; some are ignored by one and deplored by the other . But the most significant difference between these two leaders of education is that , by the examples of their speech , Giamatti enhances , and Bennett erodes , the distinctive virtue of liberal democracy .                     