@@480521

SUSAN is thirty years old , has three children , aged eight , three , and two , and is a secretary for a national radio and TV network . When each of her children was born , she was entitled to a year 's paid leave at 90 percent of her salary , plus an additional six months ' job-protected ( buL unpaid ) leave . Since her two youngest children were born within a year of each other , she chose to merge her maternity leaves into a consecutive period of two and a half years . Her husband was eligible to share parental leave with her , and took a four-month leave when their first child was born . Since Susan returned to work a year ago , she has been working a thirty-hour week , to which , as the parent of children under eight , she is entitled by law . She and her husband are permitted a total of sixty days ' leave from work per year per Sylvia Ann Hewlett is an economist and is currently executive director of rhe Economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book on the subject of women and work , ro be published by William Morrow and Company . child , at 90 percent of regular wages , to stay home to care for a sick child . Susan has taken thirty days for this purpose in the last year . During the day Susan 's oldest child is in a public school and the younger two are enrolled in a publicly subsidized nursery program . The fee for the program is income-adjusted , and Susan pays the same for her two children as she would for one . The nursery is located in the apartment complex where the family lives and is open from 7 A.m. to 6 P.M. The twelve children in this nursery are supervised by four adults . Debbie is in her early thirties . She has three sons , aged ten , eight , and nearly a year , and she works as a nursery school teacher in a big city . Ever since her first child was born , Debbie has found it a continuous struggle to both hold down a job and rear her children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child was born , Debbie took a three-month leave of absence from her job , thinking that six to eight weeks of this period would be covered by disability insurance . However , despite repeated attempts to claim this insurance , Debbie has yet to be paid for the weeks she was out of work . As she puts it , " I think the insurance company is just waiting for me to give up . " Hcr husband 's insurance policy covered some of the expenses of childbirth , but out-of-pocket expenses still amounted to between $800 and $900 per child . Debbie 's small salary does not allow her to hire a daily babysitter or put her baby in a formal daycare situation . She covers her working day by paying a neighbor to " watch " the baby in the morning , taking the baby to school with her in the afternoon , and leaving the baby with a friend for a period at the end of the working day while she teaches in an after-school program . Debbie pays this friend by looking after the friend 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taken care of with complicated after-school arrangements that Debbie and her husband manage together . But as Debbie observes , " At least they are older now , and more self-sufficient . Two years ago , the babysitting arrangements for the two older boys were really complicated . " Reflecting on the past year . Debbie says that she wishes that she could have taken a year out of the labor force to be with her new child , but " it is essential that work . We need the income . " Debbie 's experience leads her to the following conclusion : " Mothers do okay if they have absolutely no money ; then they are eligible for help . It is ordinary working mothers and their families who lose out . " WORKING Americans who have looked for day care for their children will immediately recognize Debbie 's plight . They might well envy Susan , who lives in Sweden . But it is not just the advanced welfare states of Scandinavia that provide maternity leave and childcare facilities for working mothers . Traditional Latin nations such as Italy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are all doing much more than we are to provide support for working parents and their children . As Columbia University sociologist Sheila Kamer-man puts it , our national rhetoric " holds children to be our greatest national resource ... but the reality is that we do little to demonstrate any conviction of its truth . " People tell us that American women have never had it so good . And we believe them ; after all , we can see the changes . City streets are full of confident career women complete with MBAs , business suits , and briefcases . And we hear the difference . The language of the nation has changed . Even the most establishment of men talk carefully about chairpersons and have learned how to pronounce " Ms. " But these first impressions are misleading . For a lucky few , the 1970s did constitute the decade of liberation . Doors were flung open and privileged young women beat a noisy path into the male worlds of medicine , law , and corporate management . But most women were left behind to cope with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working women are employed in traditional " women 's jobs . " They spend their days waiting on tables , typing letters , emptying bedpans , and cleaning offices . These women are not only badly paid ( on average they earn just over $10,000 a year ) , they are also expected to bear and raise children in their spare time . They certainly get minimal support from a society that has the least adequate family support systems in the advanced industrial world . A FTER earnings , the issues that most affect the material well-being of most women workers are those that revolve around pregnancy , childbirth , and childrearing . These are not fringe issues . Four out of five American working women are in their prime childbearing years , and almost 90 percent of these women are likely to have at least one child while working . But in our societyhaving a baby is viewed as strictly a private matter . Less than 40 percent of working women have any maternity coverage ( some through union contracts and some through disability insurance ) , and in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , disability insurance , which is statutory in only five states in the union , provides a few weeks of partial wage replacement for pregnancy and childbirth . For women who take an unpaid leave of absence for childbirth , few have a clear-cut right to return to their jobs . When it comes to child care , working parents are pretty much on their own . In 1982 , when almost half of American women with children under six years old were working , there was room for only 467,000 children at publicly supported daycare centers in the entire country ? not even enough to serve the needs of New York City . And since the Reagan administration budget cuts have come into effect , there are fewer places now than in 1982 . A recent survey found that most working parents must piece together two or three different private child-care arrangements per day for each preschool child . Such complicated ad hoc arrangements , which typically involve neighbors and relatives as well as paid help , are bound to be stressful , for both parents and children . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are expected to shoulder the double burden of work and child-rearing 011 their own . Most developed countries have a plethora of public and private support systems that are designed to ease the growing tension between work and family life . Working women and their children are the main beneficiaries of these policies . In many western European countries the majority of children aged between three and six are in free public preschool programs that extend the length of the working day ; and a significant and growing proportion of children aged between six months and three years are in subsidized family or group care . In France , for example , 95 percent of the three-to-six-year-old group is in free public programs , in West Germany 75 percent , and in Italy 70 percent . In addition , parents in other countries are eligible for a variety of benefits , all of which ease the burdens of childrearing . With the exception of the U.S. , all advanced industrial countries provide free medical services to cover antenatal care , childbirth , and follow-up care for newborn children and their mothers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or child allowance ) to supplement the income of adults rearing children . And , as far as maternity leave is concerned , seventy-five countries have statutory provisions that guarantee a woman 's right to leave from work for childbirth , protect her job while she is on leave , and provide a cash benefit equal , on average , to five months ' leave at full pay . For instance , since 1975 Sweden has provided a parental leave of nine months at the birth of a child , which can be taken by either parent . It replaces 90 percent of earnings , protects seniority on the job , maintains fringe benefits , and , most importantly , guarantees that a parent can go back to the same or a similar job . Britain has an Employment Protection Act ( enacted in 1978 and improved in 1980 and 1982 ) that provides : paid time off from work for antenatal care ; six weeks ' paid maternity leave . during which time 90 percent of earnings are replaced ; and the right to leave work six weeks before a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time before a child is twenty-nine weeks old , and to be reemployed on terms " not less favorable than those applicable if she had not been absent . " It is interesting to note that the British maternity provisions ( which are not particularly generous by European standards ) have been instituted during a period of public-spending cuts and increasingly conservative policies . In this area even Mrs. Thatcher concedes that private-sector initiatives are not enough . British women see maternity benefits as critically important to their material well-being . As one British working mother puts it , " I can not HARPER'S/NOVEMBER 1983 imagine how I would have dealt with those first months of my son 's life without the provisions of my maternity leave . I feel that the Employment Protection Act is as important to women as gaining the vote . It makes it possible for you to keep your job without shortchanging your kid . " Since the U.S. shares broad structural economic characteristics with other advanced nations , we can not blame American women 's plight on the special nature of the U.S. economy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid employment in all the industrialized countries by a variety of " push " and " pull " factors : some of the former are escalating divorce rates , stagnant real incomes , growing unemployment rates in " male " blue-collar occupations , and the heightened career aspirations of modern women . On the " pull " side of the equation is the changing occupational base of advanced countries as economic activity increasingly tilts toward service industries . In all of these countries , two thirds of the new jobs in the service sector have gone to women , because women provide a literate and docile labor pool and are therefore good candidates for the information- and people-processing jobs that characterize modern service industries . ( By 1981 , 52 percent of American women , 48 percent of British women , 61 percent of Swedish women , and 45 percent of French women were in the labor force . ) We come back to the central question with renewed force : why has this society neglected the material conditions of working mothers ' lives more than have other industrial nations ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American cult of motherhood . American women have always had a reputation for independence . Women in the nineteenth century were less protected than their European counterparts . In 1830 , de Tocqueville declared that nowhere had he seen women occupying a " loftier " position than in America . In frontier settings , they were too important to yield much power to husbands ; and among immigrant groups they were often more employable than their menfolk . During the first half of this century the relative position of American women continued to improve . They obtained the vote at an early date ( 1920 , as opposed to 1945 in France and 1946 in Italy ) ; economic growth and rapidly expanding technology promised to reduce domestic chores to a minimum ; education for women expanded at a much faster rate than in Europe ; and divorce and contraception became generally available . Yet in the years following World War II a strange phenomenon occurred . America , that stronghold of independent-minded women , developed a powerful feminine mystique , and millions of women flocked home . For the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a full-time career out of motherhood and homemaking . These postwar years were marked by a whole series of retrogressive trends . The average age at which women married dropped to twenty ( from twenty-four in the 1930s ) , and the birthrate rose steadily , so that by the end of the 1950s the rate of population growth in the U.S. was much higher than that of Europe and close on the heels of the Third World 's . During this period the proportion of women college graduates who went on to become lawyers , doctors , physicists , and philosophers was smaller than in the 1930s ; and the ambition of women , even those at elite colleges , was as much to graduate with a diamond engagement ring as with high academic honors . Why did American women give up their independent ambitions and go home ? As Betty Friedan described it in her well-known book The Feminine Mystique , this orgy of domesticity owed something to the end of the war , but much of its original energy came from Freudian theory , which swept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . IN CONTRAST to the American experience , most European nations did not undergo an extended baby boom in the postwar period . In 1955 , for example , the U.S birthrate was running at twenty-five per 1,000 , while in France the figure was 18.5 , in Britain 15.4 , and in Germany 15.7 . The lower European birthrate was accompanied by a steady rise in female employment . In 1950 only 37 percent of American women were in the labor force , as compared with 44 percent in Germany and 50 percent in France . This difference in labor-force participation meant that European countries were forced to grapple much earlier with issues of maternity leave , child care , and family support systems . In addition , by the 1950s several European nations had low birthrates and high growth rates , and consequent labor shortages ; they had a greater need for women workers and saw childrearing as a societal responsibility as well as a private choice . America , meanwhile , was awash with babies ? college-educated women were having three , four , sometimes five children and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's minds . The cult of motherhood continues to haunt poiicymakers and millions of individual women in America . The two child-care books that have sold the most copies over the last thirty-five years are Spock 's Baby and Child Care and a government pamphlet published by the Children 's Bureau entitled Infant Care . For several decades Spock told us that the children of working mothers " ... may grow up neglected and maladjusted , " while the official word from the Children 's Bureau was that " . . . working mothers may become worn out and ineffective in every sphere of life . " It is difficult to shrug off the accumulated weight of this expert opinion . Writing in 1980 in the American Psychologist , Claire Etaugh stated that " the popular press has tended to perpetuate the belief that non-maternal care is harmful to young children . This view has persisted even though evidence from research studies indi-. cafes that under optimal conditions non-maternal care does not appear to have adverse effects on development . " Etaugh finds that only seven out of the twenty-four most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working while they have young children . In explaining modern America 's dearth of public child-care facilities , one has to appreciate this heritage . The women of the Fifties and Sixties , the mothers of today 's working women , gave the best part of their mental and physical energies to raising children . Given this legacy , it is difficult for us to deliberately create alternative public systems of child care for " normal " families . America has an impressive amount of emotional vested interest in the idea that Mom 's care is best . In this heritage we are alone . The irony is that our society , which venerates motherhood and has done its best to turn childrearing into a religious ideal , is now guilty of severely damaging the life prospects of the current generation of children . For the 47 percent of preschool children who have mothers who work full time , we have failed to provide alternative childcare facilities . As a result , the emotional , intellectual , and even physical development of American children is threatened . T HE childrearing experts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plight of American working mothers . Why has the modern women 's movement not done more to improve the material conditions of these women 's lives ? After all , America has had a larger and more visible feminist movement than any other country in the Western world . Remember those heady days in 1969 , when feminists stormed the Atlantic City beauty pageant and burned their bras and their steno pads ? Or that week in 1970 when 10,000 feminists marched down Fifth Avenue ? All very stirring stuff , and in some important ways it did manage to reconstruct the consciousness of this nation , but none of it boileddown to concrete policies that helped average working mothers . In Europe , modern feminism has been less conspicuous , but despite this , it has won some important victories . Take Sweden , where social feminism became a powerful force in the early years of this century . The social feminists in Sweden have wanted , above all else , to improve the concrete conditions of women 's lives in work and family life . They have been less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accomplish their main objectives , the Swedish social feminists have chosen to work within larger interest groups , such as the Social Democratic Party and trade unions . Over recent decades , the typical pattern has been for Swedish feminists to press for more government benefits for women workers or women students rather than to unite and campaign for women as a class . This strategy has been enormously effective- For example , in recent years it has been the powerful Social Democratic Party that has led the fight for economic equality between the sexes . This political commitment to equality of economic opportunity has led to the extensive parental leaves and the elaborate child-care facilities that we associate with modern Sweden . Modern Swedish feminists are very different from their American counterparts . Many believe that the preoccupation in America with equal rights is wrong-headed . In their view , women deserve unequal treatment in the labor market . Anna-Greta Leijon , the Swedish minister of labor , says , " We think it compatible with equality that women should be overcompensated in various ways . " She is specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dual role in the labor market and at home . Leijon firmly believes that without such benefits and services women will not be in a position to compete on an equal basis for jobs , promotions , and wage increases . Another point of contrast is that Swedish feminists express little faith in the possibility of changing social conditions by altering individual HARPER'S/ NOVEMBER 1983 consciousness , a particular emphasis of the American movement during the 1970s . As one Swedish woman journalist puts it : " What good does it do an individual to ' raise ' her consciousness if she then can not find a job because of the structure of opportunities in the labor market or because of the lack of child-care services ? " " Getting your head in the right place " is not enough if material conditions interfere with normal work and family life . Social feminism has also influenced official thinking in the French trade-union movement . Sociologist Catherine Bodard Silver has pointed out that as far back as 1936 French trade unions were pressing the government to acknowledge motherhood " as a social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of course meant that it should be " financially supported by the whole community . " As a result , the French labor code was drawn up to encourage and support working women through state benefits for those who bear and rear children . In Britain , the modern women 's movement contains an important socialist faction . The British socialist feminists have tried very hard to strengthen their links to the Labour Party and to the trade unions , in an effort to improve the material conditions of life for ordinary British women . For example , the socialist feminists have supported a massive and successful campaign to organize women workers ( during the 1970s the number of women trade unionists increased by 42 percent ) , and have helped establish official trade-union policy positions , such as the 1978 Charter for the Under Five , which spelled out and endorsed a comprehensive child-care program for working women . Without strong links to political parties and trade unions . American feminism contrasts sharply with European social feminism . As political scientists Carolyn Teich Adams and Kathryn Teich Winston have put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into independent mass-based organizations and have concentrated on issues that could unite all women on the basis of gender alone . " This has led to the dominance of the equal-rights theme , as it represents the only policy on which all women could ( potentially ) agree . In the nineteenth century , the agenda of the separatist American women 's movement was gradually narrowed down to the vote ; for women in the 1970s and 1980s , it has been narrowed down to the struggle to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment . To be more effective , the American women 's movement has to move to fill the child-care vacuum . This will not only improve the lives of millions of working parents and their children , it is also the first step toward narrowing the persistent male-female wage differential in this country . It is no coincidence that the nation that has the least developed family support systems can also boast the lowest relative wages for its women workers . ( In the U.S. , the average full-time woman worker earns 59 percent of the male wage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservative Britain . ) Forced into a variety of job compromises in their childbearing years that permanently depress their earning capability , the only feasible option for many women becomes a third-rate job with short hours close to home . 1-TAT KINDS of public policies are feasible in the America of the 1980s , a country that has little appetite for large social programs ? It may come as a surprise to some , but there is a set of critical rights , benefits , and services that cost nothing at all , and others that cost relatively little , to put into practice . To give some examples : ? Greater institutionalization of flex-time , part-time , and work-sharing arrangements is possible . Experience has already shown that these arrangements often increase productivity on the job rather than hindering it . The problem here is that work routines have usually been set by men , who in the past generally had full-time wives . 25 ? Cafeteria-style fringe-benefit packages ( already in place at corporations such as TRW and American Can ) should be extended . These enable parents to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave to be with sick children . ? Disability insurance ( which now includes pregnancy and childbirth ) should he made mandatory in the forty-five states still without coverage , and should be extended to public employees . ? A federally guaranteed right to six months of unpaid maternity leave should be introduced , so that no woman has to choose between either leaving her newborn child or losing her job . ? The legal mandatory ago for school attendance could be lowered from five to four . This was recently proposed as a cost-cutting measure for the school system by the New York State Education Commissioner . It would also , obviously , reduce the overall need for child care . ? Child-care tax credits should be expanded and made refundable so that low-income families can also benefit from them . ? The tax incentives for corporations to underwrite child-care costs , first set out in the Economic Recovery Act of 1981 , should be expanded and strengthened . ? The eligibility criteria for subsidized child care under Title XX of the Social Security Act should be broadened so that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utilized for before- and after-school programs for children whose parents arc working . None of these policies constitutes a " big ticket " item , but together they could substantially reduce the painful tension between work and family life in America . They would give us the chance to catch up with other civilized countries and , in so doing , give future generations of Americans a decent start in life .                     