@@325912

A court fight , a belated apology and pessimism in Washington <P> It began in late 1981 as a minor campaign of covert harassment aimed at disrupting Communist subversion in the Western Hemisphere . But last week it was difficult to tell who was more inconvenienced as a result of the Administration 's not-so-secret war in Central America , the Sandinista government of Nicaragua or the Reagan Administration . <P> In The Hague , U.S. legal representatives appeared before the 15-member International Court of Justice to argue against a Nicaraguan demand for an end to " all financial , military and other support " for the CIA-backed contras , who are fighting a guerrilla war against the Sandinistas . The Administration had hurriedly declared on April 6 that it would not recognize the court 's jurisdiction over the issue , which arose after revelations that the CIA had actively helped mine Nicaraguan harbors . But Washington 's lawyers joined in the legal fray after the court refused to dismiss the Nicaraguan plea . Whatever else might ensue , the Nicaraguans seemed to have won an initial propaganda victory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body . <P> On Capitol Hill , the Reagan Administration was engaged in some belated fence mending with Congress following the furor raised three weeks ago by legislators who charged that they had been inadequately briefed on the minings . In two hours of closed-door hearings , CIA Director William Casey conceded that the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence had not been " adequately informed in a timely manner . " Casey assured Senators that the mining operation had been halted , and that both the Senate and House intelligence committees would be notified of any similar operations in the future . His efforts mollified Democratic Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York , who withdrew his resignation as vice chairman of the Senate intelligence committee . Casey and the Senate committee also agreed on the need for " more thorough and effective oversight procedures , especially in the area of covert action . " <P> In northern Nicaragua , the war simmered on . Units of the contra army known as the Nicaraguan Democratic Force ( F.D.N. ) continued to launch raids from their Honduran base camps into Sandinista territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The rebels claim to control nearly 6,000 sq . mi. of Nicaraguan territory , with strong support from the peasantry , and to operate freely in an additional 2,700-sq.mi. area . But one of the F.D.N. 's leaders , Edgar Chamorro Coronel , declared to TIME last week that " to achieve a victory we would need not 8,000 fighters , but 25,000 , and people to rise up in greater numbers . " Nonetheless , the contras can cause trouble for the Sandinistas so long as the U.S. continues to supply covert aid . In Nicaragua 's northern Nueva Segovia department , numerous peasants collaborate with the guerrillas , providing food , shelter and information on Sandinista troop movements in the heavily militarized region . While the F.D.N. is unable to occupy settlements for more than a few hours , the contras roamed with relative freedom , despite the presence of thousands of uniformed Sandinista defenders .                     