@@330666

From the outset , Space Shuttle Mission 51-C was supposed to be shrouded in secrecy . Last December the press was told only that the upcoming flight would be the first of many manned shuttle missions carrying purely military payloads . The precise launch time was not announced , to make it more difficult for the Soviets to track the flight . On the morning of the launch , which was pushed back a day because ice formed on the shuttle during a cold snap at Cape Canaveral , journalists were informed simply that the countdown was " proceeding smoothly . " Finally , at 2:41 p.m. , there was a more specific announcement : " T minus 9 minutes and counting . " At 2:50 the shuttle lifted off flawlessly and disappeared into the clear winter sky . <P> The launch time was perhaps the best-kept secret of the mission . Many other details had been leaked to the press , prompting the Pentagon to start an investigation of the alleged security breach . The shuttle 's main cargo was a military intelligence satellite called a SIGINT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ able to intercept electronic messages . The 6,000- lb. bird was to be spring-ejected from the shuttle , then rocket-propelled into a geostationary orbit 22,300 miles above the equator . The satellite will allow the U.S. to eavesdrop on traffic between Moscow and Soviet missile command centers . Using radar and infrared , the SIGINT will also be able to " see " Soviet launches . Said a U.S. military official : " Our country needs to have a better assessment of our response capabilities where the Soviets are concerned , whether it is One-fifth of the next 70 shuttle flights are scheduled as military missions , and future payloads may include controversial Star Wars technology . In the meantime , the U.S. is moving swiftly to assign and deploy even more advanced space surveillance systems , including " low- look " satellites that can take pictures of the numbers on a car 's license plate from 80 miles above the earth .                     