@@487904

he North-South " dialogue " between industrialized and developing nations- more often resembles a Babel . Typical was the empty talk at the most recent United Nations Conference on Trade and Development ( UNCTAD ) in Manila , at which not a single issue of substance was resolved . Washington encourages the gabble . Talks betWeen producer and consumer nations frequently bog down in purposeful nit-picking by the Americans , occasionally joined by the Europeans . Dilatoriness is also advocated as a tactic for dealing with the developing nations by David Rockefeller 's Trilateral Commission , the exclusive club of politicians and business leaders that so influenced the Carter Administration . Henry Kissinger , a Rockefeller protege , showed the way by making an art of double-talking the poorer nations when he was Secretary of State . The Reagan Administration continues the ostrich tradition , although its official statements tend to be even cruder than Kissinger 's offhand remarks . Former acting Assistant Secretary of State John Bushnell , for example , endeared himself to Latin Americans by dismissing their pleas for lower agricultural tariffs as " mad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is really more concerned about what Cuba is doing in the international field , " he explained . With Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher pursuing a similarly closed policy in Britain , the likelinOod of meaningful dialogue seems remote . Nevertheless , the summit of . North-South leaders in the Mexican resort of Cancim this week could produce a breakthrough , if only because Canada and several European countries are coming to realize that such a dialogue is in their interests . Participating nations at the meeting , vrvhiCh is co-sponsored by President Jose Lopez Portillo of Mexico and Chancellor Bruno Kreisky of Austria , will discuss four major themes  --  energy , food , monetary policy and trade . Twenty-two heads of state will attend : eight representing the industrialized world , including President Ronald Reagan ; four each from Asia , Africa and Lain America ; and two from China and Yugoslavia . Neither the Soviet Union nor Cuba will be represented . The Russians claim they have no problems with the developing nations , and Reagan refuses to sit at the same table as President Fidel Castro . Reagan-would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Penny Lernoux is The Nation 's Latin America correspondent and author of Cry of the People ( Doubleday ) . did not want to offend Mexico . Acknowledging that Cuba 's exclusion had been a condition of Reagan 's participation , Lopez Portillo salved the Cubans ' pride by holdihg a presummit meeting with Castro in Mexico . In spite of the marked lack of enthusiasm in Washington and London , the potential of the Cancim confereneeshould not be underestimated . For one thing , it will be infdrmal and pointedly " political . " Since no official resolutions are expected to be passed , the participants will have an opportunity for frank discussions . Equally important , with the exception of Mexico , the conference 's principal sponsors are European nations , a contrast to most such meetings , which have been forced on the reluctant - First World by the developing nations . - The conference has the unqualified support of all : seventeen members of the Brandt Commission on North-South relations , including former Prime Minister Edward Heath of Britain . Former Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began talks shortly after the commission 's recommendations were published last year to insure that they were n't shunted into obscurity like prior reports on development needs . Francois Mitterrand 's victory in France and West Germany 's growing alienation from Washington over U.S. policy in El Salvador have given impetus to support for Cancim in Europe , with Prime Minister ' Pierre Trudeau of Canada as an ally . Brazil ; the most industrialized nation in Latin America , also supports the Meeting , as do Saudi Arabia , India , Nigeria , Algeria and China . While it will not be possible to cover the subjects under consideration in two days , the meeting is viewed as a necessary first step toward implementing the Brandt Commission 's recommendations , notably an overhaul of the International Monetary Fund ( I.M.F. ) . Though not on the agenda , Central America will undoubtedly figure in the talks . Except for Venezuela , Reagan will find no supporters at Cancan for : his policies on Central America , - which are either viewed with distaste or openly-opposed . Even Thatcher , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aid initiatives , has ' remained prudently silent on the question of how to break the impasse in El Salvador . The lack , of a coherent - strategy for a North-Sotith dialogue could prove a distinct disadvantage-for Reagan at Canchn , - where his glad-handing will be no substitute for clear-cut proposals . Moreover , the President has little understanding of the Third World 's needs ; in hi geopolitics , there is no North or South , only East and West . His dated cold-war vision has had the indirect effect of creating a pro-Cancim lobby in Europe . Most European governments were appalled by " the shoddy documentation of the charges of Cuban intervention in El Salvador made in the State Department 's white paper . As an example of U.S. " diplomacy " in the Third World , it reinforced the Europeans ' conviction that they must forge a centrist consensus that would act as a check on the Administration and preVent future blunders . Development aid and trade concessions from- the industrialized countries have always proved sticky issues in negotiations between North and South , and Canchn will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is a growing agreement on the need for reforms in energy and monetary policies . Herbert E. Hansen , Gulf-Oil 's senior vice president for international government relations , predicts that - the summit will be a catalyst for , , talks between petroleum producers and consumers . From these talks , international guidelines might emerge that would insure stable supplies by synchronizing production capacity with estimated consumer demand . The development of long-term alternative energy sources could also be an area for international cooperation , and a proposed World Bank affiliate would set up a $30 billion fund to finance petroleum exploration and other energy programs in the developing countries . To date , the World , Bank initiative has been blocked by Reagan and Thatcher , but they might , be pressured at the conference to revise their position . ' - Reagan will also be urged  --  as-he was at last July'ssummit of , the industrialized nations in- Ottawa=to reduce U.S. interest rates , which are harming both the Third World and Europe . During a recent visit - to Brazil , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's monetarist- policies , which the Brazilians say have added $1.5 billion to their foreign debt this year and dampened world commodity prices . The Brazilians also pointed out that the European nations , whose economies have been hurt by high U.S. interest rates , are cutting back on imports from the Third World . The Brandt Commission 's recommendations for restructuring the International Monetary Fund will also receive a hearing at Cancim , again without the support of Reagan I and Thatcher . European , ' Japanese and even some Amer-7 ican ? bankers are concerned about the buildup of foreign debt by the non-oil-producing countries , several of which ( e.g. , Bolivia and Costa Rica ) are on the verge of default . The bulk of Third World debt is owed to private banks , with U.S. institutions holding most of it . The bankers would like - to pass the buck to the I.M.F. , but because of the harsh conditions itattaches to its loans , which frequently mean drastic austerity measures , few countries go to the fund unless they are in dire need . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loans " in a context of maintaining a long-term social , and economic development that is not subject to inappropriate or excessive I.M.F. regulation . " ' - , - In response to another frequent complaint Of the develop410. ing nations , the commission recommended that they have a greater say in I.M.F . and World Bank decisions . Though U.S. influence has been diluted in recent years , both institutions are still essentially Washington banks sympathetic to U.S. political and financial interests . The I.M.F . has , since its founding in 1944 , followed a Hamiltonian system of proportional representation based on wealth . As the largest contributor , the United States in effect has a veto over all projects . This dependenCe on one member has led to manifestly undemocratic voting arrangements . The developing countries , which represent more than two-thirds of the world 's people , have only one-third of the . votes . Third World directors at the I.M.F . agree that the U.S. representatives , with their veto , are invariably the most " hard-nosed " about concessions to the poorer countries . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has become-little more than a trade association promoting business for its . richest members . Time after time , the fund has discouraged the wealthy elites in emerging countries from investing in domestic manufacturing that would replace imports with locally-made goods . As a result , indigenous manufacturers have been forced to sell out to foreign investors , who also dominate the exporting and banking sectors . Countries that were once agriculturally self-sufficient switched to single-crop production for sale abroad and became importers of food . Technology imported from the multinational corporations created a dependence on foreign-made spare parts , manufactured goods and luxury consumer items . These imports ate up the foreign exchange earned from any exports . - The I.M.F . ' s insistence that host countries must place no constraints on foreign investors ' profits led to another problem : remittances to foreign companies became the largest item in the balance of payments deficits of many developing nations . As a result , local governments needed more loans . Today , many countries are spending more than half Of their export earnings to service their foreign debt , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within a decade  --  a clearly untenable position . ( According to one gloomy forecast , by 1985 , the non-oil-producing countries in the Third World will be spending $2 out of every $3 they receive in new loans to repay old ones . ) While the " debt trap " has forced developing countries back into colonial patterns of trade , the I.M.F . ' s austerity formulas have done nothing to prove their domestic economies . By the fund 's . own estimates , fewer than one-third of the countries that ' followed its dictates in the 1970s achieved their monetary goals , and then only " with some qualifications . " . - Brandt contends that this situation can not continue , and many world leaders agree . " I 'm old enough to have experienced twice in my lifetime how wars resulted in hunger , " he says . " I would prefer that my grandchildren do not see hunger bring on warlike conditions in all parts of the world . " World Bank statistics show that . Brandt is not exaggerating . In 1950 , per-capita @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the underdeveloped nations ; by 1965 , the ratio was fifteen to one . By the end of the century , the bank predicts , it will be thirty to one . In the poorest countries , per-capita income has not risen since the early 1970s. ? 