@@333349

During the first two years of his White House tenure , Ronald Reagan rarely immersed himself in the arcane details of nuclear issues . The difficult minutiae seemed to bore him . But one broader element intrigued him : the question of whether there was any realistic alternative to Mutual Assured Destruction . To Reagan , MAD was the equivalent of two men pointing cocked pistols at each other . <P> The President was instinctively sympathetic to the arguments of Edward Teller and other outside advocates of new defensive systems . But both the Defense and State Departments were wedded to traditional deterrence . Giving new emphasis to a defensive policy would be wrenching , and Reagan 's then National Security Adviser , William Clark , was loath to upset his " client " bureaucracies . Thus when Teller obtained an audience with Reagan on Sept. 14 , ) 1982 , Clark attended as devil 's advocate . He posed skeptical questions that tended to undercut the scientist 's presentation . <P> Just weeks later , however , Clark 's own deputy , Robert McFarlane , started to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ succeed Clark as National Security Adviser in October 1983 , was worried that U.S. strategic-military policy was breaking down . The nuclear freeze movement was gaining ground in Congress . Negotiations in Geneva were going nowhere . McFarlane could foresee a time when the Soviets might spurt far ahead in the missile race . <P> Seeking a way to rattle the chessboard , McFarlane reasoned that a defensive research program would attract bipartisan support at home and might someday be useful in Geneva . He mentioned these possibilities to Reagan , knowing he would be receptive . But McFarlane was still a relatively junior player . Though he quickly persuaded Clark that the new policy should be considered , he needed another ally of standing , one who shared Reagan 's moral distaste for those cocked nuclear pistols . That ally turned out to be Admiral James Watkins , Chief of Naval Operations . Late in 1982 McFarlane and Watkins consulted informally . The product of those talks was a document , known to insiders as the " freedom from fear " briefing paper , conveying McFarlane 's views over Watkins @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Joint Chiefs of Staff to approve a briefing for the President . On Feb. 11 , 1983 , they sat down with Reagan in the Roosevelt Room of the White House . The nominal agenda for the luncheon meeting was offensive weapons . Watkins took the opportunity to talk about the growing threat of instability . Then he made his pitch : the advances in defensive technology were so promising that the President should throw his weight behind a major research effort . McFarlane interjected : Are you saying that over time this could lead to deployable systems ? Exactly , Watkins replied . McFarlane then polled the other four military leaders around the table . None dissented . <P> Reagan promptly seized on Watkins ' argument . It validated his conviction that there had to be a way out of the MAD trap and played on his often stated faith in U.S. science and industry . Reagan said that he wanted the ideas pursued promptly .                     