@@487912

In the past nine months , the burgeoning nuclear disarmament movement in Europe has achieved a series of notable successes . Broad-based coalitions have been formed in Norway , Sweden , Denmark , Britain , the Netherlands , Belgium and West Germany to prevent the deployment of Pershing 2 and cruise missiles in Europe , which is scheduled to begin in 1983 . The opposition is spread over a broad political spectrum  --  from non-parliamentary radicals to the liberal wings of many of Europe 's most important social democratic parties . This loosely federated popular opposition has been responsible for some of the largest demonstrations in postwar Europe 's history and has mobilized European public opinion on a scale that would not have been thought possible a few years ago . It has engineered a major electoral upset in the Netherlands , nudged the British Labor Party into adopting a program of unilateral disarmament and spawned a movement , which has won the backing of the Swedish government , to transform northern Europe into a " nuclear-free zone . " Finally , the disarmament movement has become the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament ( C.N.D. ) , the British Labor Party and scores of liberal , left , ecological , Communist and church groups held a demonstration in London that drew between 80,000 and 100,000 people , an unexpectedly large turnout . The event marked the dramatic rebirth of the British disarmament movement , which had been in the vanguard of the international " antibomb " campaigns of the 1950s . An important catalyst in the spectacular growth of the C.N.D. during the past year  --  the number of affiliated groups went from 30 to 300 ? was the decision of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's government to bow to U.S. pressure and agree to station 160 cruise missiles on British territory . Despite opposition within the British Defense Ministry , the government has also agreed to purchase Trident I missiles from the United States for its nuclear-powered submarines . The ? 5 billion price tag alone has been denounced by liberal , left and conservative critics , who point out that the Trident will , do nothing for the country 's unemployment problem  --  more than 2.6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it restore peace to its riot-torn cities or improve the British balance of payments . The Labor Party has criticized the Michael Lucas is a research fellow at the John P. Kennedy Institut in Berlin . deployment of , Pershing and cruise missiles in Europe and pledged to cancel the Trident deal if it comes to power . The powerful Trades Union Congress has also come out for unilateral disarmament . In the parliamentary elections held in the Netherlands last ; ip summer , the leftist D-66 party , whose candidates campaigned on an antinuclear platform , scored a large vote gain and made inroads into the traditional constituency of the Christian and Social Democrats . Public information campaigns , demonstrations , peace fairs and other forms of protest have won the highly vocal Dutch disarmament movement broad support . A petition campaign against the neutron bomb sponsored by the Dutch Communist Party has collected more than a million signatures , a significant number in a nation of only 13 million people . In Belgium , public protest against the missiles is also on the rise . Mass protests last spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Atlantic Treaty Organization 's decision to deploy the Euromissiles ; while tentatively accepting the plan , the Belgian government stressed the need for continuing U.S.-Soviet negotiations on medium-range missiles . . In northern Europe , where the antinuclear movement has deeper roots , the Swedish Parliament voted unanimously last June " to do all within its power to remove all nuclear weapons from Northern Europe . " Although the campaign to transform Scandinavia into a nuclear-free zone has been going on for more than thirty years , it has never before had the parliamentary and popular support shown in recent months . Even Norway , which has traditionally maintained ' strong NATO ties , is having second thoughts about nuclear weapons . In an unusual move , Thorvald Stoltenberg , Norway 's Defense Minister , announced that the leading political parties of Norway , Denmark , Sweden and Finland had agreed that , should Scandinavia become a nuclear-free zone , its nonnuclear integrity must be respected by NATO members as well as by the Warsaw Pact nations . The Defense Minister 's comments were in part a response to pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons depot on Norwegian territory not far from the Soviet border . Although the proposal was opposed by Norway 's Labor Party and by disarmament experts , who argued that such a facility , which would store artillery capable of firing nuclear weapons , would upset the military balance between northern Europe and the Soviet Union , it has been approved by Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brunt-land 's government , which also agreed to the stockpiling of fuel and ammunition at Norwegian airports for possible use by U.S. planes . NATO 's decision to station cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in central Europe , the ill-timed announcement that the United States will manufacture the neutron bomb and Washington 's hair-raising rhetoric about the new " Soviet threat " have boomeranged in northern Europe . They have triggered , greater anxiety about U.S. saber rattling than potential Soviet aggression . A plethora of ? antiwar groups throughout Scandinavia have joined in demanding nuclear disarmament by both the United States and the Soviet Union . When Foreign Minister Knut Frydenlund of Norway flew to Washington this summer to explain the outbreak of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tnewspaper proclaimed : " Norway is not an atomic vassal of the United States , " and accused the United States of endangering the balance of military power in northern Europe . This balance is a carefully constructed edifice of neutrality and deterrence based on three inseparable principles : NATO membership for Norway , Denmark and Iceland ; neutrality for Sweden ; and a political-military assistance pact between Finland and the Soviet Union . While Finland enjoys close economic and political ties with its Communist neighbor , it maintains independent security forces and does not permit Soviet troops on Finnish territory . An American military buildup in either northern or central Europe would severely threaten the delicate military and political arrangements , upon which Scandinavian security is based , which have enabled northern Europe to steer a relatively safe course between the superpowers for more than thirty years . In the past , efforts to make Scandinavia a nuclear-free ? zone have foundered on Norway 's refusal to participate . When , for example , President Urho Kekkonen of Finland presented such a plan in 1963 , Norway joined NATO 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The Norwegians said they would participate only if the Soviet Union removed its missiles from the Kola Peninsula and the Baltic coast . The Russians refused , arguing that the ICBMs in question were aimed at the United States , not at northern Europe . But in the intervening years Norwegian public opinion has undergone a sea change , and-in a recent survey , 69 percent of those polled favored a nuclear-free zone in northern Europe . At a conference held in Stockholm at the end of May , Norway dropped its demand that the Soviet missiles be removed . The Labor Party , which was turned out in elections this September , had voted at its 1981 convention to rid Scandinavia of nuclear weapons and ultimately to extend the ban to all of Europe . But the new Prime Minister , Kare Willoch , a Conservative , has announced that his government will not support the nuclear-free-zone concept , which should be a welcome piece of news in Washington . The Scandinavian disarmament movement has become ' an irritant to both superpowers . The Reagan Administration views the Scandinavian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America 's North Atlantic partners for higher military budgets and for the stationing of a new generation of weapons in Europe . As for the Soviet Union , the Scandinavian movement has challenged it to put up or shut up on the question of genuine disarmament . The Russians have invested considerable political capital in an effort to block the Pershing 2 and cruise missiles . The deployment of these medium-range weapons would qualitatively increase the American threat to the Soviet Union 's cities and military facilities andwould force it to divert precious national resources to the development of Pershing- and cruise-type missiles of its own . This would severely strain the domestic economy at a time of deepening economic and political crisis in the Soviet bloc . These and other pressures have led Leonid Brezhnev to announce that his government might be- willing to include parts of Soviet territory in a nuclear-free northern Europe and " to take account of the military interests of Scandinavian countries . " While Brezhnev 's proffered concessions were not spelled out in any detail , they nevertheless represent an unprecedented departure from the standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ submarines on permanent patrol in the Baltic Sea . Soviet missiles around Leningrad are pretargeted on Scandinavia . These weapons systems could become the subject of disarmament talks if the movement for a nuclear-free northern Europe can pressure the governments involved to move beyond encouraging , but still vague , diplomatic hints and pronouncements . There are , of course , no nuclear weapons in northern Europe now . Seven thousand U.S.-controlled nuclear warheads are presently located in central Europe , and the majority of these are bunkered in the Federal Republic of Germany , giving it the dubious honor of having the heaviest concentration of nuclear weapons per square mile of any nation in the world . To understand why the furor in West Germany over nuclear weapons has set in motion what is potentially the most violent and politically explosive antinuclear movement in Western Europe , we need only consider the country 's so-called " forward-defense " system , which consists of not only an assortment of variously calibered nuclear missiles , bombs and artillery shells targeted at East Germany , Poland , Czechoslovakia and other nations in Eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany itself . There are also thirty-six Lance missile systems capable of firing up to 100-kiloton waFheads aimed at strategic points inside West Germany . Targets include the Hamburg-Kiel and Munich-Augsberg expressways . Under the mad logic of NATO 's GOtterdammerung national defense system , the Russians will be atomized after they have occupied West Germany  --  along with the West Germans . The phrase " better dead than Red " is thus elevated to strategic doctrine . In December 1979 , NATO called for the siting of 108 Pershing 2 and 116 cruise missiles in West Germany . The agreement on deployment is known as the " double-track " decision because European approval was made conditional on assurances by the United States that it would resume talks with the Soviet Union on strategic missiles . The Reagan Administration 's scrapping of SALT II and its avowed goal of achieving superiority over the Soviet Union in all categories of nuclear weapons have produced profound distrust in West Germany of U.S. disarmament inten4 tions . The doubts about U.S. credibility have caused a ma-7 jor political crisis for Chancellor Helmut Schmidt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At its convention earlier this year , the Social Democratic Party overwhelmingly passed a resolution calling upon the government to reconsider its acceptance of the missiles . A more strongly worded proposal , demanding outright rejection of the missiles , failed to pass by a narrow margin . Organizations affiliated with the Social Democrats , like the Working Community of S.D.P. Women , which has more than 200,000 members , and the Young Socialists , have unequivocally opposed the siting of Pershing and cruise missiles on German soil . The growing and increasingly bitter split within the S.D.P. is reflected in the recent expulsion of Karl-Heinz Hansen for publicly attacking Schmidt on the disarmament issue . Outside the party , the wave of antinuclear demonstrations and what has become an agonizing national debate on military security continue unabated . Contributing to a rising sense of public dismay , . outrage and even horror are revela- tions in the press of bits and pieces of secret NATO defense plans for West Germany . At the annual Church Day held in early June , more than 120,000 people took part in five days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weapons and disarmament . When Defense Minister Hans Apel began his scheduled address , he had to be protected by shield-carrying , police from a hail of eggs , tomatoes and other flying objects . At another discussion , a group of medical students doused themselves with blood and distributed leaflets warning of the horrors of a European " theater " war . In tacit recognition of the West German peace movement , S.D.P. leaders participated in a Peace Forum in August with prominent antinuclear activists . Such actions are symptomatic of the emotionally charged polarization of West German society today  --  as are , in a more ominous sense , the bombings of U.S. military bases by a revived Red Army Faction . The disarmament movement in West Germany and in Europe as a whole is cresting at a time of deepening economic and political crisis coupled with the increasing divergence of U.S. and European security interests . Europe can not afford a new cold war that would destroy the achievements of the last ten years of European-Soviet d  --  tente  --  and in the process substantially elevate the risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Opposition to the deployment of more U.S. atomic missiles on the Continent is shared by the Western European ruling elites and the rapidly growing popular movements . While this is by no means a guarantee that the Reagan Administration 's attempt to polarize East-West relations will be defeated , it does reflect widening fissures in the Atlantic alliance and points to the fact that a new chapter in the history of the disarmament movement is in the process of being written . The danger of atomic world war is perhaps greater than it has ever been . But from the vantage point of Europe , it is clear that the movement against this danger has never been as well informed , as politically mobilized and as effectively liorganized as it is today . a MN POLITICS AND PESTICIDES                     