@@339347

When the great scorecard for 1988 Soviet achievements is totted up , Mikhail Gorbachev 's perestroika campaign may receive a modest 8.0 ( a bit wobbly on the takeoff ) and the return of the Soyuz spacecraft will be lucky to secure a 7.5 ( very shaky on the landing ) . But the Soviet gymnasts , men and women alike , will score a 10 because their performance in Seoul was just that : perfect . <P> With matchless artistry and unfaltering poise , the Soviets stormed Seoul 's gymnastics hall and marched away with most of the glittering loot . Gold honors went to both the women 's and men 's teams , the latter setting a standard so far above its competitors that in a sport where thousandths of a point can make a difference , the runner-up East Germans finished almost a full 5 points behind . In the all-around battle , the Soviet men fought among themselves for the three medals , the first such sweep since Japan 's hat trick in 1972 . By the time of the individual apparatus competition , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were allowed to enter only two gymnasts in each event , would dominate the competition . <P> The Soviet women , unlike the men , faced stiff competition from outside their own squad . The flamboyant Rumanians , determined to hang on to the team title that they had unexpectedly wrested from the Soviets at the 1987 world championships , battled valiantly . But Aurelia Dobre , who had been counted on to shine , was still recuperating from recent knee surgery and could serve up only 9.9s where 10s were needed . Thus the Soviets triumphed by a solid 1.35 points . In the battle for bronze , the U.S. lost out to the East Germans by just 0.3 of a point , felled by a controversial technical ruling that penalized the Americans a fatal half point . Come the all-around , it was a duel to the last 10 between Rumania 's perky Daniela Silivas and the Soviets ' no-nonsense Elena Shushunova . By a margin of just 0.025 of a point , Shushunova squeaked by to nail the gold , with teammate Svetlana Boginskaya capturing the bronze . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wowed with their daring assortment of triple flips on the vault , the rings , the high bar and the floor . And they also drew appreciative applause for their consistently solid performances , technical superiority and bold originality , outscoring every team on every apparatus . Even the weakest Soviets introduced elements never before seen in Olympic competition . If the all-around did not restrict each team to just three entrants , all six Soviets would have made it to the competition . " They are the absolute masters , " conceded Mike Jacki , executive director of the U.S. Gymnastics Federation . " It 's like the all-time , all-star team . "                     