@@487023

It is now clear that the- Reagan Administration is neither conservative nor ideological , that it is committed to no coherent set of beliefs . It is , instead , devoted to lawless clientelism , serving the prejudices and interests of the lesser businessmen with whom it consorts : automobile dealers , savings and loan executives , oil speculators . Look at the Federal Communications Commission . It was created in 1934 to bring order out of chaos , to assign wavelengths to each radio station and fix its signal strength . Without such a policeman on a limited spectrum , competing stations would interfere with one another 's transmissions and audiences would receive a babel of voices and , in a later age , pictures . In return for giving broadcasters exclusive use of a portion of the public domain , Congress ordered that they be licensed by the F.C.C. in the " public convenience , interest or necessity . " In effect , Congress offered licensees a valuable monopoly if they would provide programs that served the public welfare . It is this bargain that Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress 's 1934 mandate . Indeed , it has gone further , reversing a Supreme Court ruling that " the right of the viewers and the listeners , not the right of the broadcasters . . . is paramount , " and enriching the owners of radio and television stations by scrapping the regulations designed to make broadcasters public trustees . The commission 's engaging chair , Mark S. Fowler , is a former lawyer for broadcasters who can expect to resume this lucrative practice when.he leaves government . In a recent address to radio and television executives in New York City , Fowler described his revolution with disarming candor : " It was time to move away from thinking about broadcasters as trustees . It was time to treat them the way almost everyone else in society does  --  that is , as businesses . " After all , he said on another occasion , " television is just another appliance . It 's a toaster with pictures . " Fowler has abandoned P.C.C . regulations that compelled broadcasters to devote a minimum portion of their air time to news @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children 's shows and public affairs and religious broadcasts , among others . Those rules tended to reduce profits . Now all those programs can be replaced by commercials , for Fowler has also raised the ceiling on the - amount of advertising a - station may run in each hour of programming . To strengthen broadcasters ' property rights and the ' capital value of their stations , Congress , at Fowler 's urging , has extended the three-year license period to five years for television and seven years for radio . He has protected owners whose licenses are about to expire from challenges by groups promising better service to the public , by , abolishing the log-keeping requirement that enables their programming to be evaluated , and he boasts that he has reduced the renewal application to the size of a postcard . He even tried to make it possible for one giant firm to own every station in the country , by removing the limit on the number of stations a company could own , but even Congress thought that was too much . He did succeed in raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one fiim could own no more than five television stations on the very high frequency band  --  channels 2 through 13 , which have the strongest signal  --  and seven AM and seven FM radio stations . Now the ceiling for all three is twelve , touching off a brisk business in mergers and sales and shrinking the number of voices heard in the land . Fowler has done all this in the name of the " free market " and is widely regarded in Washington as an ideologue . In fact , he is a far more practical servant of broadcaster interests than his language suggests . A genuine believer in open markets would remove all barriers to new competitors , but Fowler has declined to enlarge the number of radio stations by reducing the width of the frequency each is assigned . That would impose excessive equipment costs on the present owners , he explained . He could insert more television channels on the VHF band , but he has not done so . He has , however , expanded the FM radio band and licensed low-power television stations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patchwork moves to bring deeds somewhat closer to words . Perhaps the widest breach between Fowler 's rhetoric and his actions is in the sensitive area of broadcast content . He jettisoned the rules governing ads , news and public service saying they interfered with the owners ' freedom of speech . But speaking before an industry gathering in Las Vegas , he forgot his First Amendment concerns . He rebuked a network news show that had suggested Ronald Reagan did not strain himself in the Presidency . " Get it right , " he warned the executives . Given his power over their profits , he can expect a more respectful treatment of Reagan in the future . If Fowler was a genuine believer in competitive enterprise , he might have sought the abolition of the commission itself , enabling entrepreneurs to broadcast anywhere anytime . Let competition eliminate the resultant static . But that would undermine the pecuniary values the F.C.C. has created for its clients , so Fowler has retained that part of the law that serves broadcasters  --  allocation of frequencies  --  and erased the profit-reducing clause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the District of Columbia upheld Fowler 's coup , largely by seeing what is not there and ignoring , what is . In the 1983 case United Church of Christ v. Federal Communications Commission the Court said that Fowler 's deregulation merely gives broadcasters more discretion . They must still air programs in the public interest because Fowler told them they must conduct " discussions of issues of importance to the public . " That vague injunction enabled the judges to believe Fowler obeys the 1934 law . They refused , however , to believe that Fowler meant it when he said he had scrapped the rule requiring stations to make public their daily programming logs . Such an action , the judges wisely observed , would prevent anyone from determining whether broadcasters had met their public service obligations . The court was innocent . The logs have indeed been abandoned . Why require scorecards , the F.C.C. argues , if there is no score to be kept ? The judges did inject one breath of reality . They said , " The commission 's statements are often misleading and contradictory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The law-breaching Fowler had his sins washed clean , though , thanks to an empty phrase about " discussions . " The Court might have done better if it had heeded John Mitchell 's dictum , " Watch what I do , not what I say . " In his effort to free  --  the airwaves for more Dallas and rock music , Fowler has even tried to abolish the fairness doctrine , which compels broadcasters to give political candidates an opportunity for equal air time and provide a balanced discussion of public issues . But members of Congress feared that an end to the doctrine might make them targets of unanswered attacks by the more politically involved station owners , and refused to abolish the rule . On the whole , Fowler 's virtual repeal of the 1934 law and his easing of limits on station ownership have yielded a golden harvest . According to Broadcasting , the average price of a television station doubled between 1982 and 1984 , from $12 million to $24 million . Averages , moreover , conceal the giddy peaks reached in major markets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than $500 million . These values are rents , created by the assignment of exclusive broadcast rights . Traffic in stations reaches new highs each year , and mergers and takeovers dominate the industry . Capital Cities Communications absorbs ABC ; Rupert Murdoch buys Metromedia ; CBS thwarts Ted Turner but only by plunging deep into a debt serviced by heavy cuts in the news department . In 1983 and 1984 , the prices paid for all stations sold totaled $5 billion , nearly 60 percent higher than the $3.1 billion figure for 1981 and 1982 . The total , for this year alone is likely to exceed the record for the previous two years . Raising the ceiling on station ownership , securing broadcasters ' licenses and freeing the airwaves for commercials has had a tonic effect on profits and capital gains . The consequences for what goes out on the air are harder to measure , particularly in the absence of the daily logs . But a survey of news directors made before television was deregulated found that public affairs programs in radio had been cut by about one-fourth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Awards , the most prestigious in broadcasting , have noted a sharp drop in entries generally and public service competitors in particular . Les Brown , editor of Channels , has drawn the lesson . If broadcasters need not meet a public interest standard to keep their licenses , they wo n't seek a Peabody medal . As for children 's programs , Fowler has said bluntly they are a task for public broadcasting and , anyway , they take youngsters away from their parents . So the airwaves are filled with cartoon-commercials that spur juvenile consumption . " I have no intention of trying to defend the television industry ; " Fowler has said . " It 's no wonder that the medium often reflects medium , " meaning mediocre . Anyway , " television is not the world of the most important thing in our world . " He says repeatedly , " Let the public interest determine the public interest , " meaning that popularity ratings are the best index of what serves the public interest . The profit motive will insure that most viewers will get what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are more than 9,800 radio stations and more than 1,500 television stations . That offers market choice ; the consumer is king . That , of course , is special pleading , far removed from economic or common sense . No listener can dial 9,800 radio stations or receive 1,500 television channels . The relevant market is local , the number of stations in Dubuque , Spokane , Mobile or New York . The number of competitors is a small fraction of the national universe , a handful or a few handfuls . In Fowler 's world , all markets are equal . A city with three television stations enjoys the same luxury of choice as one with twelve or , if it were possible , 1,000 . Elementary economics tells us that the classically competitive market allows unlimited entry , produces a homogeneous product and has no entrepreneur or group of entrepreneurs large 404 enough to influence price or quality . Fowler would have us believe that WCBS-TV in New York has no more economic power , no more control of product , than the wheat farmer on 200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  they are oligopolies . Moreover , they are tainted with a monopolistic strain , the exclusive right to one segment of the airwaves . It is these characteristics , derived from physics and enforced by government , that justify a demand for broadcasting in the public interest . Lawyer Fowler argues that the First Amendment guarantees his clients ' right to broadcast what they please . He and Reagan both contend that station owners should enjoy the same privileges as publishers . Their analogyis false . Anyone ( with enough money ) can publish a newspaper . There are no natural barriers to entry . The less well-heeled can publish their views in a shoppers ' throwaway , a duplicated broadsheet or a handbill . Their publication does not infringe on the clear expression of others . But broadcasters enjoy their earnings and capital gains only because the government protects their license to a portion of the radio spectrum . For all his clientelism and calls for deregulation , Fowler has raised a disturbing issue for those concerned with the role of government in the media . Do we want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the next F.C.C. chair is a Falwell fundamentalist ? Or an ex-general or C.I.A . executive disturbed about what he believes is a lack.of patriotism ? He may set public interest standards that force broadcasters to ride his hobbyhorse . How does one determine what is the proper share of time for ads , news , religious broadcasts and other public service matter ? In his early days at the F.C.C. , Fowler offered an answer , although he quickly backed off when the broadcasting industry objected . He proposed that license holders pay a user 's fee based on their slice of sales or profits . The money would finance a strong public broadcasting system , perhaps two networks instead of one . Public service programming would then be secure from a hostile Administration or an indifferent Congress . The commercial broadcasters could then fill their portion of the airwaves with TV 's Bloopers and Practical Jokes , the Top Forty or endless ads . They would serve the public interest by yielding some of their publicly created rents for the dramas , documentaries , films and public affairs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public goods , like libraries , museums or even defense . Society wants them , but no market is likely to supply them . Taxing commercial broadcasters for their production would provide a plausible escape from the arbitrary rules of Federal bureaucrats . The notion has won support from such distinguished students of broadcasting as Henry Geller , the former general counsel to the F.C.C. , and Tim Wirth , chair of the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications , Consumer Protection and Finance . In the current climate , user 's fees would confound the larger goal , enriching station owners , but another and less lawless Administration , abetted by a less complaisant Congress , may yet conclude that the best response to the Fowler era is the establishment of a strong public broadcasting system financed by its commercial brethren . m 