@@492123

GINGER AND A SCOURGE TO CONQUER by Cory SerVaas , M.D. There are many dramatic scenes daily in the halls of our local VA hospital , but none stands out in my memory more vividly than the man with Huntington 's disease iHD ) who was being pulled in on a child 's toy farm wagon . His arms and legs were restrained with straps to keep him from harming himself and others with his flailing limbs . He was not able to speak or communicate in any meaningful way . Only with a series of bizarre and pathetic grimaces and contortions was he able to express himself . HD is an inherited neurological disorder which causes a shrinking of the brain . This man , in his 40s , had a number of children who would each have a 50 percent chance of getting the dreaded HD and coming to the same agonizing end . I thought again of this HD victim last fall when a lovely young lady came into my office in tears . I 'll call her Ginger . She sobbed out her story @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Her sister , 26 , had been arrested for a bizarre infraction of the law and had been admitted , under arrest , to a local hospital . Their father was now completely incapacitated with HD and was living in a state psychiatric hospital . Their distraught mother was unable to find out from the hospital personnel whether or not the sister 's behavior had been caused by the onset of HD . Ginger had been told by counselors that she should n't have a baby , that she and her husband should adopt if they wanted a child . " We want a baby , " she sobbed , but with HD in my family , the adoption agencies wo n't give us a baby. - Ginger was sitting there in the greatest of need . God has given mankind the ability to conquer more difficult problems than this one ... surely there must be a way for Ginger to outwit the tragic accidental mutation in the genes of her forebears and to have her own baby . " Ginger , " I said , you told me you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosed with HD . Tell me about your cousins from your mother 's side . Are there any girls ? " " Sure , - Ginger said , smiling through her tears . " Eight . " " ls there one who would give you an egg from her ovary so that it could be fertilized by your husband and then implanted in your uterus ? " I asked . " The fertilization would take place outside the body in a lab dish and with your husband 's sperm . I do n't want to give you any false hopes , but we must think positively . " " I do have a young cousin Joan , who lived with us after her mother died . She has two children , " she answered . " Is she your mother 's relative ? " " Yes . " " Then maybe we can help you , " I said . " I 'm not sure it can be done , but we 'll try . A couple of years ago , I visited Dr. Pierre Soupart , a Belgian researcher then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his research goal to transplant fertile human eggs from one female to another and of his frustrations because government regulations had curtailed his work . He showed me letters from barren women whose childbearing years were running out . He knew he could help them , he told me . " Lets get him on the phone , " I said to Ginger . We called only to learn , sadly , that Dr. Soupart had died of cancer . " Perhaps we can trace his research on egg transplants , " I said . Dr. Soupart had told me that it was on the basis of his and his colleague 's research that Dr. Patrick Steptoe of London was able to produce Baby Louise , the world 's first " test-tube baby . " That feat , he explained , was quite elementary from a scientific standpoint , and he had produced some even more dramatic breakthroughs in his own laboratory . " Ginger , " I said , " if you could have an egg removed from your cousin 's ovary , then have it fertilized in vitro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ husband , and implanted in your uterus without being rejected , you could have your baby nine months later . " " But what if Joan would n't do it ? " Ginger looked worried . " Well , if Joan would n't submit to the minor surgery to remove the egg , or if her eggs are rejected by you , then there must be other ways , " 1 said . " I know a doctor in Chile who devised an effective ' egg flusher . ' He told me he could remove an egg and locate it under a microscope in about 30 minutes . His work on the subject has been published in medical literature . He simply flushes the eggs from the uterus with saline solution and a double syringe . The flushing water returns to a cup , and is then centrifuged or strained to retrieve the egg . His research subjects , women at a local university in Chile , were asked to refrain from intercourse because he did n't want to flush any fertilized eggs . But he caught one that was already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interruptus the previous Saturday night . Following his moral inclinations , he restored it to her uterus , but she did not become pregnant as a result . So you see , Ginger , if this Chilean doctor was able to flush out fertilized eggs by accident , why could n't it be done intentionally ? " I said . " Many abortions could be eliminated if a fertile egg could be flushed out before implanting itself in the uterus and women such as you who are at risk for HD could obtain fertilized eggs for implantation . It would be like adopting a just-begun baby to carry in your own uterus . " After a few months of conferring about Ginger 's wish to have a baby and her counselor 's advice , the Benjamin Franklin Literary &; Medical Society , in pursuit of its concerns in this area . appropriated some research funds to help individuals with Huntington 's disease have normal families . We have spoken with Ginger on several occasions since her initial visit about the advice from her counselor . Her life has taken on new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ researcher who would be willing to implant fertilized eggs in the wombs of HD victims and help support artificial insemination by donor for couples in which the male is at risk for HD . She believes HD should be stopped dead in its tracks . Ginger feels sure her mother would have had artificial insemination by donor ( AID ) if she could have afforded it or if a counselor had suggested it . In her mother 's case , three of her family of six had been born before she learned that her husband 's mother had HD . " They die of other complications , and the cause of death on the death certificate does n't list Huntington 's disease , " Ginger said . She was right . Unfortunately , too , many times families do n't divulge the problem to their progeny to spare them the fear . The victims are often subsequently misdiagnosed when the proper medical history is unavailable . Many HD families are poor from having to care for their sick members . Personality deterioration can occur long before the involuntary movements set in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ginger said that while the doctors could n't find any evidence of HD in her hospitalized sister yet , her sister 's personality was changing with violent temper tantrums , just as her father 's had changed before his grimacing and jerking began . If these victims ca n't afford to get help for artificial insemination by donor , there should be a special effort made by a charitable organization to make this kind of pregnancy possible . Before Ginger passes her childbearing years , perhaps sperm banks will also stock fertilized eggs all ready for implantation in the uterus of not only women at risk for HD , but also into the uterus of any would-be mother unable to conceive in another manner . Just as medical students sell sperm to be used for artificial insemination , women could provide unwanted fertilized eggs for frozen egg banks . Cattle breeders , who for years have been transplanting fertile eggs from purebred heifers into less fortunate scrub heifers , report no problem with birth defects . Researchers working with primates believe that techniques used routinely in transferring fertile eggs from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dr. Duane Kramer of Texas A &M; University has recently succeeded in transplanting baboon eggs . He has also transplanted a fertile horse egg into a mare , who has given birth to a healthy foal . Even a litter of kittens has been produced by a surrogate mother cat . In primates , the fertile egg floats down the Fallopian tube and then lingers unattached in the uterus for two or three days . During this time , Dr. Kramer flushes the fertile egg out with sterile saline water and introduces it into the uterus of another female . A recipient must receive the transplanted egg at the proper time in her fertility cycle to insure that the uterus lining will be ready for the egg implantation . When a supply of fertilized eggs can become available , there should be a demand from adoption-seeking couples who are infertile ( abortion has dried up the supply of adoptive infants ) . Mothers who wish to bear a baby without transmitting HD or any of a number of other familial diseases also would be candidates for egg transplants . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eggs ) approximately four to six days after fertilization of the egg instead of waiting the usual nine months or longer . In this manner , the interested mother would have the opportunity to nurture and properly safeguard the environment of her future child during the very important formative months of gestation . Since good nutrition and abstinence from smoking , drinking and drugs are vital to optimum fetal health , transplanting early would put the future mother in control at the most important time of her child 's life . The challenge of obtaining a good fertile egg and placing it in Ginger 's uterus at the appropriate time is small when compared with the problem of caring for just one victim 's anguish for 15 to 30 years . Considering the extent of suffering caused by this dreaded affliction , it may come as a surprise to know that many of the Huntington 's disease victims in the U.S. today are descendants of two brothers who were banished from England . In 1630 , 700 passengers set sail from England to America . Among those were a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brothers from the village of Bures in Suffolk played an important part in a true American tragedy . At that time it was thought that the weaving motions , jerking backward and forward of the head , peculiar grimacing and twitching , puckering of the lips , spasmodic movements of the chest and diaphragm , and the involuntary jerking of the hands , feet and legs , represented the suffering of Christ on the cross , and that this affliction was a curse inherited by these victims . They were prey for the witch-hunters . The government paid a bounty of 20 shillings for every witch . Anyone suspected of being a witch was jailed , often on false evidence by witch-hunters . As a result , these unfortunate people , men and women , often accepted banishment from England in order to be released from imprisonment . Among these were the two brothers  --  Wilkie and Nichols . Wilkie , a carpenter , was the elder and had seven children . After his death in 1658 , his daughter , Priscilla , married a man named Mulford , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem of what proved to be the historic Long Island group of HD victims . Wilkie 's third son resided in Groton and had a daughter who in her young womanhood was known as the celebrated " Groton Witch . " A detailed account of the violent motions and agitations of her body appears in the witchcraft literature of 1671 . It is believed that there were 11 generations of the Bures immigrants who settled in New Haven , Connecticut , whose progeny showed marked evidence of inheritance of HD . Huntington 's disease is a degenerative brain disease of the cerebral cortex , especially the frontal cortex . It got its name from Dr. George Huntington , who called it " chorea " ( Latin for " dance " ) because the flailing movements looked to him like dance motions . It is now more commonly referred to simply as Huntington 's disease . It is inherited as a dominant trait , so that those who escape the disease do not transmit it . Males and females are affected in equal numbers . Most commonly , the first symptoms do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of intellectual function and attainments and , unfortunately , after parenthood . In the early stages , victims often try to conceal their problem by exploiting the involuntary jerks to serve voluntary actions of an unnecessary nature . For example , the forward jerk of the arm will be brought back to smooth the hair with the hand , or the sudden downward lurch of the trunk will be utilized to retie a shoestring . One victim of HD was admitted to the hospital after having been a popular member of a local drama club . He had played comic roles and was a great success because of his funny movements , which were , sadly , the first signs of his illness . Usually , forgetfulness , restlessness , a failing memory for recent events and difficulty in concentration are early warnings of HD . In time , the head is also nodded in characteristic chin-tochest rotary movements , one or the other shoulder is raised at intervals , and the gait is interrupted by irregular hesitation . As the disease progresses , there is usually an obvious mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . At autopsy , HD victims reveal a se-vere shrinking of the brain and some hydrocephaly ( excess water around the brain ) . There is a marked loss of cells in a characteristic portion of the brain , including the caudate nucleus . Nerve cells examined microscopically are seen in various stages of degeneration . The U.S. is not the only country where HD is a problem . At the time HD victims were being banished from England , undoubtedly a case or two fled to Australia . A recent article in The Medical Journal of Australia recounts the cases of six school children at risk for HD who were referred independently to a psychiatric clinic . Five were referred to the clinic because of chronically poor behavior and failure to progress at school . ( The sixth was later dropped from the study . ) All had been performing normally until about 18 months before their referral . The children were described as distractible and disruptive in the classroom , and two had been expelled . The teachers found the children 's behavior patterns peculiar , since they had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad elements ' . in the classroom . But suddenly , their behavior had changed . For example , one boy who heard his classmates whispering about prostitution suddenly blurted out to the teacher , " Are you a prostitute ? " The children 's parents reported similar peculiar behavior at home . When interviewed , the children , ages five to 111/2 , were talkative , excitable and impulsive . Three showed movement disorders , and one had classicalchorea ( flailing of the limbs ) . The other two had less obvious movement disorders , but occasionally showed choreiform movements , which they tried to disguise by converting them into scratching , hairbrushing or other semipurposeful motions . All the children fidgeted at the interview and often sat on their hands or put their hands in their pockets or belts in an attempt to control involuntary movements . Just like adult HD victims , they seemed embarrassed , ashamed and distressed by their poor control of their reflexes and the resulting social consequences . The children 's parents were informed that their children were suffering from organic brain impairments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of the parents identified them as the " onset " of the disease in their child . The implications for them were immediately enormous , but despite their anxieties , the parents maintained a positive attitude . The physicians explained to the children the nature of the disease , believing it is easier for a child to cope with something known than something " half heard- from poorly understood whispers . All of the children had previously been aware that something " sinister " affected their families . Most had seen relatives in advanced stages of the disease in psychiatric hospitals . As Australian physicians , social workers and welfare officers tried to help the families , time and again it would become apparent that , somewhere along the line , the ' families had been given wrong information . For example , many had been told that only females carry the disease . They found that parents resented the fact that they had not been told by their own parents sufficiently early for them to make proper decisions about marriage and family planning . Many already had families when they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggest that HD may be active at a much earlier age than has commonly been assumed . They also suggest that behavidr disturbances in children-atrisk may indicate more than just emotional reactions to family stress . To date , no one knows why the dominant gene that causes the condition exerts these pathological effects . As long as there is no cure in sight , preventing the disease should become a most merciful obsession . If the male parent is at risk for HD , it is relatively easy to find a good sperm bank and fertility practitioner who can use artificial insemination to produce an offspring . We explained to Ginger that the problem of eliminating HD in the offspring of her male cousins was much easier to solve than her problem . We urged Ginger to advise her brothers , uncles and cousins about the AID program . There are probably more than 350,000 to 400,000 children in the U.S. who were born because of artificial insemination . Their fathers have passed out cigars as proudly as any other happy new dads in the hospital waiting room . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is the wiser  --  the delivering obstetrician and pediatrician need not routinely be told by the fertility specialist that artificial insemination was used in the case . There are thousands of barren couples whose fertility doctors quietly provide them with sperm and treat their wives as many times as is necessary for conception . When the women become pregnant , they routinely cry tears of joy . They are then turned over to their local obstetrician for care and delivery . It is even possible for a couple to obtain sperm from a Nobel prize-winning scientist if they desire . This sperm bank is located at Escondido , California . It was funded by the Foundation for Germinal Choice , which was founded by Hermann Muller , himself a Nobel prize-winning scientist who was honored for having discovered the dangers of genetic mutation from radiation by testing fruit flies . It is unfortunate that many HD couples are not sufficiently affluent to travel to large cities to be treated by fertility practitioners who can perform AID . In the interest of stamping out Huntington 's , it is most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would like to eliminate HD by helping defray the medical costs for Huntington 's parents to obtain artificial insemination or for the installation of donor eggs . Any prospective carrier of the Huntington 's gene desiring a family and who wishes to receive help in this manner should write to Dr. Joseph Daly at the Benjamin Franklin Literary and Medical Society , 1100 Waterway Boulevard , Indianapolis , Indiana 46206.                     