@@480616

From " Big Brother Is You , Watching , ' by Mark Crispin Miller . in the Winter issue of the Georgia Review . Miller teaches film and mass culture at Johns Hopkins and is at work on a book about advertising . A somewhat different version of this essay will appear in Reflections on America , 1984 , edited by Robert Mulvihill , to be published later this year by the University of Georgia Press . ihose critics of American television who rail against its sexism , its violence , and its jingoism assume that TV is menacing because it promotes certain evil values . On the contrary : TV actively promotes no values whatsoever . Ultimately , the only conviction that TV recommends is the abandonment of all conviction , the rejection of all selfhood . With its clinical , or inquisitorial , vision , TV appears CO penetrate all masks , to expose all alibis , thereby turning the whole world into a comic spectacle of unsuccessful lying , pompous posturing , and neurotic defensiveness ? behaviors that appear to he seen through the moment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that TV 's nonfiction programs-60 Minutes , The People 's Court , Real People , and so on ? derive the ostensible incisiveness that makes them so engrossing . And it is the need to withstand TV 's derisive penetration that dictates the peculiar self-protective mien of all seasoned television performers , whether they play love scenes , read the news , or seem to run the country . The muted affability and thoroughgoing smoothness that make these entertainers acceptable on TV also serve as a defense against its searching eye ; yet by thus attempting to avoid subversion , these figures finally interchangeable as well as evanescent ? merely subvert themselves , giving up the individuality that TV would otherwise discredit . But it is not only on TV that TV cancels selves ; it also wields its nullifying influence out in the wide world of its impressionable viewers . Television 's erasure of distinctness complements ? or perhaps actually fosters ? a derisive personal style that inhibits all personality , a knowingness that pervades all TV genres and the culture that those genres have homogenized . There is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both real and fictional ? relentlessly inflict it on one another and themselves , defining a negative ideal of hip inertia that no living human being is able to approach . For example , in situation comedies ? TV 's definitive creation ? the " comedy " almost always consists of a weak , compulsive jeering that immediately wipes out any divergence from the collective standard . The characters vie for self-containment , reacting to every simulation of intensity , every bright idea , every mechanical enthusiasm , with the same deflating look of jaded incredulity . In such an atmosphere , those already closest to the ground run the least risk of being felled by the general ridicule . And so those characters most adept at enforcing the proper emptiness are also the puniest and most passive : blas ? menials , blas ? wives and girlfriends , and ? especiallyblas ? children , who , like Parsons 's daughter in 1984 , prove their own orthodoxy by subverting their subverted parents . Nearly all TV characters ? on sitcoms and in " dramas , " on talk shows and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their contemptuous passivity reflects directly on the viewer , who watches with precisely the same attitude . TV seems to flatter the inert skepticism of its viewers , assuring them that they can do no better than to stay right where they are , rolling their eyes in feeble disbelief . And yet such apparent flattery is in fact a warning not to rise above this slack , derisive gaping . At first , it seems that it is only those eccentric others whom TV belittles . Each time , on a sitcom , some deadpan tot responds to his frantic mom with a disgusted sigh , each time the polished anchorman punctuates his footage of " extremists " with a look that speaks his well-groomed disapproval , each time Johnny Carson comments on some " unusual " behavior with a wry sidelong glance into our living rooms , we are being flattered with a gesture of inclusion , the wink that tells us , " We are in the know . " And yet we are the ones belittled by each subtle televisual gaze , which offers not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joke , or else tum into it . All televisual smirking is based on , and reinforces , the assumption that we who smirk together are utterly enlightened , enlightened past the point of nullity , having evolved far beyond whatever datedness we might be jeering , whether the fanatic 's ardor , the prude 's inhibitions , the hick 's unfashionable pants , or the snob 's obsession with prestige . Thus TV 's relentless comedy at first seems utterly progressive , if largely idiotic , since its butts are always the most reactionary of its characters ? bigots , sexists , martinets . However , it is not to champion our freedom that IV makes fun of these ostensible oppressors . On the contrary : through its derision , TV promotes only itself , devaluing not Injustice or Intolerance but the impulse to resist TV . What makes the butt appear ridiculous in TV 's eyes is not his broad illiberal bias but his vestigial individuality , his persistence as a self sturdy and autonomous enough ro sense that there is something missing from the television world , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for this desire by the sarcastic mob that watches and surrounds him . Thus hc functions as a negative example . Whereas the butt , empowered by his discrete selfhood , pursues desires that TV can not gratify , we are induced by the sight of his continual humiliation to become as porous , cool , and acquiescent as he is solid , tense , and dissident , so that we might want nothing other than what TV sells us . This is what it means to see the joke . The purpose of this cautious recognition is also the basic purpose of TV itself ? to reinforce , in every household and in every mind , the imperative of total consumption . The inert , ironic watchfulness that TV reinforces in its audience is itself conducive to consumption . As we watch , struggling inwardly to avoid resembling anyone who might stand out as pre- or non- or anti-televisual , we are already trying to live up , or down , to the standard of acceptability that TV ads and shows define collectively : the standard that requires the desperate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , even as its programs push the jargon of " honesty " and " tolerance , " forever counseling you to " be yourself , " TV shames you ruthlessly for every symptom of residual mortality , urging you to turn yourself into an object wholly inoffensive , useful , and adulterated , a product of and for other products . While Winston Smith is forced to watch himself in literal self-defense , trying to keep his individuality a hard-won secret , we have been forced to watch ourselves lest we develop selves too hard and secretive for the open market . In America , there is no need for an objective apparatus of surveillance ( which is not to say that none exists ) , because , guided by TV. we watch ourselves as if already televised , checking ourselves both inwardly and outwardly for any sign of untidiness or gloom , moment by moment as guarded and self-conscious as Winston Smith under the scrutiny of the Thought Police . As you watch , there is no Big Brother out there watching you ? not because there is n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , watching .                     