@@334655

Long before neighboring India detonated its first and only " peaceful nuclear explosion " in 1974 , Pakistan 's then President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto vowed that his nation would develop the capacity to make atomic weapons even if the effort required its citizens to " eat grass . " Bhutto did not live to make good on that pledge . But the man who deposed him and ordered his execution , Mohammed Zia ul-Haq , took it just as seriously . Last week , after years of doubtful claims that Pakistan 's nuclear research program was not aimed at building weapons , Zia acknowledged with surprising candor that his country has achieved the means of doing precisely that . <P> In an interview with TIME , the President declared , " Pakistan has the capability of building the Bomb . You can write today that Pakistan can build a bomb whenever it wishes . Once you have acquired the technology , which Pakistan has , you can do whatever you like . " Zia added , however , that Pakistan still has no actual plan to make nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ninth member of the nuclear club. * And it confirmed widespread reports that within the past year Pakistani scientists had acquired or learned how to produce all the components of an atomic bomb , including a nuclear triggering device and weapons-grade uranium . Zia insists that Pakistan has not yet manufactured enriched uranium  --  an assertion that is doubted by some observers , including U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan Deane R. Hinton . Indeed , Zia seemed to imply that Pakistan could produce a bomb within a month , a deadline that most scientists consider would be difficult to meet unless weapons-grade uranium was on hand ( see interview ) . <P> Pakistan 's announcement that it can " go nuclear " at any time it chooses presents sharp dilemmas for its neighbors and allies . In New Delhi , the government of Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi has come under pressure from conservative politicians to start building nuclear weapons . Relations between the longtime rivals on the subcontinent are already tense . Last week , following an angry standoff involving some 370,000 Indian and Pakistani troops that began in January , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the border , continuing a pullback agreement worked out late last month . But the incident has left both sides edgy . <P> Pakistan 's new capability also puts the U.S. on the spot . For years Washington has warned Islamabad against developing nuclear arms . In 1979 the U.S. cut off military and economic aid to Pakistan . When Jimmy Carter offered to restore some assistance following the Soviet invasion of neighboring Afghanistan , Zia contemptuously told the ex-peanut farmer that the funds would not be missed because they amounted to " only peanuts . " In recent weeks there have been renewed cries in Congress to punish Pakistan for continuing to defy U.S. nonproliferation policy . John Glenn , leader of the movement in the Senate , warned last week that Pakistan 's nuclear weapons-building capability " has the possibility of setting off a regional nuclear arms race . "                     