@@480326

FoR YEARS professional education was America 's pride and joy . Our schools of medicine . law , and business pioneered new methods and launched their students on challenging careers . That era is now over . Today even top-ranked schools face increasing criticism . And in large measure they have brought it on themselves . Moreover , the culprits are members of their faculties , who have turned the schools into vehicles for their personal pursuits . These charges become convincing once we look inside the institutions , especially their classrooms , where the teachers have control . Needless to Andrew Hacker teaches political science at Queens College in New York City . say , law , medicine , and business are different disciplines ; and schools within each field vary in their approaches . Still , some basic patterns prevail . And the most common of these is that the schools care surprisingly little about the needs of their own students , or those of the larger society our professions supposedly serve . Medical education is the best place to begin , because there we confront @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own professional training . The mystique surrounding medicine makes it difficult to discuss what a doctor needs to know . The layman hears that medicine is a science , based on biology and chemistry , achieving new and better cures through the marvels of technology . And on the basis of this premise , American medical schools have made science and research their principal priorities . This development is fairly recent . Reacting to the Soviet success with Sputnik , the United States began pouring money into every branch of science . Medical schools applied for and received much of this largesse . They had always realized that prestige went to professors who carried on research ; there is no Nobel prize for running a clinic in the Ozarks . Thus opened the " scientific era " in medical education . Dr. Daniel Funkenstein , in a report to the Josiah Macy Foundation , described what happened next : " Faculties composed primarily of scientists sought to reproduce themselves . They wanted to graduate physicians who were primarily scientists , who would do research or be in a bioscientifically oriented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the medical schools ' " curriculum changed in a direction which was more and more irrelevant to the practice of medicine . " That this irrelevance is now entrenched is documented by Charles LeBaron in Gentle Vengeance , an account of his first year as a student at Harvard Medical School . " Hardly a lecture goes by , " he noted in his journal , " without someone suggesting that perhaps one of us will be the scientist who will unlock the secrets of eukaryotic gene deregulation or the causes for the deposition of atherosclerotic plaques . " Nor does this happen only at Harvard . Schools 22 lower on the totem pole emulate that attitude in hopes of climbing higher . In fact , few medical schools have teaching faculties in the usual sense . What has happened is that physicians who like to do research know that the best way to get a grant is to have a medical-school affiliation . The schools in turn oblige by taking them aboard with the title of professor , which they try to justify by scheduling several lectures . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their corner of research , without bothering to show what connection , if any , it has with medical practice . These drop-in professors are not even on the payroll , as the money for their salaries is included in their grants . An upper-class student explained the setup to LeBaron : " Harvard does n't really employ these guys at all . Being on the faculty is just a system for getting grant money . And teaching us is a minor annoyance . Everyone gives a different lecture . They spread it out . " OT SURPRISINGLY , all candidates for medical school must have straight A 's in science to have their appli-cations opened . After all , from the moment they arrive they will be re-quired to absorb physiology and his-tology , biochemistry and neurobiol-ogy . There is only one problem with this rule . It was well put in an ed-itorial in the Journal of Medical Ed-ucation . " Selection is primarily di-rected at finding individuals who are likely to survive the first year ... where few of the characteristics of the effective physician are required for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the first rung of the med-ical ladder , one must have excelled in studies that have little or no rela-tion to performance as a doctor . As it turns out , the applicants medical schools most want often make me-diocre physicians . Dr. John Rhoads of the Duke University School of Medicine reached this sad conclusion in an eight-year study . He found that those who ranked highest in the sci-ence courses drew below-average rat-ings in their clinical work . Not only that , Dr. Rhoads noted , " their performance with patients was subtly disturbing because they appeared to be uninterested in patients as people . " At this juncture an obvious question arises . Do n't we want our doctors ? all our doctors , including family practitioners ? to have a good grounding in science ? Before automatically answering , " Of course , " it would be better to ask how much scientific knowledge a practicing physician needs . The problem is that biochemistry and bacteriology and other scientific subjects are all endless journeys . Students will always know " less " about them than they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year of study . It is possible to reach a point where too much scientific study can actually detract from proficiency as a personal physician . Nor should it be thought that the last two clinical years make up for lost time . In those years the students do see patients , but mainly in the hospital attached to their medical school . This means that their first contact is with people at an advanced stage of illness , where hospitalization is necessary . Moreover , they spend a disproportionate part of their rounds observing cases that interest their professors , whose own clinical research is apt to focus on unusual diseases . And as teaching hospitals have the most advanced equipment , students are taught to rely on finely tuned technologies instead of their instincts . Patients are diagnosed and treated in terms of what is on the printout , inevitably a skewed reflection of the total person . So medical students begin to view illnesses as somehow disconnected from the individuals who have them . This is not the place to examine all the problems ? or achievements ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious afflictions , and some of these stem from basic scientific research . No one wishes to return to horse-and-buggy days . At the same time , the lofty level of medical education has left a gaping hole in the nation 's health care . Seldom do medical professors , all of whom are specialists , offer students simple hints on how to help someone who comes to a doctor 's office with a vague complaint . Yet that is where medical practice should begin and where medicine is still an art . It demands a temperament that takes individuals seriously , joined with an intuition for sensing what is wrong . Perhaps those qualities ca n't be taught . If not , medical schools would do well to give greater preference to applicants who seem to have them . At this point we have over 65,000 students in our 125 medical schools , and according to a growing number of studies they are more than we really need . But in recent years we have had a shortage of people trained and willing to serve as first-stage practitioners . Medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such care . Professional reputations simply are not made that way . Imagine asking Johns Hopkins , for example , to assign half its students to a " bachelor of medicine " program , with less stress on pure science . Or suggesting to Columbia or Cornell that it create evening courses to enable experienced nurses to qualify as physicians . ( The lack of enthusiasm over midwives reflects their attitude . ) But why should they ? The professors are happy with things as they are because they have been allowed to run their schools along lines they find congenial . The same can not be said for increasing numbers of Americans , who feel that the kind of care they want no longer interests the medical profession . EDICAL schools are obviously necessary , even if their current mode of op- eration leaves much to be desired . About graduate schools of business one can not be as certain . The great majority of American executives have gotten by without a Master of Business Administration degree and have never felt that lack . So why have such schools at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business firms no longer wish to hire their apprentice executives straight from undergraduate college . Twenty-one is just a bit too young for a position of any challenge , let alone responsibility . Business schools keep college graduates on hold for two additional years , by which time they look mature enough for a middle-sized desk . As a matter of fact , many of the schools suggest that their applicants do something else ? almost anything will do ? for a year or two before enrolling . That way they will be twenty-five or twenty-six when they get their MBA 's and are set for serious employment . The problem is what to do with business students while they are on the campus . At last count , the nation had over 400 such schools , graduating more than 50,000 students annually at the master 's level . However , two thirds of these students get their degrees through part-time study , as often as not at night . It is only the two dozen schools at the top that require full-time attendance and have serious pretensions to being professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a by giving their students overpowering assignments , fostering the impression that there is more to know than they can ever learn . This regimen persuades those who survive that they are a special cadre , entitled to preferential treatment once their course has been completed . What they study is determined by their professors , who have a free hand in shaping the curriculum . This is because business firms , who will hire the MBA 's , do not really care what they have studied . They tend to recruit on the strength of general prestige rankings ? Harvard , Stanford , Chicago , Wharton ? without scrutinizing the curriculum . This is probably just as well . For what happens in the schools is that students play at being executives . These exercises take two general forms . HE FIRST is the " case meth-od , " pioneered at Harvard and still the staple there . The cases are stories made up by faculty members , outlining a busi-ness situation where a problem must be solved or a key decision made , A case might deal with launching @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign competition . At Harvard , students read over 10,000 pages of cases each year and discuss them solemnly in class . The idea is to impart a feel for what it 's like in business , especially up on top where strategy is made . The other pace-setting schools take a different tack . They tend to look on case studies as kindergarten stuff , insufficiently sophisticated for the modern business world . Stanford , for example , calls its basic courses " Decision Sciences I &; II . " Carnegie-Mellon offers " Analytic Models for Management Decision-Making " and " Mathematical Models for Management Science . " Chicago goes even further , requiring all its students to have at least a year of college calculus . They will then be ready for courses in " Digital System Simulation " and " Cognitive Models of Judgment . " not to mention " Bayesian Inference in Econometrics . " The very titles of these courses attest to their academic origin . Business schools are parts of universities and prefer to be seen in that way . Their professors , for example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . On the contrary , business schools make it a point of pride that their faculties have gone the academic route and have proper Ph.D . ' s . I At Chicago , all the associate professors hold doctorates , as do forty-six of the forty-nine with full-professor rank . ) The typical business professor has never worked in business , except perhaps as a consultant ; and one would be hard pressed to cite a single faculty member who was asked to join a company in a top executive post Rather they do what most professors do : teach , and do research addressed to their fellow professors in monographs and journals no one else ever reads . The exception again is Harvard , whose Harvard Business Review is written in well-edited prose . However , the other business schools . in a recent poll of their deans , deposed Harvard from its No. 1 spot because its faculty was teaching and writing on a level laypeople could understand . Stanford , which uses computers to teach " Creativity in Business , " took its place . Corporations continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruits , ready to attune themselves to a company way of life . It is far easier to limit one 's search to this specific group than contend with a flood of candidates who come in off the street . What skills do the MBA 's bring with them on their first day of work ? By and large they do best in divisions devoted to " analysis , " which means manipulating figures and churning out reports . No one can say for sure to what degree such data affect corporate decisions . Nevertheless , firms generally seen happier if material of this sort is somewhere on their desks . Even so , some companies have begun to complain that business-school graduates know less than they think they do , or want to make companywide policy as soon as they arrive . ( Stanford has a course called " Management of the Total Enterprise . " ) Others blame their mathematical training for an overconcern with short-term paper profits . In fact these objections are misplaced , for they ascribe to business education more influence than it has . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own mathematical models . The computer could be asked whether the behavior of American business would be perceptibly different if there were no MBA 's at all in its executive ranks . What we know now is that while business-school graduates begin with higher salaries , others soon catch up . Some MBA 's make it to the top ; but so do plenty of people who began as engineers . I AW SCHOOLS serve useful purposes . For college grad-uates who have no firm J idea of what they want to do , law school gives them three more years in which to make up their minds . Moreover , law is seen as a profession that combines a comfortable income with the chance to do some good , so it seems a natural step for liberal-arts students . Because of this , the country 's 177 accredited law schools now enroll over 125,000 students , almost double the figure of 26 a dozen years ago . Moreover , women now constitute 33.5 percent of the total , as against 26.5 percent for medical schools , and about 20 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They are inexpensive to operate , and some have even made a profit . This is because classes are large and virtually all students pay the full tuition , more than 70 percent doing so through loans they must repay someday . The schools realize they are producing many more graduates than the economy can absorb . None , however , have set in motion plans for curtailing their enrollments . If pressed , they murmur that legal training can be useful in other kinds of jobs . The first year , of law school can be described as learning the language and culture of a foreign country . It is n't intellectually demanding work , but rather a crash course in memorizing hundreds of terms and refinements in their meanings . Some courses involve little more than dictation , where students do their best to copy down every word the professor says . Other classes allow for participation , at least of a sort . The professor brings to every lecture a list of perhaps a dozen students , who will be called on to state the facts of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one knows when he or she will be called , the effect is one of suspense and dread . Law schools call this technique the " Socratic method , " in part because no matter what answer a student gives the professor has heard it before and can show it to be wrong . What the schools do claim to teach is a special kind of logic they have labeled " legal reasoning . " When you emerge from law school , you know how to think like a lawyer . In fact , " legal reasoning " is nothing mysterious . It calls for sizing up a client 's situation and giving it a series of legal labels . The law is a set of categories , and what we expect from lawyers is that they find a subdivision that serves our best advantage . Many lawyers , looking back , agree that law schools could accomplish this preparation with a tighter , two-year program . What law schools do best is train students in the kind of memorandum writing junior lawyers do in their first years with a firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed in the course of practice . For instance , lawyers are frequently called on to negotiate on behalf of clients : anything from a divorce to a tax assessment , a simple commercial lease to a complex corporate merger . Here the skills are personal , and few law schools try to teach them . They suspect it ca n't be done ; and even if it could , faculty members are disinclined to take the time . It is a law-school tradition that students do not approach professors . While all are not as formidable as John Houseman 's Professor Kings-field in The Paper Chase , the message gets across that if you have a question you should find the answer for yourself . Consequently , students spend much of law school huddling together trying to dope out just what their teachers want . While this may encourage self-reliance , it also means the professors only have to show up several hours a week . A few do some research ; but many do n't do even that . The number of law professors with national reputations is meager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , augmenting their already generous salaries , which are second only to the medical faculty on most university payrolls . T HE MOST graphic sign of faculty indifference is found in admissions . Law professors have shown little concern over the way their students are chosen . Applicants are accepted or rejected primarily on the basis of how they score on a single threeand-a-half-hour test . Medical and business schools have similar examinations , but they are more apt to look at other items in candidates ' folders . The Law School Admission Test , prepared by the Educational Testing Service , is taken every year by over 100,000 aspirants . Each one ends up with a score somewhere between 200 and 800 , permitting fine divisions down to one sixth of a perTHE SHAME OF PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS tentage point . I The LSAT has finally decided to switch to a forty-point scale , starting next year . ) The schools find this test tremendously convenient . Undergraduate transcripts are hardly worth inspecting , since standards among colleges vary and high marks are now the norm , the result of grade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to brim with praise . And many schools have so many candidates ( Yale gets over 3,000 applicants for its 165 places ) that they do n't give interviews . The LSAT 's provide a common denominator in which the schools feel they can have faith . So much so , one Columbia dean remarked , that " students have to have a certain score just to get their applications opened at some law schools . " The schools assert that test scores give a good idea of how applicants will perform in their first year of classes . But that year , it will be recalled , consists of large lectures for which mountains of material must be memorized . Despite the so-called Socratic method , analytic brilliance is neither wanted nor expected . Yet doubts have been raised as to how well the LSAT can predict even first-year performance . At least one study , which ETS itself conducted , " found the average LSAT score to correlate .35 with grades " in the first law-school year ; and in individual cases " the range went from .07 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .5 is pretty unreliable by any statistical standard . And this sample , of necessity , is limited to those who did well enough on the tests to get themselves admitted to law school . It follows that at least some who were rejected would have emerged as able students . Despite these doubts , both the law schools and the test makers insist that the tests provide an index of " reasoning ability . " This sounds impressive until one looks at the questions on the test . What they call for is a special kind of cleverness , the kind usually associated with playing parlor games . Some people take to such puzzles in an almost instinctual way ; * Andrew Strenio , The Testing Trap ( Rawson , Wade ) . This book , published earlier this year , has a wealth of information on the standardized tests.they need but glance at a question to size up what it 's all about . Those with minds of a different turn use up precious minutes trying to work out what in fact is wanted . ( This is why @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trade . ) The bias in the tests , then , is not just class based . Lots of students from well-off families have never gotten the knack of winning at charades . At least one law-school dean , Peter Liacouras of Temple University , has admitted that " there has not been a single reported validation study of the LSAT in relation to Iawyering performance ? that is , which students will become the best lawyers . " But then there is no sign that Temple or any other law school has tried to ascertain which human qualities produce a good attorney . So let me propose another modest project that might reveal an answer . ( It could be tried equally well with physicians , although less so in business , where the criteria are different . ) Pick out a city like Denver and interview a hundred lawyers , asking each to whom they would go if they had a serious legal problem . From this would emerge a roll of practitioners who had the respect and trust of their professional peers . That group could then be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be to see how its members ' records looked , back when they were twenty-one . Were they top prospectsfor admission or did they just get in under the wire ? Did they excel in first-year classes or blossom later on ? It might turn out that our best practicing professionals were not all star students . And it could be that the schools suspect this is the case . Which may be why they have never commissioned such a study . LMOST A quarter of a century ago Michael Young , a British sociologist , coined the term " meritocracy . " It referred to a society that would make every possible effort to fill its top positions with men and women of superior ability . While Young 's proposal was satirical , America took his message seriously . In particular , entry to professions would be based on brains . That way justice would be done and society best served . But no one stopped to ask who should guard the gates or what standards would be set . As it turned out , professional schools became the aperture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members were permitted to decide what students had to know if they wanted their diplomas . Like all professors , they looked for students who were replicas of themselves : whose skills were abstract and academic , who were at ease in a classroom and very good at tests . This might have been all right if what America needed was a class of mandarins . Our top professional schools have ascended to such heights that they are out of touch with the ordinary conditions of our national life . To begin with mathematical models and biochemical research , or even " legal reasoning , " obscures the basic fact that any professional practice is a very human calling . We are turning out professionals who tend to look on people as something of a bother . Not surprisingly , more than a few patients , clients , and customers are beginning to rebel . And time is on their side . With an oversupply of professionals , some may forget what they were taught in school and begin to ask how they might be of service .    @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @        