@@432358

 | Though the impact of the Polish government 's declaration of martial law in 1981 still lingers , few have known of the secret drama behind the forced suppression by the Soviets of Solidarity , Poland 's daring labor union . But in a long interview published last week by the emigre magazine Kultura , Col. Rszard Kuklinski , once a member of Poland 's inner military circle ? and a U.S. mole ? reveals new details about the death of Poland 's political spring . Kuklinski fled Poland on the eve of martial law as security officers searched frantically for the spy in their midst . He describes a 17-month war of nerves between Warsaw and Moscow over how to crush the fledgling trade union . Twice , he says , the Soviet Union moved to the brink of invasion to crush the " counterrevolution " outright . The Polish military leader , Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski , trying to maneuver between a defiant Solidarity and an overbearing Soviet Union , fell into bouts of deep depression and , during one 24-hour period , locked himself in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jaruzelski told his tight circle of advisers in March , 1981 , as the Soviets stood poised to invade . Kuklinski , one of only four Polish officers allowed to take notes during months of top-secret planning for martial law , maintains that Jaruzelski should have stood firm in the face of Soviet bullying . " If there had been strong leadership able to direct the destiny of the country , I am absolutely sure that Solidarity would have survived , " he writes . Kuklinski argues , moreover , that with a united Poland , Solidarity 's leadership would have been forced to compromise rather than become intransigent . As a result , the Soviets might very well have been forced to pull back : " The Soviets knew well that spitting on tanks , like the Czechs did in 1968 , was not the Polish style . . . . We were not only unafraid of tanks , we had learned to burn and destroy them . " He said Jaruzelski should have made a symbolic gesture of defiance toward Moscow , such as ringing Warsaw with Polish troops @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but if the Polish side had stood up , Moscow would probably have had to back off . " Same objective But Kuklinski 's argument for Polish defiance and the survival of Solidarity as a liberating force is based on what he regards as the merit of the situation , not Jaruzelski 's objectives . The Polish leader , he explains , considered Solidarity counterrevolutionary almost from the start . Jaruzelski differed with the Soviets only over who was going to break the movement 's back . Poland 's leadership signed accords in Gdansk ending the August , 1980 , shipyard strikes only to give itself maneuvering room . By November , Kuklinski reveals , the first draft of a martial-law plan had already been completed ? cynically , only days before Solidarity was officially registered as an independent trade union . As Kuklinski tells it , Jaruzelski respected the power of the burgeoning trade union and wanted to bide his time until Poles grew weary of interminable strikes and internal bickering . But a testy Kremlin demanded action . By late November , word had leaked out of Moscow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ border as a pretext for an outright invasion . Jaruzelski rushed two of his most trusted officers to Moscow to find out just what the Kremlin was up to . They returned with a shocking account . The Soviets had 18 divisions ? 15 Soviet , two Czech and one East German ? poised to invade Poland on December 8 , 1980 . The secret battle plan called for Soviet troops to attack from the East , the Czechs and East Germans from the West . Wary of the loyalty of Polish troops , Moscow planned to neutralize the Polish Army by deploying it on a wild-goose chase in central Poland , well out of range of the invading Warsaw Pact forces . Stunned reaction Only after what Kuklinski says was " dramatic bargaining " by Jaruzelski did the Soviets grudgingly agree to give the Polish Army a secondary role in the assault . Kuklinski paints a picture of a Jaruzelski " totally shocked " by the experience . " He closed himself in his room and refused to speak to even his closest associates , " Kuklinski says . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviets ' bullying . " Everybody waited for a miracle , " Kuklinski writes . " But it did n't happen . " A detailed study of the invasion plan convinced members of the Polish general staff that the Soviet Union lacked understanding of the volatile situation in Poland . " They did not know the real mood of the society and they underesti- mated the force of Solidarity , " Kuklinski says . " They did n't realize that an invasion , instead of having a calming effect , could well cause an even bigger social explosion , and perhaps a national insurrection . " During the entire period , Kuklinski , according to his account and reports by former U.S. officials , was secretly feeding details of the MoscowWarsaw confrontation to U.S. intelligence agencies . Indeed , it was only in December , 1980 , after President Carter had generated a massive campaign around the world against the invasion and warned Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev publicly , that the Soviets finally backed down . Zbigniew Brzezinski , Carter 's national-security adviser , remarks in his book on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S.-led global reaction . " Room to maneuver The standoff gave Jaruzelski the breathing space he needed to push ahead with his own plans for martial law . Polish security forces drew up an arrest list of 4,000 activists who " posed a threat to socialism . " More than 200 of them were put under constant surveillance so they could be " arrested on a moment 's notice . " In February , 1981 , only days after Jaruzelski ? now Prime Minister ? asked Solidarity 's charismatic Lech Walesa to give him 90 days without labor unrest , he called 45 top officers to a secret meeting . Its aim : To finalize the plan for martial law . The officers signed a secrecy oath , and plans were outlined orally . " Only four people were allowed to take notes , " Kuklinski relates . " Everyone agreed that the destruction of Solidarity could only be done by total surprise . The best moment to strike would be on a nonworking day , during the night between Saturday and Sunday . " Without informing even some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , adding his own caveat . The time was not right to move , he told the Soviets , because the Polish Army and Communist Party , still under constant pressure from Solidarity , were both in shambles . " But the Russians , as usual in all their contacts with Jaruzelski , heard only what they wanted to hear , " Kuklinski comments . " Though he told them to be patient , the Soviets dismissed that , because they were ready to use force at any time . " To prove it , the Kremlin announced another series of " military exercises " that pushed Poland to the brink of civil war . The first sign of renewed danger was yet another shuttling of top Soviet brass to Poland , often in civilian clothes . During March , 1981 , more than a dozen generals flew to Warsaw , ostensibly to check preparations for the exercises . But their chief topic with Polish officers was combatting " counterrevolution . " " The nature of these exercises ' became clearer when Soviet reconnaissance teams arrived . That 's when we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were n't interested in forest and terrain but in airports , communication centers , steel factories and the major factories , " says Kuklinski . On the brink Though Jaruzelski did not want Soviet " assistance " in his struggle with Solidarity , Kuklinski says that by agreeing to the unplanned exercises he " was playing with fire , to put it mildly . " To make matters worse , just as Marshal Viktor Kulikov , Soviet leader of the Warsaw Pact forces , beefed up his forces , a bloody confrontation between Polish security police and striking members of Solidarity in central Poland threatened a nationwide strike . " For the authorities , " says Kuklinski , " this was a catastrophe .... Jaruzelski tried to back off , but very quickly discovered he could n't because Kulikov and his Army were standing there at his back . " Indeed , the Soviet marshal , who bragged that he had tossed Polish party boss Stanislaw Kania out of his military headquarters , rejected Jaruzelski 's martiallaw plan and demanded more changes . At that point , Moscow dropped all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As the Soviets flew in more " friendly troops " and a planeload of KGB functionaries , Moscow simply ignored Polish air controllers . After another tough warning from Washington , this time from a newly inaugurated Ronald Reagan , the Soviets terminated their exercises in Poland and pulled back most of their troops . Once back in relative control , Jaruzelski and his team pushed ahead with their own solution to the threat of Solidarity . Among them , Kuklinski says , were security officials who " dreamed of a night of the long knives . " But Kuklinski himself increasingly feared a personal nightmare . At a hastily called meeting of select officers on November 2 , Kuklinski and others were told there was a mole in their midst and that " our secrets had been leaked to the West . " Soon realizing that he was being followed by security forces and that time was running out , Kuklinski began destroying his cache of secret documents . As he left his office at Army headquarters in Warsaw on the day before he fled the country , Kuklinski asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we do not have to hurry , ' I told him . Go very slowly . ' For the first time in a year , I took the time to look at passers-by , at the houses , even at the trees of my city . " On Dec. 13 , 1981 , Jaruzelski declared martial law . It would remain in full effect for a year and a half , long enough to defuse Solidarity as a threat to the regime . Jaruzelski had walked the faint line between his Soviet overlords and his own people ? and won .                     