@@494808

A relativist has been defined as someone who says , " I mean it , if you know what I mean . " The sentence , as spoken , puts Barbara Herrnstein Smith in a fighting mood ? not because she thinks it is wrong , but because she believes that its mingled certainty and doubt express a truth that ought to be part of common sense , right down to the comma . Smith 's training was in literary studies , but her recent work has brought her closer to philosophy , and Contingencies of Value defends a thesis that may have to be called hard-line relativism : quite a different thing from the mere belief that all knowledge is shaped by a perspective . If my friend has just converted to Christian Science , has sustained physical injury , and now confronts a medical and moral dilemma , I , taking differences of perspective into account , may tell him that his way of thinking is doubtless as good for him as mine is for me . But that is not yet relativism . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impressed by the sheer differentness of this friend 's needs , and the whole personal and cultural economy that generated those needs , that his advice is limited to a rehearsal of his own motives for doing what he does . The foregoing example bears on relativism in a question about morality . Smith 's book is mostly about relativism in aesthetics . But by the end , she has extended the argument to cover morality and the general theory of value . The conclusion at which she steadily aims is : " There is no bottom bottom line anywhere . " Every judgment we produce is contingent , that is to say , dependent on other factors . By showing how aesthetic judgments , in particular , are necessarily conditioned by prejudice , vanity , and interest ( above all , by " cognitive interest " ) , Smith hopes to divest culture of the prestige it enjoys as a somehow autonomous realm . If her argument is persuasive , the effect will be to make us think of aesthetic standards as part of nothing grander than a " will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deeper than that of politics . " Such protective instincts have no impersonal or objective foundation , and they owe their meaning to the way of life that happens to be favored by a party , sect , interest group , or morethan-aesthetic culture . Smith launches her defense of contingency in a disarming way . The first pages of the book tell how , for a great many years , she taught Shakespeare 's sonnets ? all the while continuing to work on them as an editor , annotator , and critic . Looking back on her record of response to the poems , what chiefly struck her was the enormous variability it showed over time , and the intense conviction it nevertheless carried at certain moments . She went back and forth with lots of poems : one temporarily convincing reading ( " a lovely reading ... when I believe it " ) might rescue a poem she had formerly disdained , anothermight spoil a poem she had long admired and cherished . She came to know , in a hallucinatory fashion , poems that were not in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poems that were in fact in the text . Anyone who has ever read , and reconsidered , a single work a half dozen times or more will have shared something of Barbara Smith 's acquaintance with these phenomena , though it is fair to add that hers does seem to have been an extreme case . The point about her confession , however , is that it strengthens the argument for total contingency . How true , she implies , must contingency-of-value be for an entire culture , if it has this kind of grip on the life of an individual reader . Where a larger number of variables exist , we may expect still more variability . One can not help feeling that Smith 's record typifies the experience only of a small subset of the impassioned and inquisitive readers alive today . Many of the symptoms she describes are related to the peculiarly rewarding , but also peculiarly repetitious , work of the modern professional exegete . There is something unnaturally depressive about the routines of teaching or , as Smith says , " professing " the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decades or more , In the circumstances , an occasional manic interpretation may have a rousing effect . But that is not the only way out . Much healthier was Nietzsche 's decision , after years of professing Wagner , to turn from the subject entirely and celebrate Carmen for its cheerfulness , its dumb vitality as an antidote to Wagner . Anyway , given the predicament of the academic specialist , it seems wrong to draw a general inference about the reading of intelligent people who do not happen to teach what they read . These last , it is true , form a class of persons whose very existence Smith is inclined to doubt . It is possible that she has merely fallen out of the habit of talking with them . From motives that reflect honor in equal parts on her conscience and her professionalism , Smith has not allowed herself many Nietzschean " antidotes . " Her book is written from the classroom and the think tank ; its characters are teachers , students , and more teachers : from them , she extrapolates a culture . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the book has no pretensions . After the sonnet-reading anecdote , it offers not a single story of the reception of a poem , novel , or work of any kind by a sequence of readers who took for granted disparate values ? just the sort of demonstration that the argument seems to require , if it means to be taken historically and not metaphysically . In Los Angeles , there is a radio station that is " all news , all the time . " This book is all theory all the time . W ELL , but what is theory , in this sense of the word ? A way of talking about meaning or the possibility of meaning in the moral sciences , to a mixed audience of readers across the disciplines of literature , anthropology , politics , philosophy , and the law . The strength of the community lies in the scope and the generosity of its interests . The weakness lies in the questionable competence of any given member of it to understand what is at stake in the vocabulary , the history , all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives and thinks some distance away , may take as a thing that goes without saying . Here is a sample of how Smith talks to these readers : The epistemological conundrum , however ( that is , the puzzle of how to find out how The Other 's meat tastes to him ) , remains uncrackahle , and other questions are raised for normative cultural criticism and its associated pedagogic and missionary imperatives , including whether the quality of other people 's lives or cultures is appropriately or usefully measured by the extent to which either the objects of their experience duplicate our own or their articulation of those experiences are Isici produced in the idioms of our own cultural discourses . Less ponderously , this means that since you can never know why some people like some things , but you want to respect those people anyway , you might as well give up trying to judge their different taste in your own language . Here is another representative passage . Since there are no functions performed by artworks that may be specified as generically unique and also no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or behavior from those provided by innumerable other kinds of experience and behavior , any distinctions drawn between " aesthetic " and " nonaesthetic " ( or " extra-aesthetic " ) value must he regarded as fundamentally problematic . Bentham said it faster : " Quantity of pleasure being equal , push-pin is as good as poetry . " I have chosen these passages not only to illustrate a certain style of delivery , but also because they sketch the main features of Smith 's polemic . She has , in fact , taken over from Bentham the metaphor of " cost-benefit analysis , " and like him she uses it to discredit the notion that aesthetic judgment can be distinct from moral or political calculations . The affiliation is less odd than it looks . It was Bentham and James Mill , long before Marx and Engels , who first exposed the liberal assumption of disinterestedness as a mask of class interest . In the same iconoclastic spirit , Smith wants to show that the aesthetic pleasure of the connoisseur is in no way superior to the sensational or torpid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of pleasure over the second , we only show our unwillingness to countenance " The Other " whose interests are foreign to ours Her real target of course is the belief in defensible standards . Hume wrote art important essay , " Of the Standard of Taste , " and Smith takes several , unsatisfactory , passing shots at his argument , often promising to deal in a later chapter with the bits she has not yet accounted for . But Hume was offering a skeptical defense of such a standard . By contrast , Smith proposes a skeptical refutation , along the following lines : ( A ) There is no such thing as an impersonal , or unsituated , judgment , any more than there is a viewless viewpoint . Every judgment comes from a person in a situation . ( B ) With persons and situations come interests . Every settled evaluation of a work of art flows from particular interests , and it serves ends of some importance to those interests . This is emphatically true of the " permanent " value that is associated with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these observations , one will want to detach oneself from all persuasive assertions of the form " X is better than Y " For , in seeking to inculcate a belief about value , one appeals to nothing beyond habit and the usual tacit supports of value , the authority of which is always relative to our own time , place , and situation . It can be said for Smith 's intellectual courage that what she proposes is not an easy way to live . Even in the classroom , a tolerance like hers runs the risk of uprooting complacent belief only to supplant it with complacent unbelief . But considered strictly as a piece of theory , the argument leaves two questions standing . It is not clear how we get from ( A ) to ( B ) , and it is not clear how we get from ( B ) to ( C ) . Thus , from the fact that every work and every judgment ? the reader 's and the writer 's alike ? emerge from certain interests , it does not follow that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests . That Ur-canonical text , the Sermon on the Mount , emerged from the lives of the early Christians . It can now serve the utterly opposite interests of Archbishop O'Connor and the Liberation Theologians . Still , says Smith , no canonical work will remain canonical for long , unless it is found to answer the demands of some " establishment , " or perhaps a meta-establishment that persists over time . Are we therefore to project , for the present instance , an establishment of Catholic-American human ity , which unites at a higher level the demands of both far-right and hard-left interpreters ? Such a solution is certainly possible , and just as certainly vacuous . Consider , again , a critical remark like the following by Shaw : " There has really never been a more monstrous imposition perpetrated than the imposition of the limitation of Paul 's soul upon the soul of Jesus . " A Protestant said this . But we may take him merely to stand for a single reader , among others . Before Smith can be credited on the problem of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a statement comes out of , and what establishment it assists . VET SUPPOSE we admit the interest- ' . serving character of all judgments of value , as described . It does not follow that we shall have only an arbitrary authority for saying " X is better than Y. " Two readers , each confronting the other for the first time , may do well to assume a modest tone . But their politeness has no implications whatever for the trust we can still choose to place in a qualified judge . Such a judge is distinguished by a knowledge of the goods internal to a practice ? those goods that do not make a novel 's worth exactly correspond to its sales , or an article 's worth exactly correspond to the journal in which it was published . The judgments that follow will only count if one believes that there are goods independent of money and prestige ; independent , too , of the claims of universal rights and equal representation in a culture . Smith , one feels , would want to deny that there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address the question at all directly . Hume did . Because he also shares some premises with Barbara Smith , it is worth saying a few more words for his conception of taste . Hume thought there were conventions of seeing , and understanding , a work of art , on which so general an agreement could be obtained that the resulting judgments would seem " natural . " Appreciation was therefore an art that could be taught . That much , Smith in a charitable mood can allow . But she thinks that where the arts are concerned , the whole logic of appreciation has been mystified by the long renown a canonical work by definition has already enjoyed . To give a fair hearing to both critics , we ought to look at a pursuit less easily mystified : say , the ta , for croquet . There are things a good knows to watch out for , that the casual tea-sipping onlooker can scarcely perceive : why , for instance , it is sometimes advisable to blast through a wicket your different-colored rival , even though that may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentle " tactic . Now , Hume believed the standard of the experienced fan , or the experienced reader , was decisive for the pursuits to which they respectively belong . Smith 's reply here is a rhetorical question . Who are we , after all ( since our nature is only convention , our pleasure a conditioned and not a timeless custom , our viewpoint specific and nontranscendental ) ? who are we to dismiss the person that judges either the game or the work quite differently ? There is no Humean answer to this question . He did not anticipate a culture so divided against itself that anybody would even want to ask it . Within such a culture , it will seem a highly significant fact that there are many people in the world who are not ? or are not yet , or choose not to be ? among the orthodoxly educated population of the West : people who do not encounter Western classics at all or who encounter them under cultural and institutional conditions very different from those of American and European college professors and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not point a moral . It would only begin to do so if good evidence were available that the reputation of certain Western books was a substantial cause of the economic misery and political oppression in the world today . Smith stops far short of this . To the Western , " orthodoxly educated , " academic and professional reader , careering from proprietary regard to a proprietary disdain For culture , her message seems at last to be : distrust yourself . A ACKET NOTE on Contingencies of Value says that the author is president of the Modern Language Association for 1988 . From that report alone concerning her interests and situation , one plausible deduction , hardly a polemical one by her standards , is that Smith brings news agreeable rather than alarming to the profession of college and university teachers of literature , in the current state of their beliefs . The profession today may not quite tell its members : " Do what you like . " But , in many voices and on various occasions , it does impartially assure them : " We can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you the means to execute your probably absurd but possibly fruitful inquiry . Good luck . " For the indulgent status quo , the only indigestible ideas come , on the one hand , from those who make a clean sweep of culture for the sake of declared political aims , and on the other from those who trust themselves , and not their institutions , to supply fresh reasons for doing what they do . Both types are aware of contingency but they are not inclined to talk about it much . They know what they believe ; one perspective is real to them . 