@@487022

America 's double standard of conduct in Middle Eastern affairs is not only morally corrupt ; it will also surely be politically self-defeating . However gratifying it is to bring terrorists to justice and to do so without the loss of innocent lives , neither the rule of law nor the interests of peace were served by intercepting an Egyptian airliner carrying terrorists to Tunis and , a week earlier , letting a squadron of Israeli fighter-bombers get through to the same city for lethal erids . A complex military , diplomatic and juridical machine is set in motion to avenge the cold-blooded slaying of an elderly American tourist in the Mediterranean . Day after day newpapers and television broadcasts scream out the story , while barely mentioning the cowardly assassination of Alex Odeh . The leader of the Arab-American Anti-Discrimination Committee was killed and seven of his colleagues wounded when a bomb went off in California on October 10 . Yasir Arafat proclaims the P.L.O . ' s innocence and peaceful proclivities , blaming the hijacking on renegades , but the full story is not yet known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Reagan Administration 's opposition to international terrorism must be questioned . It charges Mohammed Abbas , the leader of the Palestine Liberation Front , with " masterminding " the entire operation , yet winks at masterminds Begin and Sharon in Lebanon and Iraq ; mastermind Thatcher in the sinking of the Argentine ship General Belgrano ; mastermind Botha from Cape Town to Lusaka ; and mastermind Mitterrand in Auckland harbor . Indeed , what of masterminds Reagan and McFarlane , and their mercenaries in and around Nicaragua ? Aggression , secret wars , covert actions are forms of state terrorism , and they should not be judged by more elastic standards than the stateless terrorism of some Palestinians . An antiterrorist policy that is directed only against political and ideological opponents subverts the impartiality that is the essence of law and justice . The interception of the Egyptian Boeing 737 will do nothing to diminish terrorism and may well precipitate more of it . Terrorists must be brought to justice , but the effect of this particular operation will be the fulfillment of Americans ' revenge fantasies rather than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good again " makes short-term political sense for President Reagan , but it is bound to make trouble for the rest of us in the longer run . The danger is that Reagan 's famous victory in the skies will be used to create a climate for further conquests on many fronts , domestic and foreign . In the Middle East it will be used to justify a broad political offensive against the P.L.O . at a time when the Middle East peace process has been reset in motion . Important Israeli opinion makers had begun for the first time to argue for direct negotiations with Arafat , which is the sine qua non of serious diplomacy in , the region . It is hardly helpful for the United States , which must approve all negotiations , to focus on one party 's crimes while ignoring the other 's and to increase tensions in the region just as the process gets under way . All weekend Administration officials entertained themselves by calling the Palestinians names . That probably made a lot of people feel good one more time , but more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violence in the Middle East . For other perspectives on the hijacking , we asked for contributions from Stanley Reed , who has written on Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries in these pages ; Milton Viorst , whose articles on Israel 's raid near Tunis appeared here last week and who is at work on a book on Israeli-Palestinian relations ; and Aryeh Neier , vice chair of the Americas Watch and Helsinki Watch committees . ? The Editors Punishing Friends A mericans are missing the point when they congratulate themselves on the forcing down of an unarmed Egyptian airliner by F-14 jets of the U.S. Navy . That lawless act served the interests of terrorism more than those of the United States . The same can be said of the recent Israeli air raid on the headquarters of the P.L.O . near Tunis . The real losers in this latest round of the battle against terrorism were not the captured Palestinian hijackers but two important American allies : Tunisia and Egypt . President Reagan 's initial remarks commending the Israeli bombing as a legitimate reprisal for the killing of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of President Habib Bourguiba of Tunisia . During his nearly thirty years in power Bourguiba has made close cooperation with the United ' States a tenet of his foreign policy . He supported the American war in Vietnam , and he would not have allowed the P.L.O . to set up shop outside Tunis , which is also the home of the State Department 's Foreign Service Institute Arabic Language School , without first obtaining Washington 's approval . Bourguiba is one of the few Arab leaders who has taken a consistently conciliatory posture toward Israel . He has also compiled a distinguished record of combating anti-Semitism . The raid could not have come at a more inopportune time for the Tunisian government , which is grappling with the problem of designating a successor to Bourguiba , who is 82 . Libya 's Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi has added to its sense of insecurity by expelling 25,000 Tunisian workers and by making menacing gestures . The United States has tried to help by pledging to safeguard the country 's sovereignty , but in Tunisian eyes the Israeli attack with American-supplied jets made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recoup some of its lost prestige by not vetoing the U.N . Security Council resolution condemning the bombing . The damage to U.S. relations with Egypt could be more difficult to repair . Although a great deal of provocation , including the senseless murder of an American citizen , preceded the interception of the airliner carrying the Achille Lauro hijackers , Washington may come to regret its hasty response . Because of its preoccupation with terrorism the Reagan Administration overlooked the outstanding achievement of American diplomacy in the Middle East over the past decade : encouraging Egypt , the most powerful Arab country militarily , to renounce its hostility toward Israel . Was the capture of the four gunmen worth humiliating such an important friend ? Was there no diplomatic means of achieving an acceptable outcome ? Would the Administration have taken comparable action in a dispute with Israel or Great Britain ? Despite President Hosni Mubarak 's present fury , it would be premature to predict that the Camp David peace agreement between Egypt and Israel is about to go up in smoke . At a time when Egypt is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to forfeit the $2.3 billion in economic and military assistance the United States provides each year . However , his rejection of U.S. requests concerning the disposal of the hijackers and his lying to American officials about their whereabouts reveal that something was wrong in relations between the two countries . Mubarak 's predecessor , Anwar el-Sadat , probably would have followed the U.S. Embassy 's instructions in a similar situation , but the perceptionin Egypt that Sadat catered too much to American interests contributed to his demise . Mubarak evidently decided that he had more to lose by defying the Palestinians than by defying Washington . In all probability he made a Mistake . He has already paid for it by being humbled by his American patron , and he may pay more in lost American aid . Even before the Achille Lauro debacle , Egyptian-American relations were strained . The Egyptians are frustrated by the lack of progress in the peace process , their continued isolation in the Arab world and the weakness of their economy . They contend that they have taken far greater risks for the sake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resent the Reagan Administration 's increasingly pronounced tilt toward Israel in both economic and military matters . In short , Cairo is in a recriminatory mood , and Washington is a logical scapegoat . The forcing down of the Egyptian plane has encouraged this sentiment . The opposition press is fanning public anger by proclaiming that the United States has finally revealed its contempt for Egypt . The damage to American prestige from the events of this month will not be limited to Egypt and Tunisia . Arab leaders throughout the region now have more reason to doubt the credibility of the United States as either a protector or a mediator . All this adds up to a great victory not for the Reagan Administration but for the extremists , both Arab and Israeli , who oppose efforts to widen the peace process . Thus , Americans ' bragging to the contrary , the Reagan Administration has in effect given in to terrorism . How else does one describe its risking valuable , longstanding relationships for the short-lived satisfaction of revenge ? STANLEY REED Is Peace aVictim ? et 's stipulate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by nab ' bing the four thugs currently sitting in an Italian jail for hijacking the Achille Lauro . Judging from the public response , he also gratified a deep-seated need among Americans to do something about terrorism . As The New York Times so nicely put it in a page 1 headline , he satisfied the " cries for blood . " But did he do anything else ? The President boasted he had sent a message to terrorists everywhere that " you can run , but you ca n't hide . " He seemed to be suggesting that he had found a formula that would put an end to hijacking , though , to his credit , he tempered the bombast with a reminder that the United States has not yet learned how to deal with terrorists whose identity can not be established , much less with those on suicide missions . But time will show he has set back the fight against terrorism . His handling of the Achille Lauro affair ruptured an international consensus by which authorities with diverse policies cooperate to save lives threatened by terror @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the passengers and crew of the cruise ship , any more than it rescued the passengers aboard the Trans World Airlines jet in Beirut in June . The Egyptian government played the key role in the return of the ship , apparently with the help of the Italian government , which brought in the P.L.O . to negotiate . Similarly , the Syrian government freed the T.W.A. plane , with the aid of the Shiite leadership in Lebanon . In each case , an American was murdered prior to the rescue . Without the intercession of foreign authorities , however , there would have been many more killings . In both hijackings , a deal was made that permitted the culprits to go free . America thanked the Syrians and the Shiites for their services in the T.W.A. case , then resumed its previous hostile stance to them both . In the case of the Achille Lauro , Reagan complained from the start about Egypt 's promise of safe passage , though it was posturin &; to suggest that , with 400 lives at stake , he would have handled it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hijackers ' asylum , which Egypt charged was piracy , was a gratuitous insult to President Hosni Mubarak . Reagan then offended the Italians by criticizing their release of the P.L.O . leader who helped negotiate the agreement . Finally , he has dealt with the main wing of the P.L.O . as if it had committed the crime  --  an accusation not proved  --  rather than having assisted in its resolution . The message for friend and foe alike is clear : Mind your business . Let the Americans extract their own chestnuts . What Reagan obviously has not done is to ask himself why these incidents of terrorism are happening and why they are increasingly directed at Americans . If the four thugs who took the Achille Lauro had been arrested for mugging in the subway , we would try to understand why they did it . Knowing would not make them less culpable , but it would help us in creating an environment in which such crimes are less likely to be repeated . Hijacking the Achille Lauro was a political crime . Political murder is as heinous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable in itself , does not help us understand the cause of the crime . We must look for its explanation in the context of the Arab-Israeli conflict , which Reagan chose not to do . The current round of violence began at Larnaca , the port in Cyprus where three Israelis were murdered a few weeks ' ago . Israel charged that the P.L.O . had killed innocent civilians , a crime that has many precedents . Some Arabs replied that the Israelis were secret agents , a claim/ that is not implausible . The P.L.O . said that whatever the three were , it did not kill them . Nonetheless , Israel retaliated by bombing P.L.O . headquarters near Tunis , killing some sixty Palestinians and Tunisians . Were they all terrorists , or can we assume some were innocent civilians ? Reagan had no doubts about the answer to that question . He proclaimed that the raid was " legitimate . " Without hearing the evidence on either side , he accepted the Israeli justification and decided the Arabs were lying . But suppose it was the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state that has lied to cover itself . If terrorism is the use of violence against innocent civilians to attain political ends , who is the terrorist ? Or do n't Arabs ever count as innocent civilians ? The bombing near Tunis prompts us to ask whether the U.S. Sixth Fleet 's radar picked up the Israeli planes while they were en route . If not , what are all those ships doing out there ? If it did , why did n't the fleet 's commander challenge the mission ? The story circulating in Washington is that Reagan warned the Israelis not to bomb Amman because he is trying to improve relations with King Hussein , but imposed no other limitations . If that is true , would Reagan be an accomplice to all those deaths ? Israel asks disingenuously why President Mubarak and King Hussein are so upset about the raid near Tunis . It suggests that their rancor proves that the Arab states are looking for excuses to retreat from peace . But the broad license the United States has granted Israel to attack Arabs  --  remember Baghdad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ashamed . The applause at the dock in Port Said as the four hijackers came down the gangplank of the Achille Lauro did not mean Egyptians are uncivilized . To the Arab in-the marketplace , the four had struck a blow for Arab self-respect . Mubarak was aware of this sentiment in negotiating for the ship 's release . He did it to reaffirm his commitment to international order and the peace process . Then , true to form , Reagan kicked him in the teeth . Ronald Reagan has no obligation to accept Israel 's dismissal of the Palestinian issue . As the murder aboard the Achille Lauro illustrates , Americans have an interest in a Middle East settlement even if Israelis and Palestinians often behave as if they have none . The President 's handling of the incident will further discourage the peace process , without deterring terrorism . Four thugs may be in jail , which is good , but Reagan seems unable to learn that the politics of the Palestinian issue is what terrorism in the region is all about . MILTON V IORST Rules of Law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pirate is hostis humani generis , the enemy of all alike . Because he commits his crime on the high seas , beyond the jurisdiction of any particular country , there is universal jurisdiction to apprehend him and to judge him . Even though the Reagan Administration may-riot have invoked that principle in apprehending the four Palestinians who hijacked the Achille Lauro , held 400 people hostage and apparently murdered an elderly tourist , it acted in fidelity to it . Moreover , by turning the hijackers over to the courts instead of shooting down the plane , the Administration took the proper steps to insure that due process would prevail and that the innocent passengers on the plane would not suffer . The episode shows that complying with the law does not leave the United States helpless in dealing with terrorists . Although the opportunities for legal reprisal will not ordinarily present themselves so ' quickly and so dramatically , lawful means can work . Moreover , they inspire respect and admiration  --  for the United States and for the law . Unfortunately , in rushing to free Palestine Liberation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purportedly showed he directed the hijacking , the Italian and Yugoslav governments undermined some of the good that was accomplished . Their actions detract from the confidence in the legal process that would have resulted if the case against Abbas had received judicial consideration . The freeing of Abbas also adds considerably to the prospect that the salutary lesson of the Achille Lauro will not be learned by Washington . The Reagan Administration holds law , and particularly international law , in low regard , as it has demonstrated on a number of occasions , from its objection to U.S. ratification of the 1977 Protocols to the Geneva Conventions to its effort to sabotage the World Court . Nowhere has this been more evident than in the way the , I White House has dealt with terrorism . When T.W.A. Flight 847 was ? hijacked and when the Achille Lauro was hijacked , the President and his associates denounced terrorism immediately and forthrightly . On the other hand , when it was revealed last year that the C.I.A . had prepared a detailed manual of terrorist techniques for the contras , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the press as " much ado about nothing . " When Salvadoran guerrillas assassinated four U.S. Marine guards and nine civilians last June , the President radically increased U.S. military aid to El Salvador and ? pledged that the killers would be hunted down . When evi ' dence was compiled that contras had assassinated hundreds of civilians , the President praised them as " freedom fighters , " " our brothers " and " the moral equal of our Founding Fathers . " Even some members of the Reagan Administration ought to have gagged at the reports of what was said at a luncheon discussion of terrorism in Washington on September 25 . The participants were Vice President George Bush and the Administration 's intellectual guru , former U.N . ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick . The latter took the occasion to offer her opinion on the French attack on the Greenpeace ship Rainbow Warrior , in which , as in the attack on the Achille Lauro , one man was , killed : " I 'd like to comment on the French , if I may . I 'd like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attack civilians and bystanders and maim , torture or kill . " Responding to a question about whether she was sanctioning the attack , Kirkpatrick responded : " The question was about terrorism . . . . They did not intend to maim , torture or kill . I think that 's a very important distinction , very important . " And what did the Vice President , who heads a task force on terrorism , have to say in response to this remarkable declaration by his luncheon guest ? " I 'm not going to go into that , " the Associated Press quoted him as saying . " You know how it is , you know how it is . " The Reagan Administration 's handling of the Achille Lauro episode has been exemplary as of this writing . By and large , it has been low on bombast , and we have been spared pronouncements by the likes of Kirkpatrick . Justifiable ' pride in its handling of the affair could help to alter the Reagan Administration 's hostility toward utilizing the legal process in international affairs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governments acted so cravenly in the Abbas matter , diminishing the impact of the U.S. adherence , this time , to the rule of law . - ARYEH NEIER                     