@@431983

 | Last fall , a bill to require men to register for military conscription was so badly trounced in the House of Representatives that Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia , a strong bring-back-the-draft advocate , said there was no point in debating it in the Senate . Sen. Jacob Javits of New York added that anyone who suggested a peacetime draft would be committing political suicide in an election year . But last week , congressmen could hardly contain their enthusiasm for President Carter 's call for draft registration . His request for $10 million to " revitalize " the Seletive Service System is expected to glide through Congress , as one Senate aide put it , " like a hot knife through butter . " Under the Carter plan , the youth of America would be required to report to their local post offices to file their names , addresses and ages . Postmasters would forward the registration forms to the Selective Service System , where they would be stored in computers . No draft cards would be issued , no physical exams would be required and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 4F or 2S . Carter will submit a more detailed plan to Congress within a month . The current plan calls for all the estimated 16 million men between the ages of 18 and 26 to register ? but Carter may decide to narrow that range depending on U.S. manpower needs . Or womanpower . For now , Carter has ducked the explosive question of whether to register women , but he is expected to decide by Feb. 9 . One clue : Rosalynn Carter favors registration for women as well as men . ' Deep Standby ' : How much would registration boost U.S. military readiness ? " Registration would be of only modest help , " conceded one top Administration official . " The President was really looking for a dramatic signal to send the Soviet Union . " The crucial need now is for trained , combatready forces in the first few days and weeks of fighting . The Selective Service System is currently so moribund ? on " deep standby , " in Pentagon terms ? that it would take at least 110 days to locate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and 40 more days to muster a force of 100,000 . White House officials say that prior registration would shave just two or combat . The plan also would not address critical shortcomings in the all-volunteer forces , now seven years old . The active forces are close to their peacetime quotas , but in the event of war , Pentagon strategists are counting on reserve forces to provide trained manpower until a draft is set in motion . In all the armed services , the reserves are hurting the most ? roughly 133,000 people short of the optimum 940,100 peacetime standards . While the threat of a draft might spur enlistments , the draft itself would not immediately add personnel to the reserves . Nor would it relieve the shortfall of re-enlisted noncommissioned officers . The Army currently needs 45,000 NCO 's and the Navy needs 20,000 senior petty officers . In addition , the Air Force is short 2,000 pilots . Some critics of Carter 's registration plan say U.S. defense needs would be better served by making the voluntary services more attractive . Defense Secretary Harold Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , said earlier this month that a draft would not solve the military 's biggest problem ? enticing experienced soldiers to re-enlist . " We have crippled the volunteer army with pay gaps and gimmicks , " charges Sen. Henry Bellmon of Oklahoma . " Registration is a placebo that will only make us think we 're doing something real . " Some Congressional defense experts are urging that the new selectiveservice plan at least classify those registered to speed up the timetable in case of emergency . " When the crunch comes , " says one Senate staffer , " you 're going to discover that a high percentage are in wheelchairs , deaf , have one eye , suffer from high blood pressure or are undergoing a sex change . " Even Carter 's modest call ' for registration reawakened opposition to the draft on college campuses last week . Chants of " Hell , no ! We wo n't go ! " rang out across the University of Wisconsin campus at Madison . At Stanford , veteran antiwar activist David Harris led 700 students in protest ; others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Berkeley . Aging Yippies demonstrated in Greenwich Village and a libertarian student group slated Feb. 18-25 as a week of protest . But student reaction was far from unanimous . If they have us by the throat , we must be willing to fight off strangulation , " argued George Witwer , 20 , an editor of the Amherst College student newspaper . A poll of s , : udents at 42 colleges last November by Opinion 18 , a student polling organization , found that 45 per cent favored registration ; 55 per cent opposed it . A Gallup poll of draft-age men and women taken last April showed that 73 per cent favor registration of men . ERA : The question of whether women should be drafted complicates the debate . Many feminist leaders say they oppose registration , but that if men have to register , women should , too . The American Civil Liberties Union said it would challenge Carter 's plan in court unless women were included . But registering women might solidify opposition to the Equal Rights Amendment . And it would underscore a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the military engage in combat ? Combat roles for women are currently illegal in the Navy , Air Force and Marine Corps , and against policy in the Army . Congress is studying a bill that would repeal those restrictions , but passage is unlikely any time soon . For all the problems , the registration system is likely to be approved . While hardly a panacea for the ills of the military , experts say it is a necessary first step to beef up America 's preparedness in an iicreasingly anxious world . @#                     