@@494218

South Africa and the American South , perhaps the two most pervasively racist societies in the world during the period after 1890 , would seem to cry out irresistibly for comparative study by historians . Yet when John W. Cell of Duke University entered the field a few years ago , he felt he was " being pulled into a historiographical vacuum . " Nothing of consequence had been forthcoming since the days of Lord Bryce at the end of the last century and Maurice Evans a hit later , who both wrote more journalistic than scholarly treatments . Then suddenly , while Cell 's book was in press , three serious comparative studies burst into print . The most comprehensive of these was George Fredrickson 's White Supremacy : A Comparative Study on American and South African History ( 1981 ) . Yale scholars produced two more : Stanley Greenberg 's Race and State in Capitalist Development : Comparative Perspectives ( 1980 ) , and a symposium volume edited by Howard Lamar and Leonard Thompson , The Frontier in History : North America and Southern Africa Compared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourth , are written from different perspectives , and each makes distinctive and significant contributions to a virtually new field of comparative history . Given the modern type of historical training and specialization , the predominant pattern of the comparative history enterprise has been that of a native and specialist in the history of one country heroically striving to master the history of another and to bring together some aspects they have in common for comparison ? often with emphasis on the other country . Fredrickson is an excellent example . Sometimes experts on two countries pool their efforts , as did Lamar and Thompson . Cell is a rare exception : a native of this country and a specialist on the other . It may be that he has turned his Southern background to advantage in this adventure in comparative history . With disarming candor Cell admits that his book is not based on extensive archival research but on a combination of secondary and contemporary published sources . Among other things it is a comparison of how historians of South Africa and the American South have analyzed the origins and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ historiography he hopes that he has " contributed something to history . " This he has indeed done , not only by sophisticated and discerning criticism of existing literature from both countries but by findings and insights of his own as well . As the title indicates , the book focuses on a stage of white supremacy and not the whole ? a much larger subject ? and on segregation , which he calls " the highest stage . " White supremacy under slavery , plantation , and frontier conditions depended on " vertical " coercion , personal authority , white over black ; under urban and industrial conditions , in contrast , it required a " horizontal " system , and segregation proved to be the answer in the South and in South Africa . Far more than mere physical separation , segregation is a complex of interlocking economic , political , legal , social , and ideological components maintained by the dominant group through monopoly over the political institutions of the state . Interaction between de facto and de jure practices is a circular process by which custom becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to keep the subjected groups in their place through the entire range of a society that is constantly bringing them together with the dominant caste . Far from being the crude work of " rednecks , " segregation is the subtle , flexible , complex fabrication of sophisticated elites . Offering a basis of collaboration to the elite of the victimized caste , rationalizing and legitimizing patterns of caste and class , segregation perpetuates white supremacy in a hostile world and presents " one of the most successful political ideologies of thenineteenth century . " It could be ( and often was ) incorporated into the milieu of " progressivism . " Any scholar who has seriously tackled a major problem of " origins " will appreciate what Marc Bloch meant by the historian 's " idol of origins . " Following Bloch 's example , Cell carefully distinguishes harbingers and precedents from origins . The true origins of segregation are not in slavery or on the frontier but in the modern conditions of the 1890s , and it did not " just happen " : it was made to happen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in locating the point and conditions at which the system was crystallized , but he thinks they have " gone too far " in insisting on " class as real and structural " and dismissing race as " fictitious , mystifying , and superstructural . " By so doing they " have oversimplified a complex problem . " He is not one to avoid complexities . T N SPITE OF the vast distances and differences between the two countries , the comparative field of segregation ( not including white supremacy ) strikes Cell as " remarkably tidy . " With a common time frame , long histories of racial oppression , and the consolidation of segregation little more than a decade apart , both white and black actors in the historic drama on both sides of the world were conscious of relationships between the two movements . The American South took the lead , and South Africa watched with a mixture of apprehension , envy , and wonder , and sometimes with horror at the extremes of racial bitterness and violence in its Western partner . The larger amount of space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the historiography and history of the American South rather than its African partner ? just the reverse of the relative proportions characteristic of a comparative study where the author is a specialist at home and a novice abroad . In my discussion of American historiography that follows , it is only fair that the reader be alerted to an anomaly : a conspicuous proportion of the literature on segregation addressed by Cell consists of the writings of the reviewer and the revisions advanced by his numerous critics . I can only try to be as fair in my criticism of Professor Cell as he has clearly tried to be with me and my critics . That effort is admittedly facilitated by what I think is his tendency to agree with me more than with them . I emphasize tendency , for he has reservations and his own point of view . The issues are complex and rather slippery , but they focus on questions of origins and motives ? the when-and-why questions of segregation . The thesis advanced in my work more than thirty years ago and elaborated later emphasizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of precedents and harbingers , I contend that the segregation system ( and total disfranchisement that accompanied it ) had its true origins in the revolutionary changes of the 1890s and later . Before that time I suggest that less rigid and harsh " alternatives " ? though not an " open " or " integrated " or " equal terms " society as Mr. Cell mistakenly understands me to say ? were possible . While economic and social changes prepared the way , I hold that the basic motives were political and that the new system was instituted mainly to gain or perpetuate political power . Revisionists and critics have from early on attacked the emphasis on discontinuity , and contended that Jim Crow laws and disfranchisement represented no break with the continuity of Southern tradition and that the origins of segrega tion lay in slavery times . More recently , conservative , liberal , and radical historians have joined in reviving the old continuity thesis on the economic , social , and political as well as the racial front . Some critics have held that the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cards , and others have leaned toward economic determinism rather than political motives to explain the origins of segregation . It has been a lively and fruitful controversy , carried on with complete civility . It has inspired numerous works of importance on both sides . I have responded with revised editions of The Strange Career of Jim Crow to accommodate new findings but have continued to maintain the original thesis . The argument continues undiminished . Cell tries to give the revisionists their due , seems to agree with them on the unlikelihood of alternative racial policies , and concedes something to their stress on class over race conflict . But he pulls back from seeing planters as anticapitalist aristocrats , balks at the numerous forks in the so-called " Prussian Road , " and rejects simple economic determinants . Weighing the opposing arguments , he sometimes waffles and " finds it hard to choose . " He even says , " This may be one of those relatively few cases when both sides are right . " But in the end he comes down firmly on the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was " not economically determined " but instead " grew directly out of political responses to circumstances that were mainly political . " On the history and historiography of South African segregation , Cell sees strikingly similar developments and historical interpretations , except that in South Africa the historiographical positions are reversed . There the argument that segregation was the result of a continuous evolution from frontier and slavery and Afrikaner racism is maintained by the old school ; it is the recent revisionists , largely Marxist or neo-Marxist , who maintain that segregation as a coherent system and conscious ideology emerged only after the Boer War . It was no " anachronistic legacy from the frontier past " but a deliberate response to modern economic , political , and social conditions . ROFESSOR CELL 'S major contribu- tion to the history of both South African and Southern American segregation is to point out the extent to which it was the work of the " best people " in both countries ? liberals , moderates , professionals , upper class huManitarians and their allies in England on one side and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a softer , more flexible and intelligent alternative to the more brutal forms of racial repression that might thus be avoided . In America , to quote Cell , " the record of the Best South and its Northern allies was one long compromise with injustice . " In South Africa it was Cape liberals who drafted the Native Land Act of 1913 . The founding fathers of South African segregation professed the warmest fondness for African traditions and a romantic veneration for the African past . They cherished tribalism and thought cities had for Africans because urban life would disorient and detribalize them . American intellectual counterparts of these South Africans celebrated Afro-American folkways , dialects , and endearing quaintness that they sought to preserve and foster . Black welfare was , of course , their professed concern . Illuminating comparisons abound . Birmingham 's iron and steel labor force in 1910 was 75 percent black , which Cell calls " a South African statistic . " While immigrant proletarians of Northern cities were turbulent , Birmingham blacks were relatively contented , and white tranquillity and solidarity owed all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mixture of black people and white cotton was " destined to last only as far as the gin . " The pure white cotton-mill village of the South seemed to envious white South Africans a perfect model of how poor whites could be made industrious and self-sufficient . South African whites saw " fleeting images of their own future " in America , yet found it " full of examples of what must he avoided , " especially the lynchings and riots . As in most comparisons , differences are as illuminating as similarities . It was the rise of militant Afrikaner nationalism that made South Africa 's evolution after World War II " fundamentally different from that of the American South " and " hardened segregation into apartheid . " As the author himself says , " this book is about white people , " for " segregation was a world white people made . " In a final chapter , however , he attempts to treat the reactions , mainly psychological and political , of the people of color on both sides of the Atlantic to the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have the space to do justice to such diverse figures as " sambo , " Booker Washington , Gandhi , Du Bois , Malcolm X , and Martin Luther King , and it was probably unwise to try . Apart from that , however , this must he regarded as a book of genuine importance , a first-rate contribution to an ongoing historical controversy .                     