@@432485

 | When Tokyo pundits first started calling Takako Doi a " Japanese Margaret Thatcher , " they were joking , sort of . Even though the leader of Japan 's Socialist Party had once dubbed the voice of a female British Prime Minister onto a movie soundtrack , no one considered Doi a serious contender for the nation 's top political job . But comparisons with Thatcher are no joke any more , not since Doi steered the JSP to victory over the scandal-plagued Liberal Democratic Party in national elections for the upper house of the Japanese parliament in late July . Doi 's success was due , at least in part , to her ability to exploit immediate issues . Women voters were disgusted by a sex scandal involving Prime Minister Sosuke Uno , and there was widespread grumbling over a new sales tax . But the election also underscored changing attitudes among many Japanese and a growing conviction that the LDP has fallen out of step with the times . Formed in 1955 , the party was instrumental in making Japan an international economic powerhouse . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumers has created widespread discontent among Japanese who want better living conditions and a bigger share of the nation 's wealth . Many also feel that traditional LDP-style village politics is no longer appropriate for an economic superstate . So , for the first time , the voters turned against the LDP . " Money politics . " Its defeat has plunged the LDP into what threatens to be a debilitating and divisive struggle over new leadership . But the ruling party is far from being counted out . Because of its majority in the more important lower house of Japan 's parliament , or Diet , the LDP still controls the government . If it can muster the willpower , this gives the LDP the political muscle to beat back the first major challenge to one-party rule in more than three decades . Its first task will be the quick selection of a new Prime Minister untainted by scandals . Then will come the much harder chore of reversing the missteps of the past year . Chief among these in many voters ' minds is the Recruit scandal , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politics . " This involved taking legal but unethical payoffs from the Recruit company , a personneland-information organization , in return for political favors . The enrichment of politicians was particularly galling to Japanese shoppers , who had to pay 3 percent more for everything because of a new LDP-initiated sales tax . Then came headlines about Uno 's alleged womanizing , which alienated female voters ? who now outnumber males by some 2.7 million in an electorate of 90 million . Benefiting from what the Japanese press calls " the Madonna factor , " women candidates , most of them from opposition parties , won an unprecedented 22 seats in the July 23 election . For Doi , the only female ever to head a Japanese political party , sex clearly was a factor in the JSP victory . But so was the 60-year-old former law professor 's skill at convincing a conservative electorate that a vote for the JSP was not an invitation to anarchy . The party platform still advocates unarmed neutrality , recognizes North Korea 's Kim Il Sung as the only legitimate leader of all Korea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less binding bilateral friendship pact . But during the campaign , Doi emphasized " clean politics " over socialism and gave assurances that the JSP would retain all the basic elements of U.S.-Japan defense arrangements . This eased voter anxieties , as did her effervescent personality , chic business suits and passion for pinball and baseball . Tax repeal . With analysts predicting a lower-house election as early as September , the JSP has the advantage of momentum . Doi will try to capitalize on this by introducing a bill to repeal the sales tax as soon as the new Diet opens . The move is certain to be defeated in the lower house , but it will have the effect of putting the LDP on the defensive . Such tactics probably will not be enough to transform the JSP into the ruling party . One problem is manpower . In national elections only three years ago , the JSP fielded just half the candidates it would need for a lower-house majority . Money is another hurdle . The JSP relies mostly on organized labor for funds , while the LDP @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , may be the JSP itself . It remains an umbrella party for factions ranging from hard-core Marxists to centrists like Doi . The JSP 's best chance for new successes would be continued LDP failure to placate key groups of voters ? farmers , women , shopkeepers and office workers ? who have begun to turn against the ruling party . Some traditional LDP solutions , such as spreading pork-barrel projects around the country , could bring disaffected voters back into the fold . If that does n't happen , Doi may one day become a Japanese Margaret Thatcher in fact instead of in jest .                     