@@336451

In the new ABC sitcom Full House , two would-be fathers frantically try to diaper a baby , using an electric fan , a roasting pan and a roll of paper towels . It is one of the dumbest scenes in one of the dumbest of the season 's new shows , but a sharp-eyed viewer will notice a small breakthrough : the baby . Infants on prime-time TV are sometimes talked about , maybe even glimpsed from afar ; yet with rare exceptions ( O.K. , Little Ricky ) , they have traditionally been nonpersons in a medium that prefers tots old enough to fire one-liners at the grownups . <P> This season preverbal toddlers turn up as characters on no fewer than three new series . The children are a fitting symbol for TV 's discovery of yuppies and their world . Young married couples , coping with baby strollers and middle- of-the-night feedings , are a chief focus of two new family dramas , thirtysomething and A Year in the Life . Striving young professionals  --  single , well appointed and usually living in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are easy to spot . CBS 's Everything 's Relative revolves around two brothers who share a New York apartment and a nagging mother . One ( John Bolger ) is a blue-collar swinger ; the other ( Jason Alexander ) , a buttoned-down yuppie who does consumer research for products like sushi-on-a-stick . In NBC 's My Two Dads , two bachelors get joint custody of a twelve-year-old girl , whom one of them  --  no one knows which  --  has fathered . Again , they are a contrasting pair : Greg Evigan is a free-spirited artist , Paul Reiser a compulsive financial analyst who describes himself as a " coffee achiever . " In CBS 's Leg Work , a former assistant D.A . ( Margaret Colin ) goes into the private-eye business , but seems to spend less time solving crimes than caring for her Porsche and commiserating with girlfriends about the dating scene . It is no accident that this fall marks the debut of the first network series to deal with that formative experience for the baby-boom generation , the Viet Nam War . <P> The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least partly to the success of L.A. Law , NBC 's classy drama series set in a Los Angeles law firm . Never mind the courtroom theatrics ; this is a show about attractive young professionals grappling with ' 80s problems : managing relationships , balancing a career and personal life , reconciling ideals with the demands of the real world . Another influence has been the advent of people meters , the new ratings technology that is expected to mean higher ratings for shows watched by younger , upscale viewers . Most important may be the fact that TV writers and producers  --  mostly well-paid men and women in their 20s , 30s and 40s  --  are simply creating shows about what they know . They do n't know much about autoworkers in Detroit .                     