@@335647

THE BICENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY done in Convention . . . the Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and Eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States of America the Twelfth ARTICLE VII THE CONVENTION How the Deed Was Done When 55 men spent a hot summer arguing their way to greatness <P> Some of the notables invited to the convention in that summer of 1787 simply refused to come . One , Virginia 's Patrick Henry , said of the gathering in Philadelphia that he " smelt a rat . " Others came and found the impassioned arguments profoundly dispiriting . " I almost despair of seeing a favorable issue to the proceedings of the convention , " George Washington wrote to Alexander Hamilton , who had already gone back to New York City , " and do therefore repent having had any agency in the business . " <P> Actually the 55 delegates who concocted that remarkable Constitution over the course of a long , hot summer had no real mandate to do what they did . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Articles of Confederation , which the 13 rebellious colonies had agreed to in 1777 but which had clearly failed to establish an effective national Government . Neither Congress nor anyone else had authorized the delegates to invent a whole new political system . <P> That was one reason why the group decided at the start to confer in total secrecy , with the windows of the Pennsylvania statehouse shut tight and sentries stationed at the doors . When one delegate carelessly dropped a copy of a convention document , Washington began scolding , " I must entreat the gentlemen to be more careful , lest our transactions get into the newspapers and disturb the public repose . " <P> There was very little public repose to be disturbed . Seven years of war had nearly bankrupted the colonies , and both credit and currency were almost worthless . The supposedly united states quarreled fiercely over economic resources , like oyster-harvesting rights in Chesapeake Bay , and Congress had no real power to keep the peace . The brief but violent Massachusetts farmers ' uprising , known as Shays ' Rebellion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though it had taken Virginia 's James Madison and his like-minded colleagues nearly two years to prepare the way for this " Federal Convention , " the scheduled opening day , May 14 , came and went without enough delegates to get started . Washington 's arrival the previous day was a good omen , though . Without his prestigious presence , there was little hope for any new constitution . The retired commander of the Revolutionary Army originally was a little reluctant to come , but cheering crowds hailed him all along the route from his home at Mount Vernon . In Philadelphia , Washington soon went to call on his old friend Benjamin Franklin , now 81 and gout-ridden , who traveled around Philadelphia in the city 's first sedan chair , a glass-windowed Parisian creation carried by four prisoners from the Walnut Street jail . Franklin , who knew Washington 's tastes well , had a cask of porter ready .                     