@@298936

On its ninth mission , the shuttle will carry aloft Spacelab <P> To the irreverent eye , it looks like an outsize Thermos bottle . But the oddly configured contraption , nestled in the big cargo bay of the space shuttle , represents a giant step into the cosmos . When Columbia roars off its Florida pad on Monday morning , Nov. 28 , it will be carrying the billion-dollar Spacelab , the first true scientific research station in orbit . <P> There are other noteworthy aspects about the ninth shuttle flight . By the time Columbia lands on the California desert 144 orbits later on Dec. 7 , it will have completed the longest shuttle journey , one day ( and 400,000 miles ) more than any previous flight . Columbia 's six-man crew will be the largest to fly aboard the shuttle and will include the first non-American astronaut . But clearly the highlight of the trip will be the debut of the 33,252-lb . Spacelab . It represents the first real marriage of space engineering to fundamental scientific research in the manned space effort . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reaching a major milestone in the space program . " <P> On its test flight , Spacelab will contain some 70 experiments designed by scientists from the U.S. , Western Europe , Canada and Japan . Among them : a French experiment that will measure the radiation produced by sunlight 's action on hydrogen ; a West German high-resolution camera that will map the earth 's surface ; a U.S. study that may help explain the life cycle of stars and galaxies . Other tests will determine the advantages of fabricating specialized terrestrial materials ( crystals , alloys , ceramics ) in conditions of weightlessness rather than on earth . There are also studies to see how humble forms of life adapt to space . For example , one inquiry will seek to learn whether sunflowers really need gravity to grow in their characteristically spiral patterns . Indeed , the flight 's experimental agenda , involving the work of more than a hundred scientists , is so crowded that " science itself has become the reason for doing this mission , " says Spacelab I Mission Scientist Rick Chappell . <P> @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eleven-member European Space Agency ( ESA ) . Packed with everything from computers to miniature automated factories , it is a major advance over Skylab , the U.S. 's first scientific work station in orbit , which was occupied by three successive teams of astronauts in the early 1970s . Spacelab is also considerably more sophisticated than the current Salyut 7 , which the Soviets hint may be the first building block of a larger orbital station . Spacelab 's uniqueness lies in the versatility of its three major components : 1 ) two cylindrically shaped laboratories , where the earthlike atmosphere will permit astronaut-scientists to work in shirtsleeves ; 2 ) five external platforms , or " pallets , " on which various instruments , such as telescopes and other sensors , will be exposed directly to the space environment ; and 3 ) a snakelike tunnel that will enable astronauts to move between the labs and their living quarters in the shuttle 's cabin .                     