@@325995

If Andrei Gromyko 's meeting with President Reagan is to lead to any substantive U.S.-Soviet bargaining on nuclear arms , it presumably would involve reopening in some form two sets of negotiations that broke off in Geneva at the end of 1983 : <P> &gt; The INF ( for Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces ) talks . When they began in November 1981 , the U.S. planned to install in Western Europe 572 single-warhead Pershing II and Tomahawk cruise missiles to counter Soviet deployment of triple-warhead SS-20 missiles ( about 270 in place then , more than 370 now ) that were or could be targeted at Western Europe . The opening U.S. position was the " zero option " : no U.S. deployment , scrapping of the entire Soviet SS-20 force . Later Reagan proposed an " interim solution " : if the Soviets would reduce the number of SS-20s , the U.S. would deploy fewer than 572 missiles , but still match the remaining SS-20s warhead for warhead . Moscow offered varying reductions in the number of SS-20s , if the U.S. would cancel its entire deployment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , matching the number in the independent British and French nuclear forces , which the U.S. insisted should be left out of the bargaining . The Soviets painted themselves into a corner by vowing never to accept the stationing of a single Pershing II or Tomahawk in Western Europe ; once the U.S. deployment actually started , just before Thanksgiving in 1983 , their own proclamations left them no choice but to break off the talks . <P> &gt; The START ( for Strategic Arms Reduction Talks ) bargaining . These negotiations , which began in June 1982 , concerned the long-range nuclear weapons that the U.S. and Soviet Union would fire directly at each other in war . The U.S. proposed a formula for reductions that would have forced extra-deep cuts in the number of Moscow 's heavy land-based missiles , which one Soviet official described as " the absolute mainstays of our defense . " In October 1983 , under heavy pressure from congressional critics , Reagan incorporated into his proposal parts of an alternative idea , the " double build-down " : each side would be required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one added to its arsenal . The Soviets objected that the formula by which such reductions would have been calculated was weighted against them . <P> Throughout the talks , Moscow clung to a proposal to establish ceilings on strategic " launchers " ( missile silos , submarine missile-launching tubes , intercontinental bombers ) lower than those set by the SALT II treaty . The U.S. complained that the Kremlin would retain a long lead in monster land-based missiles . The Reagan Administration regards these as the most " destabilizing " and dangerous nuclear weapons because they could deliver a devastating first strike . Unlike the INF talks , the START negotiations were never formally ended . But after the deployment of U.S. Pershing II and Tomahawk missiles in Europe began , the Soviets contended that they would have to reassess the global nuclear balance before proposing a date to restart START . Twenty-two months later they still show no signs of ever doing so .                     