@@480296

ON CAPITOL HILL fascinated spectators called it " The Day the Nuns Attacked the Soldiers . " But diplomatic historians may eventually give the episode a title more in keeping with its importance , which was that of a milestone in U.S. foreign policy . In the meantime , perhaps " The Morning the Haig Doctrine Came Out of the Closet " will do . Before a House committee , the secretary of state was defending U.S. intervention in El Salvador , and a question arose concerning four American missionaries killed there last winter . The women ? three nuns and one Catholic lay worker ? were abducted from their van near El Salvador airport last December 2 . Their bodies were eventually recovered from shallow graves twenty miles away . In the waning hours of the Carter administration , a team of officials led by William D. Rogers , a former under secretary of state in the Ford administration , was sent to El Salvador to investigate . The Rogers mission found evidence that four U.S. citizens , all engaged in humanitarian relief work , had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the very forces the U.S. is arming al and supplying in El Salvador . According to the State Department 's own investigation , " All four women had been shot in the head . " They also appeared to have been molested before they were executed . " The underwear of three was found separately , " according to the report , which also added that " one victim had been found nude below the waist . " Who had killed them ? According to Robert White , U.S. ambassador to El Salvador at the time , " It is undoubted that the American-supported security forces were implicated in the murders . " White 's own investigation , in fact , has given him cause to conclude that the murders were ordered by a high-ranking Salvadoran regional commander whose identity Ambassador White knows ? and whose identity has been known to Reagan administration officials for months . The initial State Department report also presented substantial circumstantial " evidence suggesting security force complicity . " This evidence included the fact that Salvadoran security forces were seen " stopping cars at the outskirts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ churchwomen , " and that both civilian and military officers of the Salvadoran government engaged in an elaborate attempt to hide the bodies . Even though villagers who saw them referred to the corpses as those of " blonde foreignT . D. Allman is a contributing editor of Harper 's and East Coast editor of Pacific News Service . 26 ers , " the Rogers mission reported " The Justice of the Peace ... certified the bodies as those of ' unknowns . ' " " In spite of the fact that the women were obviously foreigners , " the State Department investigators discovered , " the burial was arranged immediately under security force supervision ; it was done in a remote part of El Salvador where killings are commonplace and fresh graves likely to be ignored . " Government forces had also burned the victims ' vehicle in " an attempt to deceive or mislead anyone searching for the women . " According to the Rogers report , Salvadoran officials also impeded American efforts to find the bodies and investigate the crime , and once the bodies were recovered , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. embassy requested medical assistance , forensic surgeons personally chosen by Colonel Jaime Abdul Gutierrez , the most powerful military man in the ruling junta , " arrived within an hour , " but " they refused to perform the autopsy . The reason given , " the report continued , " was that no surgical masks were available . " Thus even the initial investigation manifestly pointed to what the Rogers mission itself called an " appalling crime , " in which four American citizens were killed for no apparent reason other than that their charitable works had incurred the ire of the Salvadoran military . As the Reagan administration took office , both the U.S. and Salvadoran governments promised a full investigation leading to apprehension and trial of those responsible . Yet months later , no arrests had occurred . No further information was released . Indeed , State Department spokesmen now repeatedly announced they had " no idea " who committed the murders , in complete contradistinction to what they had been saying earlier , and to what the Rogers report had made clear ? that Salvadoran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the course of his testimony General Haig should be asked if the State Department . in the months since he assumed office , had acquired any new evidence determining who was responsible forthe murders , and whether any steps were being taken to bring those guilty to justice . It turned out that the secretary of state had indeed made a discovery that had eluded the Rogers mission . Ambassador White , the international press , and others who had investigated the missionaries ' deaths . It was that no crime had occurred at all . Indeed , to hear General Haig tell it , the unarmed women themselves were the guilty parties and their killers had only been acting in self-defense . " I would like to suggest to you that perhaps the vehicles the nuns were driving in may have tried to run a roadblock , " Haig told members of Congress , " and there 'd been an exchange of gunfire and then perhaps those who inflicted the casualties sought to cover it up . " Such a short time after the secretary of state had announced a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ retribution " whenever terrorists struck against U.S. citizens , his rationalization of the terrorist murder of four Americans by U.S.-backed forces in El Salvador constituted the most precise official formulation yet of what might be called the Haig Doctrine . T HOUGH the Haig Doctrine has a multiplicity of applications , the doctrine itself is simple . It is merely that when the facts do n't correspond either to U.S. policy or to General Haig 's personal assumptions , it is the facts that are proved wrong , not the policy or the official administering it . How does the Haig Doctrine operate ? One example : the secretary of state announces that the Soviet Union is pursuing a " conscious policy of training , funding and equipping terrorists . " But a CIA investigation discovers the evidence does not warrant such an allegation . The beauty of the Haig Doctrine is that under it the discrepancy is shown not to exist at all . Instead , the CIA , by virtue of having presented facts contrary to General Haig 's assertion , is shown to have fallen into error . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new document validating the assumptions of the secretary of state is prepared . Another example : The president is shot , and General Haig strides to the television cameras and announces that " constitutionally " he is " in control here . " Clearly the Constitution is wrong , and such figures as the vice president , the speaker of the House , and the president pro tern of the Senate also have been misled about their constitutional functions , prior to General Haig 's clarification of what reality really is . General Haig , in fact , may be remembered as the first secretary of state to make solipsism the foundation of both the foreign policy of the United States and the conduct of his own office . El Salvador remains the clearest case study of the Haig Doctrine at work . While accusing the Soviets of fomenting terrorism , Haig at the same time supports terrorists in El Salvador himself . Could this possibly suggest some contradiction in terms ? Not at all . The magic wand of the Haig Doctrine is wafted over that little Central American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lie with the victims . The U.S.-backed forces engage exclusively in legitimate acts of self-defense , and it is those they kill , not the soldiers , who are the assailants ? " casualties , " as Haig termed them , in a perfectly legitimate military encounter between a roadblock of doughty , anticommunist freedom fighters and a commando squad of machine-gun-wielding Maryknoll subversives . The utility of the Haig Doctrine is that it can not be refuted , because its chief axiom is the irrelevance of fact . Had the nuns , as Haig suggested , initiated " an exchange of gunfire , " it might be supposed they were carrying guns . And if they had been killed trying to " run a roadblock , " one might also imagine that their van , and their bodies , had been riddled with indiscriminate gunfire as a result of the " exchange . " How to explain , in fact , that the churchwomen were unarmed , that the van was not riddled with bullets but burned , and that according to the Rogers mission investigation , they did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ killed many hours later in a place twenty miles away , as the result of individual bullets fired , one by one , into the backs of their heads ? And what about the peculiar way the four women were clothed ? Why should the nuns have chosen to run a roadblock wearing no underwear , in fact with one of them nude from the waist down ? Was it some plot to distract the soldiers , General Haig ? Under the Haig Doctrine , such quibbles are of no importance at all . In fact one can change reality as one goes along , day by day . Indeed , the very day after he first pronounced on the incident , when General Haig was asked in the Senate what evidence he had to prove that " the nuns were firing at the people , " the secretary of state said : " 1 have n't met any pistol-packing nuns in my day , Senator . What I meant was that if one fellow starts shooting the next thing you know they all panic . " This version , while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the facts , and yet nonetheless treated the Salvadoran troops ' deed as some harmless little prank ? no worse , say , than breaking into an office , or erasing a tape and then trying to cover it up . The Haig Doctrine has spawned what might be called the Kirkpatrick Corollary , in honor of Haig 's colleague and U.N . ambassador , Jeane J. Kirkpatrick . The Kirkpatrick Corollary to the Haig Doctrine is not only that the victims of terrorism are the assailants but that they get what they deserve . Like the secretary of state , Ambassador Kirkpatrick has defended the killing of the four churchwomen on the grounds they " were not just nuns ... they were political activists on behalf of the Frente , " the opposition alliance , which includes moderates as well as guerrillas . No matter that official State Department documents dismiss " unconfirmed suspicions that Catholic missionaries are assisting leftist groups , " and add : " Neither the Rogers mission nor we believe the work of Catholic missionaries in Central America is intended to benefit the radical left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mandate of fact is repealed . The Haig Doctrine not only has produced some historic television performances and some of the most unusual testimony heard on Capitol Hill since Watergate . It has spawned its own literature ? a two-part State Department " Special Report " entitled " Communist Interference in El Salvador . " Part I ? called a " White Paper "  - -  - asserts that the Kremlin has a master plan for the domination of all Central America , or as General Haig has put it , that Moscow has " a hit list for the ultimate takeover of Central America . " Part II ? subtitled " Documents Demonstrating Communist Support of the Salvadoran Insurgency " ? purports to prove it , with secret documents captured in El Salvador late last year . B UT WHAT OF the documents themselves ? On close inspection , the relationship between the documents and the conclusions General Haig has drawn from them turns out to be the same as the relationship between his testimony on the death of the nuns and the Rogers mission report ? or between the secretary 's perception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ U.S. Constitution . The White Paper , for example , asserts that the accompanying docu ments prove " several Communi states " promised to supply the S vadorans with " nearly 800 tons the most modern weapons and er ment , " and of actually achievin " covert delivery to El Salvai ' nearly 200 tons of those arm , a careful analysis of the dor for Pacific News Service ' Dinges , a Latin America who works for the Washin revealed a completely diff Dinges found that " t documents themselves only about ten tons ev border . " That is a State Department o would be of no milit whatsoever . This did not T Paper , however , from asserting that the documents proved " the Soviet Union and other Communist states ... are carrying out what is clearly shown to be a well-coordinated , covert effort to bring about the overthrow of El Salvador 's established Government and to impose in its place a Cornmunist regime with no popular support . " In fact the documents show something else entirely ? a single , unhappy Salvadoran official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost nothing . In one document a middle-ranking Soviet bureaucrat offers to pay the Salvadoran 's airfare to Hanoi ? apparently in an effort to get rid of him . On the basis of that " evidence , " the White Paper proclaims that he left Moscow " with assurances that the Soviets agree in principle to transport the Vietnamese arms . " In fact the documents , in one of the more striking examples of the Haig Doctrine at work even in the analysis of intelligence files , show exactly the opposite . The Salvadoran leaves Moscow ? according to the State Department 's own documents ? expressing " his unhappiness with the denial of a meeting at the proper level and the non-resolution of the request for help . " In the end he discovers the Soviets are not going to transport arms at all , and frets that " the Soviets ' indecisiveness could affect not only the help they might give but also prejudice the willingness to cooperate of the other parties of the European socialist camp .... " These fears seem to have been borne out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communist governments of supplying the Salvadoran insurgents with " the most modern weapons and equipment " and also of making " a major Communist effort to ' cover ' their involvement by providing mostly arms of Western manufacture . " Yet the documents brandished by the State Department do not indicate that at all . Instead , they show the Vietnamese and Ethiopians limiting their unfulfilled promises to largely obsolete weapons . The Hanoi document , for example , excludes M-16s the mod-ern combat rifle U.S. troops used there , and of which the Vietnamesenow have an immense arsenal ? and the same document shows the Ethiopians offering outdated M-ls.In countries directly under Moscow 's control , the pickings seem to have been even slimmer . The Hungarians offer such subversive devices as " ten megaphones , movie cameras " and the East Germans offer medical supplies ? but no weapons . The Bulgarians and Czechs do offer weapons , but of the socialist-bloc manufacture the Salvadoran guerrillas do not want . In the end , events in El Salvador demonstrated largely what the documents do . None of the weapons @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The guerrillas appeared to be supplied chiefly through the black-market arms trade , which involves many U.S. citizens operating out of Honduras , Panama , and Miami . And the guerrilla offensive collapsed , in part because of its failure to attract effective support from foreign communist states . As for the White Paper itself , intelligence sources in Washington found it a vintage example of the Haig Doctrine in full flower . One official called the White Paper 's analysis " highly unrealistic . " Another called the work " shoddy , " but the story may not stop there . Some analysts are convinced that many of the documents were faked . " Just as they 've been covering up on the nuns ' murder , " one intelligence expert said , " Haig and the CIA have been mounting a major disinformation campaign to obscure the nature of the Salvadoran conflict as a whole . " In El Salvador itself , Salvadoran officials have complained that bogus " Nicaraguan invasions " were staged late last year in an attempt to win U.S. public support for arms shipments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese weapons was planted . Another former CIA official with extensive experience in analyzing intelligence documents , Ralph McGehee , has called the White Paper " yet another CIA forgery operation . " It seems a rather crude attempt . " Lists of weapons appear to have been tacked to memoranda that do n't have much to do with the subjects discussed at all , " McGehee added . These analysts say that such an effort , which , in effect , deliberately misleads public opinion in order to win domestic support for the Salvadoran intervention , under law would have had to be approved by General Haig , the entire National Security Council , and the president . An equally alarming possibility is that Salvadoran intelligence officials have been deliberately misleading Washington ? and that because their misrepresentations so accurately mirror the presumptions of the Haig Doctrine , General Haig and his subordinates must neither know nor care . " Either could be the case , " another analyst said . " A ' friendly ' regime that murders American nuns could hardly be supposed to find some moral objection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The chief argument for the documents ' authenticity , of course , is that they fail to prove Haig 's assertion about the communist " hit list " in Central America . But , curiously enough , even the secretary of state himself has complained that there is a " disinformation " campaign at work . The culprits ? The White Paper again , not on the basis of any evidence apparent in the documents ? accuses the communist " propaganda apparatus " of making its " key aims to discredit the Salvadoran Government " and " to misrepresent U.S. policies and actions . " Apparently those working " on behalf of the Frente " include not only Maryknoll nuns but the American press as well . The real problem , suggested by a high State Department official after the release of the White Paper and General Haig 's testimony on the nuns , was that the media were giving El Salvador " about five times the attention it deserved . " Certainly there are growing signs that there is an El Salvador conspiracy ? one that , if successful , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the Haig Doctrine is still young , and evolving ? and it is still far too early to know whether General Haig 's objective is to deceive the American people about El Salvador , or if his only real purpose has been to delude himself .                     