@@432307

 | With his campaign to amass power now almost complete , Mikhail Gorbachev confronts a more daunting task : How to reverse a domestic slide that threatens Soviet superpower status . Even as the 27th Communist Party Congress confers power on the Gorbachev machine , it marks the end of a yearlong honeymoon for his rule . Now , he must follow through on his promises and begin in earnest to buck a Soviet system that has resisted economic and social reform . Since the Soviet Union is America 's main adversary , U.S. diplomats are closely watching the unfolding events . How well Gorbachev succeeds in his domestic reforms , especially in the area of bridging the technology gap with the West , is seen by U.S. officials as having a direct bearing on Soviet ability to project its power around the globe . Convening February 25 , the congress is expected to ratify plans setting ambitious ? and probably unrealistic ? economic goals over the next 15 years . Also expected is a party program that virtually cedes any hope of overtaking the U.S. living standard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstruction " of the economy . But the key event , heralding Gorbachev 's astonishingly rapid consolidation of power , will be an " election " resulting in a nearly 60 percent turnover of the party 's 320-member Central Committee . That represents the most extensive purge since Joseph Stalin threw out almost 85 percent of the old guard in 1939 . Since the Central Committee is composed primarily of party functionaries , government and military officials , Gorbachev scripted the outcome in advance by spending his first year in office replacing the old guard at all levels of the Soviet Union 's massive bureaucracy . Gorbachev 's performance has left heads not only rolling but spinning . In one year , he accomplished what many thought would take five . " It took Lenin and Stalin longer to displace their opponents than it did Gorbachev , " said Marshall Goldman of Harvard 's Russian Research Center . " Politically , he 's really a master . " At home and abroad , Gorbachev has used his savvy style to establish himself as a man to be reckoned with . Yet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have detected a lack of decisiveness about how to achieve the goals he has set . Domestically , he has outlined a vision of a technologically sophisticated future . But he also has proposed sometimes conflicting , often inadequate , methods to achieve those goals ? at least so far . Internationally , Gorbachev has transformed his nation into a more formidable U.S. opponent . He has skillfully played to Western Europe with his radical proposal to eliminate nuclear weapons by the year 2000 , while moving to extend the Soviet scope of influence by courting China , Japan and the Third World . A State Department specialist in Soviet affairs says the  | new leaders ' ambition is to be in a position where no foreign-policy question in the world can be settled over their veto . To great effect , Gorbachev cast President Reagan 's Star Wars research program into a space-based defensive shield as an international military threat . Simultaneously , he used it at home to hush conservatives suspicious of innovation . " What really worries our leadership about America 's spacebased defense is not the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It 's the effort to rally Western Europe and Japan into a high-tech-research alliance with America that will condemn Russia to permanent mediocrity . " But while Gorbachev has displayed an instinct for the dramatic that rivals Ronald Reagan 's , his rhetoric has yet to be matched with action . As he prepares to celebrate the anniversary of his March 11 , 1985 , assumption of power , new data show the Soviet Union 's economic growth in 1985 did not improve . Too soon to tell ? The year ended with an estimated growth rate of 3.1 percent ? a slight decrease from 1984 , despite highly publicized crusades against alcoholism , corruption , waste and laziness , and with marginal attempts at economic fine-tuning . Indeed , growth last year was the second slowest in postwar Soviet history . Some experts say it is too soon to blame Gorbachev , since he had to contend with the harshest winter in half a century as well as plummeting oil prices . Those factors , combined with declining production , are costing the U.S.S.R. badly needed earnings with which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fault , Gorbachev 's lack of early success augurs a tough road ahead . The new five-year plan to be ratified by the party congress calls for raising grain output , improving oil and energy production and making major additional investments in new machinery and technology . The 15-year program calls for drastic jumps in national income , industrial production , labor productivity and per capita income . Success would require a yearly growth rate of 4.7 percent , which Western experts see as unobtainable . The question now is whether the Kremlin leader will use his new power base to attempt the drastic economic overhaul the system desperately needs or simply continue modest reform with heavy emphasis on discipline . His speech to the party congress will be closely watched for signs of his intentions , as will a report by Premier Nikolai Ryzhkov , who has responsibility for the economy . But any truly radical proposal , such as a move toward a marketoriented approach , would shock most Kremlinologists . The consensus is that Gorbachev ? himself a product of the laggard system ? is too inherently conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the deep-seated problems of the Soviet economy probably are insoluble under a system whose lack of competition fosters more laziness and graft than innovation . Moreover , they think it will take Gorbachev up to five years of learning and , inevitably , failure , before he arrives at the same conclusion . " Gorbachev may have a couple of  | years when he does n't have to introduce fundamental reforms , " said Dimitri Simes of the Carnegie Endowment . " But two to five years from there , there will have to be a moment of truth . " Gorbachev 's No. 1 priority is getting the Soviet Union back into the hightech competition . The dramatic possibility of Soviet technological superiority symbolized by Sputnik in the 1950s has given way to the threat of permanent inferiority symbolized by America 's sophisticated Strategic Defense Initiative . The Soviets ' lag in high technology , especially acute in microelectronics and computers , has n't narrowed in the last 15 to 20 years . Gorbachev has called for total computerization of the economy , but it will be an awesome @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 million PC 's , " said Ed A. Hewett , a specialist on the Soviet economy . " In the Soviet Union , they 're counting them in the tens of thousands . " One reason Gorbachev seems willing to negotiate an arms-control agreement limiting nuclear weapons in Europe undoubtedly is his need for major transfers of Western technology . Sluggish growth Gorbachev 's campaign to modernize the economy faces similarly serious problems . Though it recently managed modest improvement in growth , the country 's gross national product still languishes at just about half that of the United States . Worker productivity hovers at about 40 percent of America 's . Although higher productivity is more important than ever , given the U.S.S.R. 's labor shortage , most Western analysts doubt that Gorbachev 's campaign will yield more than a 10 percent increase . He also is fighting a well-established black market , which drains off an estimated $7 billion a year ; a bloated bureaucracy and party structure more interested in sustaining itself than improving economic performance , and a system overcome with inertia and passivity . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has trouble getting Politburo backing for some of his initiatives . Despite the magnitude of the chal:enge , history teaches that the Soviet Union can not be written off . " There was a time the Americans in Moscow thought the Soviets could n't launch Sputnik , " a U.S. diplomat recalled . " The real high-tech military stuff they 'll probably manage . " Added Hewett : When they set their minds on doing something , they can be impressive . "                     