@@323416

Most Americans ' images of prison life have probably been shaped by Hollywood , from James Cagney 's White Heat to Clint Eastwood 's Escape from Alcatraz . TIME 's Special Section this week sets out to capture the raw reality of both prison life and the people subjected to it . To this end , Staff Photographer Neil Leifer took his cameras over a period of a year to six state prisons , including one for women , and a federal penitentiary . He returned with an extraordinary collection of several thousand photographs . <P> The editors chose to publish 35 from Leifer 's portfolio , the largest photo essay by a single photographer ever to run in TIME . All , except for the cover portrait of Attica Inmate Richard Eder , were black-and-white shots . Says Leifer : " Prison is a very , very boring existence for convicts . We sought an honest look . " One of his most vivid portraits is of Charles Manson , convicted of the Tate-LaBianca murders of 1969 , who was photographed for the first time in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , commune-organizing , desert-dwelling ' 60s life-style once made him America 's most prominent disturbed person , was leery and unwilling . But during a second visit with Manson , Leifer managed to allay Manson 's fears . In the competitive world of photojournalism , Leifer has always played to a tough audience , including Abraham Leifer , his father , who built the first darkroom that his son used , and who died last week at the age of 70 . But on a trip to Attica Correctional Facility in upstate New York , Leifer met someone who had been evaluating his work almost as intensely as his father : Richard Eder , who is serving from 7 to 15 years . A picture taken by a bank camera during a New York City robbery led to his arrest and conviction . Said Eder : " I 've been looking at his pictures all year . Let me tell you how good this Neil Leifer is . The only camera in America better than Neil Leifer 's is at Citibank . " Leifer photographed Eder by mounting his Nikon with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle of the cell , then using a remote-controlled infra-red signal to snap the shutter in order to keep himself out of the picture . <P> TIME Staff Writer Kurt Andersen wrote the main story after visiting most of the same institutions Leifer had photographed . Says Andersen , " I have never encountered an issue about which there is so much basic agreement on what is wrong and on what ought to be done . " He had the expert help of Reporter-Researcher Alain Sanders , who has a degree from Columbia University Law School . Sanders saw his assignment as a " welcome chance to go beyond the minutiae of law and to see how the legal system affects people at its point of greatest impact . "                     