@@494629

Dr. Thatcher 's medicine has n't worked . Is THERE A CURE ? BY JOHN LLOYD London IN the television age most countries project themselves onto the con- sciousness , of foreigners through personalities . For years Britain has impinged on the world through the starkly contrasting images of Margaret Thatcher , the shopkeeper 's daughter who attracted the loyalty of enough of the Tory Party and the country to change both ; and Princess Diana , the aristocrats ' child who caught the lonely eve of the Prince of Wales and who seems about to offer the British royal family yet another , even more vacuous , lease on life through physical beauty , public charm , and an alliance with the more polite parts of the domain of pop . The images are hold but a little hollow . Princess Diana 's husband , that melancholy-looking man on the edge of the screen , at times echoes the sentiments of a previous Prince of Wales , Edward VII , who destroyed his brief reign by his stubborn fidelity to an American divorcee . When he took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ South Wales mining valley , he observed that " something must be done . " Prince Charles , too , thinks " something must be done . " But what ? That is , of course , part of the familiar debate between left , right , and now center . But it is also a matter on which more confusion exists than can he contained within their philosophies . Both the images and reality of contemporary Britain are schizoid . A four-year rise in company profits ( from a very low level ) is accompanied by growing impoverishment and a widening of the income gulf ; a 15 percent rise in real income since the ConservaJohn Lloyd is the labor editor for the Financial Times of London . fives took office in 1979 runs parallel to unemployment , now over 13 percent . The balance of trade remains in surplus as the oil is pumped out of the North Sea and out of the country ; but in the first half of 1985 , Britain ran a deficit of around three billion pounds on manufactured goods . Expense-account living at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few success stories ? Jaguar cars ; but in the inner cities , expense accounts are not available to buy drugs , so the crime rates increase to pay for them . Pressing in upon the British sense of self-esteem is the greater success of other states . Britain rid itself of Empire relatively fast . With more reluctance , it fitted itself into a superpower diplomatic matrix that largely excluded it . But harder still has been the adjustment to economic pressure ? the realization that the " beaten " states of Germany and Japan used the rebuilding of national capital and national will to forge formidable industrial machines ; that the temperamental French and volatile Italians were better at making many products than the practical British ; that countries we had governed or condescended to were achieving a level of industrialization that threatened our market shares , often trapped in low-technology niches and prey to products with lower labor costs . The 19th-century things ( coal , steel , ships , capital equipment , textiles ) and the 20th-century things ( cars , trucks , electrical goods , telecommunications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ better or more cheaply by others . The British social or class system , dependent upon being the workshop for a substantial part of the world , now begins to fray . S OPHISTICATED British tell their U.S. counterparts that they envy their lack of class , that feature of British society held to he largely responsible for its inflexibility . But the class system produced more that was pleasing to the eye than Princess Diana . After the war , it was able to cope with a social democratic reform boom that preserved social peace , saw a tremendous increase of welfare for the working class and the maintenance of comfort ( if not of effective leadership in industry ) of the middle and upper classes . Within the working class , the craft and skilled workers ( nearly all men ) controlled a trade union movement that was highly constitutional and highly efficient at getting wage increases and delivering both on industrial action and on agreements . It was , of course , ever more shrilly blamed for most of the political and economic ills of the country . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of those who had the responsibility , education , and wealth that should have allowed them to identify , and achieve , progress . This failure has come home to roost under Mrs. Thatcher ( not by any means all because of her ) at the same time that the market begins to fragment and to dynamize the century-old lineaments of class . The " Labor aristocracy , " in Professor Eric t lobsbawm 's phrase ? which counted on a five- or seven-year apprenticeship for its members and their children , followed by a relatively well-paid job ? is now called upon to performtasks previously the property of the front office . As automated intelligence infuses their tools , they are pushed toward being programmers and technicians , wearing white coats instead of blue overalls . As the labor cost competition howls round their ankles from the south and east , their companies can no longer afford the luxury of dividing them from " laborers " and " semiskilled " : the new agreements signed in Britain 's small high-tech sector have " craftsmen " fetching their own materials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giant step , one that ten years ago would have been felt to be impossibly demeaning . The same and other cost pressures impel the big corporations , public and private , to a new form of industrial life : toward entrepreneurship . They seek to shave down their directly employed staff , hiving oft as many functions as they can to subcontracted companies , to freelance workers , to part-timers , to home workers . Within the core , and on the periphery ( for the consultants and the boss subcontractors ) , lite can be relatively secure and lucrative . But not for the workers whose jobs are no one 's responsibility but their own . In one view , the new world of work is terribly convenient , especially for women who seek part-time jobs to mesh with child rearing , and who constitute the only growing sector of employment . In another , it is a sink of wage-cutting and minimal standards , exercising a strong downward pull on all salaries . Policymakers now acknowledge the emergence of a dual labor market . Organized labor is both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citadels of strength , but those in the present government and in industry seek to encourage it , looking enviously at the flexibility of wages , of work , and of living patterns in the U.S. With its face firmly set against the kind of fiscal and monetary expansion that kept the U.S. booming through the Reagan years and dragged down the U.K. and other European economies , the government relies on keeping interest rates high ( to the distress of industry ) and on exhorting wage levels down . The message from the November conterence of the Confederation of British Industry was the old-fashioned Yorkshire saying " nowt for nowt " ( nothing for nothing ) . Taking leaves from the books of U.S. auto plants , they determined that wage increases had to be earned from now on . WEAVING through current concerns is the " new " one of race . The inner-city riots of the warm autumn were brief affairs , but were shocking in the harshness of the relations they revealed between police and young blacks . Riots in two London areas , Brixton and Tottenham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both cases , of middle-aged black women in their own homes . In the midst of the outrage , looting , rape , and the hacking to death of a policeman were let loose . In a third riot , in the Birmingham suburb of Handsworth , apparently prompted by black resentment over a police crackdown on drugs , two Asian brothers were immolated in their shop . The response has revealed a sharp tug between liberalism and authority . The obvious tact that in many areas young blacks have an unemployment rate of 50 percent has been countered with the obvious fact that they are disproportionately represented in crime statistics . The government has come down more heavily on the latter response ; the police are to get new riot-control technology and more officers . At the same time , though , the government is pushing more money into inner-city areas , and encouraging employers to take their social responsibilities there more seriously . Once again the U.S. is held to be a model . Liberals and even left-wingers , for their part , point to the U.S. government programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a move the Thatcher government has shied away from . Positive discrimination moves here often rouse the ire of white workers who point out that the unemployed are of every color . Britain 's small black political community is split over the issue . The political system is a two-party one struggling to come to terms with the third , center , force . The Social Democrats , who split from Labor in 1982 , are a tiny group in the I louse of Commons , but with the Liberals constitute an Alliance that attracts both guilty or dispirited Conservatives and Labor supporters who still think their former party is not responsible enough to govern . The government has more or less publicly identified unemployment as its weakest limb , and has put most of its bets on a revival of small businesses by cutting regulations and taxes in the hope that they will grow and offer jobs to the unemployed . Chancellor Nigel Lawson also sees in labor-intensive services a solution to his party 's dilemma ? but has inflamed the anger of Britain 's hard-pressed manufacturers by appearing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which in 1983 had lost so many of its traditional supporters that it Could no longer attract even the majority of trade unionists ( about 50 percent of the work force , though falling ) , the trick is to stay away from leftist rhetoric , stay away from specific commitment , stay away from such damaging entanglements as support for the miners ' strike ? and hope that the bright , fresh , and friendly image that its new leader , Neil Kinnock , has managed to convey will win the day against right and center , and take the majority of seats in the Commons . If not ? and there are many in the party as well as out who say the time for that old trick is now passed ? both Labor and the Conservatives are in the era of coalition government , long scorned as the kind of thing only these Continental Europeans went in tor . But more and more , Britain is part of Europe . Though some in Labor would still like to see an end to the Common Market , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ link . Trade flows are embedded in the EEC . The country 's laws have changed to accommodate it , and continue to do so ; the betting is that the pound will soon align itself with the European Monetary System , for all the narrowing of freedom to maneuver that will bring . Many of Britain 's fears and falterings are common to the Continen tal members : the aging industries , the pressure of Pacific Basin competition , the rather resentful dependency on U.S. military power , the barely spoken worry that the long bloom of European civilization 's hegemony is passing for something unfamiliar . It can not be said that Britain , or Europe , is merely clinging to a wreckage . Observed tram a 40-year retrospect , Europe 's recovery from a Nvar fought largely across it ( including European Russia ) has been remarkable on both sides of the East/West divide . But the European partners have lost the initial idealism for unity . Their industries do not have the markets of the U.S. or the efficiency of the Japanese ; their cultures are rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he fully popular . Britain is irrevocably part of all of this now , despite periodic fits of chauvinism and nostalgia , and great waves of sentiment for a special relationship with the U.S. Can it assist in the creation of a new common purpose for these old nations , and in doing so , find a role of its own ? 