@@295840

TIME has chronicled the cultural phenomenon of television 's mini-series from their beginnings ten years ago with The Blue Knight , a four-hour police drama . Since then , through Roots ( 1977 ) , Holocaust ( 1978 ) and Shogun ( 1980 ) , the magazine has noted the miniseries ' steady escalation in length , sophistication and cost , culminating in ABC 's The Winds of War , this week 's cover story . " Everything about this show was big , including the number of people who worked on it , " comments Los Angeles Correspondent Denise Worrell of the 18-hr . TV epic that is based on Herman Wouk 's 1971 bestseller . " I caught Producer-Director Dan Curtis on the Paramount lot , working on the last Winds of War episode . I drove to Montecito , a suburb south of Santa Barbara , to talk with Robert Mitchum , a gifted storyteller who answers almost every question with an anecdote . I interviewed about 20 people connected with the program : Jan-Michael Vincent at his favorite Malibu hangout , Ali MacGraw at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of The Paper Chase . At the end of it all , I felt I 'd been involved in a mini-epic of my own . " <P> Meanwhile , Staff Writer Richard Stengel and Reporter-Researcher Elaine Dutka traveled to Virginia 's hunt country to talk with Author Wouk about his TV script . It was the first interview he had given in eleven years . " Wouk is a dedicated , disciplined man and guards his time jealously , " says Stengel , " but he was genial and straightforward about sharing his experiences . " Adds Dutka : " He seemed to enjoy this break from the solitude of his typewriter . The two hours he had originally agreed to stretched into three . " As he began supervising the cover package in New York , Senior Editor Christopher Porterfield , once a television producer himself , screened a large portion of The Winds of War and assessed the context in which it was made . Says Porterfield : " Behind this epic show is an epic competition among the networks for a shrinking share of the audience . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explores where television is headed . Contributing to that industry story was Reporter-Researcher Peter Ainslie , who interviewed network , cable and advertising executives . " Network television faces threatening competition , " Ainslie concludes , " but few people I talked to expect it to shrivel up and disappear . " On the contrary , says Senior Writer Gerald Clarke , a frequent television reviewer , who wrote the main story : " The mini-series is what television should be producing , and despite its flaws , The Winds of War is absorbing , serious entertainment . "                     