@@494437

EATING As if it 's been waiting until he ca n't have it , some moment they lived , that he did n't want when it was his , begins to raise a craving in him ? good dinner that she used to hear him bring thoughtfully upstairs to where she was waiting , reading or watching TV . They 'd spend a half-hour eating it , their familiar life was a comfort , then from the next room where he 'd be brooding over books or just hoarding himself he 'd listen for her quiet movement , sometimes laughter as she watched TV or read . Did she want him to think she was happy ? But he 'd sit still and ponder what was expected of him , or hoped . Later they 'd snack , or one of them would . Remorse now makes him remember her saying one time when they were crying in her new living room filled with familiar things that were just hers , not his any more , " I wish I 'd stayed to have breakfast with you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work , him still in bed debating with himself whether to get up , whether to have an egg or skip to lunch . ( Once at a dinner when they were admiring all the work their hosts had finished together on floors and walls , but famished , she had told him how she liked something he had done and he 'd bitten at her , red with his own unsuspected anger , then sick at her tears . ) It was n't her fault he 'd stayed in bed . His too-wistful asking her to stay those mornings only showed he thought it would be easier if she went , though there were days he did get up to walk to the diner with her at that special pace they hit together , that came to life from them like a child , but was broken when after breakfast he watched her go on alone to work and he walked the other way full of coffee and bread as it would break if they were tired after those dinners with friends where they 'd eaten too much . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ home side by side late and out of step , each could silently take back from the other ? and he often would ? what had seemed affectionately given in the company of others . A brief safe walk to bed ? the distance sometimes growing , the closer they got to home . And in bed , whether they did or they did n't ; snugged against each other or not ; with the silence denying all hurts or tears from either or both ; with him refusing to answer or her taking a sharp quick breath to say yes ; good food and too much wine or bad and none they were hungry lying awake , and hungry they fell asleep , and sleeping , all night long , they were hungry .                     