@@486990

DELETED HISTORY Last week , the sweeping campaign to control the flow of information from the government to the public moved forward on two fronts . The Senate Intelligence Committee approved a bill exempting C.I.A . operational files from search and review under the Freedom of Information Act . And on October 4 , the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia upheld the censorship of an article by former C.I.A . agent Ralph McGehee , published in The Nation . McGehee 's article , " The C.I.A . and the White Paper on El Salvador , " appeared in the issue of April 11 , 1981 . It discussed disinformation and propaganda activities carried out by the agency in Indonesia in the 1950s and 1960s and in Latin America in the 1970s . McGehee submitted his article to the C.I.A . for prepublication review , and a number of deletions were ordered , indicated in the text by " deleted . " The Nation joined McGehee and the A.C.L.U. in a suit charging that the agency 's censorship violated freedom of the press . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ C.I.A . judgment as to harmful results of publication " so long as they are satisfied that the agency had " good reason " for classifying the materials . Two of the " good 1 , ..... 1. sons " the court found in McGehee 's case  --  that the censored portions identified " countries where the C.I.A . had established bases " and revealed details of operations that took place nearly twenty years ago  --  struck us as less than convincing . Writing in The New York Times Magazine , First Amendment lawyer Floyd Abrams charged that the Administration has " a view that .. . equates security with secrecy , and treats information as if it were a potentially disabling contagious disease . " We concur , and suggest that  --  quite the contrary  --  the disease is censorship , and the cure is freedom of information . ) Having failed to make a convincing case for his theory that the trouble in Central America stems from the flow of arms and rebellion from Nicaragua to El Salvador under the aegis of the Soviet Union , President Reagan now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the reverse direction . In fact , the trouble begins with the United States , which is flying arms and exporting counterrevolution from bases in El Salvador to contra outposts in Nicaragua . This is American aggression on a grand scale , and it is crassly hypocritical for the President to tell the world otherwise . Some small comfort may be found in the lingering skepticism of the mainstream media under a barrage of White House propaganda . If Americans learned one lesson from the Vietnam era it is that the government can not be trusted to tell the truth about foreign affairs . The result is that secret wars , covert ops and disinformation campaigns still make legitimate news stories . Thus The New York Times reported on October 2 that " the Central Intelligence Agency is using a Salvadoran Air Force base and some Salvadoran pilots to resupply the United States-backed rebels in Nicaragua , " and Newsweek rediscovered " the secret warriors " of the C.I.A . in its October 10 cover splash . In Central America , the magazine reported , the agency is spending some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destabilization and harassment , including a disinformation campaign to convince the Salvadoran people " that the guerrillas , not the Army , are the real bad guys . " And in a story that appeared in The Times on October 6 , Jeff Gerth convincingly demonstrated that one of the planes used in last month 's air raids on Managua had been owned by a C.I.A . proprietary company , the Investair Leasing Corporation . Unfortunately , such revelations seem to have lost the power to stir Congress to remedial action . Legislators , fearful of a backlash from a jingoistic electorate , are disinclined to buck the President on any issue he defines as a " national security " matter . No strong words have yet been heard from the leading Democratic Presidential candidates , who might be expected to pursue similar policies if they had the opportunity . After all , C.I.A . global skulduggery is as hallowed a Democratic tradition as it is a Republican one . Only a popular grass-roots movement against the war will create the political conditions for ending it . That process has begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ silent generation  --  but it will take time and , perhaps , fresh encounters with the consequences of imperial adventure . It was the nightly newscast body count  --  ours , not theirs  --  that finally forced the United States out of Vietnam . But despite the geographic proximity , Central America still seems far away from Central Park . Immigration Pols W hen a man knows he must stand for election , as when he knows he must stand on the gallows  --  to adapt Doctor Johnson 's famous epigram  --  it concentrates his mind wonderfully . So the President of the United States and the Democratic leaders of the House of Representatives finally focused on the onerous and ill-conceived Simpson - Mazzoli immigration bill , and conspired , ever so tacitly , to bury it . Thus they have entered a bid for the support of Hispanic voters as the 1984 campaign begins . It was  --  and surely will be again , when it reappears in some future Congress  --  a very bad bill . As Geoffrey Rips reported last week in The Nation , Simpson-Mazzoli " would make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tighten controls on immigration in a way calculated to encourage discriminatory hiring practices and union-busting . " It might have started the pernicious process leading to a national identification card policy . Worst of all , it would have legitimized an approach to immigration that has its roots in racism , agribusiness and xenophobia . Inside dopesters in Washington say that Speaker Tip O'Neill forestalled action on the House version of the bill ( a version had already passed the Senate ) when he heard that Reagan planned to veto it . Since Simpson - Mazzoli was highly unpopular in Hispanic communities , the President would thus have won support in the ethnic constituency he iscourting most fervently  --  and the Democrats would have been correspondingly despised . Reagan , who had supported the bill from the beginning , denies he was planning a double cross , but the Democrats say they know better . Capitol Hill Fecrets have a way of becoming common knowledge . What 's most distasteful about the story is not the burial of a bill , which is welcome in this instance . It is that both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy for at least another two years , and all the problems of illegal aliens , deportations , brutal harassment and arbitrary treatment of immigrants will continue to mount . Broken Record Theodore White emerges from retirement to write the first chapter of The Making of the Candidate 1983 . F rom fishing villages along the rock-strewn coast of Maine they came ; from towns with tall-spired white churches and names like Penobscot and Passamaquoddy and Moose Breath ; and from the crepuscular spruce forests of the northland , dotted with gunmetal-blue lakes . They came to Augusta to cast their ballots in the Democratic straw poll , these shrewd-eyed men and women of Down East stock . Inside the civic center , thousands of feet of cables snaked in ugly coils , while television crews trained hot white lights and microphones on the spectacle . Young reporters attired in new wardrobes from L.L. Bean roamed the hall , their eyes glazed with premature cynicism . Then the announcement was made : Maine 's Democratic yeomanry had chosen Walter F. Mondale as frontrunner for the nation 's highest office for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the great drama of a freeborn people choosing their mythic captain . But the question on many lips in this small , crepuscular city was : Will it ever end ? Will the prose of a great nation 's press corps crack under the strain of a fifteen-month campaign ? Will an elite of high-domed pundits trail off into burbling inanity ? Meanwhile , 2,353 miles away via old Route 1 , hardheaded men and women of labor assembled in a past ? stuccoed glass tower in Hollywood , Florida , for a meeting of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. ' s powerful general board . The delegates had their orders and they performed with the rhythmic precision of a team on a Toyota assembly line . So it was that the 13,826,603 members of the largest free labor union in the West were pledged to the cause of Fritz Mon-dale . Back in Washington , the turtle-nosed visage of the man from Minnesota broke into a gratified grin when he heard the news . But in another part of Washington , the icy blue'eyes of John Glenn glittered as they scanned a New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him and Mondale . Was the house of labor divided against itself ? Time  --  and Newsweek and U.S. News and all the others  --  would tell and tell and tell . The following day in Washington six Democratic candidates spoke in turn before the convention of the National Organization for Women , and when they had finished , the Republic had been promised a half-dozen female vice presidential candidates . American sisterhood vowed it would meet the challenge and find a female counterpart of the : Feat names that echo down the corridors of historyGaifett Hobart , Charles W. Fairbanks , Thomas Marshall , John Nance Garner . The women were mindful of the mantle of responsibility that had descended upon them . As one delegate put it in reverential tones : " This means that NOW is only a heartbeat away from the leadership of the free world . " Meanwhile , at a factory gate in Ames , Iowa , a lonely , shivering candidate waited for the morning shift to arrive . George McGovern was thinking that eight years ago , Jimmy Carter stood at this entrance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A spokesman for the author said he had decided to retire after all . ) RICHARD LINGEMAN Grounding Unions y artier this year , District 100 of the International Machinists and Aerospace Workers Union refused to accept Eastern Airlines ' offer of a wage freeze , and instead negotiated for and won wage increases . Now , Eastern is threatening to file for bankruptcy unless the workers give back those increases . Although the airline 's cries of economic woe have been publicized in the media , the machinists , who know Eastern 's financial situation inside out , give them little credence . First , Eastern 's gloom and doom scenario is based largely on a single losing month . It is true that in August , Eastern 's revenues fell below what the company had projected . That was partly because fares have gone up , and all the airlines have lost some of their discount business . But passenger traffic is picking up as the economic recovery gains momentum . On the basis of the low August figures , Eastern projected lo ' ? er revenues for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the company could not predict what would happen in August , what makes it think it can predict what the next fifteen months will be like ? And how can it expect its workers to take pay cuts because of a single bad month ? In the past , Eastern has tried to win concessions from its unions by reporting bad news in the fall ( when air travel traditionally declines ) , even if it expected the rest of the year to be highly profitable . Second , many of Eastern 's troubles result not from high labor costs but from management errors  --  primarily , buying too many airplanes and borrowing too much money . Over the past three years Eastern has bought twenty-seven new fuel-efficient Boeing 757s . That purchase may have made sense when jet fuel cost $1.05 a gallon , but now it sellsfor 87 cents and the savings realized from the planes wo n't come close to paying for them . ( The discount airlines bought old fuel guzzlers on the cheap and are making money with them . ) Eastern spent $1.45 billion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and its interest payments for the first six months of this year were about $220 million , 32 percent higher than they were during the same period last year . If Eastern had the low debt that Delta does , it would be making a profit . The company needs to renegotiate its debt and win concessions from its creditors , but Frank Borman , the former astronaut who heads Eastern , has lost his credibility on Wall Street and some industry analysts think he is on his way out . Contrary to its public statements , Eastern 's prospects are bright . On September 13 , thirteen days before Eastern threatened bankruptcy , Merrill Lynch &; Company recommended its stock to investors and predicted that the company would be profitable in 1984 , earning $2.70 a share . Merrill Lynch should know something about the company 's finances ; it is the leading underwriter of its stock offerings . Yet ten days after making its recommendation , the brokerage firm replaced its " O.K. to buy " signal with a neutral one . Union members at Eastern and at other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The opening shot in the battle was fired when Continental Airlines declared bankruptcy on September 24 , abrogated its union contracts and applied for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Act . It emerged lean and hungry , its work force reduced by two-thirds and its wages slashed by one-half . It is now trying to survive as a discount airline , despite a strike by some of its pilots and flight attendants . Such a move was to be expected from Continental 's president , Frank Lorenzo , a notoriously antiunion Texan who founded New York Air in 1980 as a nonunion discount operation paying wages that were half the industry average . Now he 's trying the same strategy with Continental . If Lorenzo fails , there will be a sigh of relief among his competitors and among airline creditors , who regard the industry as overcrowded . Deregulation has led to cutthroat competition and empty planes . Banks have become alarmed as their portfolios of airline stocks and bonds have dropped in value . Now that the government is out of the picture , the banks are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ competitive with the cut-rate upstarts . The banks have also invested heavily in companies that supply the airlines with planes and parts , and they are using their muscle to force closer cooperation between companies in which they have an interest . For example , banks that lend to both Eastern and Boeing have encouraged Eastern to buy its planes only from Boeing . The drive to lower labor costs is part of the restructuring process demanded by the bankers . Continental and Eastern are the first in what could become a unionbusting stampede . The unions had better fasten their seat belts , because there 's a bumpy ride ahead .                     