@@494004

A Gentleman 's ' C ' Some time ago the Neu , Stoesman invited readers to impersonate contemporary writers making statements on their art " . One of the winning entrants did Graham Greene : " How is at Mr. Greene , you 're able to turn out novels so regularly ? " " Oh , that 's easy . ! just make each one a little worse than the one before . " Scandalous , to be sure . But that does register a widespread feeling about Greene . It might be thought that it 's only the current absence of Faulkner and Waugh and even Hemingway that makes Greene seem a novelist of consequence instead of , say , a fourth-rate Conrad . Is Greene not really a writer whose conceptions , plots , and style are , if the truth were told , as seedy as his famous settings ? Can he construct ? Can he imagine plausible characters and deliver believable images of their behavior in an efficient style ? Is not his melodramatic , Manichean vision of life less a sign that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ coarse intelligence ? Are not his psychological studies of fear and guilt forced and fraudulent ? Is there the qualitative difference he imagines between his novels and his entertainments " ? Does not his instinct for spy and detective adventure betoken a literary sense considerably less than subtle ? These are the troubling questions that arise whenever Greene is put forward as a major writer . They arise anew with this second volume of his memoirs . The first volume , A Sort of Life , appeared in 1971 . It dealt with his lifeonlymp to his 205 . Here we have the rest of it , from 1929 to 1970 . As Greene admits , " rather less than hair " the book has been cobbled together from the introductions he 's provided for the collected edition of his works . These bits are now arranged chronologically and bridged by new passages . There is thus an air of pastiche and incoherence about the whole , although the parts are often attractive . " I grew clever at evasion , ' Greene wrote of his youth in A Sort of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ my life . " This action of repeated escaping is now promoted to the theme , or pseudo-theme , of Wn y5 of Lira'e . Travel is an escape from boredom and England ; novel-writing , an escape from newspaper work ; film-reviewing , an escape from novel writing ; the short story is an escape from longer fiction : playwriting is an escape from film-script writing , etc . Here escape is like other big " themes " in Greene : it seems to illuminate and unify , but actually it 's just another way of escaping ? escaping precision . As in : " A friendship can be a way of escape , just as much as writing or travel , from the everyday rouBut if Greene 's run-through of his literary career is dominated by this kind of thematic hokeyness , when he forgets his fake unifying theme he offers some fascinating things . Like his account of libeling Shirley Temple . Her attorneys brought an action which closed down forever the London magazine Night and Day , which might have become the British Nen Yorker . ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the moppet 's manner was that of an experienced little tart . " A Gross Out-rage " ? Undon Times . ) Valuable too are his accounts of anti-colonial uprisings he has see , in Malaya , Kenya , and Vietnam . His interpretation of what happened at Dien Bien Phu is masterly . So is his version of being deported from Puerto Rico as a onetime Communist during the days when the McCarran Act was still without loopholes . He is startling and funny on Batista 's Ha- vana , in its day porn capital of the free world , startling and not so funny on Papa Doc 's Haiti . There are hints that he 's been engaged in more espionage than we have known about , for sometimes he has the greatest trouble indicating his motives for being ina certain and cial place at a certain crucial time , and h t f k " p " explanation . He is pleasant and perceptive about the fondness of American Foreign Service officers abroad for reactionaries and militarists . He provides a warm portrait of Evelyn Waugh : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwells on Waugh 's charity , bravery , loyalty . And he ends with a characteristically melodramatic account of " the Other "  - -  an imposter calling himself " Graham Greene " who pops up all over the world , introducing himself as the famous writer , making time with women , and borrowing money . Greene 's dosing words constitute a final whiff of evasiveness , and they lodge with us the suspicion that perhaps his problem is that he has the soul of a spy : " I found myself shaken by a metaphysical doubt . Had I been the imposter all the time ? Was I the Other ? " Who is he anyhow ? He seems by this time so conspicuously an international figure , with his Harry Limes and Orient Expresses and Stamboul trains , his travels everywhere , his exotic locales , his residences abroad in Antibes and Anacapri , that its surprising to be reminded by this book how intensely British he remains . His mind and psyche were formed by Rider Haggard , Diary of a Nobody , and Beatrix Potter ; by Hardy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make your flesh creep " ) ; and by Wordsworth , astonishingly present here by frequent quotation and allusion . Greene 's subject is justice , and becomes from the very British world of Fielding and Blackstone , Cobbett and The Secret Agent and Orwell . He writes in that quintessentially British genre , the detective story , only once-removed . His frequent success with the nasty has tended to conceal the terrible truth that he 's seldom written carefully . The very first sentence of A Sort of Life offers a freshman howler : " An autobiography is only ' a sort of may contain less errors of fact than a biography , but it is of necessity more selective ... " For " less , " read " fewer . " But Greene 's winning quality is his modesty . He knows he does n't write very well , although he thinks his trouble is ineffective metaphor and blurred visual perception . Actually it is his inability to master English syntax and the tine points of English sentence structure . In view of Mark Harris 's recent workout in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't want to give the impression that The New Republic is customarily more interested in publishers ' blurbs than authors ' works . But here 's another case of gross commercial hype and chutzpah . The jacket copy proclaims that Greene is " the most distinguished living writer in the English language : . That 's not merely hard on Philip Larkin , Christopher Isherwood , Gore Vidal , Tom Wolfe , and dozens of other exquisite managers of the English sentence . It 's impertinent and illiterate . Actually Greene 's writing is no palpably improvable that it could serve pedagogic purposes ( see examination on page 34 ) .                     