@@432484

 | It is one of America 's deepest official secrets , a combination of classified escape plans , cleverly concealed bunkers and Space Age communications systems that , in the event of a surprise nuclear attack , would enable the government to regroup to provide critical services to a stricken citizenry and organize an effective military reprisal against its attacker . It might well be called the Doomsday Project , but government bureaucrats , indulging their penchant for the prosaic , simply call it COG , short for " continuity of government . " COG is the government 's ultimate insurance policy should Armageddon ever arrive , providing the program runs smoothly . That may be the problem . U S. News has learned that officials familiar with COG worry that parts of it are deeply flawed . Their concerns focus on the quality of the program 's technology , the way the program is administered and some apparent contract irregularities . Inquiries by the Pentagon , the Justice Department and the House Armed Services Committee are under way , and a federal grand jury is hearing testimony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints : That state-of-the-art communications systems , which have cost billions of dollars , do not function properly . That " sole source " contracts , often required because of the secrecy of the program , were awarded improperly , resulting in millions of dollars in program costs that may not be justified . That security at some bunkers and supply depots , which contain massive amounts of food , drugs and chemicals , has been plagued by numerous breaches . The origins of , and the need for , a plan to keep the U.S. government functioning after a nuclear attack are hardly surprising . After the Soviets successfully tested an atomic bomb in August , 1949. defense planners in Washington began  | preparing measures to counter the threat of nuclear attack . In 1951 , President Harry Truman created the Civil Defense Administration , which drew up the first set of evacuation plans for the nation 's capital . One year later , the Army Corps of Engineers began carving an enormous bunker out of a mountain in the Virginia countryside not far from Washington . The place was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it would cost over $1 billion . Mount Weather became the nation 's biggest and best fallout shelter , though its existence was not officially acknowledged until 1974 , when a TWA jet crashed nearby . Tensions have eased considerably since the height of the cold war , but even today , despite a moderating Soviet Union and Mikhail Gorbachev 's apparent willingness to engage in serious conventional and nuclear-arms reductions , planning for doomsday continues . The latest thinking focuses more on high-tech communications than on hardened-concrete fallout shelters . Command , control and communications ? " c-cubed " in the military argot have become the new trinity . " Computers , satellites and radars , " says defense analyst William Arkin , " share priority status with missiles , bombers and submarines . " It was Ronald Reagan 's belief , expressed early in his Presidency , that a nuclear war was " winnable " but only if the government in Washington could guarantee its own survival . A review of the COG program by Reagan administration officials found big trouble on that score . Despite the attention paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not been updated since the 1950s and 1960s . Improvements had to be made , and quickly . In 1982 , a new secret agency was created . It was called the Defense Mobilization Planning Systems Agency , and its officials were instructed to report to then Vice President George Bush . Before Bush succeeded Reagan in the Oval Office , more than $3 billion had been spent upgrading command , control and communications links . On paper , the results were impressive . The officials designated as the chain of command in the event the President were disabled are tracked on a daily basis . The White House Communications Agency , together with the Federal Emergency Management Agency ( FEMA ) and the Pentagon , keeps computerized itineraries for the officials ( see chart , page 29 ) . Standing orders provide that , at any given time , one of the 17 designated successors will be away from Washington . But intelligence sources say there have been more than a dozen occasions during the past seven years when all of the officials have been within 2 miles of each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plan , known as " Treetop , " in the event of a nuclear attack , special teams equipped with war plans , military codes and other essential data would accompany each designated presidential successor to secret command posts around the country . The President himself would be whisked from the Oval Office by the White House 's Crown Helo , a high-tech helicopter command post , to a National Emergency Airborne Command Post ( NEACP , called " kneecap " ) , a specially reconfigured Boeing 747 jammed with telecommunications gear . Actually , there are four kneecaps . One is always kept airborne ; another is parked at Andrews Air Force Base , less than 10 minutes from the White House by helicopter . Who gets saved Besides the President and the other officials designated as successors , the Pentagon has developed COG plans for evacuating an additional 46 key officials at any time of the day or night . These 46 , named in the Joint Emergency Evacuation Plan , or JEEP , would be moved by helicopter to bunkers and command posts . Each has been issued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are military officers who work for the Joint Chiefs of Staff . An additional 248 JEEP-2 cardholders ? disaster-relief specialists , senior Pentagon officials and others ? would be airlifted to bunkers and command posts but only between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m . An attack after business hours would mean JEEP-2 cardholders would have to get in their cars and drive to their designated locations . In all , more than 1,000 political and military officials have been deemed important enough to the continued operations of government to warrant evacuation . So odd is the business of planning for doomsday that nothing may be taken for granted . Thus , COG planners have assumed that the coordinates for Mount Weather and Raven Rock have already been entered into the targeting devices of the Soviet Union 's long-range missiles . Because of this , there are other secret civilian and military bunkers . Specialists from FEMA and the Pentagon have divided the country into 10 different regions , among which there may be as many as 50 different " fallout resistant " command-post bunkers , each linked with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Any one of these facilities is equipped to function as an emergency White House , coordinating the functions of a new , reconstituted government . Theoretically , any secret command bunkers could be used by the Presi dent or his successor during or after a nuclear strike , allowing COG planners to play the ultimate high-stakes shell game . The attacker could never be certain which bunker was the " right " one . Like " command and control , " secrecy and deception would also become watchwords of the COG planners . In its essence , during the heavy expenditures of the Reagan years , COG , or Project 908 , which is one of its official titles , was a crash program designed to manufacture mobile and secure communications systems , establish the regional centers to which a government under attack could safely be relocated and replicate the most important government services , including allocation of food and medicine and coordination of disaster relief . Because it was so sensitive , the Reagan administration decided to remove much of the program from congressional oversight . Even many senior Pentagon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning and money that went into the COG program , there have been some embarrassments . One plan called for placing new communications gear capable of withstanding the electronic pulses created by nuclear explosions into specially configured 18-wheel tractor trailers . The first two prototype trucks were completed in 1984 , but when they were dispatched on a test run in rural Virginia that fall , disaster struck . In one instance , a road buckled under the truck , which was far heavier than ordinary roadbeds can accommodate . The truck sank into the pavement , immobilized . The other truck got wedged beneath a highway overpass . Evidently , someone had neglected to check clearance heights for bridges . Some of the communications gear itself caused problems . Officials say the computer systems of different government agencies have not been able to communicate with each other properly . Collectively , the systems cost billions of dollars to design , build and install . Three years ago , intelligence officials say , it was discovered that five such systems could not communicate with one another at all . To rectify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but intelligence officials say the modems have interfered with the systems ' ability to send and receive information , in some cases by as much as 75 percent . In one instance , a missile-launch protocol ( a detailed series of data needed to arm , fuse and launch a missile ) took several seconds to transmit ; the transmission is supposed to be almost instantaneous . In selected reports to Congress , military officials say , COG planners misrepresented the results of  | tests on the systems . " Congress was treated to a successful demonstration , " says one knowledgeable military source , " except the results were rigged . " At one briefing , in December , 1985 , congressmen were told that the communications systems were " operational , " even though they were not capable of functioning properly at the time . Problems with COG , which might have come to light eventually , surfaced when someone blew a whistle . In 1983 , then Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger and the Joint Chiefs of Staff assigned the Army the job of devising and maintaining the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in turn , assigned the job to its Information Systems Command , based at Fort Huachuca , Ariz . Who gets paid For help on Project 908 , the Information Systems Command turned to a company based in Arlington , Va. , the Betac Corporation . A consulting firm composed of former intelligence and communications specialists from the Pentagon , Betac was awarded a " sole source " contract to devise and maintain security systems for parts of the COG communications system . The " main basis for selecting the Betac Corporation for this contract effort , " according to an Army contracting document , " was because no other company has its unique experience , business status and role in C3I architecture . " Internal Army documents indicate the value of Betac 's Army contract in 1983 at $316,672 . By 1985 , it had risen to nearly $3 million . By 1988 , Betac had multiple COG contracts worth $22 million . A civilian intelligence officer responsible for security at the Information Systems Command was curious about Betac ,  | according to Army and congressional sources . Thomas Golden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ services Betac was being paid to provide . Golden would not talk with a US . News reporter . But military and congressional sources say he became curious after learning that a number of Army officials who had worked with Betac at Fort Huachuca and elsewhere were retiring from the Army and being hired back , under the auspices of Betac . As paid consultants to the Army , some were earning up to $400 a day . Seldom had the Pentagon 's revolving door spun more quickly . Golden also discovered that Eugene Renzi , a colonel who was deputy chief of staff for operations at the Information Systems Command , had been a key player in the award of the Betac contract . Golden learned that Renzi 's son was now working for Betac . Pointing fingers at COG was a risky business . Gicola Thorndike , a senior Army contracting officer at Fort Huachuca , says she was forced out of the Army after demanding repeatedly to review the Betac contract . But Golden had authority to review parts of the contract . And in July of 1987 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came to Fort Huachuca asking questions about Betac , Golden talked . Under an offer of confidentiality , Golden told of his concerns about the Betac contract . Within weeks , Golden 's comments had leaked back to Fort Huachuca . Unanswered questions It was a bad sign . The Army 's inspector general has enjoyed a strong reputation for integrity , but the Golden affair shot a huge hole through it . The Army IG began another investigation to determine who had leaked Golden 's comments . But word of the new investigation quickly leaked , and before the investigators even left for Fort Huachuca , officials at the Information Systems Command had begun destroying documents . When the Army investigators arrived at Fort Huachuca , they were told the documents had been destroyed in compliance with " routine classified-documents disposal " procedures . According to a copy of their report , the Army investigators concluded that Renzi had retaliated against Golden . But they found no other improprieties and recommended that the investigation be closed . Renzi received a reprimand . The affair was over . Or so it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about the COG program . Fred Westerman had worked for more than 20 years as an Army counterintelligence officer before retiring to open his own consulting firm , Systems Evaluation , Inc . Documents show that his company was awarded a contract to provide security for COG facilities around the country . According to Westerman 's attorney , Francis Mroz , Westerman discovered that his part of the COG program was riddled with security problems , such as inadequate alarms , faulty locks and flimsy doors . Mroz also says his client became concerned about " waste and abuse , " such as payments for work not properly done . After Westerman proposed tighter controls , he says , the Army declined to renew his contract . He has sued the Army and FEMA for what he says are unreimbursed costs . In court papers , he has alleged that unidentified government agents have conducted a campaign of secret surveillance , break-ins at his office and wiretaps . His lawyer was a witness to one episode in  | which an alleged government agent kept watch on Westerman 's movements . When @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found to belong to a couple in Delaware , who knew nothing about the vehicle . A Justice Department attorney has since launched an investigation of Westerman to determine whether he committed any fraud in the COG program . In an extraordinary move , the government has also sought to classify Westerman 's civil suit . Congressional investigators eventually became aware of some of the concerns about COG , having heard complaints informally through contacts in the Pentagon . Representative Les Aspin ( D-Wis. ) , the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee , was especially perturbed by the Army 's initial investigation into the COG program . In a report , Aspin 's investigators concluded that the Army 's inspector-general system was compromised . And in a stinging letter to Army Secretary John Marsh dated Oct. 24 , 1988 , Aspin said he was " concerned about the objectivity and competence of the investigation . " Aspin wrote that the " confidentiality of the investigation was breached almost immediately by the head of the inspectorgeneral inspection team . " Aspin 's investigators concluded that the Army had failed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found that the sole-source contract to Betac should not have been allowed . Betac officials say they know of no investigation of any of their contracts . They declined to discuss the COG program because of its classified nature . Cover-ups and fat contracts For the Congress , the first long look into the COG program was not a heartening one . In response to Aspin 's letter , the Army has reopened its investigation of the Army 's inspector general and the COG program . Those familiar with this latest inquiry , and with the ongoing congressional inquiry , say intelligence officials are disturbed by what they describe as attempted cover-ups of wrongdoing , possible fraud and woefully inadequate oversight of multimillion-dollar contracts . Investigators have been told of double billing by some COG contractors to separate agencies of the government for the same work . It was also learned that other contracts , valued at millions of dollars , were increased , some by as much as 50 percent , without input by any contractoversight office or without any demonstration of need . Pentagon sources say the COG program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former military officials who worked on COG while they were in the Pentagon . " The program , " says a key official , referring to a troubled multibillion-dollar antitank weapons system that was scrapped by Congress , " is another DIVAD . " Says another : " It is a real mess . " Things could get messier still . Subpoenas have been issued , and a grand jury continues to hear evidence . Congress is set to hold hearings this fall on the lack of oversight of classified , or " black , " Pentagon programs like COG . For one of the nation 's most secret national-security programs , the glare of publicity is bound to be embarrassing . That one of the nation 's most important national-security programs was jeopardized by the very people in charge of it would be the most wounding development of all .                     