@@297134

When I first visited Plains , Ga. , in December 1976 , a month after Jimmy Carter 's election , the town was buoyed up by various brands of delight-a native son 's handmade personal triumph , the daily spectacle of famous TV news faces bolting along the quarter-mile street between Jimmy 's house and the heart of downtown , the onset of Christmas . <P> The victor 's formidable mother , Miss Lillian , was freely available at the old railroad depot , dispensing her startling wit and candor . His brother Billy was cheerfully posing for snapshots at the gas pump , permanent beer can ominously poised . Even the President-elect and his wife were visible , making occasional forays to greet childhood friends or to eat at the nearest restaurants-every forkful watched for significance by a merciless post-Watergate press corps . A sizable slice of the citizenry willingly guided the influx of strangers round the sites-Jimmy 's birthplace , his country home , his father 's simple grave . ( The ambitious monuments in the cemetery are not marked CARTER , however , but WISE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Inaugural , the town and its people seemed - from present hindsight , at least-to be the kind of America promised by Ronald Reagan now . Its virtues and vices were personal . Contact was face to face , and the limits on life were human limits : How much do you need ? How much can you get ? Where do you come from ? What color are you ? How much will you bear ? Can I help any way ? Do I want to try ? <P> In the years that followed . Plains made relatively modest changes . A few new tourist enterprises sprouted , stocked to the ceilings with souvenir assaults on the two archetypes of the Carter presidency-peanuts and teeth , neither of which lends itself to much variety of treatment . On the outskirts of town , the state built a welcome center , with vast parking lot and artificial pond . Public restrooms appeared near the depot . There were two shops dedicated to selling good local crafts , and-miraculously and surrealistically - there was a new , genuine French restaurant in an old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the New York price . Larry Flynt began publishing a weekly newspaper , the Monitor , with a crusading editor imported from Kentucky and a G rating ; a few other out-of-staters , widely viewed locally as carpetbaggers , set up various tourist scams . But the supply of post-election tourists dwindled fast , roughly as fast as two facts dawned on the populace-that Plains was n't going to be the Little White House ( presidential visits were scarce as summer rains ) and that Plains and Jimmy Carter might not be as intimately connected as they 'd seemed at first .                     