@@339543

At first Tim Barnett did not believe his own data . " I thought it was an error in the computer code , " says the climate researcher at California 's Scripps Institution of Oceanography . For one thing , the little-known phenomenon his model was predicting had not been witnessed since the mid- 1970s . By last summer , however , Barnett 's forecast was borne out by a " monstrous " 7 degreesF plunge in ocean surface temperatures off * equatorial South America . The drop heralded the arrival of a mysterious weather pattern called La Nina , which brings unusually cold temperatures to the eastern Pacific . La Nina has since swept to the center of the climatic stage recently vacated by its better known heat-producing sibling El Nino . <P> Already La Nina has been credited with a role in causing this summer 's drought in the Midwest , the deluges that flooded Bangladesh in September and the severe hurricane season in the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico . While widespread attention has been paid to the greenhouse effect  --  the trend toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other gases in the atmosphere  --  some scientists believe that this winter La Nina will bring on a dramatic , though probably temporary , drop in average global temperatures . Says meteorologist and oceanographer James O'Brien of Florida State University : " We are predicting that by next year , average global temperature will retreat to 1950s levels , slowing up planetary warming by 30 to 35 years . " <P> The name La Nina , Spanish for " the girl , " was concocted two years ago to distinguish the " cold event " from El Nino , " the boy " or " Christ child , " so named because it usually makes its appearance near Christmastime . Marked by an influx of warm water and winds from the western Pacific , El Nino is known to bring heavy winter rains to Peruvian deserts and warm weather to the U.S. West Coast . The two systems make up the extremes of a giant meteorological system called the Southern Oscillation that links the ocean and atmosphere in the Pacific . Normally the system functions as a giant heat pump , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ storms brewed over the warm western Pacific . In conjunction with the oceans , these climatic patterns affect much of the world 's weather , ranging from the monsoon season in southeast Asia and the Indian subcontinent to rainfall in South America and Africa . <P> Essentially , La Nina exaggerates the normal conditions of the Southern Oscillation . Because its last occurrence predated sophisticated satellite data gathering , the phenomenon is not very well understood . Scientists do know , however , that during a La Nina , easterly trade winds are stronger , the waters of the eastern Pacific off South America are colder and ocean temperatures in the western equatorial Pacific are warmer than normal . The result : coastal deserts in Peru and Chile become even drier than normal , and the subcontinent is inundated by heavier-than-usual rainfall and , often , flooding .                     