@@494455

The late 1940s and early 1950s were exciting if unsettling times in the sciences . Theoretical breakthroughs in physics during the early part of the century had culminated in the awesome specter of nuclear weapons . The double helix was about to be discovered , thanks to advances in biochemistry and genetics . The construction of increasingly sophisticated computers was under way , the result of developments in information theory and cybernetics . And the demonstration that computers could actually solve problems provided a new legitimacy for scientific investigations of human purposiveness , planning , and thinking . Many were confident it was only a matter of time before comparable breakthroughs would occur in the behavioral sciences , especially in psychology . In fact , however , academic psychology was mired in remarkably unproductive pursuits . Still under the sway of behaviorist ideology , the professional psychological establishment devoted its energies to the study of pigeons pecking in cages and rats running mazes in a forlorn effort to uncover the basic laws of learning . Any mention of the process of thinking , of ideas , insight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychologists were notably stupid , or even ill informed . Each in his or her own life doubtless recognized the existence and importance of mental phenomena . Their professional pursuits , however , were limited by strict canons of experimentation imposed half a century earlier : whatever could not be observed and measured , could not be investigated . Unfortunately , as was already obvious to others and would soon become evident to psychologists themselves , the behaviorist gambit had ruled out the investigation of nearly everything interesting about mental life . More than any other psychologist of his time , Jerome Bruner led the way from behaviorism to cognition , the study of mental phenomena which has always been central ( for non-psychologists ) in any consideration of the psyche . Perhaps his most important contribution to this sea change was his publication in the mid-1950s of A Study of Thinking . In a dramatic break with behaviorist methods , Bruner did more than simply observe the responses of subjects presented with assorted tasks of classification . Instead of serving as silent recorders , the Bruner team asked subjects to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sorted objects according to different properties ? a move strictly out of bounds for behaviorists , who were enjoined to treat human subjects exactly as they treated rats or pigeons . Bruner and his colleagues assumed that subjects would develop hypotheses or strategies which they would try out , stick to if they proved successful , abandon if they were not . As it turned out , some subjects threw caution to the winds , varying a couple of properties from one guess to the next , in order to increase the likelihood that they would arrive quickly at the correct answer . Others proceeded in a conservative manner , never varying more than one property at a time . The descriptions of " concept formation " that Bruner arrived at ring true even today , while the behaviorist assumption that humans would proceed in a trial-and-error fashion strikes us as bizarre . This approach to experimentation with thinking human beings may seem modest enough now . In its day , however , Bruner 's method was pathbreaking . Piaget wrote from Geneva " this magnificent book is a revolution in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reopens completely the great problems in the field . " And J. Robert Oppenheimer commented from Princeton 's Institute of Advanced Study that his younger colleague 's work " has in many ways the flavor of the opening of a new science . . . the book has a unity of view and a fervor of conviction that makes it point to the future . " J EROME BRUNER 'S autobiography , In Search of Mind , is the fifth in the Sloan Foundation 's series of memoirs by eminent scientists , a worthy successor to the well-received books by physicist Freeman Dyson , biologist Peter Medawar , and physician Lewis Thomas . Bruner may not exhibit the formal elegance of his long-time colleague , George Miller , nor the sustained record of cognitive research of Nobel Laureate Herbert Simon , but his life and work more fully capture the peregrinations and triumphs of the field of psychology during the past several decades . Indeed , Bruner may well be the most representative psychologist of our time ? the scientist who has placed cognition at the center of his chosen field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human mind . The bulk of Bruner 's autobiography consists of a series of essays on the half-dozen major psychological movements of the time in which he played a leading ? and sometimes a founding ? role . These lines of research , each of which would have occupied a less versatile , less energetic researcher for a lifetime , are presented with exemplary clarity . For those who want to understand the current burst of interest in cognitive science , a field which Bruner was instrumental in launching during that crucial period in the 1950s , there is no better place to start than this book . Yet it is clear from the opening pages that this is more than a scientific autobiography : it is a fascinating life story related by one of the most literate and imaginative thinkers of our time . The opening pages reveal the breadth of Bruner 's learning and interests : we pass in rapid succession from Karl Marx to the theory of evolution , from W. H. Auden to the theory of probability , with allusions to Winston Churchill , Thomas Merton , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the aboriginals of Australia , Peter Pan , and others , all before we reach the fourth page of the book . One glimpses here the breathless quality of Bruner 's own thinking and conversation . His lively mind is well worth following . We also gather very soon that Bruner has led an unusual personal life . The youngest child of a prosperous German-Jewish family living in suburban New York City , Bruner was blind for the first two years of his life . There were other stresses and strains in his childhood , including his father 's death from cancer when Bruner was still a boy . His intellectual curiosity was apparent from an early age , though it took several years of wandering at Duke University before he found a niche in psychology . Also noteworthy are Bruner 's service as a cultural attach ? in France after the Second World War ; a zest for sailing ( Bruner actually manned his own boat on a trans-Atlantic sail to assume a professorial chair at Oxford ) ; a professional as well as a personal involvement with psychoanalysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging from Jean-Paul Sartre to Edwin Land . Where in this busy and wide-ranging life has there been time for psychology ? for a " half-dozen articles a year forthirty-five years and ten books " ? an admiring colleague once asked Bruner . Bruner 's autobiography shows how one psychologist helped to create the agenda of his field . At the same time , his memoir offers glimpses of the sometimes anxious relationship between life as a " free-swaying " intellectual and a calling as a committed scientist . Back in the 1940s , scarcely out of graduate school , Bruner and his colleague Leo Postman launched the " new look " in perception . Venturing into the most venerable corner of psychology , they demonstrated that we perceive far more than raw sensation , and that our own values , expectations , and anxieties contribute decisively to the way we construe the apparently objective world . In one especially memorable experiment , Bruner and his student Cecile Goodman showed that young children systematically overestimate the size of more valuable coins ? and that poorer children were more prone to overestimation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controversial now ? the " new look " was a first nail in the coffin of traditional " stimulus-centered " academic psychology . Bruner showed that the " same stimulus " can mean very different things to different people . THE NEXT STEP in the revolution in psychology involved a more direct assault on the operations of the mind . In addition to the classic experiments in A Study of Thinking , Bruner wrote a series of important papers delineating the various ways in which individuals typically " go beyond the information " given to them . Far from simply " reading off " from the stimulus itself ? what a distant object is , what a stranger wants , what an author means ? normal individuals are continuously generating hypotheses , looking for cues , checking out the validity of these cues , revising their hypotheses , trying to integrate diverse sources of information into a coherent scheme . This model of human cognition now permeates the literature ; in fact it is taken for granted by laypersons as well as psychologists . Following this pivotal work on adult cognition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of mind in infants and children . By then he was ensconced at the Center for Cognitive Studies at Harvard , an institute he cofounded with George Miller , which became the training ground for many oftoday 's leading researchers . At the Center , Bruner began an important series of studies of how children of different ages and in different cultures represent problems to themselves ? a set of studies which eventually embroiled him in controversies with Piaget . He also carried out several influential studies with infants , documenting a high degree of control and intentionality in the first weeks of life . At this time Bruner became a leading figure in education . With the publication of The Process of Education ? one of the all-time best-sellers at the Harvard University Press ? Bruner became an indispensable contributor to educational councils in the post-Sputnik era . Bruner put forth the bold claim that even young children can appreciate complex issues ( like governmental organization ) and mathematical concepts ( like the theory of probability ) in an intellectually respectable way . He called for a focus on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not everyone could absorb all of the knowledge necessary to be a physicist , a mathematician , and a historian , every educated person should attain some sense of what it was like to think within the confines of these disciplines . And his exciting elementary school curriculum , Man : A Course of Study , epitomized the method of discovery in the social sciences . As children learned about the daily lives of Bushmen and Eskimos , they simultaneously had the opportunity to ferret out principles of social organization and cultural attitudes . This curriculum enjoyed considerable success in the tolerant atmosphere of the 1960s , but it was soon attacked with great vigor by right-wing groups that recognized the characteristic Brunerian challenge to conventional ways of learning and thinking . B RUNER himself notes his " fox-like " temperament and his impatience , which promoted him to range over disparate fields and launch projects that were never finished . As one colleague has commented , " Bruner is ten years ahead of everyone else and would n't wait for others to catch up . " Such instinctive innovativeness has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also hindered Bruner 's stature as a scientist . A large part of scientific work involves the dogged pursuit of a problem , and Bruner has typically preferred to leave such spade work to others . As a result , while there is certainly a Brunerian sensibility , a style , and a scientific credo ? indeed , these issue forth from every page of this volume ? there are few Brunerian laws , proofs , or textbook staples . Making a contrast to his early colleague Postman , Bruner concludes that " beneath the skin I was ? what thin words ! ? an intellectual first and a scientist in support . " Bruner is on the mark here . The tension between the intellectual and the scientist has its costs , and these come through with special poignancy in Bruner 's account of his years at Oxford . After teaching at Harvard for a quarter of a century , Bruner became a professor of psychology in Britain in the early 1970s . This was to be the culmination of a remarkable , plaudit-filled scholarly career . And much of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wide acquaintanceship in the world of scholarship and public life . But there was trouble within Bruner 's own department , and when in a Herbert Spencer lecture Bruner lamented the narrowness of British academic psychology , his targets turned on him with a vengeance . As Bruner relates , " The term following , a weekly departmental seminar was organized ; my friends referred to it merrily as the ' Bruner-bashing seminar . ' It was in the high English academic abrasive tradition . I never was much good at it . But at least the issues were aired . " Shortly thereafter , Bruner resigned his post and returned to the United States . Now he is very happily and productively situated in the New School of Social Research in New York City . Yet clearly the Oxford experience still smarts ; it is difficult to be a polymath in an age of relentless specialization . While some scholars seem destined to be mathematicians or historians , it seems almost an accident that Bruner became a psychologist . Still , for someone of his generation , psychology must have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspired to become the essential science of our time . Bruner has not been able to provide definitive answers to the questions that motivate psychology : we can not yet say how the adult mind works , how the young mind develops , or how best to educate children . But Bruner has launched a search , mapped in this memoir , which may prove decisive for the success of the field .                     