@@480416

ployed ? in a variety of mainly white-collar " public service " jobs . But even the now defunct CETA jobs program retained the pretense that it was really training people for the private sector . The Humphrey-Hawkins Act , passed with much ado in 1978 , once again declared a government " goal " of full employment , but as in 1946 , the exercise was purely hortatory . The usual objections to a government-guaranteed jobs program are that it would be inflationary , that it would involve " make-work " rather than producing any useful return for the taxpayers , and that it would increase the size of the government at a time when resources are urgently needed for private investment . But the real barriers to a WPA revival come from our present political paralysis more than any flaw in the idea itself . FRANKLIN Roosevelt had several advantages that we do n't enjoy today in his efforts to put . Americans to work on government projects . First , he did n't have to worry that the economy would recover before any of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the time a worthwhile public-works jobs program can be geared up , the typical modern recession is over . Many of the public-works projects authorized in response to the recession of 1975 , they point out , were actually built in 1978 , at the height of the recovery , when the extra government spending only aggravated inflation . The most valuable sorts of public-sector projects , particularly construction projects , need to be planned , while the jobs that can be created quickly are usually among the least important ? painting park benches , raking leaves , and the like . Pumping money into the economy through tax cuts , demand-side economists say , will end recessions long before any WPA-type crew breaks ground on a new highway . But this complaint reflects , in large part , not the efficiency of modem economics but the inefficiency HARPER'S/OCTOBER 1982 of modern government . It may take present-day public-works projects two to four years to go from discussion to groundbreaking ( or longer : New York City 's Westway is still unstarted after eleven years ) . But Roosevelt 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work , mostly on construction projects , within five months . New Deal project planners worked in ignorance of the wonders of advanced jurisprudence , with its ability to bottle up any government endeavor in years of litigation . The WPA filed no Environmental Impact Statements ; it did not worry about snail darters . The New Dealers also benefited from a refreshingly limited conception of federalism . The WPA was specifically designed not to be a program that dispensed money to the states . It was a federal program ; WPA field offices were staffed by federal officials , and WPA workers received federal paychecks . Projects were approved by the president . In contrast , modern public-works programs are inevitably influenced by the " new federalist " ideas first propounded by Richard Nixon and revived by Ronald Reagan . This delegation of power appeals to conservatives ; it also reflects the entrenched political power of governors and mayors . But it means there is no guarantee that local governments wo n't simply use federal funds for projects they were planning anyway . ( This was one problem with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through two or three layers of state and local government , multistate development organizations , local planning councils , or nonprofit community organizations before it is finally spent . Even if there are faster ways to end recessions than by public-works spending ( something the current administration seems intent on disproving ) , a " recovery " does not necessarily mean full employment . Indeed , the level of unemployment during relatively good times ? socalled structural unemployment ? has been steadily increasing , from 3.5 percent in 1969 to 4.9 percent in 1973 to 5.8 percent in 1979 . At no time in recent memory has the private sector alone been able to provide adequate employment at tolerable levels of inflation . NE way to stop worryin , about the inevitable " 1 ag , in public-works programs then , would be to take the suggestion of ( among others ) Nili , economist Lester Thurow and make a public-works jobs program per-manent , a cure for " structural " as well as " cyclical " unemployment . A jobs program directed at repairing the infrastructure would support just such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sewers , and fixing roadbeds could be drawn up , authorized by Congress , and placed on the shelf , to be taken down in bad times . Ma-jor projects would be continuous , with work accelerated during times of slack employment elsewhere . Purchasing materials during slumps ? when industries are stuck with idle plants and willing to quote bar-gain prices ? could also reduce dra-matically the cost of public works , But FDR had other advantages . The Depression , to be blunt about it , produced a relatively high class of unemployed . With a third of America out of work in the 1930s , even the most competent and conscientious workers were unable to find a job . The current recession is so severe that many prime workers ? particularly in the declining industries of the Northeast ? are now finding themselves in that nostalgic situation . But a permanent government jobs program , designed to reduce unemployment in good times as well as bad , would have to be prepared to employ those least desirable workers at the bottom of the employment market ? high school @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reduced on-the-job efficiency would be inevitable . Workers who did n't want to work , who showed up for work drunk , who started fights , could be fired ? although , if the government did the hiring and firing , that would require relaxing our currently overprotective civil- 16 does n't build anything ( library aides , drug counselors , etc . ) . Here the threatened union was AFSCME , which supported CETA , but only after obtaining " equal pay " provisions that precluded undercutting state and local civil-service pay scales . But in several cities municipal wage scales were so high that even the lowest-level jobs paid more than the CETA program limit of $10,000 . The unions responded by asking for higher CETA wages , arguing that , given the equal-pay requirement , this was the only way to enable disadvantaged workers to be hired in higher-salaried positions . AFSCME representatives " shrieked and yelled " if the administration suggested that another way to hire additional disadvantaged workers would be to allow them to be paid less than regular workers , according to an official who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid union wage scales , the government increasingly pushed its job money out through private nonprofit organizations , which then hired the unemployed at subunion salaries . Even with this laundering process , CETA officials often had to negotiate job by job to make sure the subsidized workers were not performing any tasks that might be performed by regular , unionized employees ? to make sure , in effect , that the CETA workers did n't do anything particularly useful . When the Department of Labor unthinkingly set up some workers in a factory making hardware for doors , there was " hell to pay , " says Arnold Packer , a department official who worked on the jobs programs . The unions also backed provisions requiring that CETA undertake only short-term , and therefore relatively useless , projects . Soon the public began to read of ghetto youths employed in video workshops and dance troupes , and justifiably wondered what it was getting for its money . There was little outcry when Ronald Reagan canceled that portion of CETA in 1981 . The make-work nature of the program made it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the HARPER'S/OCTOBER 1982 unions made it into make-work . T HE unpleasant truth is that any large government jobs program that seeks to put people to work at something useful will threaten some union or other . Repairing roads and bridges is especially useful work , which is precisely why taxpayers might be willing to pay for it . But because it is useful , it is work that is already being performed , to some extent , by organized workers . These workers could not hope to benefit by having the reserve army of the unemployed march into their profession . Even if wages were not undercut directly , they would tend to rise more slowly as union workers competed with laborers hungrier and poorer than themselves . Given this conflict between the genuine self-interest of union members and the liberal ideal of the government as the employer of last resort , is it too much to suggest that the latter should prevail ? The political and financial cost of a jobs program would be very large . But the potential payoff ? in both economic and moral terms ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs program would boost national output by putting idle resources ( the unemployed ) to work . An unused coil of steel will at least be there next week . An unused work-hour is gone forever . Such a program would also provide directly something ( jobs ) that politicians must now seek to provide indirectly by pumping up the economy with fiscal and monetary stimulants . Forced economic expansion creates jobs , all right , but with disastrous consequences for inflation . In place of the goal of generalized economic expansion , a jobs program would serve a related but more limited ideal : a society in which as many people as possible who are willing to work can work . This ideal is a traditional redistributionist goal of liberals , but it is one widely shared . To the extent that it is accepted as a primary economic purpose of government , the least inflationary way to accomplish it is probably to create jobs dire ly . A jobs program attacks une employment without purposely ove stimulating the whole economy . increases demand for the commo ity that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increa in the demand for what is not excess supply . By holding do construction wages and taking a vantage of cyclical overcapacity , jobs program might even have so anti-inflationary effects . The moral payoff comes wh public-works jobs are seen as pa of a larger effort to guarantee a jo for every citizen ? at least every m izen over a certain age . With 1 million now unemployed , this is n small chore . The WPA at its pea employed only about 3.3 millio But if the job could be accorn plished , the government would in a position to deal fairly unsenti mentally with those who refused t avail themselves of the opportunity A guaranteed jobs program , Les ter Thurow has noted , " would elim inate the endless sterile debate about what fraction of the unemployed ar lazy and unwilling to work . " In stead , they could be put to the test . Those who refused public-service jobs could be denied unemployment benefits . That fraction of current welfare recipients who might rea. sonably be expected to work could be required , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to show up for their guaranteed job or lose their benefits . Conservatives , above all , should appreciate a program that so rigorously enforced a stern work ethic , that replaced " income maintenance " with an opportunity for productive effort . If this vision has a simple quality , that is not really because it is na ? ve in failing to recognize the complexities of today 's economy . It is only naive in a political sense : it fails to take into account the debilitating effects of our " new federalism , " the unwillingness of liberals to turn against their traditional labor supporters , the blind opposition of conservatives to anything ( except a military buildup ) that in ' creases government activity . Bat some simple ideas are right . 