@@334656

At 84 , Sidney Hook seems to have preserved all and pardoned none  --  including himself . If any error occurred in the past , it was duly noted , to be summoned up on some appropriate occasion . Out of Step is the occasion . Hook is currently a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War , Revolution and Peace in Stanford , Calif . All three subjects are specialties of the man who believes that " the central problem of our time is . . . the defense and enrichment of a free and open society against totalitarianism . " <P> He began life in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn , discovered aspects of the " Socialist dream " in adolescence and taught philosophy at New York University for more than four decades . There , as in such books as The Hero in History , The Paradoxes of Freedom and Pragmatism and the Tragic Sense of Life , Hook established a well-founded reputation as a secular humanist . He questioned received ideas and challenged those who substituted passion for logic . The professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investigations . To ' 30s conservatives , he seemed a Marxist apologist ; to ' 60s New Leftists , he was a cold warrior . But as his autobiography proves , the only group to whom Hook paid strict allegiance was the party of one . <P> The Moscow Trials of 1936 were , he recalls , " a decisive turning point in my own intellectual and political development . . . I never suspected that ( ( Stalin ) ) and the Soviet regime were prepared to violate every fundamental norm of human decency that had been woven into the texture of civilized life . " Some friends and colleagues remained lockstep Stalinists , and Hook brings them onstage as object lessons . Lincoln Steffens had famously seen the future in the U.S.S.R. and proclaimed that it worked . It was less well known , notes the author , that Steffens " had previously seen it in Italy . . . where he thought it had also worked . His praise for Mussolini was as glowing as for Lenin . " Bertolt Brecht told Hook that the status of defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ innocent they are , the more they deserve to be shot . " Hook dryly comments , " I never saw him again . " <P> It hardly mattered . There were hundreds of other notables to engage the philosopher 's attention . Although he was at constant odds with colleagues like Philip Rahv , Mary McCarthy and Dwight Macdonald , Hook was associated with the opinion molders of the Partisan Review , perhaps the closest thing to the claustrophobic Bloomsbury set the U.S. has ever produced . They wrangled over every aspect of politics and culture , and as the memoirs of the survivors show , after a half-century , sentiments have still not cooled . Particularly Hook 's , who now regards the Partisans as the " Radical Comedians " because " there was something truly comic about their self-conscious role as political revolutionaries and cultural radicals ; about the disparity between their profession and their performance . "                     