@@327010

The second Reagan Administration has a rare opportunity to reshape American foreign policy . President Reagan 's overwhelming election victory has strengthened his already impressive capacity for political leadership , reinforcing his authority to deal with the factions of his own party , with the feuding wings of the bureaucracy and with foreign countries . The question is whether he will seize that authority and will know how to use it . Which Reagan , and which Reagan advisers , will dominate ? The stubbornly hard-line or the flexible President , the " ideologues " or the " pragmatists " among his counselors ? The labels are somewhat oversimplified , but they do describe a genuine conflict , and in the first term , the evolution of that conflict was quite evident : from ideology to pragmatism . <P> The Administration started out with a hardline , aggressive and Manichean set of policies , or pronouncements , that in nearly every instance gave way to compromise and at least outward accommodation . This was true of attitudes toward the Soviet Union , arms control , Central America and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise was symbolized by the resort to bipartisan commissions ( the Scowcroft panel on the MX missile , the Kissinger group on Central America ) that did extremely useful work and produced sound , generally centrist recommendations , which by no reasonable standard could be described as weak . Despite recent , markedly pacific gestures from the Administration , it remains to be seen whether , in the second term , such centrist policies will prevail or whether the right-wing " true believers " will succeed in reasserting the ideological superhard line . On the answer depends the possibility of reaching a new national consensus on foreign and defense policy . <P> Up to a point , the hard line was a useful corrective for weak and confused policies of the past and was welcomed in many quarters as a sign of a new American assertiveness . Administration critics almost automatically preface " ideology " with " right-wing . " But there is liberal or left-wing ideology too , and its reading of Soviet intentions and of the causes of Third World instability often has been just as simplistic as right-wing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Administration did have its successes . The arms buildup may have been excessive , and ill-advised in some particulars . But it was plainly necessary . It constitutes the most important single " foreign policy " action by Reagan so far . Another clear achievement was the missile deployment for NATO , in the teeth of all-out Soviet opposition . Dealings with China , despite decades of a deep Republican commitment to Taiwan , were prudent and professional . The same may be said , at the risk of considerable disagreement , about the Reagan policy toward South Africa . In other instances , policy was muddled through lack of skill and understanding , as in the Middle East .                     