@@336755

Shortly after sunrise last Saturday , Tunisians flipping on their radios heard startling news . The regime of Habib Bourguiba , ruler of Tunisia since the country gained its independence from France in 1956 and President-for-Life since 1975 , had come to an abrupt end . After carrying out a bloodless takeover in the predawn hours , Prime Minister Zine al Abidine ben Ali took to the airwaves at 6:30 to declare that Bourguiba , 84 , had been ousted . Citing a constitutional provision allowing the President to be removed if he is incapacitated , the Prime Minister claimed that a team of seven doctors had examined Bourguiba , who suffers from arteriosclerosis and Parkinson 's disease , and found him unfit to govern . <P> As Ben Ali was speaking , security forces surrounded the bleached white presidential palace next to the ancient ruins of Carthage . Though there were rumors that Bourguiba had been spirited out of the capital , officials insisted he remained cloistered in the palace . However , two Cabinet ministers were arrested , and some of the President 's closest associates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Habib Bourguiba Jr. , were said to be under house arrest . No violence or resistance to the coup was reported . <P> Ben Ali , 51 , is best known to Tunisians as the Interior Minister who led this year 's crackdown on Islamic fundamentalists , which resulted in more than 2,000 arrests . In September seven militants were sentenced to death and 69 to jail terms for trying to overthrow Bourguiba 's regime . In early October Ben Ali , a former army general , was named Prime Minister in what was regarded as a signal that the tough stance would continue . <P> Despite his reputation as a hard-liner , the new President immediately set a moderate tone . In his radio broadcast Ben Ali stressed the need for democratic reform , saying , " The age in which we live can no longer permit either presidency for life nor automatic succession as head of state . Our people are worthy of a developed and institutionalized political life . " He pledged to eliminate " favoritism " in the political system , which is dominated by the ruling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sad finish to a remarkable career . He led his country to independence without the bloodshed that accompanied the French withdrawal from neighboring Algeria . Deeply pro-Western , he succeeded in transforming Tunisia from an underdeveloped backwater into one of the most prosperous nations in Africa . But in recent years the " supreme combatant , " $ as he was known , had become increasingly impulsive and autocratic . Amid a worsening economic crisis , he refused to take steps to ensure an orderly transition , despite his deteriorating health . He banned opposition parties and dissolved trade unions . Last year he divorced his wife of 24 years , Wassila , and sacked his longtime Prime Minister , Mohammed Mzali . He constantly reshuffled his government , dismissing aides and then reversing himself .                     