@@487697

Aldo Busi , the author at age 40 of three novels , one unclassifiable " memoir " and numerous translations , is already being hailed as the foremost Italian writer of his generation . Such praise  --  which personifies a generation sufficiently to equip it with a voice , a conscience , even a heart , but seldom a brain  --  most often prepares us for a letdown . However , Busi , who modestly admits to being " Italy 's greatest living writer , " may actually come within a stone 's throw of his own hyperbole . His novels overflow with a density of intelligence and energy , sometimes impassable , always fascinating ; swarming through them are a gallery of characters who , pushed beyond caricature into a kind of monstrous realism , seem like the work of a gay , meaner-spirited , polyglot Dickens . Busi differs most noticeably from the previous generation of Italian writers by his Europeanness , his sense of a postwar Continent whose frontiers have been blurred by multinational business and migrant labor pools . This blurring is further enhanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " condition . Angelo Bazarovi , the hero of Busi 's second novel , narrates the " many surprises . . . in the standard existence of a temporary pantyhose salesman on the brink of getting his driver 's license and his degree . " The reader follows Angelo as he cruises the gay beaches at Lake Garda , labors at poorly paid translations , broods over amorous disappointments or does a stint as a clerk in a china and glassware store . The heart of the book , however , concerns his involvement with Celestino Lometto , an obese pantyhose magnate . Hired as a translator , Angelo roams through the Common Market countries in Lometto 's company , cutting deals in all the languages of Europe . From the moment Angelo first sees him , Lometto waddles through the story like a badly groomed force of nature : A mass of sweating flesh restrained by white-and-bluish shorts unloads from the seat onto the scorching asphalt . The face is a battleground of rivulets in which the small pale eyes , each on its own as after great tension , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowling ball of fat with extremities that drag themselves to the small gate in absurd black shoes with India-rubber soles . A creature of excess , the nouveau riche Lometto represents everything Angelo despises about contemporary Italy , which , " from industry to university , from culture to politics , was an immense geographic basin of thefts . " He swindles customers , pilfers from his neighbors , denves a smug contentment from his power and seldom looks far beyond his wallet , " the only true terminal of his nervous system . " The two argue furiously about almost everything as Lometto pilots his sedan around Germany , Holland , Belgium , Austna , France and Scandinavia . Angelo barely makes a dent in the manufacturer 's mental life ; Lometto , for his part , would rather offer up nuggets from his copy of 1,069 Jokes of TV Comedians . According to Angelo , the abyss between the two of them runs much deeper than character or income . As a homosexual without money , Angelo is emphatically cut out of his own society ; at one point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was of belonging to a species to which he did not belong . " This isolation , as ugly as it is , has the compensatory effect of making him singular , self-generated , oddly genuine . Lometto , on the other hand , is hardly more than a node in an economic system : Angelo socially was nobody , but what he was he was . . . He was everything he had and he was everything he carried with him in life , besides a change of underwear in his bag Lometto had billions in personal possessions and real estate , he determined the fate of dozens of families , he had sons of his own , a wife Just as spiritual about the dogma of property , and he was continually gratified by a social hatred and envy which stimulated him to obtain always more . But on his own he would not have had the capacity to be By itself , this polemic might swiftly escalate into a dull morality play ? Sensitive Rebel versus Crude Philistine , fifteen rounds . What saves it , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A new era was beginning , the Bazarovi-Lometto era . " Lometto introduces Angelo to his wife , Edda , and his children ? three handsome sons with an adolescent zeal for taxidermy . As he becomes a household fixture , Angelo also finds himself drawn into an increasingly bizarre labyrinth of Lomettian schemes . The immense hosiery mogul has raised his sights beyond pantyhose , to illicit pharmaceuticals , stolen watches and ersatz champagne . In addition , he and Edda have hatched a surreal dynastic plot , whereby she will bear another son in the United States : Born on American soil , this fourth Lometto will be eligible to become an American President , the most sublime consolidation of family power imaginable in a NATO Italy . Repelled and fascinated , Angelo initially plays along . He senses an eagerness in Lometto to educate him , to teach him the birds and bees of economic life . But finally the translator begins to resist this corruption , the work of a mind " interested only in increasing the bulk of life , not its value . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Angelo accompanies Edda to America to help her produce the presidential Lometto ? the two friends end up in a venomous stalemate . Even in his final denunciation , however , Angelo admits that his affection has n't yet completely eroded : " You 're vulgar , stupid , arrogant , on the political plane you 're everything I hate most . . . . I 'd like to have you executed in a public square , but the doors to my house will remain open to you until your fate is decided . " Finally , the " human plane " outweighs the political one . Compared with the thin diet of ideology , human relationships , with all their indigestible particulars , seem like a positive feast . Indeed , this very appetite gives Busi 's novel its particular pathos . No matter how failed , compromised or wrecked Angelo 's affections become , he pursues them down to the last crumb . The vehicle for these pursuits is , of course , Busi 's prose . Just as Angelo is preeminently a product of himself , manufacturing his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have us believe that he 's a similarly self-generated writer , free of influence . In a recent interview , he noted that " since there is only one reality , take it or leave it , I constructed one for myself in my own image and likeness ? I believe Someone Else already attempted the same task . " ( Now , there 's a pedigree ! ) Certainly the writers Busi has chosen to translate offer some signposts . The lush exfoliating metaphors of John Ashbery have left their mark on his style ; his outsize , oratorical approach to character sometimes recalls that of Christina Stead . In the end , though , Busi is that frightening thing : an original . Predictably enough , such originality carries a price tag . The Standard Life of a Temporary Pantyhose Salesman includes moments of pulverizing dullness , which recall Henry James 's gloss on Proust : " Inconceivable boredom associated with the most extreme ecstasy which it is possible to imagine . " At times the cascade of metaphor grows clotted , silly , incomprehensible . Still , Raymond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Verga , has risen to the challenge of Busi 's style with unflagging ingenuity . And at its best , the novel gives us a taste of the metaphysical shiver Angelo feels when he confronts Edda Lometto 's newborn infant : " He also felt more expanded spiritually , as if he had touched something tangible , not dangerously universal and hence not liable to bend like taffy to the interests and tastes of the first insolent person to appear with a mouthful of absolute values " Touching something tangible : the phrase , with its self-evident logic , might anyway serve as Busi 's motto , the goal of a man bent on testing the coin of reality between his teeth . ? . 