@@494265

It should be said of A Capote Reader that to have read it once is to have read it forever . The best of the short stories are here , but they are only pretty good , like " My Side of the Matter " ( 1945 ) , " Master Misery " ( 1949 ) , and " Among the Paths to Eden " ( 1960 ) ; so too with the travel sketches . But many items could easily have been omitted to make room for his first novel , Other Voices , Other Rooms ( 1948 ) ; it could honorably use the space given to The Grass Harp ( 1951 ) , that prolonged embarrassment of a novella . We are , fortunately , given the most impressive of Capote 's fictions , the novella Breakfast at Tiffany 's ( 1958 ) , which features the indomitable Holly Golighty . She is one of those smart , off-beat , warmhearted , disruptive women whom Capote tended to favor in fiction and , until cause was almost inevitably given for a break , in life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monroe and Elizabeth Taylor from Music for Chameleons ( 1980 ) and a vignette about Mae West from Observations , a book he did with Richard Avedon in 1959 . Far too long for the Reader is In Cold Blood , the best of Capote 's works . Some excerpts would have been welcome . It was published in 1966 , the year , by the way , of his famous Black and White Ball for 500 people at the Hotel Plaza in New York in honor of Katherine Graham . At the time Frederick Dupee said correctly that In Cold Blood " is the best documentary account of an American crime ever written . " Unlike Norman Mailer in his later An Executioner 's Song , Capote himself did every last shred of research for his book , without taking tape recordings , or even taking notes , during his hundreds of interviews . The book is a masterful recreation of the brutal murder in Holcomb , Kansas , of the Clutter family ? Herbert Clutter , a prosperous wheat farmer who had been an Eisenhower appointee to the Federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their children . Immediately fascinated by news reports of the incident , Capote took up the project even before the murderers , who had not known their victims before , were apprehended . He stayed with it through the investigation , the trial , the death-row incarcerations , and the executions , where he bid a last farewell at the foot of the gallows to Richard Hickock and Perry Smith , the two young wanderers who had committed the crime . Capote never put so much of himself into anything . The fact that he studiously avoids appearing as the first person narrator in the work means that his personal intensities are kept impressively in control . They are continually mediated and exalted by those human complications from which , as we see in the Reader , he usually abstracts himself by a rhetoric alternately sentimental and tart . He gave a good six years of his life to the book , much of that time spent in the small community where the crime occurred and where he gradually won the affection and cooperation of people who had never before heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith , and to other inmates at the Kansas State Penitentiary . Before he even began to write he had accumulated over 8,000 pages of research material . Such immersion , especially when it required living in areas remote from the kind of amenities and companionship he was used to , would ( as he suggests in interviews ) probably have exhausted the patience and energy of most of his near contemporaries , or particularly a macho claimant like Hemingway . The explanation for Capote 's unusual dedication to this particular project is n't simply that he was tough enough to put up with the strain . While he everywhere shows a fascination with criminal behavior and with murderers ( in his talk with Richard Grobel in Conversations with Capote , published last year by New American Library , he passes on the useful tip that 80 percent of the multiple murderers he met carried some sort of tattoo on their bodies ) , many other writers have been similarly fascinated . Indeed , it is fashionable to describe writing itself as a transgression , a usurpation of the authority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of an event . It was for reasons less theoretical , and more specific to his own nature , that the crime in Kansas cast its spell over Capote . As I read it , the story of the Clutters , their neighbors , their murderers , and the apparatus of the law , including the Supreme Court , brought into glaring focus a nagging , sullen antagonism in Capote himself to any form of authority , and raised it to a level of cultural significance rare for him . Usually in his works this authority is vested in merely private household nightmares , as in the early story " My Side of the Matter , " or more appealingly , for a time , in some older lady he must eventually leave behind . In his last , unfinished , posthumously published novel , Answered Prayers , he in effect leaves a number of them behind . A substantial part of that last book , when published earlier in Esquire , caused many of his lady friends to accuse him of betrayal . The sputtering out of talent in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . There are nonetheless moments when the nightmare vision of social-sexual life in New York catches the vitality found throughout Mailer 's An American Dream . In a curious way a certain kind of woman was for him a substitute for the beneficent male authority missing from his life . Capote was like Huck Finn looking for help not from Tom Sawyer , but from Tom Boys . Capote must have sensed in those news reports from Kansas , especially given Herbert Clutter 's association with the Eisenhower administration , some horrendously larger , some awesome , thwarted , terrifying expression of revenge against the dereliction of the father . When , in Other Voices , Other Rooms , the Capote figure named Joel discovers his lost father , he is a helpless figure lying in bed , totally mute and nearly as totally paralyzed . Of the two murderers , Capote admits to a special affection for Perry Smith and says of him ( in an interview in Truman Capote Conversations , edited by M. Thomas Inge and recently published by the University Press of Mississippi ) that Smith identi-Pied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all his inner resentment in an act of violence . " Capote 's own parents were divorced when he was four , leaving him , like Joel , to wander among the homes of relatives . At his infrequent best , he casts his own Perry Smith resentments into figures who are bitterly isolated and intransigent , like the self-insulated man in " Shut a Final Door " ( 1947 ) , who , gradually bereft of all human contact , ends up a latter-day Bartleby , alone in a room where " he pushed his face into the pil-low , covered his ears with his hands and thought : Think of nothing things , think of wind . " The alternative as a self-image is Capote 's sassy , often eccentric , sometimes wistful , but at all times rebellious women ; seemingly indifferent to the opinion of others , they are nonetheless , like Capote himself , touchingly determined to be entertaining , with sometimes disastrous results . Holly in Breakfast at Tiffany 's has a ten-year-old version of herself in the earlier " Children on Their Birthdays " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over by a bus on the one occasion when she moves by instinct rather than by theatrical calculation . No wonder he can write well about so utterly self-absorbed and legendary a figure as Jane Bowles . Except in In Cold Blood , Capote is mostly a writer of romance , in the sense that the settings are designed to exert the least possible cultural influence on the speech and the action of his characters . In that sense too the assumption that he belongs to Southern literature is wholly mistaken . Even Other Voices , Other Rooms could as easily have been located , with some changes of inflection , in California or New England . Capote is not to be considered in any way equivalent to other Southern writers such as Flannery O'Connor or Eudora Welty , much less Faulkner . And a still more powerful reason to avoid these frequently made comparisons is that Capote 's characters are never , like the others ' , endowed with a milieu that is made culturally or theologically resonant . For Capote culture is represented largely as something that can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sound like Literature . This is conspicuously the case in his novella The Grass Harp ( 1951 ) . There , yet another of his boys with a freewheeling imagination teams up with yet another endearingly odd lady , this one named Dolly . To escape the tyranny of a household ruled by Dolly 's sister , they move ( along with three associates picked up on the way ) into a tree house , while the assembled forces of law and order try to coax them down . They sit , listening to the wind , talking and ( so they suppose ) thinking . One of the number , a judge with what sounds like an alarmingly expanded idea of the 14th Amendment , asks , for example , " How could you ever care about one girl ? Have you ever cared about one leaf ? " My point is that in his more journalistic pieces , like The Muses Are Heard ( 1956 ) , an account of the visit to the Soviet Union by an American company performing Porgy and Bess , or like In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the story he is reporting to forgo such banal and egregious reminders of his literary presence . That is , he can not as easily make a hero of himself as resident literary genius . His fiction , by contrast , abounds in a kind of lyricism that he associates , unfortunately , with liberation , even though he never adequately imagines a society from which escape is made to seem more than quixotic . Of what , for Capote , does liberation consist ? Apparently in the ability to write such sentences as this , the opening sentence of The Grass Harp : " When was it that first I heard of the grass harp ? Long before the autumn we lived in the China tree ; an early autumn , then ; and of course it was Dolly who told me , no one else would have known to call it that , a grass harp . " Perhaps Dolly is a reader of Coleridge , author of " The Aeolian Harp , " or of Shelley , who asks the west wind to " make me thy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Capote who may have done the reading , and who in any case has in mind the posture of the Romantic artist whose inspiration sweeps through him from forces not at all socially derived . Such writing characterizes no one and nothing but itself . It is meant to be " beautiful " or " moving , " an evidence of something in the writer that is " deeply good " and that other people ought not to tamper with . Capote is so committed to this kind of writing , and so strongly in need of it as a cover for violent feelings , that even after In Cold Blood he could publish that famous piece of fruitcake , " A Christmas Memory . " There the Col-lin and Dolly of The Grass Harp find their substitutes in a kite-flying duo com-posed of Buddy , the Capote boy figure , and his Cousin Sookie . They live , as you might guess , with relatives " who have power over us , and frequently make us cry . " Capote , that is , never fully learned as much as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are in American life starker versions of his own conflicted nature , and that these make his aestheti-cism not only outworn but irrelevant . Vengefulness , as his celebrated friends were to discover , was an essential part of Capote 's nature , and the best part of him as a writer . It was there from the start , however sporadically , as in the terrifying little tale called " Mariam " ( 1945 ) , in which a waif unaccountably turns up at the doorstep of a nice retired lady and proceeds to take over the apartment and her life to a terrifying degree , a waif who exists only as a repressed but unbanisha-ble part of the woman herself . His senti-mentality became the re-verse side , the most public side , of his vengefulness , a complementary form of ab-straction . The killers in Kan-sas were a magnified mirror image of an alienation that he knew must finally kill even a good father , or the women who are a manage-able substitute for the good father . The Clutter part of American life , resting con-tentedly in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is forced to meet elements no less Amer-ican that it can not compre-hend . It collides with the fa-therless , the rejected , the wandering and savage ele-ments in America that must mark their presence in someone else 's blood . T HERE IS nothing the matter with any motive for writing ? and the motive of revenge is classic ? so long as the writer does not fail to make available in the writing some full and powerful measure of whatever offends him . Mailer , Bellow , O'Connor , and Roth are all contemporaries of Capote who have sufficiently done this . Too often Capote fails to do so , and will instead trivialize his own deep contempt for the order of things . That includes , I suspect , an ultimate distaste for his own body and its sexual life , which by his testimony sounds as if it had been neither very active nor very pleasurable . Scarcely anywhere in Capote 's writing is there a scene of any duration in which two people make physical love ; and one such moment , a mere vignette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boy and girl who witness it that they then forever turn away from one another . Nor is Capote to be depended upon even in areas he does choose to write about , like social fame . His incessant gossip about the rich and famous never once became an inquiry into the source of their power in American society . If most of his fiction could have been set anywhere , it could as easily have occurred in any other decade or century ; and this is true to a serious degree even of his journalism . It seems not to have mattered to him that he came to maturity in a period that saw the Second World War and Vietnam , the turmoil of the ' 60s and the fight the world over for equality . It was a period , too , when the challenge to historical authority came to manifest itself , as at last it had to do , in bitter recriminations about sexual differences and sexual hegemony . While it is not Capote , but one of his characters , who says in the story " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settle on sugar or shit , " his own views , as in his conversations with Grobel , include such howlers as the statement that women ought to be paid less than men for the same job because " a man works harder . " For all his worldly connections , he was as uninquisitive about the forces at work in contemporary culture as a writer of his ambitions possibly could be , even about the very forces that in many places still count his own sexual practices a crime . At the end of Music for Chameleons , a collection of journalistic pieces that appeared in 1980 , he gingerly admits that though not yet a saint , " I 'm an alcoholic . I 'm a drug addict . I 'm a homosexual . I 'm a genius . " This is intolerably cute . Being a drug addict or an alcoholic or a homosexual is his business . When he combines these admissions with a claim to genius , however , it becomes everybody 's business . To put such items in combination makes it legitimate to ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genius of Jean G ? net , why a reputed genius like Capote , so bent in this instance on self-confession , has not had something more to say about a political culture that , by its pietistic hypocritical obsessions with private conduct , manages to direct attention time and again away from the glaringly visible disasters of social and political life . After his heroic confrontation with cold blood in Kansas , Capote retreated to a tree house in Manhattan , there to play literary games for ever smaller and overpublicized stakes . He was more than amply rewarded for his games in his lifetime . But there is no need to pretend any longer that he earned anything but a relatively minor place in American letters .                     