@@432022

 | Black leaders who led protests in the ' 60s and took pride in their close ties with the basic interests of a majority of their people now face the same credibility problems that hamper many white officials . On issues ranging from jobs to foreign policy , black leaders increasingly are being described as out of step with the black community 's opinions . There is suspicion , too , that wellknown ? and well-heeled ? blacks are now part of the Establishment and have lost touch with ordinary people . This situation , many observers say , may create new leaders as blacks shape a fresh agenda for the 1980s . Benefits for " black elite " ? Jobs are at the top of a long list of issues on which many blacks and their longtime leaders disagree . People at the grass roots criticize leaders who demand that presidential candidates guarantee appointments for blacks in their administration ? a promise that some observers believe benefits only a handful of the " black elite . " Many blacks also are upset , according to these analysts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federally funded jobs , which offer little in the way of permanent or meaningful employment . Instead , more blacks now call for programs to develop minority-owned businesses . Observes political scientist James Dennis of California State University : " To demand public-service jobs at a time when the whole country is becoming more conservative is to be out of step not only with black people 's needs but with political reality . " In education , black leaders continue to push for desegregation , but Leslie McLemore , a Jackson State University professor , says : " People are concerned with quality education and with getting the best equipment ? not whether or not a child is in class with white children . " Black officials and civil-rights leaders also are being taken to task for rushing to endorse presidential contenders . At a recent conference in Richmond , Va. , Mayor Coleman Young of Detroit was booed when he called for support of President Carter . Many blacks believe that the President 's budget slashes betray promises he made to them in 1976 . Says one analyst : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are too sophisticated to be led down a path to a candidate by a city mayor or any other politician who 's looking for his own bargaining power . " Also surfacing are misgivings about forming coalitions with other minorities . Some black leaders , for , example , are joining the Hispanics ' demand that illegal aliens be included in the 1980 census so that minorities as a whole can gain more political leverage . Most black leaders also back the equal-rights amendment . At the grass roots , however , there is fear that these coalitions could lead to a loss of black political strength and prestige . There is concern that Hispanics may soon emerge as the dominant minority group and that white women may replace blacks in coveted spots in the job market . In foreign affairs , many blacks rallied around leaders who were criticized for trying to negotiate with Arabs in the Middle East . However , others see foreign policy as a middleclass issue that diverts attention from more-important concerns : Inflation , joblessness ? especially among black youth ? and budget cuts that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our interest in the Persian Gulf , ' " says political scientist Adolph Reed of the University of Arkansas , " but what interest do the black jobless have in the Persian Gulf ? " Issues are n't the only point of disagreement . Lower-income blacks are skeptical about leaders who command fat salaries and hold posts as directors of big companies . Spokesmen with high profiles are perceived as self-promoters and headline seekers . Emerging blocs . Uneasiness with present leadership is spurring new activity at the local level , as blacks select delegates for a political convention in August in New Orleans . Its purpose : To draft policies more in tune with their priorities . Regaining power are clergymen , a group that led the black movement from slavery through the 1960s . Able to address more than 10 million people in their congregations , black clerics commonly endorse candidates and are a strong force in other issues as well . About 1,000 of them will meet early in the fall to map strategy for the November elections . Also becoming more influential are some politicians ? all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ronald Dellums of California and Parren Mitchell of Maryland ? and , despite close ties to Old Guard leadership , Representative Cardiss Collins of Illinois and Mayor Richard Hatcher of Gary , Ind . This does n't mean that spokesmen such as Vernon Jordan , head of the National Urban League , and Jesse Jackson of Operation PUSH have lost their appeal . However , from these established leaders ? and from new ones now emerging ? most blacks appear to want a change in style and a fresh perspective on issues .                     