@@494529

A few days after the outbreak of the Second World War , President Roosevelt initiated a personal correspondence with Winston Churchill , who had just been appointed First Lord of the Admiralty . The pretext was somewhat flimsy ? their common naval experience in the earlier war . But his real purpose was clear enough . The President was determined to make his own policy ; as he often corresponded personally with his own ambassadors , or cut them out altogether by using special envoys , so now , with Britain and Germany at war ? a war in which he was himself emotionally involved ? he had no wish to depend on the State Department , and least of all on his ambassador in London , " that son of a bitch " Joseph Kennedy . If he was to have a direct link with the British government , with whom better than the half-American Churchill who , though not yet in control of that government , was clearly the most masterful member of it ? Churchill , on his side , grasped the opportunity thus offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well aware ? no man better ? of Britain 's military weakness , he was convinced that victory , and perhaps survival , depended on American support . And he too wished to bypass the dreadful Kennedy , whose defeatism was well known , especially since his cipher had been bromillionaire corporate executives who get together every few years to launch a new product . Actually it 's the same old product sold with more technique . " The Stones do go on forever , " writes Philip Norman at the end of his biography , which also does . But the Stones do n't need to update their vision of hell for the next generation of fans . They 're living it : trapped forever in a performance of a deluxe adolescent fantasy . ken and his messages could be read by the British . So the famous correspondence began . It was to last for five and a half years , until Roosevelt 's death on the eve of final victory . Altogether there would be 1,161 written messages and telegrams from Churchill to Roosevelt and 788 the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , illustrating the anxieties , the problems , the personalities , and sometimes the differences , of the two leaders . There are moments of great tension , even of passion , and of course there are periods of tedium and depression ( though never despair ) . Altogether , as now presented by Mr. Kimball , this correspondence gives a continuous history of the war as seen , and directed , from London and Washington ; and indeed not only thence , for since the two correspondents regularly repeated to each other the messages which they exchanged with Stalin , its scope embraces the whole grand alliance against Hitler . The drama is in three acts . The first runs from September 1939 to December 1941 ? from the outbreak of war to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor . For half of that period ? from the fall of France in May 1940 until Hitler 's invasion of Russia in June 1941 ? Britain was fighting alone . Throughout the whole of this time Churchill 's messages to Roosevelt were a constant attempt to bring America into the war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , through American " nonbelligerencv , " to keep the Atlantic seaways open and to secure the essential arms and supplies . When France fell , the situation was indeed critical , even for America , and Roosevelt tried to secure a guarantee that , if Britain were invaded , the Royal Navy would never be handed over to Germany . Churchill refused even to answer such hypothetical questions . Defeat , he insisted , was " an impossible contingency , " and surrender or scuttle was a prospect " more likely to concern the German fleet , or what is left of it , than our own . " Nevertheless , on one occasion , he was prepared to threaten , or at least to warn : unless America supported Britain , he wrote , " you may have a completely subjugated , Nazified Europe established with astonishing swiftness " ; then a successor government of Britain , parleying desperately among the ruins , would be left with no bargaining counter except the fleet , which , with the navies of " Japan , France and Italy , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overwhelming sea-power in Hitler 's hands . " Fr HAT threat , or the reality behind it , I secured an immediate relief ? the exchange of fifty old destroyers for West Indian bases , and the Lend-Lease Act , which solved Britain 's financial problem . Thanks to that relief , and the victory in the air , Britain survived the great crisis in the West . But meanwhile an entirely separate threat in the Far East was growing . There Britain 's weakness was Japan 's opportunity and temptation . Churchill 's chief aim was to ensure that , if Japan attacked in the Pacific , America would also be involved . This was by no means certain . Roosevelt 's military advisers insisted that America was not prepared for war , and the President himself had no desire to fight for the British Empire . Luckily for Britain , Japan chose to attack America directly , and Hitler rashly followed suit and declared war . Thereafter , Churchill did not need to beg . As he once put it , when advised to continue his gentle language to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talked to her while we were wooing her ; now that she is in the harem , we talk to her quite differently ! " So the second phase of the relationship began . From Pearl Harbor in De-cember 1941 to the Teheran Conference in November 1943 , it was the honeymoon period , the period of common peril , common planning , overriding common interests ; and of a close personal relationship improved and lubricated by regular correspondence , occasional meetings , and shared emotions . There were differences , of course ? differences of strategy , priority , detail . But these were always settled , as between equals . The high point of this equal partnership was in November 1942 , the invasion of North Africa . Later , when the buildup for the massive attack on Europe began , the inequality of the two Western partners was apparent , and with the prospect of victory , conflicts of long-term interest , hitherto muted , would become clear . COME of these conflicts were merely L./ questions of political or military strategy . Churchill exasperated his own advisers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adventures , and for small , clever , sometimes bizarre schemes of every kind . He would land in Norway , bring Turkey into the war . Roosevelt , if he was less romantic , more Machiavellian , had his fixed ideas , too . He overestimated his own diplomatic ability ; he misjudged Russia ; he had a blind spot for France . " I know you will not mind my being brutally frank when 1 tell you that I think I can personally handle Stalin better than either your Foreign Office or my State Department . " That unfortunate phrase is famous : Churchill published it in his memoirs . Roosevelt really believed it . On several occasions he sought to deal with Stalin behind Churchill 's back . The same self-confidence was shown in his suggestion that General Smuts , the Prime Minister of South Africa , would benefit " in his home problems " if he were personally enlightened by a tete-a-tete conference with " a fellow-Dutchman like me . " But with one foreign politician Roosevelt knew that he could never succeed . For " that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no shoulder too cold . Roosevelt regarded de Gaulle not merely as an embarrassing ally , a posturing prima donna , but as " a very dangerous threat to us . " Almost to the last hour he refused to recognize him as an ally . There could be no question of inviting him to Washington , or enlightening him on " his home problems . " Churchill was no less exasperated by " this man whom 1 trust as little as you do . " Still , he accepted the view of the British Foreign Office that de Gaulle , in spite of his antics , was in fact the only potential leader of France ; he recognized that the British government had " serious obligations " to him ; and he insisted that , when the Allied armies entered France , " the energizing factor of de Gaulle must not be forgotten . " Roosevelt did not agree . His hatred of de Gaulle seems to have extended to France itself , a country which he expected to fall into chaos after victory and with whose politics he wished @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ involvement with that impossible country that he insisted , in spite of logistical difficulties , on American occupation of northern , not southern Germany ; and when he ultimately yielded on this point , he demanded an American enclave at Bremen so that the communications of his army need not go through France . " I denounce and protest the paternity of Belgium , France and Italy , " he once wrote . " You really ought to bring up and discipline your own children . In view of the fact that they may be your bulwark in future days , you should at least pay for their schooling now ! " The problems of French politics loom large in this correspondence . They caused the first major Anglo-American difference , at the time of the invasion of North Africa . The Americans then insisted on dealing not with de Gaulle but with Admiral Darlan , the anglophobe Vichy minister , who happened to be there . Churchill did not like this , but the invasion , for political reasons , had been presented as a purely American enterprise , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year , when Italy surrendered , the roles were reversed . Then Churchill insisted , for similar reasons of expediency , on supporting the Italian monarchy and the interim regime of Marshal Badoglio , who had at least delivered the Italian fleet ; and he protested strongly against Roosevelt 's support for liberal windbags : the emigre republican Count Sforza ( " 1 do not believe that Sforza counts for anything that will make men kill or die " ) , the " dwarf professor " Benedetto Croce , and the " group of aged and hungry politicians " around Bonomi . " I gave you and the State Department loyal and vigorous support over the Darlan affair , " he protested : why could not Roosevelt now repay that trust ? He was particularly incensed when Roosevelt liberally ( and publicly ) promised Stalin one-third of the surrendered Italian fleet ? far more than had been agreed , or the Russians had asked . Britain , Churchill protested , had borne the whole weight of the war against Italy for two years , and had lost numerous warships : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ claims for replacements duly considered by our closest ally . " These were political differences . The greatest strategic differences came in 1944 , over the American insistence on " Anvil " ? the diversion of forces from the Italian campaign to land in southern France . Churchill objected strongly to this diversion , which he regarded as futile . The logical culmination of the Italian campaign , he believed , was an invasion of the Balkans through " the Ljubljana gap " in Yugoslavia and a march to Vienna , ahead of the Red Army . On this subject his letters become passionate . " The whole campaign in Italy is being ruined , " he exclaimed . " There is nothing I will not do to end this deadlock except become responsible for an absolutely perverse strategy , " and he even contemplated resignation ; but in the end he yielded . As his chief of General Staff put it , We got him to agree with our outlook , which is , " All right , if you insist on being damned fools , sooner than fail out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be damned fools with you , and we shall see that we perform the role of damned fools damned well . " Any great alliance is full of little strains , and has to survive great strains . This correspondence is a fascinating day-to-day record of an alliance kept going , in changing circumstances , in a long and difficult war . But of course the strains revealed some fundamental differences of outlook , whose lineaments become clear as we read . America helped Britain to survive in 1940 . It was brought into the war in 1941 . Though both aimed at military victory , however , the ultimate war aims of the two powers were not the same . First of all , the American war was not fought to preserve the British Empire . In fact , the reverse : Roosevelt was a convinced anti-imperialist . This was made clear , almost immediately after Pearl Harbor , when he started pressing for a guarantee of Indian independence . The Indians , he suggested , would fight against the Japanese more enthusiastically if they were independent , or had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggestion . Independence , he replied , was the slogan of the Hindu Congress Party which did not represent the whole of India ; the fighting part of the Indian Army , in particular , was composed of Muslims , who would certainly not submit to majority rule by a " Hindu caucus . " Independence would merely lead to widespread violence ( on this at least lie was right ) ; and he made it clear that he resented American interference . His resentment was not abated when the President forwarded similar proposals by Chiang Kai-shek . ( Roosevelt respected Chiang Kai-shek , whom he would bring to the Teheran Conference ; Churchill did not . ) " We do not agree with Chiang Kai-shek 's estimate of the Indian situation , " Churchill replied bluntly . " The Congress Party in no way represents India , " only " the intelligentsia of nonfighting Hindu elements . " It could neither defend India nor raise revolt . The military classes on whom everything depends are thoroughly loyal .... I earnestly hope , therefore , that you will do your best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Roosevelt 's anti-colonialism was not entirely consistent , or indeed disinterested . He was eager to use the colonies whose status he deplored ; he was prepared to sell the Portuguese colony of Timor to Australia . If he hated imperial preference , it was largely because he looked forward to greater opportunities of exploitation , and a larger market , for American industry . Early in 1944 he sent to Churchill a long document written by one of his advisers , General Hurley . It was a tirade against British economic influence , and especially oil concessions , in Iran . The author complained that " British imperialism is being defended today by the blood of the soldiers of the most democratic nation on earth , " and he urged that America set up in Iran a system which could then be a model for all those nations " now suffering from the evils of greedy minorities , monopolies , aggression and imperialism . " Churchill 's reply was surprisingly mild . " The General , " he wrote , " seems to have some ideas about British imperialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kimball comments dryly that " what neither Roosevelt nor Hurley mentioned was Hurley 's close association with the Sinclair Oil Company , then trying to obtain an oil concession from the Iranian government . " Roosevelt 's opposition to colonialism extended also ? in theory at least ? to spheres of influence . In 1944 , alarmed by the crisis in Greece , Churchill effectively agreed with Stalin that Rumania was a Russian , Greek , or British interest . Roosevelt objected : why had he not been consulted ? " We must avoid anything , " he wrote , " that looks like an attempt to establish spheres of influence after the war . " Churchill stood firm : " Action is paralysed , " he replied , " if everybody is to consult everybody about everything before it happens . " Roosevelt ultimately agreed . One means of maintaining a sphere of influence was by supporting a particular kind of regime . Churchill preferred monarchies ? be would have preserved the monarchy in Italy and Greece , even in Yugoslavia and Rumania . Roosevelt at times seemed more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He was less worried than Churchill by Soviet expansion in Eastern Europe : in the run-up to Yalta he positively avoided seeing Churchill so as to be freer to deal separately with Stalin . Churchill was prepared to alter the frontiers of Poland , which were accidental and irrational , but the forcible creation there as elsewhere , of puppet Communist regimes , was to him " a great failure and utter breakdown of what was settled at Yalta . " Here was another reversal of roles . Roosevelt , looking forward to American withdrawal from Europe , was prepared to concede not merely a sphere of interest but an empire to Russia , while Churchill , " from a political standpoint , " urged a forward military policy and , if possible , the capture of Berlin . T HESE are some of the underlying differences which give depth and variety to this extraordinary historical record . It is tempting , and natural , to dwell on such differences . But the lasting impression which is left by this book is of a political relationship sustained , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) concurrence of immediate interest , and a personal friendship between two very different , but equally masterful personalities , which was strong enough to afford frankness and disagreement . It remains to say that the three volumes are beautifully produced , and that Mr. Kimball 's editing is impeccable : professional , elegant , and unobtrusive . He has established the text with care and completeness ? he includes unsent drafts ( which are sometimes illuminating ) and telephone conversations recorded only by the German interception service . His commentary is perfect . He knows all the secondary literature ( though not the Bible : see his curious note on Balaam , Volume II , In case all the babies do n't make it clear , the babbling politicians do : the family is back in fashion . But Republicans , who prate about the family and freedom . and Democrats , who pontificate about the family and fairness , have it all wrong ? as any baby or parent could tell them , given the words or the time . Fiction writers have both , and lately a striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family life is really like . They do n't evade the trammeled truth : that family relations are distinguished from most other ties precisely in being fundamentally unfree and all too often unfair . Yet this dark heart of domesticity does n't depress these writers . Instead , they seem to be inspired by the household topography , the sticky surfaces and the fenced-off depths ? more modest fictional terrain than the slippery expanse of society or the recesses of the self . Of course , the bourgeois institution of the family has long occupied an important place in the bourgeois genre of the novel . But it has generally been a page 470 ) , and his headnotes , which are both comprehensive and succinct , make it possible to read the whole work not as a collection of documents but as a book ? and a fascinating book , too .                     