@@432159

 | In India , the sacred Ganges River is becoming a polluted nightmare . In Sweden , some 6,000 lakes are " dead " from acid rain . In Brazil , hectic development has created new towns dangerous to human life . Yet Tokyo has mastered its once infamous smog . The Thames River has been cleaned up in Britain . Russia 's Lake Baikal , only recently an environmental shame , again is crystal clear . This alternating pattern of success and failure is the common denominator in efforts by nations to maintain a safe environment for their peoples . Success sometimes has been dramatic in more advanced countries such as the U.S. where governments have focused on pollution . But contamination is increasing steadily in poorer nations , where economic growth and industrial development often are given much higher priority than clean air and water . Some problems ? for example , the spread of acid rain and the safe disposal of toxic and nuclear wastes ? so far have defied satisfactory solutions . Scientists say that developed nations of the Northern Hemisphere in general have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ polluted waterways within their borders . And laws already in place promise an improving future . Still , a committee of the European Parliament recently named the Greek capital of Athens as a hazardously polluted city . Nice in France and Milan in Italy also were cited as having extreme pollution problems . Antipollution efforts now are getting major attention in industrial nations , however . Sweden has cut the use of a wide range of industrial chemicals . New emission controls for automobiles will go into effect in 1985 . France has reduced water pollution in some industrial zones by 90 percent . Japanese plants have trimmed emissions of smog-causing sulfur dioxide well below the limits set by the government . On July 5 , Mexico launched a program to clean up air and water in Mexico City . The Soviet Union , a latecomer to environmental programs , has earmarked 14 billion dollars for cleanup projects in the current five-year plan . Soviet scientists and others publicly discuss a great number of environmental woes : Belching smokestacks , the continuing erosion of arable land , mismanaged forests and pollution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the catch of caviar-producing sturgeon . Even in China , which until a few years ago regarded its pollution-producing factories as a sign of progress , new plants are required to meet tough clean-air standards ? even though foreign observers suspect that actual enforcement of the regulations is slack . Nevertheless , there are nations where virtually nothing is being done . In Bangkok , Thailand , air pollution gets worse by the year , and the old canals that run through the city , once a tourist attraction , are black with sludge . In the city of Kaohsiung on Taiwan , 2,100 factory chimneys spew untreated smoke into the atmosphere . In 1981 , the government levied more than 2,000 fines of up to $500 each , but factory owners found it cheaper to pay fines than to curb the emissions . In Southeast Asia , tiny Singapore is one of the world 's cleanest cities , thanks to strict antipollution laws and a five-year , 190-million-dollar program to clean up waterways . Malaysia has a 16-milliondollar contingency plan to control and clean up major oil spills from tankers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gulf oil to East Asia . In contrast , the Association of Southeast Asian Nations ? Indonesia , Thailand , Malaysia , Singapore and the Philippines ? this year is spending only $372,000 , half of it contributed by the United Nations , on a joint study of oil pollution in association waters . Even industrialized Western countries are flinching at the continuing cleanup costs , which are so high that officials hesitate even to guess what the total worldwide expense could be . It is estimated , for instance , that the U.S. alone must spend 680 billion dollars in public and private money to face such problems in the 1980s . Persian Gulf toll . In some cases , environmental woes erupt suddenly without warning . A vast oil slick is spreading across the Persian Gulf from three wells damaged in the war between Iran and Iraq . The conflict has prevented experts from capping the wells , and the ultimate damage to sea life , beaches and coastal facilities could be staggering . Critical environmental situations in poor nations often are ignored . " The poor fellow in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil erosion has a very personal problem , " says an expert from the World Bank . " But in the beginning it seems to be only his problem . It is like going to the dentist . Many poor people do n't go until the tooth hurts . " He cites the Brazilian city of Sao Paulo as an example . There , the water supply in a major industrial area with an  | exploding population was neglected until a crisis of water shortages and pollution loomed . The government then was forced to borrow 1 billion dollars to bring the situation under control . Even easily seen problems are vast . West Germany estimates that it must close or modify 1,500 coal-burning power plants within 10 years . In highly industrialized Japan , factory wastes total 320 million tons and are growing at 5 percent each year , already straining disposal plans . Acid rain . Some international problems such as acid rain are proving to be more complex than first believed . In Canada , Britain , West Germany , Norway , Sweden , Russia and Japan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1980s . But experts ca n't agree on how to combat it . Some environmentalists say acid rain comes from sulfur and nitrogen-dioxide emissions from fossil fuels burned in cars and industrial plants . Others say nature itself spews vast amounts of sulfur and other pollutants into the atmosphere . Crash cleanup campaigns could be costly and ineffective . Such arguments complicate efforts to obtain international agreements on emission controls . National standards also differ , and some countries are only beginning to study the problem . Acid rain is at the heart of most international arguments over pollution . Canadians complain that half their problem is caused by emissions from the United States . They tell Washington that their vital forests , which provide 10 percent of the nation 's jobs , are in serious danger . Ottawa estimates that it will cost up to 4 billion dollars just to reduce acid rain by 50 percent . The reaction in Sweden and Norway is similar . The Scandinavians say that 75 percent of their problem is caused by emissions from Britain and Europe . Of Sweden 's 100,000 lakes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some 6,000 are all but " dead , " with no living fish . Strict local-emission standards can not curb pollutants that originate hundreds of miles away . In West Germany , some experts say that almost one third of the nation 's 17 million acres of forest land is damaged . " My most important job in the next few years is strengthening the protection of the environment , " says Interior Minister Friedrich Zimmermann . While acid rain seems to affect mainly industrialized states , drinking water is the problem for much of the world where the poor are flocking into unprepared cities from the countryside . In Greater Manila , for instance , some 6 million people do not have what scientists consider potable water . One of the most dramatic water problems is that of India 's Ganges River . The cremated remains of about 35,000 Hindus are thrown into the river each year , and many of the bodies are only partially burned . From hundreds of towns and cities , untreated sewage pours into the Ganges , 20 million gallons a year from the holy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mountains of waste . But Hindus consider the Ganges so sacred it can not be profaned . They dismiss evidence that pollution already is a danger to the 200 million people who live along the 1,500-mile river . Scientists are appalled by such extreme cases . But they are far from despair . They point out that barely two decades ago , most nations virtually ignored environmental problems . Concern that was heard came largely from private groups of conservationists . U.S. scientists consider the 1960s as the watershed decade when the public , politicians and scientists began to share an alarm for dangers previously ignored . " We have made great institutional strides in the past few years , " one says . Vast lobbying groups . Today , a vast environmental industry has sprung up . Virtually every nation has official environmental agencies , as do organizations such as the United Nations and the European Economic Community . Private societies to lobby the politicians have mushroomed . France alone has about 4,000 . Two decades ago , there was little understanding of environmental issues and few qualified experts to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concern . In Malaysia , for example , an embarrassed government is monitoring the level of acid rainfall . Officials were spurred to action because a group of high-school science students did a two-year study of their own , finding the problem to be growing and setting off a public outcry . Such public pressures are forcing governments into even greater efforts to combat environmental blight . Few officials or experts expect pollution to be totally eliminated during their lifetimes . But a start has been made .                     