@@432369

 | Ask Americans what it means to be a U.S. citizen , and most have little trouble affirming that it 's different from ? and somehow better than ? being a citizen anywhere else . Canadians and Kuwaitis have higher average incomes ; Swedes live longer . But Americans have the world 's most enduring written Constitution ? a living legacy of freedom that has survived profound changes in the society it governs . The Constitution 's framers set out to fashion a concord of nationhood . Baptized in revolution , they anticipated that tensions over national values and aspirations would persist . But they believed that a government directed by the people could prosper if citizenship encouraged a common civic enterprise that kept those conflicts civil . Today , the concord 's well-tuned phrases still inspire wrenching discord over what kind of nation the United States should be . But the framers ' plan for citizenship ? embodied in the Bill of Rights , ratified 30 months after the Constitution ? has proved remarkably flexible . Freedoms of speech and press , protections against arbitrary arrest and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help defend one 's community were drawn from daily 18th-century American life . In some form , these guarantees have survived two centuries . But the roles they play in American life have changed ? and the shape of citizenship has been recast . History provides no tidy , scientific laws to understand the changes in citizenship . But a few themes can be drawn . The first is democracy : Americans of both genders and all races today can claim the full mantle of citizenship , and state as well as federal officials must now respect its guarantees . The second may be termed the wages of affluence and modernization : The rights of citizenship have become less political and more personal . Modern society has abolished mandatory national service ? and seen in the Constitution a right to abortion . The practice of freedom has come to refer more to the preferences of private life than to the obligations of a shared civic life . Self-rule and the vote " In a republic , the citizens are the ruling class , " writes American philosopher Mortimer Adler . Current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nonsensical in early American communities , where the native form of self-rule was the town meeting . In the 19th century , political parties succeeded town meetings as instruments for government by the people . Those who cared to got together at local party gatherings to decide what policies they preferred , and party leaders selected candidates to carry them out . In the age of media electioneering , both forms of grassroots poiicymaking are all but gone . As Americans have cone to participate less in the business of governing , government itself has grown increasing the key role of ro:isg . But if the exercise of consent fen most Americans has been seduced to a few minutes spent in a voting booth , all Americans now can take part . In the nation 's early decades , U.S. District Judge Louis Pollak points out , " the franchise was the prerogative of the propertied , Protestant , white male . " The right Demonstrators in Raleigh , N.0 to help decide who will write the laws under which everyone lives was won by nonwhite men following the Civil War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1971 . Voting rights also have been protected for unlettered Americans , by a ban on literacy tests , and for the unpropertied , by the abolition of poll taxes under the 24th Amendment . Universal suffrage has be- come a touchstone for American citizenship ? even while only about half of those eligible to vote do so in national elections . Freedom makes citizenship an opportunity ? not a requirement . The right to know If politics is to be an intelligent public engagement , then self-government requires the full exercise of citizens ' knowledge and wits ? and , to the framers , that meant a free flow of facts and opinions about public matters . As James Madison warned , " A popular government without popular information or the means of acquiring it is but a prologue to a farce or a tragedy or perhaps both . " Watergate and other recent political dramas have turned on questions of the public 's right to know its leaders ' business . The framers had few doubts . The First Amendment created a special sphere of freedom for spoken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ publication of embarrassing political opinions or information , nor could anyone be jailed for publishing impolite political views or facts . But when it came to writing about personal matters , early Americans did so under strict state laws against obscenity , libel and blasphemy . Two hundred years later , the sanctuary of the First Amendment protects nonpolitical matters . An 1833 Supreme Court ruling that upheld the imprisonment for blasphemy of a Massachusetts man who denied the existence of God reads like an antiquarian curiosity beside a 1951 ruling that overturned an attempt to censor " sacrilegious " films . Court decisions of the last 25 years have made libel very difficult to prove , especially against public figures . The Justices also have severely limited laws against obscenity , and citizens can look at almost any imaginable sexual material ? despite continuing protests by tradition-minded Americans . Meanwhile , the growth of American world responsibilities has reshaped citizens ' right to know about many political matters . Thomas Jefferson recalled that some members of the Continental Congress proposed to suppress reports of early setbacks in the Revolutionary War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Civil War , commanders were routinely censoring American reporters ' communiques from the battlefields . World War I correspondents had to post bonds backing pledges to submit dispatches for Army approval . In World War II , federal censorship officials required that departments establish classification categories designating much government information " secret . " And , in 1947 , President Harry Truman established a governmentwide system that has grown so strong that , every day , hundreds of thousands of pages of paper about policies and operations are routinely stamped secret . The Supreme Court has never granted the government a constitutional right to censor . And efforts to stop publication of classified information have failed ? as have attempts to punish those who did so . But the penchant for secrecy has changed the daily routines of the First Amendment . The arms deal with Iran is only the latest example of policy pursued in secret and disclosed only long after the fact . And classification has spawned an elaborate system of carefully worded press releases , unidentified sources and unauthorized leaks by officials who want to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to decide for himself had a spiritual side , enshrined in the framers ' revolutionary idea of barring any " law respecting the establishment of religion or prohibiting the exercise thereof . " By declaring that the U.S. would have no national religion , the framers set out to protect American public life from the religious strife that had divided England . The guarantee did not stop many states from supporting churches or barring Jews and Roman Catholics from public office . And there was no question of banning school prayer ? in a nation in which most schools were church run and used the Bible as a primer . When the Supreme Court turned to church-state issues in the 1940s , in sev- eral cases involving Jehovah 's Witnesses , concerns about national religious conflicts had long receded . Instead , protecting the rights of small religious minorities became the Court 's theme . First , the Justices overturned requirements that public-school students salute the flag even if that violated their religion . Over the next 25 years , the Court added rulings that barred religious instruction , Bible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Court watchers see a new trend to allow limited government support for religious interests , in decisions involving tuition tax credits and loans of textbooks to parochial schools . And as some religious leaders have moved into politics , old concerns about promoting a national religious orthodoxy are being raised again in disputes over whether " creationism " should be taught in public schools and whether textbooks that do not discuss religion promote a new creed of " secular humanism . " The right to bear arms The framers knew that a contest of arms could change a nation 's course even more swiftly than a contest of ideas . As the First Amendment guaranteed citizens access to ideas , so the Second vested physical forces in armed citizen militias : " A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State , the right . . . to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed . " Militiamen were responsible for defense not only against foreign invaders but also against domestic rebels and local criminals . This facet of citizenship was drawn from the common experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Second Amendment was ratified , state militias numbered 1 million men ? as compared with 800 in the national Army . Most white males age 18 to 45 were required to attend regular training musters ? and were expected to patrol local streets for disorderly characters as well as face enemy soldiers . Americans today are well armed ? nearly half of U.S. households own guns ? but that has become a private matter , not part of a citizen 's duty to his community and nation . Militias began to decline in the 1830s , when Congress cut the aid to help maintain them . By the time of the Mexican-American War in 1846 , the Army stepped into the breach left by ill-equipped militias . Their eclipse left the other duties of citizen-soldiers to police forces , first organized in response to urban riots in the 1840s , and to state National Guard units organized in the 1870s to suppress labor unrest . These developments also have been crucial to America 's global power . Imagine a worldwide military role under militia rules , which barred sending civilian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state National Guardsmen to Honduras are based on vestiges of another rule , barring use of citizen-soldiers without a state 's approval unless the President " federalizes " their units . With the fall of citizen-militias , debate over a right to bear arms has focused on personal-gun control . Congress has restricted private ownership of the large arms used by professional soldiers and police ? automatic weapons in 1934 , large-bore guns and incendiary devices in 1968 . Today 's debate over handguns is less a constitutional conflict than a difference of opinion over how best to promote public safety . Searches and seizures Eighteenth-century common sense taught that citizens who help make the laws should be free to live as they please within them . The Fourth Amendment cast aside the prerogatives that Crown officials had used to manhandle colonists : It barred the arrest or search of any citizen unless a judge had issued a warrant based on evidence that he or she had probably committed a specific crime . As Justice William Douglas put it , freedom is " deemed too important to entrust to the discretion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the arrest of criminals . " But law enforcement has won a counterrevolution in Fourth Amendment law . Today , police rarely use warrants in making some 12 million arrests a year , and most police searches are conducted without judicial screening . At current arrest rates ? including those for traffic offenses ? more than half of American men can expect to be arrested at some point in their lives . The Supreme Court did not revise Fourth Amendment rights lightly . Behind the development was a basic shift in law enforcement , as police began trying to prevent ? as well as solve ? crimes . In the 1920s , the Court first gave officers powers to search without a warrant anyone they had arrested , then authority to search the area nearby . Soon , police were arresting suspicious characters for loitering , to search for evidence that a serious crime had been committed or was contemplated . In the 1930s , the heyday of organized crime , federal officers also gained the power to make arrests without warrants for felonies committed outside their view . Since then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions of persons arrested without warrants by state and local officers , and warrantless arrests are now the rule . And when public anxieties about law and order reached a boiling point in the 1960s , the Court approved a new twist : Allowing police to seize a citizen for a cursory search ? " stop and frisk " ? on the basis of suspicion , rather than " probable cause , " of wrongdoing . Rights of the accused If citizens can no longer claim the Fourth Amendment barrier to being searched or seized at the discretion of police , the last 50 years have witnessed a historic expansion of rights after arrest . One reason is the gravity of typical charges . In the moralistic , agrarian 18th century , crimes such as adultery and livestock theft filled the courts ? a far cry from the drug offenses and grand larcenies that dominate today . Once indicted , earlyAmerican defendants could not depend on " speedy " trials , as the Sixth Amendment dictates , because courts in rural areas where 80 percent of Americans lived met only quarterly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would conduct several trials a day , " says legal historian John Murrin . Justice , 18thcentury style , was something of an amateur affair , with most cases boiling down to one person 's word against another 's . The array of new protec-tions for citizens on trial followed the growth of police forces and the explosion in arrests . Grim revelations about police coercion of confessions led to an 1884 Court decision barring the use of confessions made " because of a threat or a promise , " and a series of subsequent cases culminated in the 1966 Miranda ruling that detailed strict guidelines for police interrogations . Conservatives say the ruling hobbles law enforcement and want the Court to change its mind about the rights of citizens once in police hands . A citizen 's Sixth Amendment right to " the assistance of counsel for his defense " guaranteed a lawyer only to those charged with federal capital : rimes until all federal defendants won the right in 1938 , followed 25 years later by those charged with serious state offenses . Trained counsel is nowhere more crucial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 20th-century " exclusionary rule , " which bars prosecutors from using illegally seized evidence in trials . That usually comes down to evidence uncovered during an extensive search by officers with suspicions but no probable cause to believe a crime has been committed . But in 1984 , the Justices allowed trial courts to consider some illegally seized evidence gathered in " good faith " by police , and the Reagan Justice Department wants the Court to extend the new reading to most cases . One other right has contracted : The Sixth Amendment guarantee to a jury trial . " This used to mean defendants in felony cases could be convicted only on a unanimous vote of a 12-member jury , " says legal historian Leonard Levy . " Now , juries may have fewer than 12 members , and the verdict need not be unanimous . " Most defendants never see a jury ? because most trade guilty pleas for reduced charges and light sentences . At any time , two thirds of convicts are serving sentences on probation , instead of in prison . It 's no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates ? have overloaded court dockets and , in turn , the prisons . For the other third , prison terms are among the stiffest in the world . Eighteenth-century American justice took another tack : Prisons were virtually unknown , and convicts often faced corporal punishment or the public pillory . Early Americans also faced execution for very serious crimes . That practice has ebbed and flowed over the last two centuries . The law-and-order days of the 1930s , for example , saw up to 200 executions a year . The number had dwindled to two in 1967 , when the Supreme Court halted the practice on evidence that trial courts were meting out death penalties in an arbitrary way . But the Justices refused to rule that all executions amount to " cruel and unusual punishment " under the Eighth Amendment , and the practice resumed under new state laws in 1977 . The issues now before the Court are whether trial courts discriminate against blacks in issuing death sentences and whether executing juveniles is unconstitutional . To the framers ' minds , citizenship was more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and a living method of social integration . The Bill of Rights has remained a living document for nearly two centuries ? not so much by preserving the public life of the framers ' day as by changing to reflect the private lives Americans have chosen . The framers , being sensible men , probably would look around today and be grateful that their handiwork proved flexible enough to preserve freedom and take account of the aspirations and anxieties of modern Americans .                     