@@432147

 | In the wake of Pope John Paul 's crusade to his troubled homeland come the first faint stirrings of hope that the Polish people and their military rulers may be heading toward reconciliation . At the end of the eight-day papal pilgrimage , Poles and Communist leaders were warily edging closer to dealing with each other than at any time since  | John Paul met twice with Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski , architect of Poland 's despised military rule . Warsaw officials now hint that amnesty for jailed Solidarity leaders and an end to martial law may be only weeks away , perhaps as soon as National Day on July 22 . " The Pope has done what no one else in Poland could do , " says one analyst here in the capital . " He has made both sides ? the government and the church ? realize that they can not get along without the cooperation of the other . " Yet Jaruzelski and other Communist officials are being careful . They remember well that it was the first visit of John Paul to Poland as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of independence in the Polish people and led to the formation of freedom-minded Solidarity . They want no repeat . Future unclear . For all the cautious optimism that the Pope has left behind , Poland 's future still is clouded after months of martial law . Even the most enthusiastic of Poles expect no major change soon . Their concern is that any meaningful easing of restrictions on individual liberties could be checked by hard-liners within the Jaruzelski government or by the Soviet Union , which fears the spread of the " Polish disease " to other nations in Communist Eastern Europe . Yet there is a growing feeling here that negotiations between church and state may accomplish more than confrontation in easing the people 's lot . " Differences in our country should be settled through dialogue and understanding , " says the government spokesman , Jerzy Urban . Repercussions of the Pope 's journey could be felt for years to come , with all factions within the country claiming to benefit from his visit . By words and actions , John Paul has boosted the flagging spirits of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of martial law . The government , for its part , argues that the Pope 's trip here has given legitimacy to the military regime . And it welcomes the Pope 's appeal for an end to Western economic sanctions , imposed after the declaration of martial law in mid-December , 1981 . Jaruzelski , for all his power , is a man walking a tightrope . He not only must keep Moscow happy , but must weigh Western reaction and worry about worsening economic conditions at home . Although the general badly wants an end to Western trade curbs , there is a limit to how far he can go in relaxing control . Hasty concessions might make it look as if Warsaw were capitulating to the Vatican . Many Polish officials already feel it was concession enough just to allow the Pope to visit . But the U.S. , main force behind the sanctions , has made it clear that Jaruzelski must make more than cosmetic changes if the curbs are to be lifted . Three points . President Reagan , in a June 23 speech to Polish Americans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met : ( 1 ) An end to martial law . ( 2 ) Release of political prisoners . ( 3 ) Creation of freely formed trade unions . Said Reagan : " We are currently consulting with our allies on the Polish question . Once these consultations are complete , we 'll decide how to proceed in our relations with Warsaw . " Officials in Warsaw are not confident that Reagan will lift the curbs . But they fully expect that he will come under heavy pressure from Europe to do so . There also is realization that the issue is stirring increasing debate among the President 's advisers . One group in Washington is arguing for a prompt American conciliatory gesture ? a partial lifting of sanctions . It says that Jaruzelski acted with boldness in accepting the papal visit and that the U.S. should respond in order to encourage more moderation and to avoid a possible hard-line backlash in the Polish Communist leadership . The point also is made that American allies in Europe will push for early concessions to Poland and that it would make sense for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those in the U.S. opposing early concessions maintain that Reagan should hold out for more evidence of easing of Warsaw 's policies before responding with conciliatory gestures . The concern is that Jaruzelski will go only as far as is necessary to get the sanctions lifted , then slowly reverse course . Postwar aid cited . Reagan repeated in his Chicago speech , however , an earlier offer to help rebuild the Polish economy if the government would take steps toward " national reconciliation . " " If the Polish government takes meaningful , liberal measures , " the President said , " we are prepared to take equally significant and concrete steps of our own . . . . If the Polish government will honor the commitment it has made to basic human rights , we in America will gladly do our share to help the shattered Polish economy , just  | as we helped the countries of Europe after both world wars . " The most lasting impact of the papal visit may turn out to be reinforcement of the country 's Catholic Church as an even more potent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church . The visit made clear that the Pope and his church command the loyalty of the people that the government so desperately wants . Warsaw tried hard to strike a spirit of accommodation during the Pope 's journey . Underlining its mood of reconciliation was Jaruzelski 's acceptance of an invitation from John Paul for a lastminute talk before the Pope returned to Rome . The 90-minute meeting ? described by a government spokesman as " frank , businesslike " ? was held just before the Pontiff received Lech Walesa , Solidarity 's former leader and still a symbol of Polish resistance . The unexpected second meeting was all the more surprising in view of the Pope 's hard-hitting speeches in which he virtually picked up the fallen banner of Solidarity . Moreover , Poles had used religious services and internation al media attention as a sanctuary from which to mount the biggest antigovernment demonstrations in months . Nevertheless , in the government view , the papal pilgrimage visit yielded more pluses than minuses . In addition to conferring much-needed legitimacy on the military regime , the trip enabled Jaruzelski @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control over Poland despite opposition to his rule . Demonstrated was his ability to master complicated logistics to move thousands of troops around the country at will . Even more important , the Warsaw regime has gained the hope of church cooperation in its bid to breathe new life into the economy . Particularly heartening to officials was the Pope 's repeated calls for an end to the economic sanctions that the government says have cost Poland 6 billion dollars and driven it to seek emergency aid from Russia . Said the Pope : " The fate of Poland in 1983 can not be a matter of indifference to the nations of the world , especially those of Europe and America . " Symbolic gesture . Authorities here agree that the Pope 's visit had a limited effect on Solidarity . John Paul 's meeting with Walesa was a symbolic endorsement of Communist Europe 's first independent trade union . But the private session , in a mountain valley troops sealed off , did little to help the former shipyard worker regain control of a movement martial law made impotent . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ once 10-million-strong membership still contributing monthly dues . Yet even after the papal journey , few Poles are willing to risk open opposition to a government that controls not only political freedoms but job opportunities as well . Hopes that the government might eventually meet with Walesa and permit Solidarity to reform have dimmed rapidly . " Dialogue can not take place between the government and Solidarity because Solidarity does not exist , declared a government spokesman as the Pope was leaving . " But dialogue is a wider term than negotiations , " he said , offering the possibility of talks with " former members of Solidarity . " Hopes renewed . For Poles who have resigned themselves to censored broadcasts , official newspapers and little church criticism of the regime over the past 18 months , the Pope 's attacks suddenly have reawakened hopes for a better life . " He 's saying what has to be said , " observed a miner who has refused to join government-sponsored local unions that are designed to replace Solidarity . " He is tough in order to get something done . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Pope unstintingly criticized Jaruzelski 's government for heavy repression . He peppered secular speeches and religious homilies  | ? - with phrases and historical analogies that further sharpened his criticism . Yet even while emphasizing Poland 's loss of freedoms , he preached the virtues of restraint , patience and quiet determination . Casting the church as a mediator between government and society , he went out of his way not to present the church as an opponent to the Communist regime in Warsaw . John Paul touched a nationalistic nerve in his countrymen , eliciting applause and chants of " long live the Pope " as he made his way by helicopter along a government-approved , 636-mile route that steered clear of the Soviet border and militant northern coastal towns where Solidarity was born . Repeatedly , the Pope invoked the word Solidarity and allied himself with the aspirations of the outlawed independent trade union . " May this good thing which appeared in so many places and in so many ways never cease on Polish soil , " he told hundreds of thousands of Polish youths gathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Everywhere , the message was the same : Determination , courage , hope . " I bring my solidarity and that of the church , " he told about 1 million Poles who had gathered through the night for services at a race track in Wroclaw . Displays of force . For the most part , the government averted confrontation , relying on massive shows of force . When peaceful protesters drew near government or Communist Party buildings , security forces moved water cannons into key intersections to turn the marchers away . In the largest demonstration , tens of thousands of Poles slowly coursed through the streets of Cracow , the Pope 's home city . Security forces by the thousands leapfrogged the papal route , traveling by night in long convoys . Police roadblocks sprang up on highways . And blue-suited militia often stood shoulder to shoulder , ringing the crowds at religious services . With the Pope gone , Poles are taking the long view of his trip . There are few expectations of immediate improvement in their lives . Says one political activist : " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visit by the Pope is just one move in a very long game . " Now , Poles are returning to the daily grind of martial law and a sagging economy . The bunting and papal flags have been taken down . Left behind is the crushing reality of life in Communist Poland ? but also the hope that Pope John Paul has convinced the Jaruzelski regime to ease their burdens .                     