@@432418

 | They might be scenes from a conservationist 's nightmare : A chain-sawwielding tropical biologist helps cattle ranchers lay waste to pristine forest in the Amazon . Wildlife managers at an African game reserve encourage locals to become field guides for hunting safa4 ris . Foresters urge natives of a tiny Caribbean island to go into furniture manufacturing ? using local trees . But these visions are not the product of some environmentalist 's tortured sleep . They are part of a new conservation movement that is gathering momentum around the world . Spawning buzzwords such as wild lands and human needs , sustainable development and biosphere projects , the new movement is certain to raise a few eyebrows among more-traditionally minded environmentalists . But it also addresses a crucial part of the environment that many conservationists feel has been neglected for far too long : People . " In the past , a lot of conservationists simply wanted to put a fence around a forest , " says Elizabeth Nordlinger of Conservation International , a Washington , D.C.-based environmental group . " But you ca n't do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If you lock it up , they ca n't build houses or feed their kids . " Proponents of the new conservation movement say their goal is that of their predecessors : Preserving scarce natural resources such as tropical forests and wildlife . Tropical forests cover some 6 percent of the world , but they are home for an estimated 60 percent of the world 's species . And they are  | disappearing at an alarming rate : Some biologists estimate that an area of forest the size of New England is destroyed in the tropics each year . But protecting those resources by blocking development ignores the presence ? and plight ? of the people living in or near them . Most of the world 's endangered wildlife and valuable forest areas are found in developing countries ? which usually can ill afford to simply put land aside for the future . " You can put a lot of guards around a park , " says Robert Winterbottom , a forest ecologist with the International Institute for Environment and Development , " but eventually people pressure will win out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mountain gorilla as long as there are people there who are hungry . " The way to get around the apparent conflict between conservation and economic development , say the new conservationists , is to mix the two . One strategy is to convert a tract of ecologically valuable land into a biosphere . In this scheme , a core area is set aside as a reserve for plants and animals . Surrounding the reserve are areas of land designated for scientific research , land-restoration projects and use by the natives for hunting , gathering and shelter . The whole area is surrounded by another buffer zone of land designated for more-intensive use such as farming and logging . There are now more than 200 biosphere projects around the world . One of the largest , a 3-million-acre tract of forest in Bolivia , was created last year when Conservation International orchestrated the buyout of part of Bolivia 's foreign debt in exchange for the government 's officially designating conservation zones around an existing reserve . How the areas will be used was determined by a planning committee including Bolivian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's logging industry . Part of the land is set aside for cattle ranching ; another part is for the Indians to continue their hunting and fishing and for logging , and another is a reserve to protect the area 's biological resources . But is it still a forest ? Just how large such a reserve must be to maintain the rich diversity of plant and animal life in a tropical forest is currently being studied in Brazil . When the Brazilian government promoted a project to clear forest in the Amazon for cattle ranching several years ago , conservationists persuaded officials to set aside parcels of forest of various sizes . These " islands " of forest , ranging from 2 ? to 2,500 acres apiece , are serving as laboratories for studying how the variety of plant and animal life in a particular environment adapts to a change in its size . The scientists catalog the various species in a particular area , then watch how the size and distribution of those species change after the surrounding forest has been cut down for pasture . Preliminary results show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , usually a single species of tree ? lending credence to the idea of having buffer zones surrounding parks of pristine forest . Looking for ways to save the biological diversity of a forest , even while conceding that some of it will be cut down , makes some traditional conservationists nervous . " People are afraid that as soon as we find out the minimum size a forest can be , the bad guys are simply going to come in and reduce everything to that size , " says Rob Bierregaard , a tropical biologist with the World Wildlife Fund who is the director of the Brazilian study . " That may be true . But the fact is , left on their own they would probably cut it all down . " Traditional conservationists may also be taken aback by some of the new conservationists ' methods . When the sluggish Brazilian economy slowed the cattle-grazing projects , for example , Bierregaard had to pitch in with a chain saw to help clear the forest . " It 's one of the problems of this kind of study , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position of wanting to see more rain forest cut down so we can get scientific results . " Elsewhere , conservationists are engaged in similar seeming paradoxes . In Zambia , for example , wildlife-management areas are constantly under pressure from poaching . The solution : Allow limited culling of wildlife by natives and train them as guides for hunting safaris . " Now that the natives are helping to manage the area , they look at poachers as threatening , " says Michael Wright , a vice president of the World Wildlife Fund . Poaching in the area dropped nearly 90 percent in three years after the program started . In one planned project in Dominica , a Caribbean island that is still 65 percent covered with native forests , conservationists are trying to help natives set up a logging industry that moves away from the high-volume ? and ecologically destructive ? logging practices that are typical of many tropical areas . Instead , they ' are promoting labor-intensive , smallscale businesses that combine logging and furniture making . Such an approach will require fewer roads through the forest , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to replant trees ? all to the benefit of the people who live on the land . Pragmatism vs. idealism . The new pragmatism in conservation does n't appeal to everyone . Some critics argue that by going after the deeper causes of environmental destruction ? population pressure and economic hardship ? conservationists run the risk of losing sight of their original goals . A flap recently erupted , for example , when the National Wildlife Federation sold a donated tract of forest land near Washington , D.C. , to developers . The group , which already owned a similar preserve in the area , argued that money from the sale would be better used to further the federation 's research on endangered species . But Alston Chase , writing on the incident in Outside magazine , wondered whether , in their attempts to save the forest , some conservation groups have begun to ignore the trees . In pursuing larger and larger projects , he says , the federation and other conservation groups have taken on an " agenda that resembles an encyclopedia of the world 's ills . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeared in an advertisement facing his editorial in the magazine . Promoting a trip through remote stretches of wilderness , the ad offered customers an opportunity to " make the world go away . " For conservationists trying to preserve precious natural resources , the big question is whether that 's any longer possible .                     