@@338342

The Tuesday-evening rush hour in central Moscow dragged on interminably , a sure sign that something important was happening . As usual , the streets around the Krem- lin were blocked off , allowing black limousines to emerge from the Borovitsky Gate and speed away unhindered . Normally , that ritual ties up lesser motorists for only a few extra minutes ; on this occasion , the tangle lasted much longer . The reason : the Soviet Communist Party 's Central Committee , more than 300 members strong , had just concluded its first plenary session under the leadership of General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev , 54 . The outcome of the meeting , held behind closed doors last week , would provide some evidence of Gorbachev 's grasp on the authority he inherited from the late Konstantin Chernenko on March 11 . <P> The results were soon evident . Within three hours the official news agency TASS announced that Gorbachev had increased the membership of the Central Committee 's policymaking organ , the Politburo , from ten to 13 . In the process , he diluted the influence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less than half of the Politburo membership . He also mildly flouted Kremlin protocol by leapfrogging two of his nominees to full Politburo status without benefit of an interval of nonvoting candidate membership . Finally , in his plenum speech , Gorbachev reaffirmed that the infusion of new blood at the top was part and parcel of his highest priority , the revamping of the Soviet Union 's chronically ailing economy . Said he : " Revolutionary changes are needed . What is at issue is the retooling of all sectors of the national economy on the basis of the latest scientific and technological advances . " <P> These words and deeds signaled a definite switch in the Kremlin 's mood after the painfully indecisive 13-month reign of Chernenko . They also seemed to confirm that , as some Western analysts had suspected , the new General Secretary is a disciple of policies conceived by Chernenko 's predecessor , Yuri Andropov . Explained Jeremy Azrael , senior analyst of Soviet affairs at the Rand Corp. : " To say that there have been new ideas on the domestic front would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " is the heir of Andropov . " <P> The influence of Andropov , a former KGB chief who was Gorbachev 's mentor , was particularly evident in the new leader 's Politburo choices . First among them , in terms of seniority , was Viktor Chebrikov , 62 , Andropov 's handpicked successor as head of the KGB . Chebrikov was trained as a metallurgical engineer , then labored as a Communist Party functionary in Dnepropetrovsk before Andropov made him a KGB deputy chairman in 1968 . Chebrikov is well chosen as a guardian of Communist conformity : in 1981 he railed against the " contamination of Soviet youth by Western ideas " and has since waged campaigns against " reactionary theological concepts , " meaning religion , and against " Zionism . " He was elevated to lead the KGB in December 1982 , and became a Politburo candidate member in 1983.                     