@@487887

in the Algerian war : Israeli soldiers were trained in French military camps ; Israeli officers went to the Ecole de Guerre ; Israeli experts helped French administrators in Algeria . Meanwhile , the Israeli secret service was helping King Hassan II of Morocco put down domestic opposition and reportedly even had a hand in the assassination of Ben Barka , the promising opposition leader . Israel also was in  --  volved in shipments of arms to Cuba 's Batista , strange secret military relations with South Africa and nuclear research projects with the French . This is the world in which Peres grew to become a full-scale apparatchik , the world in which he gradually accumulated power . On the Palestinian issue , Peres has been no less rigid than his mentor . He invented the fiction of a " Jordanian solu  --  tion " that was rejected by Jordan and opposed completely by the Palestinians . Even today his position is not far from Begin 's . Like Begin , he believes the Lebanon war was a good way to eliminate the Palestine Liberation Organization and-clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestinians will be forever excluded . The only difference in policy between the two , a slight one , is that Peres would be willing to give Jordan back part of the West Bank as a token " territorial compromise , " while Begin will allow Jordan to stay as it is and surrender to Israeli peace terms as well . Peres also has a somewhat different strategy . He believes the Arabs have to be pushed , gently but perpetually , not let  --  ting them feel how , one by one , newly created " facts " keep pushing them . One should never make these stupid noises that Begin is making , he would say . Do n't boast , do n't threaten , do n't overkill . Just push , push . In this way , Peres believes  --  as the Labor Party believes  --  facts can change geography and thus become history . But one can not change geography . And any geopolitical map on which Palestinians do not exist as a sovereign entity is worthless and invalid . That is why Peres can not replace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practical likelihood of that . There are social circumstances that make it almost impossible for a socialist to be elected , be it Peres , Eban , Rabin or anybody else . In Israel , white-collar workers vote Peres , blue-collar masses vote Begin . In Israel , Oriental Jews have low status , low income , low education . European Jews have high status , high income , high education and every high position in the social , political and military structure . In Israel , the Peace Now demonstrators are white , blond and blue-eyed ; the prowar demonstrators have black hair and black eyes . And as long as peace with the Arabs is represented by socialists who took the fat of the land and left the poor in the slums , there will be no peace and there will be no Labor Party Prime Minister . Period . The poor can not be fooled by this kind of a Labor Party ; they would rather have an honest bourgeois party robbing them to death but offering them sweet revenge and some pride and a sense of power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acts crazy under a Marxist microscope . It gives the right answers only to the wrong questions . In such a perverted situation , Shimon Peres sticks out as a " very tragic hero of a not-funny comedy . Shimon Peres is not a bad guy ? he lacks the dimension . But neither is he a nice guy . There is no way to paint a por  --  trait of such a person , because a portrait can only be drawn from life . All we have here is a skeleton , and one can only make a reconstruction from that . A skeleton of what once was the socialist Labor Party . And a skeleton can not have a human face.El MI THE MANVILLE MANEUVER Going ' Bankrupt ' To Flee the Public EDWARD GREER The surprise move by the Manville Corporation this August to file for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Act was one of the neatest pieces of corporate sleight of hand ever perpetrated on the American public . The lawyers responsible well deserve the riches they will receive for their professional artistry , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  tecting their stockholders so ably . The Manville Corporation is the largest manufacturer of asbestos in the United States and for the last fifty years has been a leader in the industry . Millions of workers during that time have been exposed to asbestos and , as it has lately been determined , such exposure can cause asbestosis , meso  --  thelioma and lung cancers . In recent years Manville has been the target of an increasing number of lawsuits by workers seeking compensation for their disabilities , and at the time of its bankruptcy filing there were no fewer than 16,500 cases pending . Manville was naturally worried . There was no way of knowing how many workers were affected and , since the diseases can be latent for twenty years or more , no way of knowing how many suits might arise over the next decades . The financial exposure of the corporation was unlimited . Particularly troublesome was the prospect of juries assessing punitive damages as well as compensatory awards , on the grounds  --  for which there is some documentary evidence  --  that the company in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continued to manufacture the product anyway . And since insurance companies do not have to reimburse their policyholders for punitive damages awarded in a personal-injury suit , Manville would be forced to pay them out of its own pocket . The risk was enormous : current claims already amount to billions of dollars and it is estimated that potential claims will be considerably greater . Until August , Manville fought every suit to the limit , and it won almost half of those that went to trial , even though these early cases were generally regarded as strong by the plaintiffs ' lawyers . That was not enough to allay the com  --  pany 's fears , however , because even when it wins it has to pay large legal costs  --  larger in fact than the average com  --  pensatory award . ( The Asbestos Compensation Coalition , a lobbying group for the asbestos industry , estimates that the average award is $28,000 and that legal fees for a defendant corporation come to almost $75,000 . ) This may help to ex  --  plain why Manville chairman John McKinney recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us in the long run winning a case against a person who is obviously disabled . " At this point , into the corporate mind comes a thought : why take the chance of losing a lawsuit  --  would n't it be bet  --  ter to prevent workers from suing at all ? And thus the Man  --  ville Maneuver was born . The scheme has the legal community astounded with its boldness . Here a successful corporation files for bankruptcy not because it is bankrupt  --  in fact it happens to have $2 billion in assets and a favorable cash flow  --  but because it may go bankrupt many years from now . But by declaring bankruptcy now it gets to enjoy a number of advantages , most of them provided by our representatives in Congress who created the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 . First , under the provisions of that act , all of the pending cases against Manville were automatically transferred from state and Federal courts , where there is a right to trial by jury and assessment of punitive damages , to bankruptcy courts , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not put in their claims until all the " secured " creditors  --  banks and corporations that Manville has been doing business with  --  get the full share of what is owed to them . I would estimate that by this one clever dodge Manville reduced the value of the lawsuits against it by 80 percent . Second , after six months , no new claims can be filed against a company that has declared bankruptcy . This means Manville will escape the suits of the tens of thousands ofpeople who will be discovering their asbestos-related ill  --  nesses in the years to come . The ingenuity of this escape deserves some explication . Usually only a tiny fraction of those who are injured by a product ever bring suit  --  in the cosmetics and machine-tool industries , for example , the figure is about 2 percent  --  because most peciple do n't realize there is any connection between the product and their in  --  jury . It is only when there is a great deal of publicity about a particular hazard that these connections begin to get made and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am currently working on concerning urea formaldehyde insulation illustrates this phenomenon . In March 1979 , before there was any significant publicity about the health hazards of this product , Borden , the largest formaldehyde-insulation manufacturer , said that only about 0.2 percent of its customers had complained . Although the company withdrew its product from the market at the end of 1978 and there have been no installa  --  tions of it since , there has been a lot of publicity about the subject and the number of complaints has recently sky  --  rocketed . In Massachusetts , where I practice law , the number of consumers bringing claims has multiplied more than thirty times since the state Board of Health brought attention to the issue . ) Third , by filing for bankruptcy Manville protects itself from the calamity it would confront if its insurance com  --  panies refused to make payments in successful suits . The in  --  surance companies in the last few years have become in  --  creasingly difficult to deal with as they face the prospect of recurrent asbestos-case outlays . As chairman McKinney put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " The whole subject disgusts me . Now , when we need the coverage . . . the insurance companies are reneging . We sued them all in California in early 1980 to force re  --  payment . . . . As much as anything else , the bad faith of the insurance companies has made it necessary for us to take this action . " But the " bad faith " of the insurers is not groundless . For one thing , there are disputes over which insurer is respon sible for which claim , a matter which is not easily sorted out when there is continuous exposure to a toxic substance . More important  --  in fact crucial  --  the insurance companies had grounds for raising the question of whether Manville deliberately concealed its knowledge about the dangers of asbestos at the time it took out its insurance policies . If so , the insurers would be entirely relieved of their obligations to pay  --  just as they would be if a man bought insurance on his wife 's life with the full intent of murdering her and then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obviously a masterstroke for a company with very serious problems on its hands  --  and more of them likely to come . What makes it even more bril  --  liant is that it took advantage of a law that had already been found unconstitutional . Last April 27 the Supreme Court heard oral argument about the constitutionality of the Bankruptcy Act of 1978 in the case of Northern Pipeline Construction v. Marathon Pipe Line Co. , with the main dispute centering on the legitimacy of the bankruptcy courts . Two months later the Court held by a 6-to-3 margin that Congress 's delegation of broad powers to the bankruptcy courts violated Article III of the Constitution , since judges granted such authority should have lifetime appointments whereas bankruptcy judges serve only fourteen-year terms . However  --  luckily for Manville  --  the Supreme Court ruled that its decision would not take effect until October 4 : " This limited stay will afford Congress an opportunity to reconstitute the bankruptcy courts or to adopt other valid means of adjudication , without impairing the interim ad  --  ministration of the bankruptcy laws . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took advantage of , deliber  --  ately filing for bankruptcy under an invalid law , many years before there was any threat of its actually going under . That is why its action was so precipitous , taking the business world by surprise . The company was well aware that when Congress does get around to passing a new bankruptcy act , it is likely to close the loophole that permitted the Manville Maneuver and allows perfectly sound companies to avoid their legal responsibilities by trickery . Manville 's flight into bankruptcy as a result of legal pressure from the public draws attention to the role of the private tort system in this country . It is a distinctive feature of American law , enabling a consumer to sue a manufac turer for injuries from defective and unsafe products and , if successful , to receive financial compensation . It was the success of the tort system around the turn of the century , when juries began to award damages - to injured workers in ever-larger numbers , that led industrialists to denounce it as unfair and irrational and to call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted as workers ' compensation . Under workers ' compensation , corporate liability is strictly limited and awards must follow a set statutory scale , with payments coming from a legally regulated kitty amounting to no more than about 2 percent of an employer 's payroll . It is not without some benefits for injured workers , particularly since they do not have to prove negligence against their employers , but it is hardly any wonder that the Socialist Party and the Industrial Workers of the World at the time opposed it . And it is hardly surprising that today the asbestos in  --  industry is denouncing the private tort system as loudly as its corporate forebears did : " This type of toxic tort litigation , " chairman McKinney has declared , " is an intolerable gam  --  bling exercise for both plaintiff and defendant . " The in  --  industry has begun an all-out campaign to expand workers ' compensation to cover workplace-related illnesses like the ones caused by exposure to asbestos , and it is even pressur  --  ing the government to create a special compensation fund using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Representative George Miller , chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor Standards , has said of this move : " Such an action would open the Treasury 's doors to every manufacturer of a dangerous product which , besieged with victims and liabilities of its own making , similarly seeks to ' socialize ' losses with taxpayers ' money . " Although the tort system had worked reasonably well in the asbestos cases brought prior to the Manville Maneuver , it is a crude and inadequate method in general for deterring private enterprise from reckless public behavior . Current law makes it very difficult for workers to win awards for ill  --  nesses that build up over a period of many years and may have a variety of environmental causes . And since corpora  --  tions can usually get product-liability insurance , they have a buffer against workers ' claims and therefore against public responsibility . Certainly the tort system is not adequate to guard against the untoward effects of private industry 's cavalier attitude toward the ecosphere and its human inhabitants . It would help , to be sure , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in toxic-substances cases , as it did in the eighteenth century with regard to all tortious acts . But it would be even better to have a comprehensive set of con  --  trols that would operate before a product is marketed , as is now the case with prescription drugs . Best of all , of course , would be a full-scale social welfare system that would sup  --  port individuals unable to work because of health problems and provide for their complete medical care . And if such a system of social insurance  --  which would eliminate the present fantastic legal and administrative costs of product liability  --  is not politically feasible in America today because of an ethos of free enterprise , then let Man  --  ville be scavenged to pay off its debts . Better a market failure than tens of thousands of penurious asbestosis victims . q IM THERE GOES NONPROLIFERATION America , the New Nuclear Salesman JOHN TIRMAN For two years the Reagan Administration has steadily chipped away at the foundation of nu  --  clear nonproliferation arduously built during the Ford and Carter years . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attention , but that is only the most visible of the Administration 's ac  --  tions attempting to re-establish the United States as the world 's leading nuclear salesman . The plutonium policy shift has become the focus of con  --  cern because it allows Japan and countries in Western Europe to reprocess U.S.-supplied uranium without U.S. approval . This is important since reprocessing  --  separating plutonium from nuclear " spent fuel " ? is not only a method for re-using the element in nuclear reactors but also the best way to produce weapons-grade material . To slow the movement toward a worldwide " plutonium economy " and an uncontrolled nuclear arms race , Presidents Ford and Carter curbed foreign reprocessing of U.S. fuel ; Reagan is loosening the reins . But that 's not all . a With the Administration 's tacit consent , the American nuclear industry is exporting " sensitive " ( i.e. , bomb-related ) technology and materials indirectly . Under the 1978 Nuclear Nonproliferation Act put through by President Carter , U.S. vendors can not send such exports to countries that have not established the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sidestep this sanction by selling through foreign affiliates or subsidiaries . Examples : Combustion Engineering , through its Canadian subsidiary , has sold uranium fuel to Argentina ; Westinghouse is planning to sell a large nuclear reactor to Pakistan through a Spanish or Belgian company ( and previously sold reactors to South Africa ) ; a Foxboro , Massachusetts , firm sold computers of a kind used for nuclear weapons production to Argentina through a Swiss firm ; the industry has " brokered " nuclear fuels to South Africa and India . q The Administration has allowed  --  and at times en  --  couraged  --  the U.S. Export-Import Bank to underwrite loans for nuclear exports . According to the Center for De  --  velopment Policy , a private research group , " nuclear plants and fuel account for 19.5% of the bank 's total exposure , " John Tirman is the senior editor at the Union of Concerned Scientists . or roughly $7 billion in subsidized loans . The bank 's presi  --  dent and a U.S. trade representative met with nuclear ven  --  dors last winter , and the vendors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voluntary effort to identify the areas where government can be a practical and helpful part  --  ner in these very significant deals . " One example of the Administration 's effort was a White House push for a $855 million Ex - 1m Bank loan to Taiwan to buy two reactors . Among the bank 's other nuclear clients : South Korea ( $2.4 billion ) , Brazil ( $223 million ) , Israel ( $600,000 ) , the Philippines ( $946 million ) and Argentina ( $13.5 million ) . a The Administration is encouraging the export of en  --  richment technology , which can be used to convert low-grade uranium into weapons-grade fuel . Early this year , the Department of Energy approved the sale of a new enrich  --  ment technique using lasers to West Germany and France , countries that have aggressively pursued nuclear technology . ( The laser technology was developed in U.S. government laboratories at public expense , yet the export was kept secret , as so many such transactions are . ) More recently , Presidential adviser Edwin Meese said he hopes to turn over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a move that would widen opportunities for nuclear-fuel trafficking . q Reagan 's policies supporting the Clinch River breeder reactor , the revival of the domestic reprocessing industry and the use of fuel from commercial nuclear plants in weapons production all increase the likelihood that plu  --  tonium will be diverted into foreign hands . More important , critics argue , such policies signal America 's lack of commit  --  ment to nonproliferation efforts by other nations . This was underscored when the United States walked out of the Inter  --  national Atomic Energy Agency 's annual meeting last month . The rationale usually offered by both the Administration and the nuclear industry is that the United States can be most effective in slowing proliferation if it is active in global nuclear commerce as a " reliable supplier " of hardware and materials . " We have to be part of the nuclear scene in R &D; and as a reliable supplier , " says Manning Muntzing , a prominent Washington , D.C. , attorney and president of the American Nuclear Society " If we bottle it up at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of the world wo n't listen to us . The best way to influence other nations is to be a good partner , and to be involved . " But the " reliable supplier " rationale may spring from nothing more than desperation . There have been no reactor sales in the United States since 1978 ; without exports , nuclear vendors have little business . And the nations that would be the best customers are often those without full-scope safeguards ? Brazil , Argentina , Israel , South Africa , India , Pakistan  --  and therefore theoretically banned . Little wonder that the nuclear industry has worked so hard in its attempt to circumvent or scrap the nonproliferation treaty . Another hope for the industry is to peddle inferior equip 