@@331463

A few weeks after Kay McNulty graduated from Philadelphia 's Chestnut Hill College in 1942 with a degree in mathematics , she got a job at the Army 's Ballistic Research Laboratory as a human " computer , " calculating artillery trajectories . For three years she did the kind of mind-numbing mathematical drudgery  --  punching numbers into a mechanical calculator and copying down the results  --  that in those days was measured in " girl hours . " Then she was invited by the University of Pennsylvania 's Moore School of Electrical Engineering to help J. Presper Eckert and John Mauchly put the finishing touches on a new kind of computing device called ENIAC ( for Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer ) . That machine and its descendants were destined not only to make her old job obsolete but to change the world profoundly . <P> One day last week McNulty ( now the widowed Mrs. John Mauchly ) , Eckert and 500 computer enthusiasts gathered at a " black-tie optional and hackerwear essential " party at Boston 's Computer Museum to celebrate the 40th anniversary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that day in 1946 , ENIAC in 20 seconds performed a mathematical calculation that would otherwise have required 40 girl hours to complete . Newspapers headlined the performance . It " solves the unsolvable , " reported the Philadelphia Inquirer . Indeed , many experts mark ENIAC 's feat as the beginning of the modern computer age . <P> By every measure , ENIAC was an imposing machine . It weighed 30 tons and occupied a space as large as a boxcar . Its 40 modular memory and processing units , each housed in a 9-ft. - high black metal cabinet and bristling with dials , wires and indicator lights , filled a room the size of a small gymnasium . Its 18,000 vacuum tubes radiated so much heat that industrial cooling fans were needed to keep its circuitry from melting down . <P> ENIAC was the technological wonder of its day . Programming the machine could take as long as two days as " coders " armed with detailed instructions fanned out among the panels , setting dials and plugging in patch cords in an arrangement that resembled an old-fashioned telephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of IBM punch cards ; a million cards were required for the monster 's first assignment , a top-secret numerical simulation for the still untested hydrogen bomb . Every time a tube burned out , which happened twice a day at the start , a technician had to rummage among the tangle of wires to locate and replace the dead component . To prevent rodents from nibbling at ENIAC and destroying vital parts , Eckert recalled at the anniversary party , the scientists captured some mice , starved them for several days and then fed them bits of the insulating materials used in the machine . Any pieces the mice seemed to favor were removed from ENIAC and replaced with less tasty parts .                     