@@735021

txt Board of education member Luis Salces is on the right track , but he does n't go far enough .. Salces suggested at a meeting of the board 's Instruction Committee that parents be required to pick up their children 's report cards at their schools at least once a year and confer with their teachers . That should make the Rev. Jesse Jackson happy because the Operation PUSH president has been a voice crying in the wilderness for several years , urging parents to establish a new partnership between the home and school . After Salces ' suggestion , the Instruction Committee directed School Supt , Ruth B. Love to develop a proposed policy on parents picking up the report cards , It would be a good start toward mandated parent involvement , but for a policy with teeth look to Holy Angels Elementary School , 535 E. Oakwood Blvd . Parents must attend the monthly PTA-type meeting called the Parent Education Effectiveness Program , After the meeting , they must confer with their child 's teacher . ' these meetings are held on Sundays . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mast attend the monthly meetings and confer with the teachers regarding ? the progress of each child . Repeated failure to comply with this regulation may result in the child 's dismissal from Holy Angels . lIecause the school aims to build the Mack community and , consequently , the family unit , Involvement of the head of the household is essential . Where there is a father or , , male guardian in the home , he is rcspons. ible for school business . The rules state : " Parents and teachers will meet regularly each month before and after the association 's meetings to discuss school matters . This obligation especially devolves upon the father or male guardian in the home . " If the parent fails to attend the monthly meeting or fails to confer with the teacher and has no valid excuse , the child is immediately suspended and stays suspended front classes until the parent comes to school . Holy Angels has printed formidable suspension notices ready to hand out . The notice says the child is suspended until the parent comes for the conference " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends with the sentence : " hopefully this will not happen again . " When I mentioned the policy to several school board members , one said , " Well , that 's a Catholic school . " Another said that somebody would file a suit if the public schools tried that , adding that the child would be punished for the sin of the parent . A third suggested that some parents would have a tough job getting their employer to , give them time off front work to go to the school . Mrs. Alice C. Blair , deputy superintendent for instruction and pupil services , said that while she was superintendent of District 13 on the South Side she Insisted that parents in schools tinder her jurisdiction pick up the report cards in school , Most of these parents are struggling to survive , but she said , ' " Parents always found a way . " , As for the issue of a court challenge , presumably on the grounds of violating students ' rights , a tough Holy Angels-type policy actually would insure the rights of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right to have their parents and their teachers work together in the interest of their schooling . A policy requiring parent involver/lent would assure them of that right . Lack of enough parent involvement is not the only problem in the city public schools , but it 's one of the biggest . Just imagine what might happen if parents en masse started conferring monthly with the teachers of their children and attending PTA meetings regularly , meetings where the education of their youngsters is discussed . Some already do , but the prospect of a solid partnership between home and school in every part of the city is staggering to comprehend . Holy Angels school serves 1,300 children . They come from struggling black families trying to survive and committed to providing a better world for their children . The average Holy Angels child in every grade except 5th is reading at or above national norms , and the average 5th grader is only slightly behind national norms . Ask the Rev. Paul Smith , the principal , the chief reason for Holy Am , Is ' success . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Love came to Chicago as school ? superintendent front Oakland with a reputation as a tough administrator who demanded accountability front all quarters . Let 's see if she develops a parent involvement policy that gets the job done .                     