@@668952

The embattled dollar rebounded in world currency markets Monday behind assuring words from President-elect George Bush and hard cash from the Japanese government . In Delray Beach , Fla . , Bush sought to head off a financial crisis by downplaying the dollar ' s post-election plunge and pledging quick action on the U.S. budget deficit when he becomes President Jan. 20 . The dollar has come under attack because of negative market reaction to Bush ' s no-new-tax pledge and a remark by economist Martin Feldstein , an occasional Bush adviser , that the dollar should fall 20 percent . Bush ' s advisers said Feldstein did not represent Bush ' s views . The dollar recovered almost immediately after Bush ' s comments , finishing the day stronger . But market analysts said the Japanese central bank and the U.S. Federal Reserve Board propped the dollar up by buying it in currency markets . The Japanese reportedly bought half a billion dollars , one of their heaviest purchases in recent years . The dollar ' s fall has sent a chilling message to the President-elect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes to tackle the deficit but would cut spending instead . Economist David Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston &; Co. , a government securities dealer in New York , said Bush ' s plan has no credibility in the markets . " He has painted himself into a corner , " Jones said . The fear is that a collapsing dollar will force the Federal Reserve Board to drive up interest rates quickly to head off inflation , plunging the economy into a recession . A lower dollar triggers inflationary pressures by pushing up import prices . Referring to the dollar ' s recent swoon , Bush said that " these gyrations happen . " Asked whether he seeks stability for the currency , he said " exchange market stability is the key ; but nobody is going to peg the dollar to any existing currency . " Bush said he shares the concern of financial markets over the U.S. budget deficit and will make it a priority of his administration . " I don ' t become President until Jan. 20 , but I am convinced that the deficit remains @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will address myself early on in my presidency and will be talking , perhaps before then , to key congressional leaders and others about it . " It is a matter of grave urgency . I know it , I think it , I think the country knows it and I want to be in the forefront of trying to do something about it after I become President . " Asked if , in light of the falling dollar , Bush thought the currency should be stabilized , Bush replied : " The policy is in effect ; it is the administration ' s policy . It is built around policy coordination and exchange market stability . These are words of art . " This is the policy of the existing administration ; it will be the policy of the George Bush administration . And the dollar apparently is stronger this morning , and apparently the Tokyo market is up ; so these gyrations happen , but that is the policy . " With respect to persistent reports that Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady will be asked to stay on , Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you all will be among the first to know . " Asked if it would send a message of stability to other countries by naming his economic team this week , he said : " I think the appointment of James Baker ( as secretary of state ) did send a good message : excellence , a person of experience . I think that one sent a very good message , and I hope every other appointment I make will send a similarly reassuring message . " Of the savings and loan crisis , Bush said : " By the time I get to be President , I will probably have some ideas how to proceed . I will be talking to the secretary of the treasury soon in a little more detail about that . " The dollar , after touching a low of 122. 30 Japanese yen in Asian trading , edged higher in New York . Late in the day , it was quoted at 123. 75 yen , up from 122. 70 yen Friday . The Federal Reserve bought dollars in the open market at around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the central bank ' s first dollar purchases since Wednesday . The U.S. currency climbed to 1. 7465 West German marks from 1. 7375 Friday . The dollar ' s New York rally was underpinned by statements from Bush aides that the new administration does not favor a lower dollar and that the federal budget deficit would be its first priority . In addition , Treasury Secretary Brady said the U.S. remains committed to exchange-rate stability . Dealers said Bush ' s comments coincided with perceptions in some circles that the dollar may be overextended on the downside for the near term . Worries about the dollar are the No. 1 item of discussion among investors worldwide , said Jonathan Raclin , senior vice president of Chicago Corp . Raclin , who just returned from talking with investment advisers in Switzerland , said the Swiss were " very negative on the dollar and its prospects . " It ' s very simple-if they lose money on the dollar , they lose money , " he said . " The Swiss are typical of other investors around the world in not wanting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Raclin said , because there is a perception that in the change of power in Washington , " Reagan can ' t act and Bush can ' t act . " Currency traders said there was hesitancy among investors to commit money before release of the U.S. trade report for September on Wednesday . A larger-than-expected trade gap could drive the dollar lower , putting more downward pressure on stocks and bonds . CAPTION : GRAPHIC : Dollar vs. yen mark . Chicago Tribune Graphic . PHOTO : Agence France-Presse photo . A Tokyo money dealer buys and sells dollars Monday . After hitting a low of 122. 30 yen in Asia , the dollar bounced back in New York . Illustration PHOTO GRAPHIC <>                     