@@670094

WASHINGTON  --  In a surprise , last-ditch effort to enact immigration legislation before Congress adjourns , the House approved a compromise bill designed to resolve the controversy over foreign farm workers in the U.S. By a vote of 230-166 , the House approved a bipartisan package that would provide citizenship for millions of currently illegal aliens while trying to stem future illegal immigration by imposing civil and criminal penalties on employers who hire undocumented aliens . The bill is " just , humane and necessary , " asserted Rep. William Richardson ( D. , N.M. ) , adding , " it ' s the best we can get " in the current political climate . But despite what lawmakers described as a legislative " miracle " in resurrecting the bill , the House adopted a controversial provision that some proponents asserted threatens to kill chances of final congressional action this year . Provisions suspending deportation of some Nicaraguans and Salvadorans , which survived by a mere two-vote margin , have prompted White House officials to threaten a veto . " This throws the whole immigration bill out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Calif. ) , one of the main architects of the legislation . The latest hurdle came after the bill ' s backers expressed guarded optimism that they had the political momentum  --  and enough time  --  to fashion a bill acceptable to the Senate . Some senators had agreed with those predictions . But despite the bipartisan push for House action , a number of lobbyists and legislative aides familar with the issue said they expected the measure to flounder because of differences between the latest House bill and the version the Senate passed last year . Still , the House decision to take up the bill at all represented a dramatic turnaround from less than two weeks ago , when partisan and regional conflicts prompted lawmakers to use a procedural vote to sidestep the immigration issue . At that time , proponents almost unanimously asserted that the legislation appeared dead for the year , and perhaps for much longer . But after intense negotiations that included some senators , the House Rules Committee hammered out a compromise allowing continued use of foreign workers to harvest fruits and vegetables . Earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thousands of foreign farm workers already in the U.S. , while making it difficult for new ones to enter this country . The compromise initially wouldn ' t grant permanent resident status to as many current foreign agricultural workers as would earlier House versions . But while allowing continued use of foreign farm labor , it still wouldn ' t go as far as the Senate bill , which would allow as many as 350 , 000 guestworkers into the U.S. for months at a time . Western growers long have sought such legislation . In other areas , the latest proposal generally tracks provisions included in the Senate bill and the earlier House version . The legislation is designed to curb the illegal immigration of an estimated two million people into the U.S. this year . Describing the previous bill as " a corpse going to the morgue , " Rep. Lungren said the compromise on farm workers was the only way to resurrect the legislation . " We ' ve gotten a reprieve , " he asserted . But reflecting the general frustration of lawmakers , many of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major rewrite of immigration laws , Rep. Charles Schumer ( D. , N.Y. ) warned that such proposals are " easy to kill , but hard to keep alive . " After he spoke , the House narrowly rejected by a 199-192 vote an amendment that would have killed the bill by stripping provisions granting amnesty to illegal aliens who have been in the U.S. since 1982 . Many proponents of immigration legislation expressed only lukewarm support for the latest House bill , which they said falls short of their original hopes . But lawmakers said the measure was the best possible compromise Congress could pass in the rush to adjourn before the November elections . If immigration legislation dies again this year , many legislators and Reagan administration officials contend Congress probably won ' t have the stomach to face the contentious issue again until the end of the decade . In an effort to avoid disrupting the delicate compromise during House consideration , leaders on both sides of the aisle marshalled votes to defeat a series of amendments . Lawmakers overwhelmingly defeated proposals to eliminate criminal penalties for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provisions intended to protect aliens competing for jobs . The compromise includes an additional $240 million in the next three years to hire 19 , 000 new U.S. Border Patrol agents . Unlike the previous House bill , the package includes " sunset " provisions terminating the employer penalties after a number of years . It also would restrict certain welfare and other benefits for foreign workers who acquire legal status . Many administration officials oppose as too expensive provisions in the House bill calling for full federal reimbursement to state and local governments for welfare benefits and other costs associated with legalizing currently illegal aliens . But the White House has been pushing for immigration reform , and President Reagan is expected to sign whatever compromise lawmakers are able to reach . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     