@@735616

txt The Reagan administration is increasingly frustrated about its inability to get rid of the mess at the Environmental Protection Agency . Despite the resignation of Anne Burford as EPA administrator and the release of cartons of EPA documents , investigations by six Democratic-controlled House committees are likely to drag on for months . Administration officials fear that the process ? and the accompanying press leaks  --  will keep the EPA in the news , even if the allegations of impropriety do n't turn into prosecutions . " We sit here with our heads down , waiting to see what the next bombshell might be , " says an EPA official . " At this point , " he says , " the advantage is with the other side . They hold most of the cards . " Administration officials appear increasingly divided and defensive over the issue . White House aides had hoped to limit the political damage by quickly finding a permanent replacement for Mrs. Burford . But the search is proving more contentious and time-consuming than anticipated . The turmoil at the EPA does n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosures of some new impropriety , political miscalculation or public-relations blunder by EPA officials provide fresh ammunition for critics . Fears of Long-Term Damage White House political strategists , including Chief of Staff James Baker and Communications Director David Gergen , are concerned about long-term damage to the Republican Party and President Reagan . " It would be extremely . helpful , " Mr. Gergen said recently , if the furor over the EPA would die down and the White House could try to " restore " what he says was the more favorable " environmental reputation " Mr. Reagan had as governor of California . Polls show that the uproar is hurting Mr. Reagan 's image . So White House advisers are spending more time trying to defuse the controversy and to shape some new environmental policies . They say quick changes are necessary to dispel the notion that the administration has been playing politics with toxic chemicals and other health hazards . " The longer the issue stays on the front page , the more difficult It will be to ride out the storm and regain the offensive , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delaying the choice of a new EPA administrator . One White House faction , including Vice President George Bush and Mr. Baker , Is backing more moderate candidates than Mr. Reagan and some other advisers apparently prefer . Congressional leaders are clamoring for a nominee with a strong pro-environmental record . Meanwhile , President Reagan 's business supporters hope the administration continues its efforts to roll back environmental regulations . Leading candidates for the top EPA post include former EPA chief William Ruckelshaus and former New York senator James Buckley . The administration 's main worry with Congress seems to be the investigation by the House energy subcommittee headed by Democratic Rep. John Dingell of Michigan . Presidential aides are specifically concerned about the subcommittee 's investiga " The longer the issue stays on the front page , the more difficult it will be to ride out the storm and regain the offensive , " says a White House official , referring to the EPA controversy . non of allegations that the EPA tried to help Republican candidates by delaying or accelerating the award of hazardous-waste cleanup funds . The panel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Burford , her aides and some White House officials illegally withheld more than $6 million earmarked last summer for a Riverside , Calif. , chemical dump . The Justice Department is also investigating the matter . The subcommittee has n't made public any evidence indicating that partisan politics directly influenced EPA decisions on any dump site . But Rep. Dingell maintains he has " sworn , direct testimony " showing an overall pattern of " political manipulation " of the cleanup program . Mrs. Burford has categorically denied that politics influenced the distribution of cleanup aid . Another major administration concern is the charge that EPA officials have been too cozy with polluters . Rep. Dingell 's subcommittee is investigating the role of Rita Lavelle in discussions about the Riverside , Calif. , chemical dump . Miss Lavelle , who recently was forced to resign as head of the EPA 's toxic-wastes cleanup office , previously worked for Aerojet General Corp. , one of the companies that disposed of chemical wastes in the dump . Miss Lavelle maintains she did n't violate any laws . Such congressional inquiries may lead to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the White House and the EPA that Robert Perry , the agency 's top attorney and senior enforcement official , will leave shortly . Congressional investigators are looking at whether Mr. Perry conducted a proper internal investigation last year of Miss Lavelle 's activities . And they contend that he violated EPA conflict-of-interest rules by personally negotiating a voluntary cleanup agreement for an abandoned chemical dump in Hamilton , Ohio . His former employer , Exxon Corp. , was one of the parties responsible for the dump . Mr Perry denies any wrongdoing . Tactical Mistakes President Reagan accuses House Democrats of spreading " unfounded allegations and charges . " But behind the scenes , there also is sniping that the administration has made important tactical mistakes . When the controversy started late last year , White House Counsel Fred Fielding and top appointees at the Justice Department decided that withholding certain EPA documents from Congress would help shore up the principle of executive privilege . There was a widespread feeling within the administration , Mr. Fielding recalls , that " the line had to be drawn " somewhere to keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch . The test case , however , soon became a giant embarrassment for the White House . The EPA acknowledges that documents withheld from lawmakers on the grounds that they contained " sensitive " enforcement-related information routinely were handled by low-level EPA bureaucrats , agency consultants and even sonic temporary clerical help . Despite the urgings of Republican congressional leaders and Mrs. Burford , the president did n't turn over the documents until this month . With the benefit of hindsight , some administration officials also fault the way the EPA 's enforcement activities and internal investigations were carried out . Agency documents , for example , show that in the past two and a half years the EPA referred only about 40 hazardous-waste cases to the Justice Department for prosecution , compared with nearly 60 referrals during the last year of the Carter administration . Justice Department officials have filed suits in about a dozen of the referrals since the start of the Reagan administration . During the previous year , EPA records indicate the Justice Department filed nearly four times as many suits . Perhaps the most embarrassing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a former parttime consultant at the EPA who served as Mrs. Burford 's top policy adviser for nearly a year while he also represented corporations that stood to benefit from agency decisions . Congressional investigators and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are looking at whether this violated agency rules or federal laws . As early as last April , an EPA investigation of Mr. Sanderson 's activities concluded that he gave the appearance of " commingling his private business with his public employment . " At the time , the EPA 's inspector general also warned Mrs. Burford that other of Mr. Sanderson 's activities " could prove troubling or embarrassing " to the administration , including the fact that he got paid for several days he did n't do any work for the agency . Mr. Sanderson has denied violating any laws . The White House also was made aware of some of these allegations . But neither Mrs. Burford nor presidential aides ordered Mr. Sanderson to refrain from EPA activities or stop representing his clients until he voluntarily left the agency last June .     @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @       