@@668493

Two distinguished national study groups have independently concluded that the Federal government must retain a strong role in financing education to guarantee equity for the disadvantaged , to support research and generally improve quality in the nation ' s classrooms . Conducted over the past 18 months , the two studies agreed that the country ' s elementary and secondary schools are in deep trouble , according to sources close to both reports . Both reports have a common concern that something must happen to help the troubled public schools , and they carry with them a common sense that productivity and citizenship are strong educational values inherent in those schools . The two reports come during a continuing struggle between President Ronald Reagan who wants to sharply limit the Federal role in education and Congressional supporters and an education lobby trying to save the US Department of Education and increase school funding in the Federal budget . The two studies found that compensatory programs , like the Federallly supported Title I for low achieving students , improved academic performance and argue for continued financial aid to children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two studies are consistent in the recommendation that schools should be staffed with master teachers , paid higher salaries than their colleagues , and recognized for their skills in instruction and curriculum strategies . The National Commission on Excellence in Education , organized by the US Dept of Education , is expected to issue its long delayed report to President Ronald Reagan later this month , with public release scheduled for April 26 . Heading that commission is David Gardner , former president of the University of Utah and newly designated head of the University of California A second study , for the Twentieth Century Fund of New York , is slated for publication on or around the same time , sources said yesterday . Chairman of that study is Dr. Robert C. Wood , former president of the University of Massachusetts , former Boston school superintendent and newly appointed to the Henry Luce chair at Wesleyan University . Some Washington sources indicated the Federal funded study has been delayed for several weeks while Administration officials attempt to soften its appeal for Federal aid to schools . Education Secretary T.H. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a press conference Wednesday when he will be in Boston to attend a luncheon with Boston University President John R. Silber , according to a B.U. spokesman . Hints of the Gardner Commission conclusions have appeared in the education press recently . A newsletter for the National Association of Secondary School Principals quotes Milton Goldberg , staff director for the Federal study , saying the panel learned " that American students spend far less time at school than do children in other advanced , industrialized countries , and the quality of the time they do spend is affected by its quantity . " As a result , we are producing less well-educated adults , whose efforts are inadequate to the social and economic demands of the global society . Often this time difference is as much as two hours a day and 60 days a year . As a consequence , American students get less of the teacher , less homework , fewer courses , narrower exposure and less extensive preparation . " A pursuit of educational excellence that does not use the manipulation of instructional time as one of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prize winner Rosalyn Yalow , Dean Patricia A. Graham of the Harvard Graduate School of Education , former California eduation commissioner Wilson Riles and Columbia University political scientist Charles Hamilton . Among the members of the Gardner Commission are Yale President A. Bartlett Giammatti , Harvard Prof. Gerald Holton , Minnesota Gov . Albert Quie , Prof. Glenn Seaborg of the University of California at Berkeley , classroom teachers and school administrators . Goldberg also said another problem encountered by the commission was the " massive diversification of secondary school curricula , " resulting " in a loss of contact with academic values . "                     