@@669072

A former official at the University of Minnesota testified Tuesday that he made payments to more than 20 players on both of Lou Holtz ' s Minnesota football teams . Luther Darville , on trial for allegedly diverting school funds to his own use , said he gave financial assistance to 25 of Holtz ' s players in 1984 and to 22 in 1985 . Holtz left Minnesota for Notre Dame after the 1985 season , and he has denied any improprieties here . Before disclosing the numbers of athletes to whom he made payments , Darville was cited Tuesday for contempt of court after he refused Judge Patrick Fitzgerald ' s order that he reveal the names of all the players he assisted . In declining to give that information to the prosecution , Darville said he feared repercussions for several of the athletes if their names were made public . Darville is charged with the theft of $186 , 000 in university funds from 1982 through 1988 . He claims he funneled the money to needy students-including athletes-with the knowledge of his superiors . He said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helped 19 players on coach Joe Salem ' s football team . Darville claimed he passed money to 21 players on the 1986 team of current football coach John Gutenkunst and to 18 players on his 1987 squad . Darville said he gave money to six basketball players on former coach Jim Dutcher ' s 1985-1986 team . He said he made payments to seven players during current coach Clem Haskins ' first season in 1986-1987 and to eight players in the 1987-1988 season . For the second straight day , Darville maintained that Haskins knew of the payments . Haskins denies the charge . He is expected to be called to the stand Wednesday . After two weeks of testimony , it is still unclear whether Holtz knew of Darville ' s activities . Former Gopher quarterback Rickey Foggie , who played for Holtz in 1984 and 1985 and who received money from Darville through 1987 , testified last week that he believed his coaches didn ' t know of the payments . " Was he ( Foggie ) wrong ? " prosecutor Pete Connor asked Darville Tuesday . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Foggie is one of only nine athletes Darville named as recipients of payments in the spring of 1988 when he met with university auditors . He said those athletes were willing to go public in an effort to help Darville deal with the theft charges . At least two of them , Darville later said , received no money from him . Darville also admitted that he exaggerated the amounts he gave the nine players in an effort to protect the others . Darville said he contacted as many as 50 to 60 athletes and other students and felt in most instances release of their names would have an adverse effect on their lives . Several are current Minnesota athletes . Disclosures that they received money from Darville could result in those players losing their eligibility . " They would lose their scholarships , " Darville said . " They would be abandoned . " Judge Fitzgerald said he thought the names were relevant to the case ; the prosecution is trying to show that Darville didn ' t make as many payments to athletes as he claims . During @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant portion of the $186 , 000 for his own use . In addition to purchasing a BMW automobile in 1987 , Darville , testimony revealed , took out an annuity , paid $2 , 000 to repair a car and ran up as much as $454 in long-distance phone calls in one month . He also had large purchases of furniture and electronic items , which Darville claims were for athletes . Frank Wilderson , former vice president of student affairs and Darville ' s superior , returned to the witness stand Tuesday and denied for the second time that he instructed Darville to give money to athletes . The trial is expected to go to the jury Wednesday.                     