@@734860

txt Leonard Woodcock . America 's first ambassador to the People 's Republic of China , says he has a " feeling of uncertainty " about the future of China , " more so than at any time since my third month here . " He feels uncertain , he says , " because of all this speculation about Hua Guofeng " being forced to step down as chairman of China 's Communist Party because of " what may come after the ending of the trial " of Mao Tse-tung 's widow . Jiang Wig , and her radical Cultural Revolution associates . But Mr. Woodcock quickly adds that . while he is uncertain about the " immediate future , " does n't expect " anything cataclysmic " to happen . The 70-yearold former U.S. labor leader , who has served here since July 1977 , is expected to leave office after the inauguration of Ronald Reagan . Mr. Woodcock , in a two-hour interview , reflected on his experience in China and voiced his hopes for the future . Mr. Woodcock says that he felt optimistic about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some uncertainty , he continues to feel " very optimistic . " " I think , in the long term , this is going to be a great nation . " Mr. Woodcock says . ' I think that China is extremely important to us and that the triangular relationship in terms of the Pacific  --  China , Japan and the U.S ? is extremely important . " Mr. Woodcock also notes that this is the first time in more than 50 years that all three countries have been on the same side of the political fence . As far as U.S.-China relations are concerned , Mr. Woodcock feels " reasonably hopeful " that " the thrust of our China policy is going to continue as it has been . " This represents something of a switch from his position last summer , when he charged that Mr. Reagan 's position on Taiwan risked " gravely weakening " the U.S. international position at a dangerous time . Mr. Reagan subsequently moderated his stance , and Mr. Woodcock now says : " I think the President-elect has made it very clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That relationship is one that Mr. Woodcock personally helped forge , first as head of the U.S. Liaison Office in Peking and then as ambassador after diplomatic ties were established on Jan. 1 , 1979 . In fact . Mr. Woodcock played a historic role in the negotiations that led to the normalization agreement between the U.S. and China in December 1979 . He recalls the breakthrough when the two sides had been deadlocked on the Taiwan issue . One day . he says , the Chinese said that , if the Americans would say publicly that " they expect a peaceful resolution of the Taiwan issue . " then " we wo n't contradict it . " Then followed three days of direct and intense negotiations with Deng Xiaoping . whom Mr. Woodcock considers " a very remarkable person . " Mr. Woodcock remembers saying to Mr. Deng on one occasion : " Mr. Vice Premier , I have in my pocket a short communique which I am authorized to show you if you want to see it . " Mr. Woodcock expected him to say , " Okay @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to you . " Instead , Mr. Deng immediately went through it paragraph by paragraph , saying , " I 'll agree to that " and " Why ca n't we do this with that ? " Mr. Deng also startled Mr. Woodcock when the ambassador invited the Chinese to send a " high-ranking official " to visit the U.S. " Accepted . " Mr. Deng replied . " It will be me . " A Very Quick Mind Mr. Deng has " a very quick , keen mind , " says Mr. Woodcock . " He 's so incisive himself that he might sometimes be a little hard to get along with . " Mr. Woodcock recalls that , when he first arrived in Peking , the Chinese " were very dubious about me because I 'd been in Hanoi and the Vietnamese had said nice things about me . " That was after relations between Hanoi and Peking had cooled . But this changed quickly in February 1978 , when U.S. newspapers front-paged Mr. Woodcock 's statement that " our China policy was founded on an absurdity . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ China and that the U.S. should recognize that reality . The State Department publicly dissociated itself from Mr. Woodcock 's remarks , made on a trip back to the U.S. But Mr. Woodcock had won the hearts of the Chinese , who thought it was only a matter of time before he would be removed . Mr. Woodcock also warmed Chinese hearts last August , when he called in the American press corps and castigated Mr. Reagan for talking of upgrading American relations with Taiwan . Mr. Woodcock was taken to task for that action on grounds that he was engaging in partisan politics . Mr. Woodcock feels that he did no wrong . " I was defending a policy that I 've had some part in bringing into being , " he explains . " I felt justified , and I did n't feel in any sense partisan . " Mr. Woodcock now expects " continuing progress " in the Sino-American relationship during the Reagan administration if no " untoward action " is taken toward Taiwan . " No Need to Interfere " Ambassador Woodcock feels that American relations with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The unofficial relationship that we have is working out very well , " he says . " Trade is up ; investment is up . Taiwan is prospering . The tension ( between Peking and Taipei ) continues to be at the lowest level in 31 years . So there just is no need to interfere . " Mr. Woodcock takes issue with those who feel that the U.S. should actively encourage Taiwan to resolve its differences with the mainland . " I think we 're much better off if we leave it to the determination of the Chinese themselves . " he says . Mr. Woodcock 's efforts to improve relations between Washington and Peking are appreciated by the Chinese . Han Xu. head of the American-affairs department of the Foreign Ministry . says Mr. Woodcock " has done a lot for U.S.-China relations " and " we will always treat him as a friend . " Mr. Han feels that , though Mr. Woodcock may be leaving , China will have a number of " old friends " in the Reagan administration . including the Secretary of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first high-level American officials to come to China , " Mr. Han says . " He understands China . And he was head of North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces . so he understands Europe as well . I think he has a clear perception of the world . " Like Mr. Woodcock . Mr. Han feels that the principal stumbling block in the U.S.-China relationship is Taiwan . " Of course we 'll object to any move to upgrade Taiwan-U.S. relations , " Mr. Han says . " We hope it wo n't happen . But if it does , we 'll react . " Mr. Han wo n't say how China will react . But he says China will " make the U.S. feel it will pay a price . "                     