@@668410

Relations between China and the Soviet Union since World War II have been of enormous importance to the United States , but they have also been a great mystery to us . As late as 1960 , when the split between the two countries had already taken place , many specialists continued to regard the alliance as a case of internal and monolithic Communist unity . It seemed unlikely that the Chinese would ever deviate politically or economically from the Soviet path . In a few years , especially after the Chinese and Soviet armies started shooting at one another , it seemed certain that the split had become irreconcilable , and that China would never again allow itself to come under the influence of the Soviet Union . But now , again , there are strange maneuvers suggesting that relations between the two countries may be improving . Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev less than two weeks ago made a public call for better relations , and some Chinese are talking about again patterning the Chinese economy on the Soviet one . A recent visit to China provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . Nonetheless , there is still animosity , racism , territorial conflict and a juggling for influence that continues to exacerbate relations between the two rivals . But while the intensity of political rhetoric has been lowered at least a touch ( some Chinese , however , continue to warn that the Soviet Union is busy preparing for nuclear war ) , whether China will decide to continue on its own economic way separate from the Soviet Union is equally important for the outside world . A return to the Soviet economic model would most likely lead to closer political relations , as well . The period 1950 to 1957 , when the Chinese economy most approximated the Soviet model , also marked the high point of their relations . Since then , Chinese economic planning and operation have taken on Chinese traits , some involving more control than the Soviet Union utilizes , and some less . The most recent set of changes has resulted in a considerable weakening of the role of central planning and a much greater return to reliance on private initiative . This is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development over much of the last 20 years . The pace of growth in China stands in particularly sharp contrast to that almost everywhere else in the surrounding Pacific Basin . Except for the Philippines , the only other countries there that have not exploded with dynamic economic growth have been those that adopted the Soviet economic model . Yet two decades ago , this model was thought to be the wave of the future . But it is the Japans , South Koreas , Hong Kongs , and even Taiwans that have experienced booms , not the North Koreas , the Vietnams , Mongolias - or China . Concerned by the growing gap , Chinese leaders have authorized a series of potentially far-reaching experiments . On the one hand , they decided to allow foreign investors to set up privately controlled joint ventures on Chinese territory . An orthodox Marxist critic would see this as nothing more than a return of the imperialists and the foreign exploitation of Chinese workers . While there have been similar ventures in Eastern Europe , the Soviets have rigorously refused all similar programs . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turn the peasants loose . In what one Chinese agricultural specialist told us was the " Second Liberation , " a larger and larger number of peasants are being allowed to determine their own efforts on the country ' s collective farms . Thus , as opposed to conditions before 1979 , the more productive a peasant is , the higher his or her material reward will be . Before , the peasants were paid equally regardless of effort . Even more important , there has been an increase in the size of the private plots the peasants are allowed to farm for their own profit . The combined result of such measures has been a flood of produce to the cities , with peasants sitting on virtually every major intersection shouting to attract customers . Given the obvious success of such experiments , why are Chinese authorities even considering a return to the Soviet economic model ? The reasons are complicated . Some older officials fear there is too much uncertainty and risk involved in moving away from strict state control . In particular , they look back to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s growth was at a peak . They also fret over the increase in graft , extortion and inequality that the new experiments have brought . Particularly disturbing is the discovery that so many peasants have suddenly become quite rich , at least by China ' s standards . In contrast , the urban proletariat seems more worried about inflation from higher free-market prices . Was the revolution fought for this ? Despite the ideological awkwardness of such reforms , the Chinese economy seems to be much improved . Certainly some Chinese leaders prefer ideological purity and may yet decide to do away with the reforms . Yet if the reforms succeed , it may be that China , heretofore the student , may yet become the teacher . If the Chinese continue to be more successful than the Soviets - who seem unable to resolve some fundamental economic difficulties - the Soviets may find it necessary to copy the Chinese , despite the embarrassment . Stranger things have happened in that part of the world . Marshall I. Goldman is professor of economics at Wellesley and associate director of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  