@@668784

Deputy coroners in Du Page County are being paid for working 12 months a year even though they actually work full-time schedules in only 9 months , according to duty schedules made public Friday by a former coroner ' s office employee . In some months the four deputies , who are paid $22 , 000 to $29 , 000 a year , are not required to work at all , the schedules show . The charges were leveled by Barbara Rehs , the executive secretary to Robert K. " Tiny " Matthews , the former coroner , at a meeting of the Du Page County Board ' s executive committee . The meeting was called to consider the appointment of Richard Ballinger , chief deputy coroner , as his successor . Work schedules made public by Rehs , who has resigned , indicate that the four deputies in the coroner ' s office work a maximum of 1 , 544 hours a year  --  considerably less than the 2 , 000 hours other Du Page employees must work . Ballinger said the unusual work schedules for employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must have someone on duty 24 hours a day . To satisfy this requirement , he uses a schedule similar to those used by fire departments in which deputies are on duty for 24 hours , off for 48 hours and given four consecutive days off every three weeks . But unlike fire departments that require stattion duty , the deputy coroners are required only to be within 15 minutes of a telephone so they can be paged . Also , each of the four coroner ' s deputies rotates onto a relief schedule every fourth month . During that relief month , he works only if another deputy is ill , absent or on vacation . Matthews , who appeared at the hearing on behalf of his former deputy , took the responsibility for the schedule , but Rehs said after the hearing that the schedule had been drawn up by Ballinger . " One conclusion that I can draw is the department is 25 percent overstaffed , " said committee member Charles Vaughn . " Maybe I was wrong , " said Matthews in explaining that he adopted the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s getting hurt ; these cheap shots are getting us nowhere , " Matthews said . " I thought I was doing the right thing and still think I was doing the right thing . Anything mentioned here was the work of Tiny Matthews . I didn ' t think I was cheating the county out of one penny . " Ballinger , 39 , said his worksheets failed to indicate the actual numbers of hours worked by the deputy coroners , adding that he intends to continue the system in a modified form . The worksheets showed that in April and June , 1985 , the deputy coroners on relief duty did not work a day . Other months since the system was adopted in 1984 showed the back-up deputies might have worked only two or three days . The highest number of days worked by a back-up deputy occurred in July , 1985 , when the back-up worked seven days . The release of the work schedules is the second time this year questions have been raised about the management of the coroner ' s office under the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disclosed that the coroner ' s office had created a special squad of deputies legally entitled to carry badges and guns that included past and present county board members . One member of the squad was William Maio , a county board member from Itasca who admitted that he carried a gun after he received threats while the county was acquiring the Elmhurst Country Club . He resigned as a special deputy after the disclosures . Ballinger , 39 , of Glendale Heights , has been recommended by County Board Chairman Jack Knuepfer to fill the vacancy left by Matthews ' retirement Aug. 31.                     