@@668304

Is there an old-fashioned boarding house left anywhere ? I doubt it . I suppose a lot of people are unfamiliar with the idea . Prosperity after World War II , zoning , building codes , sexual emancipation , public housing and other entitlements probably killed the boarding house . But now , maybe , it ' s time to re-examine the idea in the light of recent social change . A nation of transients , America is going through a time of intense restlessness and rootlessness in which shelter is becoming for many impossibly costly . Corporate expense accounts and deductibility of personal business expenses have bid up the price of lodging beyond what all but the super-rich can bear . Elderly widows , alone and lonely and terrorized by criminals , inhabit 10- room houses bought for them by their husbands in a lifetime of labor , property which they can not afford to heat , maintain or pay taxes on . The capital cost of rehabilitating one room in a poor section of Boston to legally acceptable standards is estimated at $30,000 in a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probably costs twice as much . Unrelated young people , and , yes , prostitutes , confederate to split astronomical rents on luxury housing , bidding up prices beyond what even a two-income family can pay . Divorced males can not meet their child-support payments because the cost of a decent apartment exhausts their earning capacity . All of these facts argue persuasively , it seems to me , for a revival of the boarding house . For persons born around the time Fidel Castro was wowing gullible intellectuals at Harvard , some explanation is probably indicated . Briefly , a boarding house rented you a room with access to plumbing . You paid by the week . The rent included breakfast and dinner privileges . For somebody starting out in a new job in a new city at what presently is called " entry-level " pay , it functioned as surrogate family , social club , information and referral agency and , for a while , home . It was also a place where a retired person could find regular meals , company and physical security . It was rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Italy a pensione . It gave the widow or whoever was running the place a means of realizing return on the capital represented by the house . There are blocks in Boston today in which old people , living by themselves in fear of crime , accident , illness or incarceration in convalescent homes , starve themselve so that they can stay in the old neighborhood among friends and familiar surroundings . On these same blocks are abandoned houses in restorable condition , three- deckers , " Irish battleships , " in which the old folks could be assured food , safety and company and to which the provision of medical care and other human services would be cheaper and more effective than is the case at present . Of course , if the old folks moved in together , they could sell their properties to young families and realize income on the proceeds of the sales . In many cases , this yield would be more than sufficient to pay room and board at a boarding house . That it would coincidentally make a substantial contribution to the nation ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps the most attractive aspect of the idea . If young , single people could get meals and a bed for , say , $50 a week , wouldn ' t those with limited incomes prefer a boarding house to the pricey style of an apartment , even a shared apartment ? The government has tried and failed to furnish the poor with shelter of first-class construction with free heat , utilities and security . The taxpayers who support this discredited approach can not afford to buy comparable housing for themselves . Two injustices arise . First , all of the poor do not get into the few " good " projects . Some do and some don ' t . Second , the near-poor who pay for the subsidized housing are hard-pressed to keep themselves out of the wind .                     