@@734717

txt FINDING AN appropriate dining spot is a ennunon oroblem in this era of the sauce snueeze. t. , urrously enougn , it is not only in inc mourn city apartment where this particular problem exists . Many country homes lack a dining room as well . Because the problem is the same , the solution is the ' same , too : Pulling dining space out of thin air . In other words , fin-ding it , even when it seems not to exist at all . This means scrutinizing areas of the home with great care to find the:most appropriate spot for your purposes . Think in terms of an entrance foyer , a small hail , one end of a kitchen or living room , even a porch that could be remodeled and weatherproofed . THE DINING room Illustrated here is actually the small entrance of a weekend cottage , formerly wasted space that was cleverly converted for meals . The only goad point of the entrance hall was the window , which made the hall fairly light. , To further this feeling of airiness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They began by painting the wooden ceiling , ceiling beams , window frames , and all the walls with a flat white paint , then lacquered the floor white . This also was treated to six coats of polyurethane , to prevent scuffing in this heavily trafficked area . Old wooden shutters , made of dark wood , were removed . In their place went Flexalum 's one-inch white aluminum blinds . They add to the light-as ? air look and are easy to use for , controlling light or adding privacy . THE WOOD base of the marble-topped fable was painted white , as were wicker chairs found at a country auction . Even the old-fashioned armoire was treated to several coats of white lacquer , in step with Mt cool , crisp look . To counteract any feeling of sterility , the . owners hung massed plants , grouped on the floor in the corner and on the ceiling just in front of the armoire . At first , proper lighting seemed to present a problem . Then the owners realized that spotlights could be easily tucked away in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide ? adjustable drama in lighting and take up no space in the miniscule area . When the table is not required for meals , it is pushed closer to the window and simply lifted out for service . It also can be used as a buffet server for larger parties . This dining room was carved out of an , entrance hall to a country cottage . The conversion was made with an all-white color scheme , tailored furniture , and proper lighting irt the ceiling beam . ? Readers wanting more information about products shown should write Beni Kuhn , tile Siesel Co. , 845 Third Av. , New York , N.Y . 10022 . Lot Aiipe'es Times SorloAle                     