@@668881

It was an incident that underscored just how personal and primordial the struggle between Jews and Palestinians has become in the riot-torn territories that each side claims as its own . It occurred the other day when , after a morning of running clashes , Palestinian youths and Israeli soldiers stood only 20 feet apart in a narrow alley . A Palestinian stepped forward , took off his kaffiyeh ( headdress ) and challenged the squad ' s officer to a fist fight . " You ! " the Arab shouted in Hebrew . " Stop hiding behind your gun and your club like a coward . Step out here like a man . Just you and me . Come on , you son of a whore , I ' m waiting for you ! " The officer threw off his helmet , unbuckled his garrison belt and ran forward with fists clenched . He and the Palestinian circled one another for a moment , then grappled . Nobody moved to stop them as they grunted , struggled and swore . The Israeli connected with a right hook @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came back with two head-snapping jabs and a roundhouse that bloodied the soldier ' s nose , cut his eye and dropped him to the paving stones . Soldiers and Palestinians alike then rushed in to pull the two combatants apart . With curses hurled over retreating shoulders , each side led its man away . A short while later , the demonstrations resumed . As the Palestinian uprising in the territories goes into its third month , the Arab-Israeli conflict has returned to its roots . It has changed from a conflict between the marching armies of the Arab states and Israel back into a war between individual Jews and Palestinians , exactly the way it all started inside pre-1948 Palestine . The daily clashes increasingly resemble something out of " West Side Story , " with Israelis and Palestinians-like the Sharks and the Jets-in close- quarter combat as each side tries to assert its rule over disputed turf . This war is being fought eye-to-eye-with sticks and stones , guns and fists-with a fury growing out the Palestinians ' conviction that they now are riding the tide of history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of defeat and annihilation to rise again . Away from the television cameras that often prompt Palestinian crowds to chant nationalist slogans , the insults that fly over the barricades are the obscene barbs of street gangs , Middle East style . During a recent stone-throwing confrontation in the Gaza Strip refugee camp of Khan Yunis , a Palestinian with a bullhorn shouted at the Israelis : " It ' s too bad Hitler didn ' t finish the job . The Palestinians of Khan Yunis will do it better . We ' ll kill your women and children . We ' ll kill all of you ! " Yoram Amira , an Israeli reservist who recently finished a one-month tour in Gaza , described how his unit chased two demonstrators into a house , where one of the Palestinians-cornered only three feet away-hurled a brick that struck Amira ' s commanding officer in the face . " We grabbed both of them and beat them as hard as we could , " Amira recalled . " I think we broke one guy ' s leg and both the other guy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be done . Maybe that will teach them and their friends not to give us any more lessons in Jewish history . " In some cases , the antagonists know each other , or at least recognize each other ' s faces-an inevitable personalization of the conflict after 20 years of living side-by-side as both neighbors and enemies . Lt. Col. Hillel ( Israeli military regulations forbid publication of soldiers ' last names ) has a farm in Israel that employs Palestinians from nearby Tulkarem , a major West Bank town where he is the local commander . After recent disturbances , Hillel arrested the son of a woman who works for him . " She came to my wife the other day , begging her to use her influence on me to release her son , " Hillel said . " I know the kid . He ' s a troublemaker , but the whole thing makes my life very complicated . " Faisal , a 24-year-old Palestinian recuperating from a broken hip in an East Jerusalem hospital , says the reserve soldier who beat him during a recent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a Jerusalem dairy . " A few years ago , he gave me a gift when my son was born , " he said . " At work we are friends , but in the streets we are enemies . " Last Monday , two Jewish settlers drove into the West Bank village of Kaddum during an anti-Israeli protest , got out of their car and shot a Palestinian leader between the eyes at point-blank range . The residents say they recognized the two as members of the neighboring settlement of Kfar Keddumim , established in 1977 . " We know their faces . We see them driving through the village all the time , " explained Miryam Khalili , 48 , a village resident . Israeli police say they have arrested the two settlers . In at least one reported case , what began in violence between Palestinians and Jews ended in mercy and rescue . Last Thursday , Meshulam Moskowitz , a 29-year-old American-born resident of Ofra , was driving two American friends to visit a mutual acquaintance . Palestinian youths , who had blocked the road with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moskowitz in the head , fracturing his skull and knocking him unconscious . As the Palestinians edged closer , Tammy Wagner , 28 , believing Moskowitz was dead , began shouting : " We ' re Americans ! We ' re Americans ! You ' ve already killed him . Just stop it ! " The Palestinians not only stopped throwing stones , they also helped remove the boulders from the road , according to Wagner , so she and her husband could rush Moskowitz to a hospital , where he is recovering . Personal contact with Palestinians is teaching the troops some basic lessons in Middle East politics that underscore the growing irrelevance of Israeli left-wing political views . As the clashes intensify , many soldiers are now hearing with their own ears what some Israeli leaders have been telling them all along-that the Palestinians are not willing to accept a state only in the West Bank and Gaza Strip , but want all of Israel as well . Amira , the reservist in Gaza , recalled a crowd chanting : " All of Palestine is ours ! Haifa , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , exposure to such war cries appears to have resolved earlier questions over the army ' s hard-handed policy in the territories . " I think the job we ' ve been given has an importance beyond immediate security needs . Now it ' s a national priority , " said Lt. Meron , an officer serving in the Gaza Strip . " We simply must return the situation to our control . If this wave continues , the situation could degenerate into catastrophe for the Jews . " CAPTION : PHOTO : AP Laserphoto . Arabs and Jews march in Haifa , Israel , Saturday to protest Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip . PHOTO : Reuters photo . A Palestinian shepherd watches his flock of goats Sunday morning near a burning tire barricade in front of the Nuseirat refugee camp on the Gaza Strip . Illustration PHOTOS 2 <>                     