@@668055

Gov . Edward King could not have made it clearer if he had put a sign outside his door to read : " Anyone seriously interested in improving my poor affirmative action record will be fired . " In effect , that is what happened this week when King told Jane Edmonds , in less than 30 seconds , that she was going to be replaced as chairman of the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination and wanted her out by April 21 . During her three years as chairman , Edmonds and her two commissioners , Alex Rodriguez and Sam Stonefield , have shown a strong commitment toward ending discriminatory practices in cities and towns as well as in state government . Under Edmonds , the MCAD became the credible , effective agency it was meant to be . It was independent of both the Dukakis and King administrations , but Edmonds also made strong efforts to work with both toward increasing the number of minorities in state government and upgrading their positions . But King obviously never wanted the MCAD ' s help . He had no interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Instead of bringing more minorities into government , his administration has been getting rid of blacks . There is no doubt that King was displeased when Edmonds described his anti-affirmative action efforts as a " well-orchestrated purge of minorities " from state jobs . He was even more displeased when Edmonds refused to cooperate with a state official who wanted her to remove evidence in a discrimination case the MCAD was investigating . Her relations with King became even more strained when she objected to the administration ' s attempted watering down of the governor ' s executive order on affirmative action . He has since kept that document in limbo . In all these incidents , Edmonds was simply doing the job required of her , and King did not like that . He wanted her to compromise herself and accept the administration ' s anti-affirmative action policies . She refused , and he fired her . King ' s press secretary , Harold B. Dutton 3d , is right when he said the MCAD job " is the pleasure of the governor . " From the moment Edmonds ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make his own choice . But when he fired her Wednesday , it certainly was not because she failed to do her job . Rather , she was fired because she was doing it very well . This puts King ' s new MCAD chairman , Darrell Outlaw , a black attorney , in a difficult position . He has to contend with the possibility of being perceived as a King aide who will be working for the administration , which would prefer having a weakened MCAD under its wing . Outlaw is no stranger to King . He campaigned actively for him in the black community during the gubernatorial contest . Sources also disclosed that King had him in line for a judgeship until Gov . Dukakis and Atty . Gen. Francis Bellotti maneuvered during Dukakis ' last moments as governor to get Julian Houston , another black , confirmed as a judge . Ironically , Outlaw ' s name was never mentioned among the candidates interviewed for the job . Some , such as Bruce Walker and Othello Mahone , were associated with state Sen. William Owens . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jr. , and both worked for King ' s campaign in the black community . And although he once ran against former state Rep. Royal Bolling Sr. as a Republican , the two are regarded as good friends . But Bolling , who told King he supported Edmonds for reappointment , said he was surprised that Outlaw was chosen for the job . When he takes over later this month , Outlaw will have to prove that he is committed to the job , and not to the administation ' s policies . Comr . Alex Rodriguez said , " When Mr. Outlaw comes in he is going to have to show Sam and me that he is committed to the policies we put in place and committed to the procedures put in place to carry out those policies " When that is done , he will be assured the full cooperation of this office . But until that happens , the MCAD will be run by two commissioners who have the majority votes . He has to earn his wings . " But Rep. Royal Bolling Jr . feels differently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would condemn him by misconceptions and wrong impressions even before he warms the seat of his office . It ' s a new ball game now and you have to adjust to it . " However , Outlaw will not have to warm the chair of his new job . He will find that his seat is already very hot .                     