@@668247

In the middle of the night , in the middle of the month , the phone rings . He is awake in an instant - he is sure of it . Whether the phone has fought several rounds with his subconscious before breaking through matters not at all . The moment he first hears anything and the moment he lifts the receiver are but two edges of the same tick . Someone has died . Someone has died or someone very dear is in pain . He tilts the phone away from his ear ; having gotten there so quickly , now he wishes to delay the message . His brain is at full throttle , though the right side of his body , the arm emerging from an hours-long self-embrace , is without feeling . He uses his other hand to pinch the fingers tight around the plastic . No one is there . He offers hellos to the mouthpiece , first encouraging , now demanding an answer , to no avail . Relief at the absence of tragedy gives way to fear at the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he can tell , goes no further than his own receiver . The caller hung up before he ever got to the phone . He could as well be talking to the nightstand . He is alone , and now completely awake . This isn ' t the first time this has happened . Bracing for another call - some nights they travel in flocks , he knows - he inventories the recent intrusions : Calls that go dead , as this one did , just before he reaches the phone ; Not-quite-calls that burp half a ring and do nothing more ; Calls in the night that meet his hello with a pause , and a click ( wrong number ? burglar ? lover ? prank ? ) ; Calls in the night where the line stays open , his voice racing through the wire - where ? - bringing back only silence ; Calls in the night with laughter at the edges , his mind straining to pick out a word , a voice , an age , an accent - all in vain . The night ripens and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hearing the hiss of the pilot light , the breathing of the plants . He knows each of these calls well , and the other calls , too , the kind of calls that haven ' t even happened yet . There is no focus for this feeling - he awaits no one ' s death , knows of no one ' s jeopardy - but he fears all the same . He looks once more at the receiver . Good news comes by phone , they used to say ; the other comes by letter . No longer : The world is faster , the people in it bolder . Some news simply won ' t keep , and some people simply can ' t keep from passing it along . No matter ; he likes to hear things as quickly as he can . The phone is his lifeline , he likes to say . ( He feels less certain of this as the sun goes down ) . His phone is his lifeline , but at what cost ? There are no buffers anymore , he knows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ address on the envelope - no chance to prepare for the visitor or react to the message , whatever it is , in private . One lets a phone ring out at one ' s peril ; one picks it up , and one has invited all manner of - what ? - in for the night . He is available , he realizes , to anyone with seven digits and fifteen cents to spare . He lies atop the covers , his damp body cooling in the morning air , waiting for first light . He rolls over , forces himself to relax . Tomorrow , he vows , he ' ll get the listing changed again . Then they ' ll leave him alone - he wants no more than that . In the middle of a dream , in the middle of a life , the phone rings . They have his number . Rick Horowitz is a freelance writer who lives in Washington . B07888080                     