@@670134

Heidi Rinehart , a third-year medical student at Washington University in St. Louis , has been getting some disturbing signals lately from doctors she considers role models . One woman physician , an obstetrician who is also her cousin , is having belated second thoughts about her decision to practice medicine . She complains bitterly about the economic and legal hassles of practicing and doesn ' t seem to enjoy her work . Another doctor , says Ms. Rinehart , calculates the annual percentage of Medicaid patients he can accept " to fulfill his social obligations , prevent burnout and keep his practice afloat . " Ms. Rinehart adds : " It ' s discouraging . There is all this stuff I didn ' t anticipate having to worry about . " For now , she says , it ' s easier to ignore the signals . " I try not to think about how bleak it seems , " she says , " because it gives me a stomach-ache . " Many other medical students are also anxious about the changing environment for doctors . And most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ student at the University of North Carolina , don ' t prepare students to deal with regulations , competition and other practical facets of medical pactice . " Most of what students hear is at the level of hearsay , " he says . " Therefore , they have this visceral feeling of panic and unrest . " In an effort to keep students informed , the American Medical Student Association devoted the bulk of discussion time at this year ' s convention to survival in the changing environment . Student anxieties also are prompting some medical schools to take action . The Tufts medical school , for instance , now offers first- and second-year students intensive courses on the organization and financing of health care . For many medical students , confronting such issues as malpractice liability for the first time is unsettling and distasteful . Earlier this year , an incident involving a psychiatric patient graphically reminded Alan Fleischer , a fourth-year student at the University of Missouri , that in practice he will always have to consider the legal repercussions of his decisions . The patient had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer before being treated . Normally , Mr. Fleischer would have been allowed to stitch the wound , but his supervisors chose to refer the woman to a general surgeon because she represented a potential lawsuit . " It was rather frightening that she didn ' t even have to look up her lawyer ' s number before making the call , " Mr. Fleischer says . Word of doctors ' disillusionment and medical students ' anxiety may be discouraging some undergraduates from applying to medical school . The Association of American Medical Colleges reports that the number of medical-school applicants has fallen about 27% over the past 12 years . In 1974 , the ratio of applicants to slots was almost three to one . By last year , the ratio had fallen to less than two to one . The association predicts that the ratio will fall again next year . Physicians ' disaffection appears to be a major factor in the declining applicant pools . In a survey of 1 , 200 students who scored well on the Medical Colleges Admissions Test but didn ' t apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had discouraged them . " Potential applicants are getting the message that there is less gratification in the practice of medicine , " says Dr. Leon Eisenberg of Harvard Medical School . The trend concerns medical-school deans . Says Dr. Michael Whitcomb of the University of Missouri : " If doctors are so disenchanted that bright young people don ' t want to pursue medical careers , it ' s tragic for the country. "                     