@@735030

txt Union workers at Poland 's national airline LOT suspended a strike call after the embattled Communist government , which has promised stern measures to avert economic disaster , opened talks with airline employes and dockworkers AS a measure of the economic problems , Poland said its industrial production tumbled 19 ' c in the first quarter In the labor negotiations , a spokesman for the independent union Solidarity said labor leaders at LOT , after day-long negotiations . agreed to suspend a strike called for Friday . He said the union acted after receiving a letter from Premier Wojcrech Jaruzelski that indicated the government was willing to continue negotiations . The spokesman said the Solidarity members at LOT had n't achieved their key demand , that the government approve a director for the airline chosen by the workers in an election last month . and he said this will be the subject of further talks . Warsaw Radio also reported progress in talks between Solidarity and the government over a threat by about 46.000 dockworkers at Baltic ports that they would strike tomorrow if their demands for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warsaw Radio , quoting government officials , said that extra leave for workers with 15 years ' service was the only unresolved issue in the dockworkers ' talks . Solidarity 's Warsaw local had said before the strike call was suspended that it would limit the airline walkout to 24 hours because of the " hard situation in the country Government leaders have pleaded for a cooling of labor unrest to prevent a worsening of the nation 's economic troubles . The government , in a report to the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe in Geneva , gave some details about how much the economy has worsened during the nation 's political turmoil . Industrial output in the first quarter dropped 19% from a year earlier , and . the number of hours worked in Industry dropped 9.4% , it said . Production was bleak throughout the economy , the report said . The construction Industry showed the sharpest drop in output . falling 23 " ; from the year before . The number of residential dwellings completed in the quarter skidded 49 ' 4 . Production of textiles decreased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important sources of hard currency for Poland . Separately , Western and Japanese bankers are meeting in Zurich today and tomorrow for talks on restructuring Poland 's massive foreign debt . Sources said the banks are expected to agree on a unified stance for negotiations with Warsaw . U.S. banks are expected to agree on a repayment moratorium and on a restructuring of Poland 's interest terms for the next seven years In return , European and Japanese banks are likely to accept demands by U.S. banks that the moratorium last only until year-end and that Poland be required to release more information about its economy . The 19 banks that are meeting in Zurich . and which represent about 400 banks holding Polish debt , are expected to agree on their position today and to present it to Poland 's finance ministry and central bank tomorrow .                     