@@734642

txt For some people , the American dream can turn into a nightmare . It loolzs as if that is what is happening to Alvin Ailey , one of America 's leading choreographers and the founder and artistic director of the vibrant and wonderful dance company which bears his name . While the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater is having a three-week season at City Center . Mr. Ailey has been admitted to a psychiatric hospital after having been arrested for an altercation in his apartment building , his second arrest since March . It is a cause of deep sorrow for a The Dance man who has given so much joy to so many people . At the moment when he had done what no modern American choreographer before him had accomplished  --  making a uniquely American form of dance accessible to a wide and growing public ? he found himself surrounded by both financial and artistic insecurity . He had struggled hard to gain for his company the public and critical success they richly deserved , yet instead of finding ready support and the freedom to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success created myriad demands on his time and made it impossible for him to work the way he wanted to , to create new dance pieces . He became tired , depressed and for a man whose sense of warmth has been Infectious , bitter and withdrawn . While Mr. Ailey 's personal troubles cast a pall over the season , the company itself is made up of wonderful professionals , and their performances continue to bring enthusiastic audiences to their feet and fill the theater with bravos . The indomitable Judith Jamison. long the company 's leading dancer , has been named acting artistic director , and Ms. Jamison will surely be able to keep the troupe at top form until Mr. Ailey 's return . With two new works in the repertory , the season is turning out to be a splendid one . " Later That Day " is a strange and amazingly effective new work choreographed by Kathryn Posm to a score by Philip Glass taken from his opera " Emstein On The Beach . " What are the relationships between the main characters , designated only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " " The Man with the Book " and The Chorus " ? It is difficult to say with precision , and that is one of the charms of this very successful piece , always making the viewer look deeper not only for meaning but for richer enjoyment . The Girl and Boy , wonderfully danced by the diminutive Marilyn Banks and the tall and strong Alister Butler , are first seen standing on a bench on one side of the stage while Dudley Williams , The Man with the Book , in dark suit and green socks , sits at a table on the other side , leafing through what might be a giant ledger or perhaps a volume explaining the mysteries of life . Highly stylized movement for the couple and chorus , and contrasting freedom of movement for Mr. Williams , change the focus continually . Whether we are witnessing a dream or are ourselves part of it , Is n't Important . What is important is that Ms. Posm 's spare and perceptive choreography has caught the nuances of Mr Glass 's superb modernist score ; reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were surprising echoes of " Coppeha " in the mechanical movements of the dancers and in The Man with the Book 's in- ' complete control of the action which , like the famous classic , develops its own momentum and mixes fantasy and reality with gusto . " Inside . " choreographed by Ailey dancer Ulysses Dove , is a solo set to specially composed music by Robert Ruggieri and poetry by Robert Maurice Riley . It does for Ms. . Jamison for the lovely Donna Wood who also dances the part ) what the popular " Love Songs " does for Mr. Williams It allows the dancer a unique opportunity to explore through the movement a wide range of feelings , in this case a woman 's feelings about love , expressing , the rainbow of emotions between sweetness and bitterness , ecstasy and agony . And it does so without affectation . Like " Later That Day " it is a fine addition to the Ailey i epertory . The repertory , which is one of the keys to the Alley company 's success is in good shape @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ellington 's music of the same ? name , is sensuously danced with a fine fluidity of movement and a nice tongue-in-cheek mixture of classical and jazz steps . If one moment captures the spirit of a Harlem dance hall . the next has dancers soaring through the air in pyrotechnic bursts of imaginative lifts and strong jumps . Lar Lubovitch 's setting of Igor Stravinsky 's " Les Noces " is a far cry from either the popular version created by Bromslava Numska in 1924 or Jerome Robbins 's 1965 work for American Ballet Theatre . The treatment of the Russian ritual where the bride and groom meet for the first time at their wedding is powerful in its leanness and the concentration of the action . Mr. Alley 's " Memoria , " with a Keith Jarrett score , starts solemnly and builds to a vibrant celebration of the joys of living and of a life well-lived . Dedicated to Mr. Alley 's good friend , the late , dancer-choreographei Joyce Trisler , it is a characteristic Ailey work , full of strong groupings of ( lancers , great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skirts of the girls into lovely arcs . The company is supported by dancers from its two off-shoots , the Alvin Alley Repertory Ensemble and the American Dance Center Workshop At the end the stage is filled with ( lancers from teenagers to full company members . a pal ticularly poignant memorial to Ms. Trisler 's love of students and Mr. Ailey 's belief that each new generation of dancers is a celebration of the life of an art form which he loves and to which he has contributed so much .                     