@@735876

txt " Bedbugs can live four to 12 months without eating . " I did n't know that . Then again , I do n't know who does . " Bullfrogs close their nostrils when they are under water . " Well , I sure hope so . What are these trivial bits of prose ? They 're newspaper fillers . You 've seen them countless times . They can fill you with laughs , offer interesting information or make you wonder what they 're doing in a newspaper in the first place . There 's an answer for that , too , for their main purpose is to fill the news columns whenever longer stories fail to complete the task . Filler is material of just about any subject and can run a few lines or longer . Most newspapers and even some magazines use it , from the large dailies to the small weeklies . Sometimes it can run a few paragraphs long , perhaps giving the appearance that the makeup editor for that page intended that story to go there all along . Most filler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in many cases makesit seem so . An occasional typographical error helps , too , often turning a harmless word into something hilarious . Where does filler come from ? The sources are many  --  local reporters , news wires , clipping bureaus , public-relations handouts . Some suppliers call them briefs . Here are a few others that may make you chuckle : A golf ball has 336 dimples ; a bobcat is one cat that does n't mind swimming ; mountains are composed mainly of rocks ; wingless bacteria float in the air for days ; the first bathtub was installed in the White House in 1851 . What 's more , cattle still outnumber people in Nevada ; a rat eats 40 pounds of food a year , and there are more Fiji Islands than there are Fiji islanders . The latter is trivia at its best . Animal lovers may like to know that the average polar bear grows to about 1,200 pounds . baboons travel in packs and eat scorpions and animals tend to eat more when they have company . I 'll go along with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get me to bite If ananimal lover should ask , " Guess who 's coming to dinner ? " Quasars apparently are the oldest and most distant objects in the universe , no one knows where the Etruscans came from , Poland has a hard-to-pronounce Insect called the chrzaszz . ( It 's even hard to spell . ) Figure-filberts should keep in mind that there are 99 lakes named " Long " in Minnesota and 76 called " Mud , " that William Shakespeare 's name has been spelled 13 different ways and that three of the five entrances to Yellowstone National Park are in Montana . Some other items you could n't prove by me : The chlorophyll molecule of plant life is almost identical with hemoglobin in blood ; Dublin , capital of Eire , is officially called Baile Atha Cliath . All right , so now you know all those things , but perhaps the item to be really 