@@734897

txt Robert D. Lindner , vice chairman of American Financial Corp .. withdrew from a group headed by his brother Carl Lindner that seeks to take American Financial 's common stock private . Carl Lindner is chairman of American Financial . In a related matter , the group slightly sweetened the offer it will make to American Financial 's public shareholders . As pre ) iously reported , holders of American Financial common  --  other than the Carl Lindner group  --  would exchange their shares for either $25 or an American Financial nonvoting preferred sh ire with a liquidation value of 525 The dividend on the non  --  oting , preferred will be 53.93 annually , instead of 53.50 The original proposal last November set a 53.65 di ' . idend Robert Lindner and I main faintly members who won t participate in the bid to acquire Amen .. an Financial 's publicly held shares hold 11.5 ' , of the diversified financial set lees concern 's common shares American Financial said its investment banker , Bear Stearns 6 ; Co , was advised of the changes and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fair to the company 's public shareholders . Amencan Financial 's audit committee and directors also said the revised offer is fair . As proposed last November , Carl Lindner and his associates sought to acquire the publicly held shares for 527 each , in either preferred shares , cash , or cash and notes . In December . that was sweetened to 528 a share , in cash or preferred , and the annual dividend on preferred raised to 53.50 . An American Financial spokeswoman said Robert Lindner 's decision to exchange his common shares was prompted by a desire to get into some business ventures with his sons that are separate from any ties with his brother Carl s easier to do that if you 've got some cash . ' the spokeswoman said . She would n't comment on the types of business that 60-year-old Robert Lindner would like to enter . Robert Lindner could n't be reached for com-ment The proposal still must be approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission and then submitted to shareholders . If the SEC approx es the plan and the offer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be completely owned by Carl Lindner , his wife and sons , trusts for their benefit and Robert D. Lindner Jr. , Jeffrey S Lindner and A. Bradford Lindner. sons of Robert D. Lindner Together , they currently own 33.6 ' , of the common stock outstanding . Robert Lindner. and the other members of his family withdrawing from the offer expect that at least half their shares will be exchanged for preferred . American Financial said . Although Robert Lindner is American Ftnanciars vice chairman and senior vice president . he 's had little to do with running the company during the past few years . In registration material filed with the SEC on the exchange offer , American Financial acknow ledges that Robert Lindner " devotes a significant portion of his time to ninning the affairs of United Dairy Farmers Inc .. the family dairy processing and convenience store operation that lie and Carl founded 40 ? , ears ago . American Financial , which started 20 years ago as one of Cincinnati 's smallest savings and loan associations , has become a ioant money machine with assets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ target of several holder suits charging the offer is inadequate In December 1975 , the Lindner family offered to buy American Financ lal 's common and sweetened the bid twice in ensuing months Howe  --  er , the withdrew their offer in June 1979 after the investment banking firm of Goldman . Sachs Si Co. said the offer was inadequate .                     