@@668426

Shortly after 1 a.m. last Tuesday , two dozen or so haggard and anxious lobbyists milled about outside the Massachusetts Senate chamber awaiting word on the fate of legislation affecting their clients . The Legislature ' s 1981-82 session was scheduled to end at midnight . One of those keeping vigil was William J. McCarthy of the Associated Industries of Massachusetts ( AIM ) , the preeminent business lobbying organization in the commonwealth . The elegantly tailored and usually unflappable McCarthy was , in a word he would never dream could be applied to him , sweating . " It ' s the time factor . We ' re running out of time , " McCarthy complained to a reporter . " At this rate we ' re going to need the intercession of Saint Jude . " " I ' ll go call Danny Thomas , " an eavesdropper quipped . McCarthy and several other AIM lobbyists were keeping watch over the progress of legislation extending a 2 percent state investment tax credit , coupled with a permanent 1 percent credit , for expanding businesses in Massachusetts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Gov . Edward J. King in the final hours of his administration . For AIM , which represents 2600 manufacturers in Massachusetts , it was the capstone of its lobbying efforts for the year , a year that McCarthy , in a recent interview , characterized as " very good " for legislation favored by AIM ' s clients . Another major legislative achievement for business - from huge corporations such as Raytheon and Polaroid down to a single employee drugstore - was a revision of the state ' s unemployment compensation law that will result in a 1983 unemployment compen-sation tax savings of $45.5 million for 126,000 Bay State employers . The legislation , triggered by an excess of funds in the state ' s unemployment compensation fund , means a $21 reduction per employee that companies must pay into the fund this year . Despite lobbyist McCarthy ' s lapse into religiosity , few of the business community ' s legislative victories on Beacon Hill required divine intervention . Lawmakers concerned about the nation ' s growing economic sluggishness and Gov . King , a ceaseless advocate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And business interests , perhaps sensing early last year that the halcyon days of the King administration were coming to an end , were eager to fill the cup before the well went dry . The Legislature also rejected a number of bills that business and industry found objectionable , chiefly because they would have added to their operating costs . These included the so-called Lifeline electric rates , a measure designed to shift at least 15 percent of residential electricity costs to business ; a plant closing bill that would have required a one-year notice to employees of a plant closing or a reduction in the workforce of 25 persons or more ; an employee " right to know " bill , which would have required public and private employers to inform each employee of all hazardous or toxic substances found in the workplace , substances which number more than 100,000 ; video display terminal regulation , which would have required employers to provide annual cost-free eye examinations to VDT operators ; and a number of mandated health benefits that , if they all had become law , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For both business and consumers , the most dramatic change brought about by the Legislature in the state ' s business environment was its repeal of the commonwealth ' s 200-year-old blue laws banning retail sales on Sundays . Although opposed by religious organizations and many small retailers , the ancient Sunday closing law was doomed by the combined opposition of major retailers , organized labor and virtually every Chamber of Commerce in the state . Arguments about the preservation of Sunday as a " family day " fell easily before cold economic facts : neighboring states with no Sunday retailing ban were drawing business profits , state tax revenues and jobs out of Massachusetts . Another measure passed and signed into law was geared specifically to hotel interests in Boston . The hotel industry , in the midst of a building boom that will generate 5000 new rooms over the next few years , had been pushing for expanded convention facilities in the city to assure that the rooms would have occupants . The Legislature ' s initial response to the industry ' s needs occurred last spring with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ package for Boston that carried amendments creating the Massachusetts Convention Center Authority . Additional legislation , passed in the waning days of the Legislature ' s 172d session , provided for the Authority ' s takeover of Boston ' s Hynes Auditorium , a $100 million bond issue OK for expansion of the facility and the takeover of the Boston Common underground garage , whose revenues will be used to defray the operating costs of the Hynes . Other major bills signed into law that business considered crucial included : - An extensive overhaul of the state ' s banking laws , which among other things extensively liberalized statutes affecting bank branching and electronic funds transfers . - Creation of the Massachusetts Technology Park Corp. , which ultimately will enhance the state ' s private and public education facilities for training in high technology and science . - A $30 million bond authorization for state financial assistance to municipalities for use on projects designed to enhance economic development . Such projects would include public access roads , and the revitalization of commercial or industrial facilities . - A hospital cost-containment bill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to those charged patients covered by privately funded medical plans and that also requires hospitals to operate within established budgets . Soaring hospital costs , and the resulting increase in insurance premiums , is considered a major issue by the state ' s business community . But as in any legislative year there were setbacks as well as successes for the business community . For example , it was one thing for the Legislature to turn its back on a 200-year-old tradition rooted in Puritanism - the Sunday blue laws - but it was quite another to expect the Legislature to restrict its own hallowed rights of taxation . Both AIM and the High Technology Council , the state ' s other major business lobbyist , failed in their efforts to revive another major objective : a state constitutional amendment to limit state spending and taxes . The effort is expected to resume in the current legislative session , but most State House observers give it little chance of success . The state also got involved in foreign relations and international trade with legislation designed to pressure the segregationist government of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measure , which became law only after the House and Senate overrode Gov . King ' s veto , requires the withdrawal of about $100 million in state pension funds from the stocks and bonds of corporations doing business in South Africa . A compromise hazardous waste " Superfund " measure , worked out over the past several months by industry , government and environmentalists , failed by minutes to make it through the legislative mill . The compromise , too , was substantially hedged by Senate amendments that industry found unsatisfactory . A measure that became known as the " Anthony Athanas bill " became law , over the strong objections of the High Technology Council . The bill , named after restaurateur Athanas , would limit hotel and restaurant development in the Boscom project - a multimillion-do llar high-technology showcase and marketing center . The bill was designed to insulate Athanas ' nearby Pier 4 restaurantfrom increased competition . Athanas , a close friend of legislative leaders and King , also has interests in two proposed hotels in the area . Ironically , the bill was quickly signed into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high-tech industry regarded as its biggest friend and protector on Beacon Hill . A further irony was that now Gov . Michael S. Dukakis , who was opposed by many high-tech executives in his election bid because they regarded him as antigrowth , condemned the Athanas bill as " as antibusiness , antigrowth and antiexpansion a bill as I have ever seen . "                     