@@669993

Behind a lectern in a Washington , D.C. , courtroom this week stood Mark Lane , lawyer to controversial causes of right and left , making his opening statement . He paused for emphasis before hitting the jury with his central thesis : " National Review , since its inception , has been a racist , pro-Nazi , pro-fascist publication . " National Review is the conservative magazine edited by William F. Buckley Jr . Was Mr. Lane making his charge on behalf of some aggrieved liberal  --  a maligned arms-control enthusiast , perhaps , or some annoyed chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union ? No , Mr. Lane ' s client is the Liberty Lobby , whose leader Willis Carto once promoted a Joint Council for Repatriation to help blacks to go back to Africa . The resulting legal contest is bizarre , but also instructive . Over the years , Liberty Lobby and Mr. Carto have sued a number of publishers that called them racist and anti-Semitic . Still pending is a Liberty Lobby suit against The Wall Street Journal , which last year called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ published various tracts by a promoter of racial betterment through genetic selection . Liberty Lobby brought one of these suits against National Review and lost . Now a judge and jury are hearing the trial of the counterclaim . The look of the courtroom on the trial ' s opening day gave notice that this was not an ordinary proceeding . True , over at National Review ' s table there sat a conventional bunch , Mr. Buckley and his lawyers . Across the room with Mr. Carto were the bearded Mr. Lane in friendly navy blazer and gray slacks , a young female paralegal with the kind of nose that suggests the presence of a trust fund , and a young , good-looking black female lawyer in a high-collared blouse . The moment the jury filed in  --  all black , as is not uncommon in the District  --  you began to suspect that Mr. Lane might have something in mind . He opened with a well-known quote from Iago in Shakespeare ' s " Othello " : " He who filches from me my good name robs me of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Then Mr. Lane picked up speed . " Iago was an interesting character , " he instructed his jury . " What he did was to bring down a great black man named Othello because he was black . " " The analogy , " he said , " continues in this case . " Mr. Lane explained how National Review had tried to bring down great black men . He gave a critique of the magazine ' s position on Adam Clayton Powell Jr . He condemned its attitude toward Martin Luther King Jr . He built to a peroration : " If you read the words of Adolf Hitler regarding superior races and advanced races and inferior races , you will have difficulty separating the words of Mr. Buckley in his editorials in the National Review from the words of Adolf Hitler . " Mr. Lane ' s theme was ironic in more than the obvious ways . Today ' s American conservatism does indeed have part of its roots in a seedbed infested with racism , chauvinism and paranoid looniness . When National Review was founded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. political stage was small and fading ; conservatism seemed fatally tied to this pernicious kookiness . From time to time in National Review you can still hear an echo of the right ' s more distasteful origins . The sound fades as time passes because over the years Mr. Buckley and his associates , with National Review as a rallying place , pried conservatism loose from the fingers of its more demented followers . Some people would claim that these " respectable conservatives " have only managed to put an acceptable mask over what remains an illegitimate set of views . Willis Carto , for his part , clearly thinks the National Review bunch profoundly changed the character of the American right . That is presumably why he is at permanent war with it . So we see the Liberty Lobby standing up in court and calling Mr. Buckley racist , most likely calculating that black jurors will be too hypnotized by this possibility to consider other facts important . This is not just an ordinary lawyer ' s trick . This is breathtaking in its daring . Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or religious minority audience so crudely . We know the Fair Play Patrol would at once swoop down and cart us away . But the Carto team is of sterner stuff , able to put its head down and go for broke . It gets you thinking about libel suits in general and their place in democratic politics . They are in vogue now , especially as a way to fight the press . Without a doubt current journalistic habits deserve some fighting against . Still , these suits attacking pernicious speech generate their own share of pernicious speech . Trials held to fight destructive ugliness in American public life provide their own arena in which the parties can make ugly appeals . Highly public events like a blazing newspaper headline , or Louis Farrakhan wowing them at Madison Square Garden , can be a grim sight . But believe me , Mark Lane in front of the jury also generates a distinct shiver . Democracies keep searching for the rules and procedures that will keep their violent and excessively partisan tendencies surely in check . There aren ' t any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its turn . The only real defense lies in imprecise areas like education and culture , where matters are never settled and battles never won . When you catch a glimpse of the muck lying in pockets just under our political surface , you are reminded of how lucky we ' ve been . Next time I walk through those courtroom doors I will knock wood.                     