@@669003

When Congress created a bipartisan commission last year to coordinate the federal attack on AIDS , it gave the president and House and Senate leaders 45 days to select the 15 members of the panel . Despite the urgency of the AIDS crisis , however , no one met the Dec. 19 deadline and the commission is still not in business . House leaders did not announce their five appointments until February , and Senate leaders did not finish making their five selections until earlier this month . President Bush-who is to appoint two members to serve along with the secretary of health and human services , the surgeon general and the secretary of veterans affairs-still has not acted . Rep. Roy Rowland ( D. , Ga. ) , who sponsored the legislation that created the commission , said in an interview that Bush ' s failure to make his appointments is holding up the work of the panel of medical , scientific and legal experts . " As long as it ' s not functioning , we ' re not addressing the problem and the number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up exponentially , " said Rowland , a physician who was one of the five people selected by House leaders to serve on the commission . " We have no idea how many people have been exposed to the virus that don ' t have the disease yet , " he said . " There ' s just all kinds of things that we need to be dealing with from a policy standpoint that we ' re not dealing with . " White House spokesman Alixe Glen said the appointments have been delayed because of " the enormous task " of staffing a new administration . " While this is a priority , it has not moved as quickly as perhaps it should have , " she said . " However , within the next couple of weeks , names should be forwarded to the President . " The new commission was endorsed by the National Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Medicine in a white paper on AIDS that was presented to Bush at the beginning of his administration . Written by Dr. Robin Weiss , director for AIDS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bush to select " senior experts of national stature " for the commission and not pick people " because they hold any particular political ideology . " The paper also urged Bush to give the chairman of the commission direct access to the Oval Office . Rowland said the emergency supplemental appropriations bill up for final action in Congress this week includes $400 , 000 this year for the commission . He said an additional $2 million has been set aside in the fiscal 1990 budget to fund the panel ' s operations . But until Bush makes his appointments , Rowland said , the commission can ' t function . In addition to Rowland , the House appointees are Diane Ahrens , head of the Ramsey County , Minn. , board of commissioners who established an AIDS task force in St. Paul ; Scott Allen , a Baptist minister and coordinator of the AIDS Interfaith Network in Dallas ; Dr. Don Des Jarlais , coordinator of AIDS research for the New York state division of substance abuse services ; and Donald Goldman , a Livingston , N.J. , attorney who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to AIDS . Senate appointees are Larry Kessler , founder of the Boston AIDS Action Committee ; Dr. June Osborn , dean of the school of public health at the University of Michigan ; Harry Dalton , a Yale University law professor who is a recognized expert in AIDS legal issues ; Dr. Charles Konigsbert , director of the health division of the Kansas Department of Health and Environment ; and Eunice Diaz , of White Memorial Medical Center in Los Angeles.                     