@@668619

Cook County officials are trying to lure a 6 , 000-job Saturn auto plant by offering a real estate tax reduction package that includes a 60 percent tax cut in the first eight years the plant would operate here . Assessor Thomas Hynes said Thursday that he made the offer to the new General Motors Corp . Saturn subsidiary after discussions with representatives of Gov . James Thompson and Mayor Harold Washington on the desirability of locating the plant here . The Saturn plant , which has been called the " biggest industrial prize of the generation , " may someday produce 20 , 000 jobs , state officials have said . Officials have estimated the cost of the plant at $3. 5 billion . Company officials say it will build 400 , 000 to 500 , 000 subcompact cars each year starting in 1989 to compete with Japanese imports . Representatives of almost every state are going all-out to win the new auto plant , which will be operated by the GM Saturn subsidiary . The company is to announce the plant site in the spring . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago World ' s Fair 1992 Authority , offered to make the Saturn the official car for the fair if the plant is situated in Illinois . Saturn officials said this was one of the more unusual offers they have received . Thompson , who has said Illinois " won ' t be outbid " in its effort to land the plant , warned after a conference with Saturn officials last month that low initial costs provided by tax breaks " aren ' t as important as low-cost lifetime operations . " GM officials said that Illinois is in the running for the plant . But auto industry sources warned that Illinois ' reputation as a highly unionized state could count against it . Hynes said he has written to Saturn President William G. Hoglund offering a 60 percent reduction in real estate taxes in the first eight years a Saturn plant would operate in the county and a 25 percent real estate tax reduction in the next four years . In the letter , dated Feb. 8 , Hynes also offered to meet with company officials before the plant is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real estate and which would be considered personal property . Because Illinois has no personal property tax , any plant equipment classified as personal property would be tax exempt . Hynes said that in general , movable equipment is considered personal property . Hynes ' willingness to volunteer real estate tax breaks for the Saturn plant contrasts with his refusal to grant similar breaks in 1982 for a proposed Hilton Hotel in Chicago ' s North Loop development area . Hynes ' action that year caused Hilton to withdraw its offer to build the hotel , dealing the North Loop project a blow from which it has not recovered . Hynes said at the time that he did not approve of all the tax breaks sought by Hilton because he wasn ' t convinced that they were necessary . Others , however , contended that political rivalry between Hynes and Mayor Jane Byrne may have influenced his decision . Hynes ' tax offer for the Saturn plan was made under an ordinance approved in October by the Cook County Board that was intended to encourage new and expanding manufacturing plants here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 40 percent of market value . Under the county board ' s tax break ordinance , a new job- creating plant such as Saturn ' s may be assessed at 16 percent of market value for the first eight years of operation and at 30 percent of market value for the next four years . An assessment at 16 percent of market value is 60 percent less than one at 40 percent of market value , and one at 30 percent of market value is 25 percent less than at 40 percent . Under the tax break ordinance , the plant would be taxed at the same rate as other real estate in its tax district , but because the assessed value of the property would be reduced , the tax bills would be lower . In 1982 , Hilton sought tax concessions under a measure then in force that would have cut its assessed value to 16 percent of market value for 13 years . The Hynes offer on Saturn was seen as a boost to Chicago ' s attempt to win the plant , but Hynes said he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be built . He said possible plant sites include the Southeast Side of Chicago , where the struggling steel industry once held sway , large vacant tracts of the city ' s West Side , and areas in the suburbs of Cicero , Bedford Park and Chicago Heights . Hynes said the suburbs would derive " spinoff benefits " in the form of new auto parts factories if the Saturn plant is built in the city , and the city would get such benefits if the plant is built in the suburbs . Saturn is the first new brand of General Motors car since 1918 , when Chevrolet was added to Pontiac , Oldsmobile , Buick and Cadillac . The company wants an open site of 600-1 , 000 acres that is not subject to flooding and can support a plant of up to 5 million square feet . The company also said it wants a major interstate highway and a rail connection nearby , and a commercial airport within a 45-minute drive . Hynes said that there are many such sites in Cook County . GM Chairman Roger Smith , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials by saying that Saturn needs a centrally located plant near a densely populated area so it will be close to a heavy concentration of potential auto buyers . Auto industry sources , however , said Saturn also is seeking a site with few or no previously unionized employees . Illinois is a heavily unionized state , and the United Auto Workers of America is one of its larger unions.                     