@@734929

txt Since the days of cave dwellers . humans have argued about the best way to build a fire in a fireplace Now the argument is about to reach something of a scientific pinnacle . On April 23 Lawrence Cranberg , of Austin , Texas , is due to stand before the American Physical Society in Baltimore and heap coals on his fireplace antagonists at Consumers Union . His arrangement of logs , he will tell his fellow physicists , has been unjustly criticized by the publisher of Consumer Reports , the monthly magazine that evaluates products . Great Grate Grates Mr. Cranberg is president of Texas Fireframe Co. , producer of a grate designed to create " the physicist 's fire . " The doubledecked steel grate is advertised in such cerebral magazines as Scientific American . Smithsonian , Discover and Harvard . It holds logs in a manner forming a cavity aimed in ward at the room , thus throwing out more heat than logs piled any old way . In last January 's issue , Consumer Reports evaluated several kinds of fireplace equipment , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangement of logs does radiate extra heat , " hut not well enough . " the article said . " The fireframe 's cavity , in theory a perfect radiator , proved less than perfect in practice . " In fact , the article said , you could get better results by building afire right on the fireplace floor , without any grate at all . Well , that infuriated Mr. Cranberg . " It was appalling , " he says . " I 've identified 20 items in this account of my product to which I take very strong exception . " Chance to Question As a member of the American Physical Society , Mr. Cranberg has submitted an abstiact , or summary , of his paper , entitled " Encounter With Consumers Union . " The meeting 's format allows questions from the audience after the speaker has finished , and Mr. Cranberg has invited Consumers Union to send a spokesman to Baltimore to respond to him . David Berliner , assistant director of Consumers Union in Mt . Vernon . N.Y .. says there is no plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him . " says Mr. Berliner . " We 've given him ample opportunity to show us what the problem is , and he 's not come up with any substantiation . We 've reviewed our test procedures , and we continue to be totally satisfied that they 're accurate . " Consumer Reports , which accepts no advertising , has a circulation of 2.9 million . Over the years it has had many disputes with manufacturers whose products have been criticized . Mr. Berliner thinks Mr. Cranberg is being unusually tenacious . Mr. Cranberg thinks Consumers Union has been " malicious , " and besides his Baltimore talk , he is considering a libel suit .                     