@@735152

txt THE U.S. BUREAU of Labor Statistics reported Tuesday that prices in the Chicago area dropped 0.3 per cent in October , the first decline since January . The price moderation also was reflected nationally . Inflation rose just 0.4 per cent in October , the smallest gain for any month since prices went up 0.1 per cent nationally in July , 1980 . If October 's inflation rate continued for a year , prices would be down 3.7 per cent In the Chicago area and up only 4.9 per cent across the country . The inflation rate in the Chicago area over the last 12 months has been 8.8 per cent , compared to a 12-month rate in August of 12.5 per cent . THE KEY TO the favorable figures Was housing costs , which fell 1.1 per cent in the Chicago area and were flat nationally after rising steadily for months . Ironically , the improvement in housing costs came in the same month that the government , bowing to pressure from economists , agreed to reduce the weight of the housing component in the consumer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had contended that the housing component , which makes up 41 ' per cent of the CPI , was unrealistically skewing the index . The seasonally adjusted national CPI rose 9.6 per cent in the first 10 months of this year to 279,9 , meaning that goods that cost $10 in 1967 would have cost ' $27.99 last month . The Chicago-Northwest Indiana CPI is up 6.6 per cent since the beginning of the year to 276.1 . In September , prices rose 0.4 per cent in the Chicago area and 1.2 per cent nationally . WITH THE RECESSION dampening demand for goods and services , economists do not expect any large increases in the inflation rate in the last two months of 1981 . The experts expect the inflation rate for this year to be about 9,5 per cent . One economist , Donald Ratajczak , director'of Georgia State University 's Economic Forecasting Project , said in a recent report that " continued moderation in energy and food prices may prevent the CPI from hitting double-digit rates during the fall , but only by a tad . " ' However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a virtually " shock-proof " year for inflation . Analysts say the current recession is responsible for the flattening of housing costs nationally , ' and the more laggard economy in the Chicago area put a big dent in the cat of housing here . Home prices declined sharply , the bureau of statistics said , and although it does not break out figures on home prices it said the cost of home ownership-which includes purchase costs , financing , mainte nance , insurance , and taxes-fell 0.7 per . cent in the Chicago area in October . CHICAGO-AREA food and beverage prices , down 0.2 per cent in September , were up by the same amount in October , one of the few components in the inflation rate to show an increase in the month , Grocery prices were up 0.3 per cent in October and up 2.9 per cent since October , 1980 . Most of the rise was accounted for by a 0.5 per cent increase in the price of meat , poultry , fish , and eggs , although the price of those items over the last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of cereal and baked goods , dairy products , and alcoholic beverages fell , fractionally in the month , while the costs of fruits and vegetables and eating out were unchanged . The increase in food and beverage prices nationally was also 0.2 per cent in October , following a brisk 1 per cent rise in September . October grocery prices were up 0.1 per cent . Transportation costs showed the largest increase for the month in the Chica- ' go area , rising 1 per cent . Most of this increase was due to higher prices for used cars , auto financing , and auto maintenance .                     