@@670215

WASHINGTON  --  Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev  --  frustrated that the eight-year-old Afghan war is sapping Moscow ' s money , energy and international prestige  --  has stepped up efforts to find a way out . Administration officials say the Kremlin has painfully concluded that victory is impossible and that the Kabul regime is unsustainable . Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze last week said Moscow wants to bring home its 115 , 000 troops this year , whether or not it has assurances that its puppet , Afghan leader Najibullah , will be part of a future government . " If we have correctly interpreted Mr. Shevardnadze , and that ' s a tall if , this represents a watershed event , " says Sen. Gordon Humphrey ( R. , N.H. ) . " The principal stumbling block to a just settlement of the war has been for years the unwillingness of the Soviets to leave without the Afghan Communist Party remaining in power or dominant . " The Soviet Union ' s motives for getting out range from a need to improve relations with China and Middle Eastern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ burden before asking his citizens to suffer new economic hardships likely under his domestic reforms . But the heart of this new Soviet flexibility on withdrawal is the simple fact that Moscow has run out of alternative ideas . " I think what you ' ve got is the steady evaporation of Soviet options , " says Stephen Sestanovich of Georgetown ' s Center for Strategic and International Studies , who wrestled with the Afghan issue as a member of the National Security Council staff until last year . He argues that U.S. and Pakistan resolve , the guerrillas ' improved fighting capability and the failure of Soviet tactics have left the Kremlin no other solution but withdrawal . " They don ' t think it ' s going to get any better . " Nevertheless , U.S. officials don ' t want to bet on Soviet good will . They are insisting that the Soviet pullout must be " front-loaded , " with one-third of the Soviet troops leaving in the first 60 days to ensure that the process is irreversible . Washington also wants the Soviets to reduce their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration officials stress that unless the Soviets are more forthcoming on a schedule and front-loading , they won ' t agree to end aid to the Afghan guerrillas at the beginning of the withdrawal process  --  though they have agreed to just that in the U.N. draft agreement . The problem is that ending aid , a single act , is harder to reverse than many weeks of troop withdrawals . The Soviets can remove unneeded forces first and leave behind special forces , called Spetznaz , and combat forces . " It makes us nervous , " an administration official says . " That ' s why we feel pressure to nail the Soviets to the wall on withdrawal , making it as short as possible . " There is still much to dissuade the Soviets from pulling out unconditionally . Such a move could send unwanted signals to the citizens of Eastern European allies that Soviet shackles can be broken . The U.S. Congress might conclude that backing anti-Communist insurgents can pay rich dividends . " What turned this whole thing around was the provision of the Stingers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arm the guerrillas with the shoulder-held missiles . " It ' s a pity and scandalous we didn ' t do this earlier in the war . " Moreover , covert U.S. support has increased to more than a half billion dollars a year , and Moscow has little hope that even a Democratic president elected in 1988 would alter the policy . Pakistan , long considered the shakiest element in their support base by the Afghan freedom fighters , also proved more steadfast than expected in the face of terrorist attacks in its cities . It was motivated only partially by the danger of a Soviet satellite establishing itself next door . A more practical reason was the $4. 2 billion U.S. aid package . Support to Pakistan , a major conduit for supplies to the Afghan rebels , has continued despite concern that Pakistan is building a nuclear weapon . Kremlinologists see the Soviet press coverage of Afghanistan as a sign that Mr. Gorbachev is preparing for withdrawal . Letters to the editor complain that Soviet officials ' sons have been spared Afghan duty . Journalists write of drug @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Soviet soldiers ' uniforms and guns were being sold in the Kabul bazaar . " The message back home is this is a mess and it ' s getting worse , " says Mr. Sestanovich . " Many people view the general increase of publicity about Afghanistan as part of a Gorbachev program to convince people the war is futile . He is legitimizing criticism of the Afghan war , and allowing it to become an open social strain . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     