@@668530

The ownership of Swedish industry is almost unimaginablyconcentrated by American standards : It is the stuff of which Scrooge McDuck comic books are made . When he died last autumn , Marcus Wallenberg controlled 30 companies with $24 billion in sales , or 33 percent of the gross domestic product . One out of every four persons worked for him . An additional 12 percent of Sweden ' s domestic product flows through AB Volvo - a company now quietly being added to the Wallenberg " sphere , " along with its boss and Wallenberg ' s heir apparent , Pehr Gyllenhammar . Such tight control has produced companies that are superbly competitive in the world market . Into this dense and elegant financial landscape , a ticking bomb was tossed eight years ago . The Swedish trade union confederation called LO , which represents more than 90 percent of the country ' s blue collar workers , in 1975 proposed that companies contribute to a new profit-sharing device : " wage- earner funds . " The funds , which would employ voting stock rather than cash , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the way industry is run . Businessmen claimed the proposal was a thinly veiled scheme for union takeover of virtually all Swedish companies . There was a furious ruckus over the plan . The Social Democrats were turned out of office for the first time in nearly half a century on the strength of their support of the idea . Now the Social Democrats are back in power and the bomb has started ticking again . Privately , government officials say they have defused the issue - that all that remains is the shell . But businessmen are worried and there is talk about a " master plan " devised by Wallenberg before he died . His idea apparently was to knit Swedish industry together even more tightly , commingling profits so intricately that legally companies would be unable to issue new stock to the funds . The issue stands between Sweden and the recovery for which it has been waiting ever since OPEC knocked it from the front of the pack . The wage-earnerfunds are either a historic turning point or just another tax on business , depending on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a dither and the controversy will come to a head this fall . " People don ' t realize how deep is the transformation we are now witnessing , " said Ake Ortmark , a writer and television anchorman . " Socialist ideals are basically unchanged since 1848 . Since then , the workers have been waiting , waiting - well , one thinks of Mao in the caves of Yunnan . Now , the crack we are witnessing is the beginning of something entirely new - the third stage , as they say . After political democracy and social democracy comes economic democracy . " Such imagery seems farfetched , he said , unless it is recalled that union organizers have something of a " long march " of their own to look back upon , similiar to the one that took Mao to the caves of Yunnan . The general strike of 1909 , he recalled , was so long and bitter that union leaders said it had shaken out of the movement all but the toughest members . It was this generation and the next that went @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s blue collar workers . By the 1960s , however , the unions were looking for a new act . The considerable degree of equality of wage income they had achieved through collective bargaining was not enough . Wealth , meaning the ownership of homes , land and factories , that was passed from generation to generation , remained for the most part beyond the tax collector ' s reach . Union experts estimated that no more than 100 people controlled the Swedish economy . It was to economist Rudolf Meidner that the unions turned for help . A German refugee , Meidner was a trade union economist who was a sophisticated student of technological change and a canny observer of the rich . He devised the funds . In Meidner ' s plan , there were to be 24 funds , one in each Swedish county . They were to be financed by a payroll tax plus a special levy equal to 20 percent of the annual profits of firms with more than 50 or 100 employees . There were all sorts of nuances left unresolved in the Meidner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boards , and how ? Would they be union bosses ? Politicians ? What standards would the funds seek for return on theirinvestments ? This was an especially crucial question since steel mills and shipyards - a substantial section of Swedish industry - were being operated at a loss at the time Meidner proposed the plan . The basic thrust of the proposal could not be missed , however . The tax with which the funds were to be established was to be paid with specially issued shares of company stock . Within a very few years , voting control of all major Swedish companies would have passed to funds controlled by the strong labor unions . The wage- earner funds were a forced buy-out of big business by the unions . " This is how we take over ! " headlined the Aftonbladet , the union- owned afternoon newspaper , when the plans were first announced . It was fighting language in a country where " the middle way " has always meant strong unions and strong capitalists . The " Meidner Plan " for wage-earner funds met with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that voting shares be issued to thefunds amounted to expropriation . " Fund socialism , " and " Just like Poland " were the battle cries . They asked , rhetorically , who would negotiate for wages when unions were the boss . The cruelest irony , they said , was that the more profit they earned , the sooner they would lose their companies . Business organizations hired advertising agencies and publicists , and the economics department of SAF , the confederation of Swedish employers , churned out studies showing the dire effects such funds would have . In all of this , Sweden of the 1970s bore more than a passing resemblance to Massachusetts of , say , the 1950s . The basic industries on which the economy had depended for decades were in a state of dramatic decline . Having its own currency to manipulate , its own fiscal policy to adjust , gave the Swedish government only a little advantage over the commonwealth . There were limits to what they could do for themselves with conventional measures . In the end , the Swedes , like the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unprotected " sphere - the industries engaged in international competition.om , on those who , as they say , " pay the bills . " It is said that these industries " pay the bills " for the economy , but in the mid-1970s , the sphere of bill-payers was shrinking rather fast . Iron mining and the steel industry were meeting with fierce international competition ; the shipbuilding business was being lost to the Koreans and the Japanese . Forest products , too , were competing in an increasingly difficult market . In the circumstances , claimed business lobbying groups , it was simply wacky to think of an outright takeover of industry by labor . And so it was that the Social Democrats were defeated in 1976 for the first time in 44 years , after bringing the Meidner proposal to the electorate . This summer , the Social Democrats , and the funds , are back . A six- year interregnum of nonsocialist governments proved nothing - except that the political center is slowly disappearing ( see chart* . Sweden is becoming harder to govern . During the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they sent the wage-earner funds proposal back to committee no fewer than five times . With each reiteration it has been watered down . The proposal has gone from share contributions to cash contributions , from cash contributions based on money profits to cash based on " real " profits , from 24 funds to 5 funds to begin with , from unconventional return-on- investment targets that would permit the funds to aid failing industries to the the usual " prudent man " rule requiring that investments be normally profitable . It is in this much-diminished form - resembling nothing so much as a an extra pension fund - that Meidner ' s plan for the wage- earner funds will be proposed to Parliament in the autumn , according to sources close to the leadership of the Social Democratic Party . Only the rules governing the sorts of investment the funds may make have yet to be decided , they say . A 3 percent rate of return is their proposal . " We ' ve got to get these proposals off the table at almost any cost , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who chairs the committee that is recommending rules for investment . " They have come up election after election . We have to calm down the party and the trade unions . We have to calm down the country , too . " It seems fair to say that very , very few people are satisfied with the proposal in its current form , and yet seasoned political observers say it is almost certain to pass into law , a beneficiary of its own momentum . " No one is happy with the proposal but me , " said Sten Johansson , a distinguished sociologist who wrote the report of the Social Democratic Party that first endorsed the LO ' s proposal for the funds . " It now is just about what I had in mind initially : it can provide for sabbatical years and adult education . " " I suppose they are nothing more now than just another form of tax on business , " said Lars Vinnell of the Swedish Federation of Industries . " It could even be a useful form of forced savings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds , once created , will take on a life of their own . What lies ahead ? As in England and America , the really interesting division in Swedish society is in the majority party . The talk among the Social Democrats is of an impending " war of the roses . " ( The red rose is the symbol of the party . ) The Social Democrats themselves are deeply divided . At one extreme are the " reformed " big spenders , the technocrats dedicated to keeping the budget in check . Led by Finance Minister Kjell-Olof Feldt , this " gray " socialism seems likely to dominate - but not without a fuss . Feldt has powerful antagonists among his fellow ministers , notably Sten Andersson , the minister for social welfare - a strong advocate of more public spending , never mind the consequences to Sweden ' s competitive position in the world economy . Presiding over it all , of course , is Olof Palme , a man with few apparent convictions about the economy . Palme ' s remarkable international stature seems enough for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral compass is enough . Clearly , then , a lot depends on Sweden ' s future growth - and there , the prospects are worrisome . The shipyard jobs are gone forever . The Swedish steel industry has been consolidated . On the other hand , the timber industry is picking up . The electronics anddrug businesses are booming . But is it enough ? Probably not . " It will take a return to the growth rates of the sixties to keep this pot from boiling over , " said a member of the government . " And it will take a miracle to make that happen . " 