@@669812

Foreign-currency futures rose as banks and commercial traders took profits on the dollar ' s recent rise . It was the first broad rally this year in foreign-currency futures , which have mirrored the hectic trading in interbank foreign-exchange markets . The profit-taking yesterday " created a bit of a panic , " said David Arbesman , currency analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . Heavy selling of dollars " had a snowball effect , " he added . But trading calmed as the day wore on and little news emerged to influence prices , analysts said . The dollar ' s drop reversed a decline in the price of several major commodities . Soybeans , precious metals , copper and other commodity prices rose yesterday . The record-setting strength of the U.S. currency had helped depress most commodity prices across the board earlier this week . The West German mark , which has been especially weak , was among the strongest currency futures as it regained lost ground . The Japanese yen closed little changed ; it has been a favorite among futures traders seeking a relatively strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline . In late trading , the dollar rebounded significantly , analysts said . " It was a typical reaction to an overdone market , " said Richard Marquit , a currency trader at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . Interest-rate futures also rose as the rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , fell as low as 9 3/8% . In other commodity markets yesterday : GRAINS AND SOYBEANS : Soybeans rose sharply and corn and wheat posted moderate gains . Rising prices in foreign-currency and gold futures prompted many traders to buy grain contracts as well , to offset selling positions taken previously in anticipation of declining prices . Brisk soybean-meal trade in Europe also encouraged buying . Renewed frigid winter weather in the Midwest threatened to hinder grain transportation , analysts said . ENERGY : Heating-oil prices continued to climb on forecasts of colder-than-seasonable weather . Also , yesterday analysts said traders expected a weekly trade report to show a sharp drop in refiner inventories of six million barrels because of recent cold weather . After the market closed , the American Petroleum Institute released the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 7. 0 million barrels , to 141. 5 million barrels , in the week ended Friday . LIVESTOCK AND MEAT : Cattle and hogs rose in response to higher cash prices amid continued tight supplies . Cattle for delivery in February rose sharply ; many traders bought February-delivery contracts hoping to profit on short supplies , then sold contracts for delivery later in the year to protect themselves in case prices fall . Hog futures here buoyed by the higher cattle prices and continued expectations that harsh weather could hamper pork production . Pork bellies rose moderately in active , volatile trading . Many traders expect demand for bellies , which are made into bacon , to remain strong at least until March . Winter is the peak season for bacon consumption . COFFEE : Prices climbed on renewed fear that a possible strike by U.S. dockworkers could interrupt coffee deliveries . Reports yesterday that the International Longshoremen ' s Association and shipping-industry representatives had broken off labor negotiations increased speculation that there could be a strike . The current interim labor contract expires Jan. 31 . Guillermo Sarmiento , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ led roasters to step up buying yesterday . ( Revised WSJ Jan. 12 )                     