@@734589

txt Despite the angry talk . the ? threats , and the strike votes , we really could not believe they would do it . These men were our civic heroes , the helmeted knights of the red fire engines . These were the paragons of courage that children aspired to be when they grew up . These were the saviors of babies and old ' ladies , the kindly rescuers of stranded kittens . How can they now behave like disg r untled hod carriers or militant autoworkers ? How can they defy the law and betray the public trust ? How can they go on strike ? Granted , Chicago 's fire fighters were sorely provcked . Their job is the most hazardous in public service , yet their pay is lower than that of many other public servarits . They had asked for a contract , and Mayor Byrne had promised them one , however unwisely . Now they found themselves confronted by a stonewalling mayor whose petulant bluntness is proving to be dangerous as well as unpleasant . But did they , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their city will pay for this unconscionable action ? Can they visualize the contorted face of a grief-stricken mother whose baby died because firemen refused to do their duty ? How long before outraged voices cry , " Murderers ! " How many days , or even hours . will it take for the firemen to squander the deep reservoir of public trust and admiration accumulated in more than a century of exemplary service ? What Calvin Coolidge said of a Boston police strike in 1919 is still true : There is no right to strike against the public safety by anyone , anywhere , anytime . There is no moral justification or the present strike , nor can it be justified on legal or even practical grounds . Legally , it violates Illinois case law that bans strikes by public employes , and no con scientious man should have joined the force if he questioned this . It is pointless to demand a contract that permits strikes , because a contract that condones illegal action is invalid before the law . However tactless the mayor may have been , she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In practical terms , the strike is self-defeating however short it may prove to be . To be successful , a strike by public employes must have public sympathy  --  as the fruitless CTA strike so clearly demonstrated . There can be no such sympathy for men who deliberately abandon their duty to protect life and property . A strike may even call into question some basic assumptions about the need for firemen . In the nationwide firefighters ' strike in Britain three years ago it was discovered that the additional property loss attributed to the strike was but a fraction of the cost of maintaining the firefighting service . Many Britons questioned whether the country really needed so many firemen . In the end , those British firemen straggled back to duty , demoralized , defeated , and much diminished in public esteem . In that case the union at least assigned men to stations so they could respond to fires and other emergencies in which life was threatened , something that has shamefully been neglected in Chicago . It is possible , of course , that the Chicago , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which can more accurately be termed a desertion than a strike . They could succeed in getting more money and higher manning levels . But they will lose nevertheless , because to gain these modest improvements they are sacrificing what fire fighters have traditionally treasured above all else : the love and respect of the people they serve . It will take a long time and hard work to recover that loss .                     