@@668224

More stock-taking , a round of applause here and there , kudos coupled with an obit of sorts : We may as well get on with things . - Panorama , the Annenberg magazine for people who watch television but retain the ability to comprehend declarative sentences , emerged from its larval stage a year ago February . The April issue advances its objective of providing intelligent prose on the general subject of television for those who candidly admit that they watch it and are willing to provide the names of witnesses to prove that they never eat bean curd , alfalfa or yogurt . Edwin Diamond analyzes how television handled the release of the hostages and the inauguration of Ronald Reagan . Lee Salk spent some time romping in a " Sesame Street " theme park for infants and did a piece which makes the reader yearn to romp in the park , if for no reason other than to avoid Lee Salk ' s ruminations . There is an excerpt from Joe McGinniss ' book on Alaska , describing how the folks in mukluks react to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report on the incestuous relationship of television and boxing , opining thatneither of them is especially improved by the company of the other . You will enjoy Jeff Silverman ' s jaundiced view of squabbling among the producers and the stars of network series , implying that the likes of Jack Klugman ( " Quincy " ) , sued this week by his employers for telling them to blow it out their barracks bags , may not always be entirely in the right . Richard Reeves has his usual good column , and Ron Nessen interviewed Hodding Carter 3d , State Department spokesman during the hostage crisis , to some useful effect . Now for the obit : the June issue of Panorama will be the last one . Combined subscription and newsstand sales never got much over 110,000 . That is not enough to support a national , glossy magazine . But then the early audience for " Lou Grant " wasn ' t enough to support a network series , either . Pity Walter Annenberg didn ' t subscribe to the view that ' s been urged upon NBC-TV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " until the ratings pick up , and adopt it for Panorama . - Harper ' s for April has L. J. Davis on the fascinating story of H. L. Hunt of Texas , who somehow found time to wildcat for oil while tomcatting around the Southwest to the point at which he had more money than God and three entire families , with yet enough leisure remaining to spew out a bodacious amount of right-wing propaganda on the airwaves . This guy was a piece of work , and so is the article . Magnificent . William Gaddis inclines to the view that failure has its purposes , and I recommend Jim Shepard ' s story , " Runway , " along with Shiva Naipaul ' s report from the New Earth Exposition in San Francisco - Naipaul thinks the more extreme Whole Earth People are chiefly nuts , and writes convincingly in support of that thesis . You should read Hugh Kenner ' s review of the new collection of letters of Ernest Hemingway , a very perceptive article . Alexander Cockburn of the Village Voice shares Auberon Waugh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just below that of badger gassers , and should guard it jealously . Good issue . - Ah , if only every writer wrote as well as John Updike does . Then there would be unicorns in every garden , no sailor would ever lack for fair wind and following sea , and even Fenway Franks would be delicious . Alas , it is not so , but at least John Updike writes as well as John Updike does , and the New Yorker for the 6th carries his short but brilliant story , " The Lovely Troubled Daughters Of Our Old Crowd . " You do the best you can in this world , so get ahold of it and read it . It is Mary Kierstead ' s misfortune to have her story , " The Shetland Pony , " appear in the same issue , because it too is a marvelous piece of work . Daniel Ford knows a good deal about Three Mile Island , having been there , but the subject has commenced to bore me and the article didn ' t serve as an antidote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for whatever that is worth . Pauline Kael has a word or two on " The Postman Always Rings Twice " - she rather liked it , unusual among reviewers I have read . Arlene Croce came to Boston for the Boston Ballet performance of " Swan Lake , " and gave the local company full marks - Yr . Obt . Svt. does not comment upon ballet , finding it invariably hilarious , but the local company should be pleased with this notice from Croce . Boston Magazine for April has an interview with Julia Child , who has been dear to my heart ever since the night she dropped the entree on the floor while televising its preparation , picked it up and assured her audience that there is no need to be too dainty about mishaps that the guests don ' t see , and proceeded with the cooking lesson . She hasn ' t changed , chums , and the interview is great . Don Mitchell has been breeding lambs again - this dispatch is fairly disgusting , but as usual , very well-written . You @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the FBI ' s investigation of former Boston School Committeeman Gerald O ' Leary , now in the slammer for shaking down school-bus companies , and do not overlook Arnold Zeitlin ' s quizzical inspection of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts . Erratum : It wasn ' t Robert F. Kennedy Jr . who bought the oil from Venezuela ; it was Joseph P. Kennedy 3d . My mistake . Harmless error , I think . Line of the week : Lesley Stahl , reporting on Reagan Administration proposals to relax or eliminate some auto safety standards , said that among those affected would be the 15-MPH impact requirement for bumper stickers , and for the further enlightenment of the CBS Radio audience offered a tape by some environmentalist who declared that lowering emissions standards would have severe effects upon " the members of the breathing public . " George V. Higgins is a Globe columnist . B07916902                     