@@735638

txt Dioxin has been much in the news . We have seen the discovery of the toxic substance in Times Beach , Mo. , and the extraordinary response of the government to that situation . As one who spent a year in Vietnam I find this disturbing . It is disturbing because for years Vietnam veterans have claimed that the same substance , dioxin , has been responsible for illness , even early death , in themselves and birth defects in their children . For years the government has denied that the illness of the vets and their children are linked to their Vietnam service and exposure to defoliants containing dioxin . To date , over 100,000 Vietnam veterans have taken the Agent Orange physical at the Veterans Administration and over 16 , - 000 have filed claims for disability based on illness they attribute to dioxin exposure in Vietnam . To date not one claim has been honored based on such illness . There is a glaring contradiction here . In the case of the domestic presence of dioxin the government has acted in a matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Centers for Disease Control , instantly on the scene in Times Beach , stated that contamination levels exceeding one part per billion of dioxin may be considered hazardous to health . Officials add that even lower levels can not be considered safe , as there may indeed be no " safe level " for this most toxic substance . The EPA cautions us against eating fish containing dioxin in parts per trillion . In Vietnam . according to testimony before the Illinois Agent Orange Study Commission . the average contamination level of dioxin in Agent Orange was two parts per million with some batches contaminated at levels of up to 50 per million . Over 11 million gallons of Agent Orange were sprayed over Vietnam . In Times Beach those taking soil samples wore protective gear . No protective measures were taken in Vietnam and we were told that all chemicals used were safe for human beings . Period . Clearly , in the domestic situation , dioxin is considered highly dangerous and every step is being quickly taken to safeguard the welfare of the citizens who may have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the part of a government charged with the welfare of its citizens . However , where is the same concern on behalf of the Vietnam veterans who may have been exposed to the same substance in serving the nation ? For years the VA has turned a deaf ear to the concerns of the vets . Many vets relate tales of horror in their dealings with the agency . They say that to mention Agent Orange is to be labeled as a " nut . " " They put it on your chart when you say Agent Orange and then they see you as a trouble maker . " one vet told me . The VA was thoroughly lambasted by the General Accounting Office report of October 1982 on its Agent Orange physical and registry program . The registry was found to be so inadequate that the GAO recommended it be scrapped . The VA receives more than S22 billion a year in public funds yet it has totally failed to address the Agent Orange issue to the satisfaction of many veterans . We are told time and time again that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results before we will have any answers on Agent Orange . If this is indeed accurate then why were not the citizens of Times Beach treated in the same way ? Much of the action on the issue has been on a state level . To date , there are 16 states with Agent Orange commissions or programs and the list is growing . Many of these programs grew out of the failure of the federal government to act to the satisfaction of the state legislatures . Those who put their lives on the line for their fellow citizens deserve the best the nation has to offer . They have not had anywhere near the best in the case of Agent Orange . Times Beach just makes that more clear when we see what the government can do when it wants to act .                     