@@668527

It ' s exactly out of Doonesbury , " says Dartmouth College chemist Ian T. Baldwin , co-author of a report published today in Science magazine that provides the best evidence so far that trees communicate with each other . A tree threatened by insect pests can ' t run away , but experiments by Baldwin and Dartmouth entomologist Jack C. Schultz appear to show that it doesn ' t just stand there , either . An attacked tree produces harmful or foul- tasting chemicals in its leaves , and sends a chemical air-raid signal that warns nearby trees to begin mounting their own defenses . Researchers have known for some 40 years that a tree can change the chemical composition of its own leaves in response to an infection or an insect attack . But they had thought that those chemical defenses were limited to the particular tree that had been attacked , and took place only over a year or more . According to today ' s report in Science , though , an attacked tree ' s insect- free neighbors begin preparing their own chemical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiments indicating that trees might send signals were carried out a year ago by two University of Washington ecologists , David F. Rhoades and Gordon H. Orians . Rhoades and Orians are given credit for conceiving the odd idea and for being willing to stick their necks out , but some observers have criticized the design of their experiments . Now the Dartmouth experiments appear to have provided firm underpinnings for the preliminary Washington findings . Not only do the Dartmouth experiments seem to demonstrate that trees can send " messages " to one another , but they raise the possibility of eventually adapting the tree ' s own defenses to make new , natural pesticides . " If you could immunize trees by releasing a compound into the air rather than waiting for insects to wipe the trees out first , that would represent a pretty major economic breakthrough , " said Baldwin . He noted that forestry officials who monitor the number of caterpillar egg cases typically have about a year ' s warning of a pest infestation . But the research on which such advances might someday be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sent from one tree to another has not even been identified yet . The existence of the messenger has been deduced , not directly observed . The Dartmouth researchers believe such a chemical exists because their experiments show the same chemical changes in trees with damaged leaves and in nearby undamaged trees . The changes are not seen in the leaves of distant trees . Baldwin predicts that most trees , not just the sugar maples and poplars he tested , will prove to send out chemical warning signals . " We took two random trees out of a hat and both responded , " he notes . Washington ' s Rhoades and Orians reported similar findings with willows and alders . The Dartmouth research was designed to resolve several questions left hanging by the Washington experimenters . One key criticism of the first experiments was that they were carried on outdoors , on trees growing near arunway of the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport , where pollutants , weather conditions , or other unknown factors might have complicated matters . Secondly , some critics charged that even if trees did signal one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ signals were airborne or transmitted through the trees ' root system . Dartmouth ' s Baldwin and Schultz experimented on seedlings grown in pots under large plexiglass containers . The pots prevented the roots from somehow exchanging signals , and the plexiglass kept out any uncontrolled influences . The researchers put matching seedlings in a plexiglass , greenhouse-like container , tearing a few of the leaves of one batch of trees ( to simulate insect damage ) and leaving the leaves of the others intact . By tearing the leaves rather than allowing caterpillars to chew them , Baldwin said , the scientists eliminated the possibility that the warning signal was produced by the caterpillar rather than by the tree . Both in trees whose leaves had been torn and in intact trees nearby , Baldwin and Schultz found strikingly high levels of tannins and related substances used by the trees as chemical defenses . " Control " trees left untouched in a separate sealed container showed no such changes . It is not clear why natural selection would favor a tree that sends out signals to warn its neighbors of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ survival of the fittest , each contestant is on its own . But the warning signal might simply be a byproduct of the tree ' s chemical response to an insect attack , as a cry of pain can be part of a person ' s response to an attack . If that idea is correct , Baldwin explained , trees that happened to have a high capacity for receiving chemical signals might have an evolutionary advantage over other trees , because they could have a head start at preparing defenses against insects .                     