@@668073

If Sen. Edward M. Kennedy is to have any chance at winning the Democratic presidential nomination from President Jimmy Carter , he may need some helpfrom delegates pledged to Carter , and some help with the convention rules . Not only is Carter ahead of Kennedy 2-1 in delegates right now , but the incumbent has working for him the rules adopted by the Democratic National Committee . Kennedy is not out of the running yet . His top aides talk privately of some softness in Carter ' s support among delegates already apportioned . And in fact , should the President fare poorly in the late innings of primaries , appearing bedraggled and looking like a sure loser in the fall , Kennedy could make a fight of it at the convention as Ronald Reagan did against an incumbent President four years ago . If that happpens , Kennedy delegates could try to get the August national convention to reject Rule 11H , which was adopted nearly two years ago by the Democratic National Committee , a de facto arm of the Carter-Mondale re- election committee . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention , if a majority of the delegates think it in their best interest to vote with the President of the United States , Rule 11H is adopted despite the objections of the Kennedy claque . If Kennedy has a chance , if Carter has been beaten soundly in the delegate-rich June 3 primaries of California and Ohio and New Jersey and some lesser states , if the polls show that Jimmy Carter looks like a real loser , then Rule 11H may be voted down . Rule 11H states : " All delegates to the national convention shall be bound to vote for the presidential candidate whom they were elected to support for at least the first convention ballot unless released in writing by the presidential candidate . Delegates who seek to violate this rule may be replaced by an alternate of the same presidential preference by the presidential candidate or that candidate ' s authorized representative at any time up to and including the presidential balloting at the national convention . " Kennedy ' s strategy all along has presumed that Carter would fall apart at some point , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country that nominating Carter would be a disaster . With visions of Ronald Reagan in the White House , the theory goes , with nightmares of the Senate falling under Republican control , with the AFL-CIO staring national right-to- work laws in the face , a consensus is reached that Carter must go . How ? The President has piled up hundreds of delegates , far more than Kennedy , and if all delegates pledged to Carter on the first ballot stick with the President , he may have enough to be renominated on the first ballot . Warning of chaos in November , of wholesale defeat for Democratic candidates with Carter at the head of the ticket , perhaps with antidraft , antinuclear and jobless demonstrators marching in the streets outside the convention , the Kennedy strategists pass the word : abstain on the first ballot . So it might come down to Rule 11H . If all those delegates Carter picked up in Iowa and Maine and New Hampshire and other early-and- middle round states stick with Carter on the first ballot , Kennedy may be finished . Unless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convention adopts its permanent rules , Carter might be a certain first-ballot victor . The skirmishing has already begun . Kennedy backers in New York Wednesday forced the state chairman there to back down when he named a temporary convention platform committee that had 10 Carter backers to only two Kennedy supporters , even though Kennedy won the New York primary by a 3-2 margin . After the protest , chairman Dominic Baranello promised that all New York convention assignments will be split 3-2 in Kennedy ' s favor . Right now it looks like Carter will control the convention . But Carter ' s job rating in the national polls has been falling rapidly , his grades from the public on handling the ticklish Iran hostage situation are ebbing as well . And the possibilities of erosion are discussed hopefully by Kennedy advisers like Patrick Lucey , the former Wisconsin governor . Two weeks ago , Lucey said in an interview that " I think we have a shot at some delegates controlled by Carter . I think if they realize this guy is a disaster and can ' t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Really , what we have is a failed Presidency . He ' s lost control of the economy the same way Hoover did . " Lucey did not want to spell out just where the Carter delegates might be soft , but cited as an example Minnesota , the home state of Vice President Walter F. Mondale , where in preliminary caucuses , Carter got 44 convention delegates , Kennedy only five , with 26 uncommitted . Lucey said a politician whom he would not identify " told me if Carter looks bad through the late primaries , he can get us some delegates there . "                     