@@670320

WASHINGTON  --  The Bush administration ' s anti-drug chief William Bennett announced a wide-ranging plan to help the District of Columbia fight a sharp increase in drug-related violence , including the promise of more prison beds and using federal law enforcement agents to supplement local efforts . In announcing the plan , his first major initiative as director of the new Office of Drug Control Policy , Mr. Bennett repeatedly emphasized that he wasn ' t seeking to usurp local decision-making and control over the drug fight . " The ultimate responsibility for the safety of streets and homes and schools belongs to local authorities , " he said . But Mr. Bennett also pointedly criticized the city ' s leadership , saying , " The plain fact is that for too long and in too many respects the D.C. government has failed to serve its citizens . " Among Mr. Bennett ' s recommendations , which he said will cost about $70 million to $80 million to implement , only one will take effect immediately : a plan to transfer 250 sentenced prisoners from the district jail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ space in the district jail must be used to house prisoners arrested as a part of the new anti-drug offensive . Mr. Bennett vowed to report to the public in six-month intervals on the progress being made to implement the plan . D.C. Mayor Marion Barry , who has received national scrutiny and harsh criticism from members of Congress in the wake of the city ' s rising murder rate and his own associations with alleged drug offenders , said he welcomed the additional federal help . But he didn ' t respond to Mr. Bennett ' s criticism of his leadership , leaving a news conference before he answered questions . Other city officials and community leaders also disputed the idea that the city has failed to respond to the problem . Among the recommendations made by Mr. Bennett  --  which were approved by President Bush , according to his spokesman  --  are plans for :  --  The General Services Administration and the Defense Department to help locate " excess federal land " to build a privately funded , 500-bed pretrial detention center , to be completed within a year. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 700-bed federal prison for the Washington-Baltimore area  --  with help from the Defense Department in finding a site  --  to be completed within two years.  --  The Federal Bureau of Investigation to provide 25 specialists to help the police in the district and surrounding area in their investigations of drug-related murders , chiefly to analyze evidence and provide FBI intelligence . In addition , a special Washington-area task force will receive the services of 57 federal , state and local investigators , including 11 drug enforcement agents.  --  The Department of Housing and Urban Development to ease regulations covering the eviction of drug offenders from public housing projects.  --  Additional federal money to establish three model outpatient drug treatment clinics , for 300 additional patients , by 1990 ; and to increase by 50%  --  to $1. 4 million  --  funds for " drug prevention programs " in district schools . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     