@@668573

The Soviet Union is threatening to break off all nuclear arms control talks with the United States to protest the impending deployment of NATO medium-range missiles in Europe , ranking Western officials disclosed today . In Washington , administration officials said the United States takes the Soviet threat seriously and added there were hints a breakoff in negotiations over medium-range nuclear missiles and strategic weapons could come as early as next week . Without directly confirming the Soviet threat , Larry Speakes , White House spokesman , told reporters that the US government " will do everything in its power to see that the talks continue , and we will strive for some sort of agreement . " The officials in Geneva said the Soviets already have demanded an immediate recess of the Intermediate Nuclear Forces ( INF ) talks . US officials have said the NATO deployment will go ahead unless agreement is reached in those negotiations . Moreover , Soviet negotiators have told their US counterparts that Moscow also intends to indefinitely suspend the Strategic Arms Reduction Talks ( START ) on intercontinental nuclear weapons . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resume the two sets of talks . A ranking Soviet diplomat privately confirmed the disclosure , saying the Kremlin does not believe President Ronald Reagan is serious about arms control . " Indeed , we see little hope of getting any agreement as long as Mr. Reagan is in the White House , " the Soviet diplomat said . Paul H. Nitze , the chief American negotiator at the INF talks , is said to be resisting the Soviet demand to recess the talks . He wants to continue until Dec. 13 and resume in January - after the first deployments . The NATO plan is to begin basing the 572 cruise and Pershing 2 missiles in western Europe in December , barring an agreement on limiting the weapons . Nitze , however , told NATO parliamentarians last week that his proposal was rejected , and Western officials said Moscow demanded a break to the START talks as well . The INF talks began Nov. 30 , 1981 , and the START talks on June 30 , 1982 . Both have remained at near deadlock since the outset . Western analysts said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the missile deployments begin , but they believe the Kremlin will later agree to resuming the talks , perhaps in mid- 1984 . " The Soviets will first want to extract as much propaganda mileage as possible out of the situation and stir up anti-nuclear demonstrations , " one analyst said . Moscow further seems to believe that a long break will lead to the replacement of Edward L. Rowny as chief US START negotiator . The Soviets see Rowny as an obstacle to an agreement . Nitze is convinced the Soviet military is behind the tough stance , officials said . " The Russian generals obviously are now playing a dominant role , " one western diplomat said . Nitze has publicly said he believes NATO has to at least begin deployment of the new missiles to convince the Soviets to negotiate seriously . The first batch of 41 will arrive in the last half of December , with 16 cruise missiles going to both Britain and Italy and 9 Pershing-2 rockets to West Germany , officials said . European peace activists plan massive demonstrations , and the missiles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials said , but all the governments involved have remained committed to the deployments 