@@734530

txt EMPLOYERS ARE not against paying ' unemployment and workmen 's compensation claims to people legitimately entitled to them , says Orville V. Bergren , ' president of the Illinois Manufacturers Association ( IMA ) . ? ? we are , however , trying to cut employer costa by reducing abuses of both programs because they are driving industry away from Chicago and Illinois , " Bergren maintains , " Abuses reduce profitability and Increase costs to manufacturers and con  --  sumers . They make the idea of moving , plants elsewhere attractive to many corn , panies . " So when you get down to ft , ail the 6,000 members of this association want is Two-thirds of the 1978 unemployment compensation recipients in Illinois had not been laid ? off but either had voluntarily quit their jobs or had been fired for cause . a fighting chance to be competitive with industries in other states . " Few of them want to leave Illinois . But many literally have been forced to or face bankruptcy . " BERGREN MADE his remarks M. Towing public disclosure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago in the last five years primarily because of soaring costs for unemployment insurance and workmen 's compensation . The departures cost Chicago an estimated 65,000 jobs . And Bergren fears other companies may follow suit unless Illinois legislators and labor and political leaded act to curb such costs . Last year , Bergren said , Illinois employers paid out 8775 million in unemployment compensation taxes . Benefits totalled 5672 million . In 1978 , the last year for which workmen 's compensation figures are available , Illinois employers paid $733 million in premiums for that program to insurance companies . And it is estimated self-insured employers laid out another $200 million . Such costs , Bergien said , are way out of line with neighboring states actively ' engaged in luring away Chicago companies to more economically favorable environments . It is these staggering costs and the abuses inherent in them that were Cited by Chicago manufacturers as prime reasons for companies quitting the area in an IMA survey to which 348 firms responded . ? IN PRESENTING THE IMA ease for swift action by the state legislature , Ber-. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : ? The problem of determining who is eligible for unemployment payments . 0 . The forcing of employers to subsidize strikes against themselves through payment of unemployment compensation to members of other unions honoring picket lines erected by strikers . " These are the two loose ends of the law and both are costing employers a fortune , " Bergren declared . ' People who voluntarily quit jobs can draw unemployment compensation if they persuade the program 's administrators that . they quit for a compelling personal reason . The law talks about quitting for good cause , but does not define what is a good cause . " Thus , women quitting jobs because their husbands have been transferred out of state can draw from 60 per cent to two-thirds of their pay , tax free , for up to six months , depending on whether they have children . " Even men have drawn benefits by quitting jobs when their wives were transferred . And others collect compensation after quitting because the plant they worked at was in a tough neighborhood or the climate did n't agree with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago ) Introduced a bill last fall to stop such abuses. ? It has bipartisan support . " But union leaders are opposed to it . The fact that unemployment compensation payments are out of kilter does n't bother them . Nor does the fact that employers face this monumental expense as we go into a recession and more unemployment . " Another blatant abuse is provision for paying unemployment benefits to union members honoring picket lines thrown up by other unions . " " Since employers pay the total cost of unemployment compensation , they are , in effect , being forced by law to subsidize strikes against themselves . " Wisconsin , Iowa , and Indiana bar benefits for voluntary " quits , " Bergren said , unless the reason can be attributed to such factors as employer harassment of aworker . But , he said , two-thirds of the 1978 unemployment compensation recipients in Illinois had not been laid off but either had voluntarily quit their jobs or bad been fired for cause . COSTLY ABUSES also prevail In the administration of the Illinois workmen 's compensation law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits for different degrees of physical disability , Bergren asserted . " Thus , of the huge sums paid out annually , 58 per cent are in claims for minor injuries where claimants were off work only briefly , " he explained . " That compares with 15 per cent in most other states . " Because there are no guidelines , every case is litigated . And that brings in the lawyers and doctors who make fabulous livings out of specializing in such cases . " They invariably appear before politically-appointed hearing officers with no particular expertise at the Illinois Industrial Commission . And the employers pay an incredible price for having a state legislature that has yet to correct such abuses . "                     