@@735028

txt IT IS NO COINCIDENCE that our cities under the greatest strain are tied to our industries in most severe difficulty . An arc of Industrial and social crisis extends today from Baltimore to St. Louis . Existing trends are likely to exacerbate rather than at- tenuate this situation with the result that another decade like the last one will divide the country into " have " and " have-not " regions with unpredictable , but probably highly unpleasant , consequences . As taxpayers leave older urban centers , the remaining tax base collapses , requiring higher taxes that provide lower services to a population unable to pay the former and increasingly in need of the latter . It is a recipe for social strife . At the same time , our bellwether industries , the Industrial locomotive that drove this country for the last century , are in the throes of a similar self-eviscerating cycle . Harshly affected by foreign competition , unable to raise the vast amounts of capital needed to modernize , they live from hand to mouth , not investing in the future in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to blame does not mean , however , that we should throw up our hands and say " let them go , " It means rather that sacrifice can be shared by many to reverse the trend . The United States , today , in its basic industries , needs a second Industrial Revolution . The currently fashionable notion of " backing the winners instead of the losers " is as facile as it is shallow . The losers today are automotive , steel , glass , rubber , andather basic industries . The thought that this nation can function while writing off its basic industries to foreign competition is nonsense . Nothing is more inhuman than unemployment , nothing is more inflationary than unemployment , coupled with trade adjustment payments on top of benefits on top of welfare . Nothing will do more to erode the confidence of our allies , and consequently our defense posture throughout the world , than the picture of a nonfunctioning economy and an industrial base in disarray with its consequent impact on national defense . . What we have to do is to turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make them competitive , and use whatever U.S. government involvement is necessary to do the job . This country'a goal must be twofold : ? To have a functioning economy , with stable growth and emphasis on the creation of private sector jobs ; ? To have all elements of our society , and all regions of the country , participate in that growth as fully as possible . The United States is challenged not only by foreign competition in its basic industries ; it also depends on highly unstable countries not only for its basic energy supply , but also for the strength or weakness of the dollar . We are simultaneously challenged by internal shifts in national wealth , partly as a result of oil and gas price decontrol , which will threaten our social and economic stability as a nation if allowed to continue unchecked . From 1980 to 1090 , decontrol of oil and gas prices will generate about $120 billion for the energy-producing regions of this country . This is a tax which will be paid by the consuming regions of the Northeast and the Midwest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same time , a program of heavily supply-skied tax cuts is bound to accelerate the trend of manufacturing businesses away from those parts of the country . FEDERAL BUDGETARY CUTBACKS will heavily affect , the Northeast and Midwest while in the Sunbelt , they will be more than made up by increases in revenues resulting from energy pricing as well as sharp increases in defense spending . Local taxes in that area can be reduced , services maintained , and all kinds of incentives provided for industry . The drain of businesses and taxpayers away from the Northeast and Midwest will obviously increase wills inevitable results on the regional tax base . We will then be faced with city after city less and less able to support a larger and larger proportion of their population in need of public assistance . The industries which formerly provided employment and support will continue in decline ; those taxpayers able to leave will migrate to the Sunbelt , leaving behind a growing mass of unemployed or unemployable unable to move or afraid to try . There has been much talk recently about reltidustrializaEon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bailing out the large and inefficient ( also known as Lemon Socialism to its detractors ) , the latter a policy of deliberately picking the winners and providing government support for their accelerated development . It is counterproductive , other than by additional tax benefits in the area of research and development , to attempt to have government " pick the winners . " First of all , goyFelix G. Rohatyn is a New York investment banker . Ass ' chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation , he helpetli rescue New York City from bankruptcy . ? ernment is clearly intellectually incapable of doing so , and secondly , the winners do very nicely , thank you , without government assists . IBM , Hewlett-Packard , Tektronix , Intel have been spectacular successes in the 1950s , ' 60s and ' 701 and there is no need for the government to try and identify their counterparts for the ' Ns and ' 905 . They will emerge by themselves . ' It is equally counterproductive for government to bail out large , inefficent or uncompetitive organizations if the only result is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a menace to their healthier competitors and to themselves . A case in point is the so-called rescue of Chrysler which IS ? probably doomed to failure , at a heavy cost to the taxpayer , ' because the remedy was inappropriate to the disease . WHAT TIES COUNTRY needs is an industrial policy committed to the restructuring of its basic industries to enable them to take their place as healthy competitors on the world markets together with a regional policy whose aim will be to maintain the U.S. as a country in which all geographical areas ( and thereby all classes and races ) share the burdens as well as the benefits this country has to offer . A Reconstruction Finance Corporation for the 1080s should be created for that purpose . To the Immediate outcry against revival of the New Deal , ? I would point out that the original RFC was created by Herbert Hoover in 1918 and that a Texan named Jesse Jones ran it under FDR . In addition to saving numerous banks , some cities , many businesses , and financing synthetic rubber development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and new aluminum capacity during the Korean War , . it made money for the taxpayer and prevented much larger dislocations during the Depression . To cries of interference with the free market system , I would point out that , at present , the price of Or energy sis ' not freely set , the price of our food is not freely set , the price ? at which we borrow money is not freely set . Although free .. markets are clearly desirable , the fact of the matter is that we do not live in a free market economy and never will . We live in a mixed economy in which prices and capital are subject to government influences and will continue to be . Conservatives will find that they can not be partially virginal as . far as the free market is concerned . As long as ? the so-called voluntary automobile export restraint is asked of the Japanese , we should go all the way , and require wage restraints from the United Auto Workers and price restraint from management . Liberals , on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ treat government spending as if it were their own money , because it is . Balanced-budget liberalism will come into being , or liberalism will die . THE RFC should provide the kind of capital our older Industries sorely lack : equity capital . In exchange for providing that capital , and the job security that would come with it , the relevant unions would be asked to make their contributions in the form of wage concessions and work rule changes aimed at productivity . The lenders , banks , and insurance companies might he asked to convert some loans to preferred stock and commit additional capital together with the RFC . Special classes of securities could be created , with appropriate credit ratings and consistent with the " prudent num rule " in which union pension systems could invest . The RFC , like any large equity investor , should have the right to insist on mangement changes and changes in the board of directors if it deems it appropriate . It should not ' become a permanent investor but a revolving fund which steps in when necessary and sells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its job . The RFC could also play the role of catalyst in mergers and reorganizations that may have to take place to rationalize certain industries where overcapacity or other problems may require it . The French government played a ? very active role in the merger of Peugeot and Citroen , the . Japanese government has taken similar actions , and we should follow that example . America will become more realistic soon . It will not do so under the banner of laissez-faire . Neither will it do so under the banner of a prior-day liberalism which has proven itself incapable of coping with our present problems . It will do so under the banner of a mixed economy , geared mostly to free , enterprise , in which an active **25;85;TOOLONG partnership strikes the series of bargains , be It an energy policy , regional policy , or industrial policy , which an advanced Western democracy requires to function . Tills partnership will be as indigenous to our culture and traditions as the Germans and Japanese have geared their own . And it will be competitive . America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ half suburb , half slum . All Americans must share in its benefits as well as assume its burdens . Our defense posture throughout the world , our ability to protect ourselves and our friends , and to deter our enemies , all depend on a stable , solid economic , industrial , and social base at home . Like Siamese twins , our national security and , . our industrial base on the one hand , our social fabric on the other , are tied to one umbilical cord . //                     