@@735555

txt New Jersey 's proposed experiment with " video lottery " machines is getting a bad reception in Atlantic City . The state has decided to install 100 electronic lottery machines in bars and liquor stores for six months starting next spring to try to lure people away from Pac-Man , Donkey Kong and other video arcade games . New Jersey would be the first state to combine video technology and lotterystyle gambling , and officials say the combination could generate revenue of $260 million a year by 1985 . That worries casino officials . " We think it 's going to be devastating for the casino industry , " says Steven Norton , executive vice president of Resorts International Inc .. which operates casinos in Atlantic City and the Bahamas . Mr. Norton says he fears that sophisticated video lottery games could be enticing enough to lure slot-machine players , and slot machines at many Atlantic City casinos account for about half of total revenue and more than 50% of profit . ' Frightening ' Potential " I find the potential impact on casino profitability frightening , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lambert Inc . " The propensity to gamble is correlated with proximity . If you had these lottery machines on every corner , some people would n't go to Atlantic City . " Some state and local officials in New Jersey also have qualms about video lottery games , but their concerns are n't financial . " I think a video lottery machine is illegal and unconstitutional . " declares state Sen. Richard Codey , who has introduced a bill to bar the experiment . " This flies in the face of what the people of New Jersey want . " He notes that New Jersey voters rejected statewide casino gambling in 1974 , then approved it two years later for Atlantic City only . Mr. Codey expects his bill to be voted on by the state senate next month . The state attorney general has given the video lottery experiment the go-ahead . but Albert Porroni , chief counsel to the Legislature , says he believes such a departure from the program of selling lottery tickets requires the consent of state lawmakers . Several New Jersey localities , including Essex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passed resolutions denouncing video lottery games . " It 's not the kind of image we want , " says Essex County Freeholder Jerome Greco . " It could be the first step toward gambling for young people who are so attracted to video games . " New Jersey 's Lottery Commission is waiting for companies to submit bids for a prototype video game . Lottery Director Hazel Gluck says the game might resemble bingo or incorporate the signs of the zodiac in some manner . Another version being discussed would feature the image of an astronaut bouncing about the surface of a planet . The player would make the figure dig holes in search of " buried treasure . " Overreaction Claimed Mrs. Gluck says the casinos are overreacting . " We have n't affected their revenues yet , and our business is booming , " she says . " We 're trying to open up a new marketplace . We want the middle-class , whitecollar person who does n't play the lottery now but who does play video games . " Atlantic City executives say the full impact of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time . State lotteries have tended to copy one another 's games . and Mr. Norton of Resorts International says he believes the New Jersey video lottery test would spread to other financially strapped Eastern states . " There would be no concern in these other states about negatively affecting the casino industry , " he says . " In fact , they would love to stop their citizens from leaving so many tax dollars in Atlantic City . " In New York state however , the attorney general scotched plans last year for video lottery games , pointing out that they are essentially slot machines and that New Yorkers have n't authorized that form of gambling . Impact on Development Some casino-industry observers say they think video lottery games would slow development in Atlantic City . " If the machines become a permanent thing in New Jersey , you 're going to see the cessation of new investments . " says Donald Trump , who is building a $200 million casino-hotel in a joint venture with Holiday Inns Inc. ' s Harrah 's subsidiary . Hilton Hotels Corp .. a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plans for a video lottery . " It does n't seem like a very good idea to us , " says Timothy Applegate , Hilton 's senior vice president and general counsel . " This will mean more competition for a highly taxed and regulated industry . " The only casino skirting the lottery issue seems to be Bally 's Park Place . Its officials decline to comment on the experiment because of a potential conflict of interest with Bally Manufacturing Corp. , its parent company . Bally Manufacturing , a big producer of slot and arcade machines , is expected to bid for the contract to design New Jersey 's experimental video lottery machine .                     