@@668743

Mexican officials reacted angrily Wednesday to comments made by various U.S. officials during a Senate hearing on Mexico calling the comments and the hearing an act of blatant interference in this country ' s internal affairs . A statement issued by the government called the statements made to a Senate Foreign Relations subcommittee during two days of hearings " calumnies " and said that the Secretariat of External Relations , the foreign ministry , would make a formal complaint to the United States about the incident . U.S. officials called as witnesses before the committee charged that Mexico was a nation overcome by corruption and drug-trafficking and that high government officials were protecting criminals involved in the drug trade . " Mexico categorically rejects the accusations and calumnies that were made against our country , " the statement said . It also said that the charges came from " minor " administration officials . Earlier , officials had been angered by State Department comments on the same subjects and by a report issued by the department which said corruption and drug-trafficking were rampant in Mexico . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adviser to President Miguel de la Madrid said about this week ' s State Department comments and a report issued earlier . He was also commenting on published remarks by various U.S. drug and law enforcement officials . The State Department said corruption , lax law enforcement , bad economic times and good growing weather have led to a significant increase in the amount of drugs being smuggled into the United States from and through Mexico . " Mexico may now be the largest single foreign supplier of heroin and marijuana , and increasing amounts of cocaine are transiting Mexico into the United States , " department spokesman Charles Redman said . In response , Mexican officials made available a report prepared by the office of Atty . Gen. Sergio Garcia Ramirez which said this country ' s efforts to eradicate production and jail drug dealers were more successful than ever and suggested that the problem could be dealt with far more quickly if more was done to curb consumption in the United States . The report said that " the principal center of drug use is in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more international cooperation is the only way left to deal with the drug problem . " We have insisted that we are dealing with . . . an international delinquency which ought to be faced and fought worldwide , " Garcia said after the State Department comments were made . Some Mexican officials appeared surprised at such strong U.S. criticism less than a month after the most recent meeting between Garcia and U.S. Atty . Gen. Edwin Meese . After that meeting , Meese said that he was " terribly impressed " by Mexican efforts to combat drug-trafficking . " We are convinced that progress has been made in the course of the last 13 months , " he said . The bulk of Garcia ' s 16-page report dealt with the efforts his office and other branches of the government have made to deal with drug-dealing in and through Mexico , but the first quarter of the document dealt with U.S. consumption patterns . The attorney general ' s office said that , in the first three months of 1986 , Mexican authorities seized 4 , 865 pounds of cocaine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1985 . U.S. officials have said that more than 80 , 500 pounds of cocaine consumed in the United States in 1985 was smuggled through Mexico . They also said that , between October , 1985 , and March , 1986 , 10 , 700 pounds of cocaine were seized by U.S. officials as it was being smuggled into California from Mexico . As proof that the narcotics trade from Mexico was out of control , they said this figure was three times the total amount seized in the last five years . While Garcia ' s report admitted that the vast sums of money involved in drug-dealing had been a source of temptation and corruption among some levels of Mexican society , it said this was true in every country which has a drug problem . " This crime manifestly breeds corruption and violence wherever it appears , " the report said . " It creates just as many problems where it is financed and ' planned ' as where it is cultivated and transported , " it said in what appeared to be a reference to the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Various U.S. officials who deal with Mexico has said they strongly suspect that ranking Mexican officials , including at least three state governors , are actively involved in protecting drug-traffickers . The senior presidential adviser disputed this and suggested the United States should tell Mexico who they think are involved . " If they have the names and evidence , why don ' t they submit them to the president of the republic ( de la Madrid ) instead of just throwing stones ? " the adviser said . The report also said that Mexico had used a large amount of its limited resources to combat the drug problem . It said that in 1986 , 42. 6 percent of the attorney general ' s budget , or about $14 million , would be spent on programs to eradicate crops and find and arrest drug-traffickers . Mexico , which has been undergoing a severe economic crisis since 1982 , faces massive problems this year because of the dramatic decline in world oil prices . " The amount of resources earmarked by Mexico for this undertaking is very high , proportionately higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries with greater economic capacity , " the report said in what appeared to be another comment aimed at the United States . It said that during the last 10 years the United States had provided Mexico with $81. 5 million in financial and material support to help combat drug-trafficking . " There is room here for objective and frank questions , " it concluded . " Do these amounts truly reflect how important the battle against drug- trafficking in Mexico is to the prevention of drug dependency outside Mexico ? "                     