@@734784

txt NEW YORK ? Ten years after creating the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) , Congress is considering a variety of legislative reforms that would greatly reduce the agency 's influence over the workplace . rroposais sucn as an amendment ny Sen. David Boren ( D. , Okla. ) that would exempt so-called safe small businesses from generally scheduled OSHA safety inspections have attracted the support of OSHA 's customary enemies and some of its most powerful friends . Congress 's antiregulatory mood makes it quite possible that a reduced role for OSHA will be written into law in the current session . OSHA needs an overhaul . Its approach to workplace safety must be redirected to focus on results rather ban procedures . Too often a company with a good safety record was penalized because its procedures did n't conform to OSHA 's exacting specifications . Also , the agency must be encouraged to develop a more productive , less antagonistic relationship with business . But any reform measures should also take into account OSHA 's achievements , not just its failures . Otherwise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has made a valuable contribution to the nation 's health . JUST WHAT OSHA has achieved in the last decade is the subject of much disagreement . Statistics tell us little . In fact , opposing spokesmen occasionally cite the same " facts " to support their very different positions . So , lacking reliable statistical evidence , we are forced to evaluate OSHA is neither the failure that its critics claim nor the success that its supporters , had desired . It has , however , helped to make the American workplace a safer environment . OSHA 's performance on the basis of informed opinion and common sense . That approach leads us , I believe , to certain favorable conclusions about the agency . OSHA has made the issue of workplace ' safety a major concern of business . Just by raising the subject , OSHA has motivated companies to examine the risks their workers have faced on the job and to take steps to reduce hazards . Certainly many employers already had effective worker-safety programs in operation before OSHA , but there are a great many more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making the workplace a safer environment would have become a leading priority of business during the 1970s had it not been for the agency . OSHA has helped to reduce the rate of on-the-job injuries suffered by workers . Since 1972 , the agency 's first complete year of operations , the number of injuries , illnesses , and fatalities per 100 employes has decreased from 10.9 to 8.5 in 1978 , the last year for which statistics are available . Obviously , OSHA ca n't take all the credit . Union , trade-association , and insurance company training programs have helped , too . But even so , common sense indicates that the increased awareness of workplace safety that OSHA has stimulated has helped to protect workers . OSHA HAS INCREASED our knowledge of dangers in the workplace by studying the impact of certain substances on the long-term health of workers . The dangers of prolonged exposure to cotton dust , asbestos , and various carcinogens often found in industrial sites were confirmed by OSHA-sponsored research . As a result , many hazardous substances that once posed an invisible threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cost of OSHA has been relatively low . The United States Chamber of Commerce , one of OSHA 's toughest critics , estimates that business has spent some $25 billion . on occupational safety and health in the last 10 years . That sounds like an impressive amount until it 's analyzed . Spread over 10 years , the average annual expenditure would be $2.5 billion in a trillion-dollar-a-year economy . That amounts to about 11 per cent of the estimated $23 billion that workplace accidents cost the United States in the form of lost wages , medical expenses , ' insurance claims , and diminished productivity during 1978 . Spending $2.5 billion to reduce a $23 billion problem does not seem excessive . OSHA HAS ALSO had an Impact on inflation . The soaring costUf health care has been a major contributor to the inflationary spiral . In the last decide , the total national expenditure for medical supplies and services has tripled , to approximately $210 billion in 1979 . This has sent a shock wave through the entire economy . For example , it 's estimated that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Co. adds $130 to the price of every car it makes . The cost of such coverage increasec as the accident rate increases . To the extent that OSHA has helped to prevent accidents , it has thereby served - as a check on inflation . OSHA is neither the failure that ' its critics claim nor the success that its supporters had desired . It has , however , helped to make the American workplace a safer environment . Congress should not deny OSHA the tools it needs to do the job right . John B. Bicker Jr . is chairman and president of The Continental . Corp. , diversified financial services company .                     