@@668724

The potholes and soft shoulders on the road to American Lutheran union have become keenly apparent as a church panel gathers Saturday in Minneapolis to negotiate the roughest and most costly terrain in its path . The Commission for a New Lutheran Church is faced with a decision on the site of a new headquarters for the planned 5. 3-million member denomination , with its " tentative preference " for a Chicago-area location in grave doubt after a study of costs associated with a move to the city . But in addition to daunting economic considerations , there are deep symbolic and " pastoral " image questions complicating the decision . The commission ' s debate on the issue is expected to be charged , and the vote is likely to be close . The anticipated fray over the site selection was ensured earlier this week when a task force report expressed profound concern about the costs of a Chicago move and appeared to propose Minneapolis as a more viable location . The report said that the church ' s annual operating costs would average between $482 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Minneapolis and that " start-up costs " also would be $1. 75 million greater in Chicago . Last fall , the commission voiced its preference for Chicago largely on the ground that the city is a " new " and " neutral " Lutheran location . The merging churches  --  the 2. 9-million member Lutheran Church in America , the 2. 3- million member American Lutheran Church and the 110 , 000 member Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches  --  currently operate central offices and affiliated bureaus in New York , Minneapolis , Philadelphia and St. Louis . Still another consideration for the new church , scheduled to be formally united on Jan. 1 , 1988 , is its vow to recruit ethnic and racial minorities to the fold , targeting a goal of 10 percent minority membership by 1998 . Chicago ' s minority population is 34 percent , according to a spokeswoman for the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. , while Minneapolis ' population is less than 6 percent minority . New church planners have said that the central office will harbor 500 executive and staff workers , with many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acknowledged that while financial factors weigh heavily against Chicago , the city may well have other clear advantages for the new church . " Does location in one city rather than another significantly better express the church ' s concern for the poor ? " the report said . " Does one better express the church ' s commitment to inclusiveness ? Does one offer better opportunity to express the church ' s ecumenical commitment ? " Dr. Charles Anderson , president of the American Lutheran Church ' s Augsburg College in Minneapolis , told the news bureau of the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. that the commission ' s " concern for newness is certainly worth something . But we ' ll have to see if it ' s worth $2 million a year . We have to start balancing that off against the mission of the church . " On the other hand , Dr. William Lesher , president of the Lutheran Church in America ' s Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago , said that it would represent a " missed opportunity for the church not to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I think everyone was aware that Minneapolis is cheaper . If the choice were based on expense , there would be no reason to have a site selection committee . We could have had a finance committee . " Lutheran insiders are unwilling to speculate publicly on the action they expect the 70 member commission to take , with one contending that it is a " Scandinavian trait to err on the side of caution and the least expensive option . " The commission , which is meeting through Wednesday at the Lutheran Brotherhood Building in Minneapolis , also is expected to choose a name for the new church . All of its decisions , however , must be ratified by separate conventions of the three uniting denominations , which will convene in the Lutheran-rich Midwest late this summer.                     