@@670214

MAZATLAN , Mexico  --  In the darkest hours of the country ' s six-year economic crisis , a rural working-class neighborhood prepares for a visit from the ruling party ' s presidential candidate , Carlos Salinas de Gortari . One resident has whitewashed his front door , which only a frayed rope keeps from falling off the house . Along a dirt road , greenery springs from rusty tin cans . At the house the candidate will visit , folding chairs have been set on the patio and a curtain hung over a weather-beaten wall . But when Mr. Salinas arrives , surrounded by backers and reporters , it becomes clear that his hosts also have prepared some tough questions . A woman in a shawl grabs a campaign microphone : What , she asks , will the government do to stop the soaring price of meat and beans ? Another woman steps forward : What can be done to stop violence by drug traffickers ? Asks another : Can the government do anything to prevent the next generation from emigrating to the U.S. ? Dressed casually in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions . But his interrogators don ' t need encouragement . Their concerns and frustrations pour out . " We live on the margin , but we can make you president , " says a woman , her voice cracking . " Don ' t forget us . " The unusually candid exchange between Mexican peasants and a Mexican presidential candidate reflects the unusual challenges facing the ruling Partido Revolucionario Institucional , or PRI , heading into this July ' s presidential election . In the more than five decades that it has dominated Mexican political life , the PRI has never lost a presidential election  --  and no one thinks Mr. Salinas stands a serious chance of being the first . No other party comes close to matching the PRI ' s organization , resources and  --  if need be  --  its capacity to manipulate the vote count . But the days when the PRI could coast to victory with minimal effort are clearly over . The deteriorating economy has left the PRI weaker than at any time in its history , while the opposition , on the right and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The election has a unique characteristic in that the PRI hasn ' t faced two opponents as charismatic , appealing and dynamic as now , " says Roderic Ai Camp , a Mexico scholar and professor at Central College in Pella , Iowa . The conservative Partido Accion Nacional , or PAN , has nominated Manuel Clouthier , a burly farm-owner whose oratorical skills should appeal to the independent-minded people in the PAN ' s base in northern Mexico . On the left is Cuauhtemoc Cardenas , a former governor and the son of one of Mexico ' s most-beloved presidents , who should do well among peasants and urban poor . Perhaps even more threatening to the PRI than the opposition is voter apathy , which has soared in recent state elections . Presidential elections in Mexico serve not so much to select a leader as to confer legitimacy on the one party ' s choice . A poor election turnout in July would seriously diminish Mr. Salinas ' s capacity to govern . To see that the PRI not only wins , but does so decisively , Mr. Salinas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Let Mexico talk . " He has made greater use of radio and television than any of his predecessors , appearing on call-in programs that give the audience an opportunity to voice their concerns directly to him . And in a campaign style more typical of the U.S. than Mexico , he has met with voters everywhere from the cardboard huts of the northern border to the sprawling subway of the capital . But Mr. Salinas began his campaign just as the economic policy he designed when he was budget minister was crumbling all around him . The government last month was forced to sharply devalue the peso and begin painful austerity to counter triple-digit inflation . " The campaigns have always been occasions when it ' s allowable , even desirable , for people to blow off steam , " says Jorge G. Castaneda , a political scientist at Mexico ' s National Autonomous University . " But with the economic situation , the people are angrier than they ' ve ever been . " Thus , when the candidate recently visited a working-class neighborhood in the capital , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ display of disrespect for a Mexican leader . His difficulties also reflect the flip side of the economic program that has made Mexico the current favorite of Western creditors . As a reward for following a creditor-supported policy of economic austerity , Mexico was recently made the first debtor nation to be allowed to participate in an innovative , U.S.-backed debt-relief plan . But most Mexicans hold the same austerity policies , and the officials who administer them , responsible for the deepening crisis . Clearly concerned about the political impact of the economic crisis on Mr. Salinas , President Miguel de la Madrid on Friday sought to deflect the blame from the candidate by personally assuming responsibility . " The criticisms , then , should be to the president of the republic and not to the party or its candidate , " Mr. de la Madrid said in a speech to PRI leaders . In recent years , the PRI further alienated voters by resorting to fraud in state elections in the north . That only feeds the political apathy : Voters don ' t see why they should turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Salinas promises that this election will be different . In an October speech that caused a sensation , he pledged clean elections and went further than any other PRI leader in admitting past instances of electoral fraud . " Some parts of the north . . . have been the scenes of victories of the party that have not left the population satisfied , " he said . Many political analysts believe Mr. Salinas is sincere , but they aren ' t sure he can control the vast party apparatus , which is accustomed to winning any way it can . The same time last month Mr. Salinas was knocking on doors in Mazatlan practicing his " modern politics , " newspapers were carrying reports that teachers-union members were coercing students to turn out for PRI rallies for Mr. Salinas . Mr. Salinas has tried to scale down the massive rallies that have traditionally marked PRI campaigns ; the balding and diminutive Mr. Salinas doesn ' t have the sort of presence that can inspire great enthusiasm from the campaign stump . But in small groups , he can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mexico ' s buttondown leaders . When he was heckled by militant teachers in southern Mexico , he won some of them over by holding an impromptu meeting with them . While Mr. Salinas ' s campaign has been difficult , his opponents have problems of their own . Even though the PAN gave the PRI all it could handle in the controversial gubernatorial races in the north , it still hasn ' t shown that it has the agenda or the organization to make it more than a regional party that attracts protest votes . And the left is divided between Mr. Cardenas ' s faction  --  a splinter group from the PRI  --  and the Mexican Socialist Party , which has nominated its own candidate . Weeks of negotiations have failed to bring a merger , and Mr. Cardenas is likely to go it alone . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     