@@668989

A court ruling requiring installation of wheelchair lifts on new buses could cost millions of dollars nationwide as it increases the mobility of some disabled riders while threatening that of others , transit officials said Tuesday . The decision , handed down on Monday by a federal appeals court in Philadelphia , was seen as a landmark victory for handicapped rights activists . It came just one month after Chicago Transit Authority officials and disabled militants here agreed to a compromise on the lift issue after a long and acrimonious legal fight . Under the accord , the CTA will purchase 700 buses with lifts initially and , if certain cost and use goals are met , will buy another 200 . But if the court decision stands , the transit authority ' s entire fleet of about 2 , 300 buses eventually will have to be outfitted with the devices . Lifts cost about $15 , 000 apiece , exclusive of maintenance expenses . Pace , the suburban bus agency , has a fleet of 550 buses , of which only 20 are equipped with lifts . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and officials said Tuesday that the agency was leaning toward purchase of more buses outfitted with the devices even before the court ruling . " I think that anything providing that disabled people have a right to get on buses is wonderful , " said Kathleen Yannias of the Chicago Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights , one of the attorneys who represented disabled activists in their negotiations with the CTA . Others believe that the Chicago authority and public transit agencies nationwide may be forced by the decision to reduce " paratransit " programs that provide door-to-door service for the handicapped . " You have X-amount of money you can spend , and if you put a lift on every bus , are you then going to start paring back on paratransit ? " said Alfred Engelken , deputy executive director of the American Public Transit Association , a Washington-based trade group . Such dial-a-ride service is " very costly , and the Reagan administration knocked out 47 percent of our operating funding over the last eight years . We are scrounging around as it is , " Engelken said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rights groups in the Philadelphia case , said the appeals court ' s decision requires transit authorities to provide dial-a-ride service in addition to lifts on mainline routes . People physically unable to get to bus stops " who need paratransit will ( continue to ) get it , " he asserted . But Cook predicted that dial-a-ride costs will fall as many users abandon paratransit in favor of mainline buses and the frequent service they offer . Although he hailed efforts to make more buses accessible , RTA Executive Director Theodore Weigle Jr. said that new funding sources must be found if there is no reduction in dial-a-ride programs . Otherwise , he said , " we ' re in a heap of trouble . " Besides ordering the U.S. Department of Transportation to require lifts on buses , the appeals court also threw out a department standard under which transit authorities eventually would be required to spend 3 percent of their operating budgets on service for the disabled . The court ruled that the figure was arbitrary and allowed transit agencies to " eviscerate the civil right " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ CTA plans to spend $13 million on its dial-a-ride program , a sum that represents only about 2 percent of the agency ' s budget . CTA officials declined comment on the court ' s decision until they can study it . A spokesman for the Transportation Department said that it is " too early to tell " whether the ruling will be appealed to the Supreme Court . But because of Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner ' s role in the CTA accord when he served as RTA chairman and because President Bush recently said he wants " to bring people with disabilities into the economic mainstream , " Cook said he hopes that the administration " will embrace this decision. "                     