@@734997

txt President Reagan 's news conference declaration that Israel " had reason for concern " in Iraq 's nuclear reactor has increased public pressure in Arab nations for an oil embargo against the U.S. But there have n't been any indications that Arab governments are about to unleash the oil weapon . The pressure appears aimed , in part , at deterring the U.S. from using its veto in the United Nations Security Council to block sanctions against Israel . Iraq and other Arab countries have been pressing for sanctions against Israel as punishment for its surprise air strike on a French-built nuclear reactor near Baghdad on June 7 . At his news conference Tuesday , President Reagan expressed sympathy with Israel 's reasons for the bombing and indicated he may have little taste for further sanctions against the country . Press Comments An official Iraqi spokesman said in Baghdad yesterday that President Reagan 's remarks " reflected America 's firm commitment to the support of Israel . " The state-run Baghdad Radio said the U.S. " has now exposed its real feelings and come out openly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , left-wing and right-wing newspapers criticized President Reagan for what they described as an effort to " justify the Israeli attack on Iraq . " The right-wing Al Anwar commented on Mr. Reagan 's palicy by saying , " he gives words to the Arabs and arms to Israel . " In Jordan , regarded as one of America 's friends in the Middle East , a state-controlled newspaper called on the Arabs to use their oil against the U.S. The U.S. imports about 25 , ' of its oil from Arab countries . Press reports in Beirut and Kuwait claimed this week that Arab oil-producing nations are considering an oil embargo if the U.S. vetoes sanctions against Israel . Moderating Force However , despite these reports , only LI ? bya 's leader , Col. Muammar Khaddafy , has been urging " collective " use of Arab oil for political purposes . Action by Libya alone would have little effect on world oil supplies because of the current oil surplus . Saudi Arabia , the world 's largest oil ex- porter , whose state-controlled press criticized the U.S. for Its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country has been a moderating force among Arab oil producers , and Is expected to continue that moderation should the question of an oil embargo ever come up for serious discussion . Iraq , which at one time proposed what it called a " selective oil embargo , " is n't any longer talking about it . The proposal was designed to make Arab oil easily accessible to countries that support the Arab position against Israel , and less accessible to those that support the Israeli stand . The Arabs last imposed an oil embargo in October 1973 , in the wake of the Arab-Israeli war . The embargo , which lasted five months , disrupted economies world-wide .                     