@@668673

" The food world today is not all goat cheese and radicchio , contrary to what you read in the newspapers and magazines , " says Steven Mark Weiss . " We are not all yuppies . There ' s a new baby boom now and those babies don ' t want chicken wings and nachos . " Weiss , a very likable Chicagoan and chef who moved to Arizona five years ago to start a restaurant/food consultant firm , is up-front about his comments . He ' s now traveling the country for General Foods , the giant company that brings us such non-yuppie standards as Cool Whip , Jell-O , Maxwell House coffee and many more convenience food products . While breezing through Chicago last week he freely admitted pushing those products , but he insists that real Americans eat that way . Convenience foods are a way of life , especially with both parents working in so many households . People are looking for simple recipes , he says . Sure , they ' re demanding quality and some of the new flavor combinations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . We agree that people want simple recipes , but we ' re not sure about the kind Weiss left with us as he moved on to the next city on his tour : strawberry romanoff tarts made with instant pudding and Cool Whip , a dessert made with any flavor of gelatin and soda pop , pudding sundaes and . . . a pudding pizza !  --   --   --  Speaking of new flavor combinations and yuppies , here ' s a new beverage that ' s sure to knock the paisley socks off any self-respecting North Sider : Corr ' s White Chocolate Soda . The press release that came last week with two samples of soda in gold and purple aluminum cans says the soda is a " sensual taste experience , " akin to combining chocolate with Champagne . We tried it in the test kitchen and found it has a very refreshing flavor with only a hint of sweetness , much like a light cream soda . Definitely an adult soda pop . In a move that also should appeal to cause-minded yuppies , Sharon Corr , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a portion of the profits to support her Listen to Dolphins Project , which conducts research on the language of dolphins . White Chocolate Soda will sell for about $2. 80 a six- pack and should be on shelves by next week at natural food stores and Jewel , Dominick ' s and Treasure Island stores.  --   --   --  A story in the Aug. 8 Food Guide about a winner of the 1985 Chicago Tribune Seafood Recipe Contest neglected to mention the cosponsor , The Chicago Fish House , which provided the prizes , including the 1st place trip to Italy . Italian-style mozzarella made in Dallas and served in Chicago ? If it seems an odd turn of events , talk to Gordon Sinclair , owner of Sinclair ' s in Lake Forest . Sinclair will tell you the cheese made daily by the Mozzarella Co. in Dallas and sent by air to Chicago tastes fresher than the real Italian version that ' s shipped overseas . The Texas cheese recently won a blue ribbon in a specialty cheese contest at the American Cheese Society convention . Sinclair ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with avocado-tarragon dressing , Nicoise olives and watercress . Look for the cheese to pop up soon in other restaurants and cities.  --   --   --  Tired of the old mesquite routine ? Now you can one-up your grilling neighbors by cooking your hamburgers , hot dogs and swordfish over this year ' s fuel : grapevines . Phyllis Meagher , who calls herself an ex-yuppie from Chicago , owns a vineyard in St. James , Mo. , where she grows Concord grapes and just recently began marketing a new product , Vinettes , in Chicago at Gold Standard Liquor , Treasure Island and Marshall Field ' s stores ( $4. 50 per bag , enough for about 10 barbecue sessions ) . When laid over hot coals , the grapevine cuttings lend a sweet , aromatic as well as smoky flavor to foods . CAPTION : PHOTO : Corr ' s white chocolate soda : It looks like Champagne but it tastes like cream soda . Illustration PHOTO <>                     