@@668997

About 200 pro-choice abortion activists marched without incident Sunday morning outside Holy Name Cathedral during a Mother ' s Day mass , capping a weekend of demonstrations on the highly volatile issue . No arrests were made during Sunday ' s rally , in which the demonstrators chanted : " Not the church ! Not the state ! Women must decide their fate ! " Police surrounded the sometimes vehement group , which carried placards with coat hangers and sayings such as " We won ' t go back , " " Fight for women ' s rights " and " Keep abortion legal . " About 15 counterprotesters maintained a vigil nearby , praying aloud and singing hymns . They carried signs reading , " Stop the Killing Now " and " Support the Holy Family . " A little girl , the daughter of an anti-abortion protester , tried to pass out Mother ' s Day flowers to the pro-choice group . Sunday ' s rally was in stark contrast to one Saturday in which nearly 200 anti-abortion activists were arrested outside a Peterson Avenue clinic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we wanted the women ( seeking abortions ) to realize that they are mothers , " said Joseph Scheidler , director of the Pro-Life Action League , a national group based in Chicago . " When they go into the abortion clinics , they ' re mothers , " he said . " When they come out , they ' re mothers who have killed their babies . " But a physician with the pro-choice activists disagreed , saying , " A young woman ' s life counts for something . " I don ' t think it ' s that horrible a thing for a woman to protect her own life by choosing not to bring another life into the world , " said Dr. Reema Sanghvi , a resident at Northwestern Memorial Hospital who marched with pro-choice groups Saturday and Sunday . Chicago-area rallies mirrored recent nationwide demonstrations and came as the U.S. Supreme Court is about to rule on a Missouri abortion case that could overturn the landmark Roe v. Wade decision that made abortion legal . The pro-choice rally outside Holy Name , State and Superior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and included members of such groups as the Emergency Clinic Defense Coalition and the National Coalition of American Nuns . The pro-choice group was joined by a group of men protesting Joseph Cardinal Bernardin ' s stance against condoms , which researchers believe can prevent the spread of AIDS . " We ' re here to honor women ' s lives and the choice that they ' ve made throughout the centuries , " said Sister Donna Quinn , director of Chicago Catholic Women , one of the pro-choice groups at Sunday ' s protest . Communication between the opposing groups was limited to chants yelled back and forth . People attending morning services walked through a pathway that police had cleared between the groups . Some churchgoers stopped to argue with protesters . Most just walked past . The event ended three days of protests and news conferences in which groups on both sides sought to use the Mother ' s Day weekend to spotlight their views . On Saturday , police and pro-choice activists escorted a few patients with appointments at the Park Medical Center , 2814 W. Peterson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Protesters were stationed at more than 25 abortion clinics throughout the city , organizers said . Anti-abortion forces did not force any clinics to close but said they had talked one woman out of the procedure . CAPTION : PHOTO : Tribune photo by George Thompson . Mother ' s Day mass at Holy Name Cathedral became the scene of an abortion demonstration attended by pro-life and pro-choice activists . Illustration PHOTO <>                     