@@668860

The Great Wall of Park Ridge ain ' t so great and it ain ' t no wall . Along Dempster Street , between Potter Road and the Tri-State Tollway on the boundary between Park Ridge and Des Plaines , workers are almost done building a 1 , 000-foot-long , 7-foot-high earthen berm designed to keep floodwaters out of a Park Ridge subdivision soaked by two big floods in the last year and a half . Nice , perhaps , for Park Ridge residents sick of seeing washing machines floating in their basements , but disturbing to Des Plaines residents across the street who view the construction as a great big " nuts-to-you " project that will slosh water meant for Park Ridge over toward their homes and businesses . " The good-neighbor policy is out , " said John Ketchik , who lives in one of the Des Plaines homes closest to the berm . " You ' d think all of us would work together on this , but they ' re just keeping the water out of their town so it will go into ours @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Des Plaines Citizens Flood Protection Organization to fight the construction , call it " The Great Wall " or " The China Wall , " though it is actually more of an extended mound . They are demanding their town take some kind of legal action against Park Ridge , as well build some berms of its own . Des Plaines Ald. Robert Muehlenbeck called it " a spite wall , " but he said Des Plaines can do nothing because Park Ridge has a " perfect right to build on their property . " " The whole thing is absolutely silly , " said Park Ridge Mayor Martin Butler . " The water can only rise to a certain level . Engineering studies show our berm won ' t increase flooding anyplace . " His city engineer , John Utz , said calculations show that the possible berm-related increase in flood depth in parts of Des Plaines would be " insignificant ; something less than half an inch , " and officials with the Illinois Department of Transportation , which checked out the project , said they saw no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed , of most flood-weary Chicago suburbs do not take a lot of comfort from official pronouncements of how safe and dry they are going to be-especially when many are still hauling debris to the curb and paying contractors for re-reconstruction that , should the waters rise again , will become re-re-reconstruction . The Sisters of the Holy Family of Nazareth convent house , behind the Des Plaines Holy Family Health Center across Dempster from the Great Wall of Park Ridge , is still surrounded by sandbags left over from the August flooding . " Absolutely we ' re concerned , " said health center administrator Sister Elizabeth , speaking of the berm . " If , God forbid , the creeks should overflow , who knows what it ' s going to do to us . " Farmers Creek and Prairie Creek , a pair of normally placid brooks that lead into the Des Plaines River , converge behind the health center . During the floods , the creeks have overflowed into surrounding areas with great vigor . " If that berm keeps the water out of Park Ridge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stiernagle , property manager for a firm that manages a five- building office park across from the berm construction . Stiernagle also expressed concern that the presence of a large flood barrier across from her properties will alarm prospective tenants . Like other notable walls before it , the Great Wall of Park Ridge does seem to have a symbolic impact that perhaps overshadows its practical use . Mayor Butler said that the berm may not serve as a seawall against a flood for another 100 years or more , " but , " he added , " we felt we had to do something . " Those on the water side of the berm see in it both evidence of a lack of neighborly empathy from Park Ridge and a bitter reminder of their own present vulnerability . " Our city ' s too cheap to really help us out , " said Paul Nitz , whose family members have been battling the berm since they saw it going up . He is one of many Des Plaines residents who have expressed dissatisfaction with flood preparation and relief efforts in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ side to keep the water from spreading , " said neighbor Rose Chowanec . " It just seems like Des Plaines isn ' t putting in the effort . " In a recent letter addressed to numerous area officials , the Des Plaines Citizens Flood Protection Organization urged a major program of " dredging , widening and berming , " and demanded action " NOW ! " Des Plaines Administrator John Wildenberg said the city is " looking into the question at this time " to prepare a written response to the residents concerned about the Great Wall , but neither he nor City Engineer Bruce Shrake had any further comment . " People have got to get their anger out , " said Ald. Muehlenbeck . " There was water everywhere ; they blamed the city . Now they see this wall , and we can ' t stop it so it ' s our fault . " Personally , " said Muehlenbeck , " I think they ' re building a water trap for themselves over there . " Some of the Mayfield subdivison residents ostensibly protected by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it helps us , " said Evelyn Bergdahl , whose house faces part of the construction . " They tell us it will , but we don ' t know . Who are we supposed to believe ? " " How can they keep water out with a wall ? " asked a skeptical Lucy Stevens , down the street . " It seems incredible . " " I ' m not happy about it , " added Dorothy McKeown , another neighbor . " It gives me claustrophobia . " CAPTION : PHOTO : ( color ) Tribune photo by John Dziekan . Construction continues on a berm along Dempster Street , the dividing line between Park Ridge and Des Plaines . Park Ridge hopes the levee will keep floodwater from ruining more homes , which has happened twice recently . Illustration PHOTO <> 