@@734755

txt TriNinn hv Amin rimarle Prof. John Heinz ( left ) and Sen. Richard Daley meet the press to announce the formation of a Professional Advisory Committee , which will work with Daley lo streamline the Cook County State 's Attorney 's office . Heinz will chair the committee . By Robert Benjamin STATE SEN . Richard M. Daley announced Suiday an 11-member committee to establish guidelines , standards , and programs for his office if he is elected Cook County state 's attorney . Daley , the Democratic candidate for the office , said the group would work with him as a professional advisory committee if he wins the Nov. 4 election . The 11 include Benjamin S. Adamowski , former state 's attorney who ran for mayor against Daley 's father : and Norval Morris , former University of Chicago Law School dean and a member of the Chicago Police Board . Daley said the group would set standards for hiring assistant state 's attorneys : help develop a program of " continuing legal education " for assistants ; set " explicit " standards for conducting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ DALEY SAID " thousands " of victims . witnesses , police officers , and community groups think State 's Atty . Bernard Carey . the Republican whom Daley is challenging , " is not representing them . There is too much plea-bargaining . There are too many continuances . " Committee chairman John Heinz , professor of criminal law at the Northwestern University School of LAW . said the committee will begin work soon . DALEY SAID a Tritium , poll In Sunday 's editions showing him leading . 43 to 39 per cent , showed dissatisfaction with Carey . The poll showed Daley ahead in the city , 53 to 29. and Carey ahead in suburban Cook County , 51 to 30 . Carey said the poll showed " this will he a tight , difficult race , as it always is for a Republican in Cook County , as it always is for me . " In response to Daley 's charges . Carey said he has had a rape investigation specialist since ** said he has vigorously prosecuted arsonists in the past and recently set up a task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beach pollution was in the province of the Illinois attorney general 's office and " it does n't make any sense to duplicate each other 's effort . " Besides Adamowski , state 's attorney in 1956-60 and 1963 GOP mayoral candidate against Mayor Richard J. Daley ; Morris , an advocate of less stringent laws for " victimless " crimes , whom Mayor Byrne named to the Police Board ; and Heinz . past president of a prison watchdog group called the John Howard Association , the committee members are : ? Jane Clark Casey , assistant professor at John Marshall School of Law and former general counsel for the Illinois Education Association . ? Edna S. Epstein , coordinator of the state 's attorney 's sex felonies unit under Carey in 1974-76 . ? Albert F. Hofeld , third vice president of the Illinois State Bar Association and president-to-be 119331 . ? E. Michael Kelly , an attorney and guest lecturer at the University of Notre Dame School of Law and the John Marshall School of Law . ? Ronald Kennedy . professor at the Northwestern University School of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ? Gay-Lloyd loft , past president of the Cook County Bar Association , member of the Illinois Stale Bar Association Board of Governors , and chairman of the association 's Committee on Correctional Facilities . ? William .1 . Martin . who headed the states attorney 's Special Prosecution Court in 1964-66 and was chief prosecutor of murderer Richard F. Speck . Martin is director of the Prosecution and Defense Graduate Program at North-western 's Law School . ? John R. Schmidt , chairman of the Illinois Guardianship and Advocacy Commission , past president of the Chicago Council of Lawyers , chairman of the editorial board of the " Chicago Lawyer . " and member of the steering committee of Project Merit Selection .                     