@@668837

A flash flood Friday turned O ' Hare International Airport into a strange sort of island , accessible only by foot and by air . Thousands of passengers landed there between 9 a. m. and 6 p. m. , only to discover there was no way out . The lone access road , I-190 , was six feet deep in water beneath the Mannheim Road overpass , blocking cabs , cars and buses . The Chicago Transit Authority ' s O ' Hare rapid-transit line , the one form of transportation that usually makes it to the airport when others fail , also was under water at Mannheim , as well as at Addison Street . The CTA ran shuttle buses between the Jefferson Park and Belmont Avenue stops . The line fully reopened shortly after 6 p. m. , and cars and buses began to trickle into O ' Hare a short time later . " I don ' t think the airport has ever been more isolated in its history , " said Rev. John Jamnicky , O ' Hare ' s chaplain . " And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was easier to get to O ' Hare from Los Angeles than from downtown Chicago . The trip from the West Coast took only about 4 hours ; the trip from downtown Chicago took 9 hours , 15 minutes for a Westin Hotel bus . " All the hell I wanted to do was get back to Alabama , " moaned Sam Hardin , of Montgomery , a passenger on the bus . Hundreds of others drove their cars or rode CTA buses and trains as far as River Road , then grabbed their luggage and slogged three miles on foot along empty I-190 to the O ' Hare terminal , climbing an embankment at Mannheim to avoid the flooded underpass . When they looked down they could see the tops of two vans protruding above the water . Many travelers said they made the extraordinary effort to get to the airport because they feared losing their nonrefundable tickets if they didn ' t show up . But by the time they completed the two-hour trudge to the airport , most departing flights had been canceled . " I can ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Naperville , as he watched people carrying their belongings along the highway . " I feel like we ' re all refugees from a prisoner of war camp . " Another walker , Christy Guzy , said she regretted having chosen to fly from O ' Hare rather than Midway Airport , much closer to her home . A spokeswoman for Midway Airlines said the Southwest Side airport was unaffected by flooding but did have some flight delays . Almost as many people were walking out of O ' Hare as in . Leo Rubin of Northbrook , who had flown in from Decatur , hung around for an hour , realized he wasn ' t going to get a cab , changed into his jogging suit and walked to the CTA ' s River Road station . Though planes were able to land at O ' Hare throughout the day , the airlines began canceling , delaying and diverting flights about 8 a. m . Friday . United Airlines , O ' Hare ' s largest carrier with 375 daily flights , quickly instituted its " pre-planned schedule adjustment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 25 percent of its flights . But by mid-afternoon United had canceled almost all its flights , reasoning that it was doing its passengers no service by flying them into an airport virtually cut off from the outside world . In addition , many of its Chicago-based personnel were unable to get to the airport . American Airlines , O ' Hare ' s second-largest carrier with 258 flights a day , encountered similar problems . So many of its employees were absent Friday that it flew in a group in its Ft . Worth headquarters . Airline spokesmen said they hoped to resume normal operations Saturday , depending on weather . Half of O ' Hare ' s passengers use the airport only to make connections between flights , so a problem at O ' Hare usually wreaks havoc around the nation  --  and Friday was no exception . For example , a United flight from Hartford , due to arrive at 9 a. m. , was diverted to Detroit and touched down at O ' Hare at 2 p. m. , only to find itself 26th in line for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally disgorged its passengers . Once they were in the terminal , passengers found they had nowhere to go . The only hotel accessible by foot , the O ' Hare Hilton , had filled all its rooms by late morning . So travelers piled into O ' Hare ' s bars , restaurants and bookstores . Jan Donn , manager of Benjamin ' s Books , said her store had almost doubled its business . " But the bars are doing better , " she said . " As long as the beer doesn ' t run out , everything will be okay . " CAPTION : PHOTO : ( color ) Tribune photo by Anne Cusack . Vehicles are stranded Friday on the Kennedy Expressway at Addison Street while a southbound CTA train on the O ' Hare line stays put on tracks leading to deep water . Illustration PHOTO <>                     