@@668461

Walter Mondale has many reasons to be happy : He led the field in Saturday ' s presidential straw poll at the Massachusetts Democratic state convention . But for one reason above others , he said yesterday , " It had special significance to me . " Even though the party machinery may belong at present to Gov . Michael Dukakis , in national terms this is Kennedy country . " It ' s a Kennedy state , " Mondale said in a phone interview , " I ' ve not had as much personal presence here as in the other 49 . I almost had to re- introduce myself . " Inheriting the support of the Democrats across the country who have voted for Sen. Kennedy in the past is a major objective for whichever Democrat gets nominated next year . " I just felt so good about it , " Mondale said from the Parker House before he left for some fund-raisers in Providence . Some Mondale supporters , like US Rep. James Shannon ( D-Mass. ) , claimed the straw ballot victory in Springfield showed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tensions stemming from Kennedy ' s 1980 challenge of President Carter . Mondale tried to play that down . " Tensions ? I never thought it was so serious . My relationship with Ted is good . We didn ' t work together 20 years for nothing . " Kennedy , like Dukakis and Sen. Paul Tsongas , was neutral Saturday . But the governor said he ' ll decide this fall which Democrat to back and then through his political organization , the most proficient in the state , get into action behind his favorite candidate in next spring ' s primary . The 1984 presidential election is still nearly 20 months away , but Saturday ' s poll results of state convention delegates represented an important early victory for Mondale . The frontrunner had a lot to lose coming into the Springfield affair . His less-than- impressive speech to a Democratic fundraising audience in Boston March 3 had raised questions about his potential with Massachusetts ' rather discriminating Democrats . Three other candidates , Senators Alan Cranston of California , John Glenn of Ohio , and Gary Hart of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mondale had to match that or risk being toppled from the frontrunner ' s slippery perch . Then , the Mondale camp had to contend with the AFL-CIO ' s determination to vote for " jobs " in the straw poll , as part of labor ' s strategy to withhold any labor endorsement till late this year . All things considered , Mondale had much more to lose than to win . With nearly 400 reporters on hand in Springfield , eager to pounce on any sign of faintheartedness or backsliding , Mondale mounted a strong effort . His speech to the delegates was judged by many to be the most successful of all the candidates , in terms of evoking a response from the crowd on hand . While his speech may have appeared strident to television viewers , the red-faced Mondale had to shout from the podium to make himself heard in the vast Springfield Civic Center auditorium , where nearly 5000 people milled around . There was a steady din at floor level . The Mondale camp decided in advance it was not worth antagonizing union leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be voted for in the presidential poll . Early soundings indicated Mondale might have as many as one third of the delegates , but there was a risk attached : a bad speech , or an uninspired effort like the one in Boston , would lower his total . That ' s why there was more pressure on Mondale to deliver a good speech than on any of the others . Some Mondale supporters worried openly beforehand that their man might be too fatigued from the frantic press-the-flesh routine leading up to the speeches , a process which began in earnest the day before . Secretary of State Michael Connolly , who made 150 phone calls last week to delegates on Mondale ' s behalf , emerged from the convention hall basement just before Mondale was to speak . " He ' s been running around , he looks exhausted . Right now they ' ve got him out in the trailer . I hope they ' ve got him with his feet up , resting up for the speech . " Mondale ' s delivery may have been a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his emotional approach surprised even some of his partisans . Mondale ' s conclusion was not spectacular , but neither did it trigger any widespread defections , for as Senators Glenn , Cranston and Hart followed , it became plain that no oratorical bonfires were going to be lit this day . Going into the balloting , the AFL-CIO ' s forces counted on holding about 675 delegates to the " jobs " position , according to labor consultant John Rendon . The Mondale camp was anxious about how many of its delegates would stay through . " We had no idea , " said one of Mondale ' s Washington staff , " but no one believed us . They thought we were playing the expectations game . But we really had no yardstick . " As it turned out , " jobs " finished with 884 votes , 25.6 percent of the total . In addition to labor delegates ordered to ignore the live candidates , that number included some of the teacher ' s union people , some minority delegates , some who favored a particular issue over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A. Businger , a Brookline liberal , who just didn ' t want to choose this early . Brain child of state Sen. Chester Atkins , Democratic state chairman , the straw poll zoomed in political significance after Kennedy dropped out of the race . All the remaining candidates ( Sen. Dale Bumpers of Arkansas dropped out last week ) found themselves putting more time , staff and money in here than all anticipated . For Glenn , this was his first full-scale political operation mounted outside Ohio . While his fourth-place finish may be nothing to brag about , he ran only 54 delegates behind Cranston , out of 3453 voting . Cranston was the darling of the liberals , but the immediate post- convention analysis suggested Gary Hart was hurt more by Cranston ' s showing than was Glenn .                     