@@734902

txt WASHINGTON  --  Before we go any fur'ther with " Rebuilding America , " let 's get one thing straight : President Reagan 's " economic recovery " plan is a fraud . As I 've slit ' before , I 'm an easy con . It was months before I realized that Richard Nixon really was a crook . For weeks I mistook Jimmy Carter 's strange behavior for political cunning instead of the aggravated boobery it was . ? On Feb . Ill , Reagan announced his " economic recovery " plan , with such dazzling theatrics I was half . amazed he did n't jump Into a wheelchair and proclaim , ' ' we have nothing to teal ) but Mall itself ! " Only now have I come to see that his plan Is essentially a bamboozle . It does nothing about inflation . Not only does it not address the wage-price spiral , but Reagan has now junked all the existing White House machinery for restraining wage and price increases . It does n't curb inflationary energy cost increases . In fact , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ boost with his early deregulation . The plan is in dangerous conflict with the Federal Reserve 's policy of clamping down on the supply of money in Circulation . The plan provilles tax incentives to encourage businesses to expand and modernize , but there 'll be on much competition for so few investment dollars that interest rates ( and inflation ) will rise even higher . This scheme does n't even Accomplish its chief stated purpose to reduce inflation by eliminating federal budget deficits . The proposed budget cuts are to be applauded , but even if they are all adopted ( which they wo n't be ) , the federal budget will s ill be bigger and there will still be an it flationary deficit . Worse , Reagan . s throwing great gobs of money into inflation-prone defense spending ? a 10 per cent increase this year and $1.3 trillion for new weapons over the next five years . The only thing . our shrunken arms industry is now pre- ? pared to produce in a hurry is cost overruns . Will Reagan 's plan at least fight off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent , 3-year tax rate cut ( which he wo n't ) , it will be meaningless to middle and lower income taxpayers . They 'll need that money to pay for spiraling Social Security tax Increases ( which Reagan 's plan does not address ) and state and local tax increases necessitated by Reagan 's federal budget cuts ( tax assessments in my conservative Virginia county alone are going up 10 per cent to compensate for Reagan 's education cuts ) . The top 5 per cent income earners will benefit , Mit instead of putting their money into savings ( as Reagan assumes ) , it 's more likely those people will try to beat inflation with highly speculative ventures or by buying up heaps of consumer goods . The Mercedes market will be helped , but not the Chrysler What 's the point , then ? Well , examine some of those budget cuts closely . Observe how the Federal Trade Commis. sion 's budget cut was aimed at eliminating its anti-trust activity defending small business against big business . Note how the $60 million cut in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ oil companies to get away with some $11 billion in price overcharges . Reagan 's " economic recovery " pro- ' gram has one principal beneficiary : the some clique of big businessmen who plucked him from the General Electric sales promotion circuit to make him gov. enter of California and then President . Nearly every action Reagan has taken since assuming office . ? from giving land exploiters and polluters control of environmental protection to blocking the Law of the Sea Treaty on behalf of the likes of Kennecott Copper ? has bone-fitted that group . Doing this as a paid mouthpiece for G.E . is one thing . Doing it as President of the United States , . at the expense of the rest of American society , is another : The word for it is shill.                     