@@735137

txt For several years , reports from Southeast Asia have alleged that poison gas manufactured in the Soviet Union has been used repeatedly against anti-communist soldiers and civilians in Laos . Now the State Department says it has solid evidence that this is so . Perhaps the folks at State read Sterling Seagrave 's new book . With chilling and convincing detail , Mr. Seagrave documents what observers in Southeast Asia have long suspected : Reports by hill-tribe refugees of a deadly " yellow rain " that falls from planes and The Bookshelf " Yellow Rain : A Journey Through the Terror of Chemical Warfare " By Sterling Seagrave kills with excruciating swiftness are n't simply fabrications of a collective primitive imagination . The stories are painfully true . " Yellow Rain : A Journey Through the Terror of Chemical Warfare " ( M. Evans &; Co. , 304 pages , $11.95 ) is the right book at the right time It has its flaws : the anecdotes that open each chapter are often labored ; the author flounders when he argues for the limited buildup of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires a factfinder above all , and in this capacity Mr. Seagrave is first rate . Start with the plight of the Hmong . These tough , Laotian hill tribesmen have paid a stiff price for supporting the U.S. during the Vietnam war . Beginning in mid-1976 , Hmong villages have been doused with airborne agents of unheard of toxicity . Mr. Seagrave had a natural interest in the story . He grew up in Southeast Asia , the son of the legendary " Burma surgeon , " Dr. Gordon Seagrave . Like others , he was stunned when Hmong survivors described what happened after the yellow droplets , accompanied by billowy clouds of red , blue , green or pink gas , rolled over their mountain villages . As one tribesman recalled : " Most of the people were already dead . There was blood coming from their noses and ears , and blisters appeared on their skin . Their skin was turning yellow . All the chickens , dogs and pigs were also dead . The people who were not dead were jerking like fish when you take them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and they died . " The Hmong called it " medicine from the sky . " The combination of symptoms , especially the massive external hemorrhaging , fit no known nerve agent . So Mr. Seagrave set out on a sort of chemical-warfare odyssey , buttonholing experts around the world and visiting sites where gas had been used ( Belgium in World War I , and Yemen during its civil war in the 1960s ) , or where it is likely being used now ( Afghanistan ) . Soon the reader 's head is ringing with the contents of a deadly pharmacopeia : mustard and phosgene , Agent Orange and a gas " that smells like geraniums , " Blue-X and T2 , moldy bread and Hawaiian seaweed . A troublesome Ukrainian emigre gets a fatal whiff of poison mist from a KGB agent in a Munich stairwell . A Bulgarian defector , whose BBC broadcasts were stirring up trouble at home , is fatally pricked by a James Bond-style umbrella while walking near the Thames . What does it all mean ? Says the author : " What we have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variety of Soviet war agents and poisons on human beings , from the Middle East to the Far East , over a period of roughly 15 years . " A long-running chemical-biological Guernica . Mr. Seagrave says this emphasis guarantees that war in Europe would include chemical and biological agents as surely as bazookas . He finds traditionally neutral Sweden and Switzerland best equipped to defend their populations . But at the present state of readiness , the average NATO soldier will still be fumbling with his gas mask when the poison cloud hits . The U.S. does n't escape criticism . Mr. Seagrave points to the massive use of chemical defoliants in Vietnam , and a halfbaked plan to spray LSD on the Viet Cong . Then there was the 1968 announcement by President Nixon when he said the U.S. was banning biological weapons " forever " and limiting chemical research to defensive weapons . Development went on nonetheless , sometimes under the guise of " cancer research , " and the public and press were lulled into a false security . A record of " unrelenting folly combined with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mysterious poison in Laos ? It is , the author says , a biological toxin derived from a type of fungus that attacks moldy grain in the Soviet countryside and , periodically , Soviet peasants . The derived toxin is called T2 . It can be stored at room temperature for years and is absorbable through a victim 's skin . A drop is fatal . Mr. Seagrave says 22 non-classified articles published in Soviet scientific literature deal with how best to synthesize T2 . " Western scientists are unable to come up with any benign reason why Moscow would want to produce such vast quantities of a poison that has no apparent use whatever except to cause people to drown in their own blood . " The non-benign reasons are obvious .                     