@@669954

DENVER  --  Manville Corp. said asbestos-related property damage claims brought against it by government agencies and others probably will exceed $50 billion . The figure was far larger than expected . But the company said the claims are exaggerated because most aren ' t based on the actual property damages incurred . The company called the claims a " totally unreliable estimate " of liability . However , lawyers who filed the claims said many were based on reliable building inspections . The company also disclosed that health-related claims against it have ballooned to $12. 5 billion . The health-related claims were brought by about 6 , 000 individuals who say they contracted diseases from exposure to Manville ' s asbestos products . The property damage claims were filed by about 11 , 000 building owners and homeowners seeking to recover present and future costs of removing asbestos insulation . The claims were brought in bankruptcy court in New York City . As previously reported , Manville filed under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in August 1982 after being flooded with asbestos-related lawsuits . Under Chapter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while it works out a plan to pay some of them . As part of that effort , U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Burton Lifland had set a Jan. 31 deadline for filing property damage claims . He later extended it until March 1 for a few groups . The deadline didn ' t apply to the health-related claims . The claims against Manville , which the company disclosed in its annual report , were brought by about 40 states , as well as hundreds of counties , cities , schools , private building owners and some homeowners . The building and paper products company said it won ' t finish tallying up all of the claims until June 1 . A company spokesman said Manville isn ' t alarmed because it believes lawyers overstated the claims , particularly in asserting punitive damages . In addition , the company contends it won ' t be held liable because it didn ' t produce asbestos products used in many types of building insulation . " We believe we have some firm legal ground to defend ourselves with , " the spokesman said . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for asbestos-removal costs because it once was the nation ' s largest asbestos-products maker . The attorneys didn ' t deny that some claims were overstated , but insisted that many were based on building inspections . Massachusetts , for example , based its $123 million claim against Manville on inspections of 5 , 000 buildings , according to Margaret Zaleski , assistant state attorney general . " I can tell you that in Massachusetts , it wasn ' t guesswork , " she said . Judge Lifland eventually will rule on the validity of the property claims , but he hasn ' t said when he will make his decision . The judge has scant legal precedent to follow ; only a few asbestos-related property damage cases against other former asbestos producers have been litigated so far . One former producer settled a suit by agreeing to pay a South Carolina school district $675 , 000 to remove asbestos insulation . Two other producers , though , recently won a similar case brought by a Tennessee school district . Despite the size of the claims , some attorneys said many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ didn ' t know about the deadline . Earlier this year , some of them unsuccessfully sought an extension on grounds that Manville officials didn ' t properly publicize the deadline . " Only a fraction of the homeowners probably filed here , " said Jan Chatten-Brown , an attorney for the Los Angeles County district attorney ' s office . " I got calls from hundreds of residents after the deadline who said they still wanted to file . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     