@@734779

txt THREE YEARS AGO , American Door Co. of Walkerton , Ind. , was outgrowing its balance sheet , like many small businesses . Plans to triple sales did n't mesh with a limited net worth . Sufficient financing through unsecured bank loans was out of reach . In those days , American Door 's problem would probably not have attracted the attention of the nation 's major money-center banks , such as New York 's Citicorp or Chicago 's Continental Illinois Corp . Things have changed . To meet its needs , American Door borrowed against the collateral of its inventory and receivables through its local bank , First Bank &; Trust Co. of South Bend , which had joined with a commercial finance company , Associates Commercial Corp. , to provide a secured line of credit . Until the ** secured , or " asset-based , " financing was dominated by independent finance companies such u Associates , Walter E. Heller &; Co. , and Cie Financial Corp . Today , asset-based financing  --  which Includes commercial finance , factoring , and leasing ? Is " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of money-center banks , declares John Laurine. marketing vice president at Citicorp Industrial Credit , a secured-lending subsidiary of Citicorp . BIG BANKERS ' interest In what used to be called " nonbank " lending derives from several factors , including : ? The general deterioration of the capital base of United States companies , large and small , which find themselves with debt-to-equity ratios too risky for conventional bank loans . ? The financing demands of corporate mergers and acquisitions , including buyouts of corporate divisions . ? Big Banks ' desires to expand their market reach into many states , despite federal prohibition against interstate bank branching . ? The higher retur-on-asset performance available with secured lending , compared with conventional loans . ? The desire by money-center banks to penetrate the so-called middle market of U.S. business . A RECENT big-bank entry into asset-based lending is Continental Bank . This spring , Continental hired secured-lending specialists Philip M. Lewin and Barry F. Preston from Exchange National Bank to spearhead what will soon become a new subsidiary , Continental Illinois Commercial Corp . Continental 's negotiations to acquire an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .. broke off in March . The secured-lending field is now well populated by money-center banks , bringing smaller banks and finance companies some powerful competition for the hearts and minds of business on Main Street , U.S.A .. George R. Baker , executive vice president for general banking at Continental Bank , said Continental 's growth today is less dependent than it used to be on loan demand from Fortune 500 corporations , many of which have alternative sources of funds such as commercial paper . " We 've moved our sights down to the middle market , " meaning companies with annual sales of $5 milion to $100 million , Baker said . WITH BIG BANKS , little banks , and finance companies all competing for this " middle market " business , it 's a wonder there is n't a major boom instead of a recession . The reason there is n't of course , is that financing does n't produce sales . And secured borrowing , usually arranged on a daily floating rate , is n't cheap , even though the spread between secured borrowing coats and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected . A blended loan , in which a big bank or finance company , participates with a smaller bank in a secured loan . helps keep interest costs down . But the costs of secured borrowing are directly related to the costs of secured lending , which is composed of two major expenses : the cost of money to lend and the cost of sophisticated computer equipment and trained examiners to monitor the loans . Secured loans require a much greater commitment of manpower and technology than unsecured loans to keep track of collateral such as receivables and inventory . The battle for secured loans between big banks and finance companies will be fought in these two areas . Those who can get cheaper funds and better loan monitoring systems will have an edge in bidding for riskier business . " THE TALENTS that we have are the talents for the 1980s , " says Lewin , talking about Continental 's fledgling commercial finance group . " American businesses are opening up their books to the banking system in return for more credit , and the banks are doing much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statements by independent auditors . " We 've got to go back to making the banker a better on-site field examiner lather than somebody who takes the company president out to dinner and talks about old school ties . " Citicorp 's Laurino put it this way : " We 've got to not only monitor the collateral but know its value to start with . " THAT 'S NOT NEWS to the finance companies . " You have to know the value of the assets and the level of the assets , " says Gary Mrazsko , vice president and general manager for Walter E. Heller 's central commercial finance division . " Unless you know those things , you haver* mitigated your risk . Commercial finance rates do n't charge a risk premi. um . It 's an administrative cost . " The search for skilled lending and auditing personnel in asset-based financing has led the National Commercial Finance Conference , the industry trade group , to hire a full-time education director who , in addition to other duties , will try to convince business schools to offer courses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds , witliam Weiant , bank stock analyst for First Boston Corp. , believes major bank holding companies have an inherent advantage over finance companies in getting funds because of their relative lower capital ratio , the ratio of equity to assets . " It 's true banks can borrow more on their capital , " said Russel B. Donahue , executive vice president of Associates Commercial Corp . " But our leverage is more than it was a few years ago , and things are happening in the banking industry to make their money cost more . " Donahue believes the cornerstone of progress in marketing secured loans will be the medium-size bank acting as a loan participant with a major lender . The smaller banks will be the eyes and ears of the nationwide secured lender , and Donahue believes finance companies have the edge in establishing relations with smaller banks . " When I walk into a small bank from Associates , in no way am I competing with that banker , " he says . " But in one way or another , Citicorp is competing with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customer with us , and he 's not sure with Citicorp . " Stephen C. Diamond , who worked for Heller until January and now is senior vice president for asset-based services at Chase Manhattan Bank . says Chase 's strategy " is to work primarily with the correspondent local and regional banks so we can bring something to their table . " WHOEVER IS right . the competition is keen , and any growing business that mattes overtures to secured lenders is certain to get response . A few years ago , Warren Hanson , president of Viking Graphics Corp . in Chicago , undertook secured borrowing to finance the growth of Gallant Greetings Corp , which he had acquired . Sales were up 44 per cent last year , and Hanson said , " There may be one day in a month when I do n't get a call from somebody who wants to sit down and talk about my financing . "                     