@@734683

txt AMERICAN MOTORS Corp . has begun testing third-party arbitration of unresolved customer complaints in the Chicago area market . The test , which ends Aug. 31 , is expected to lead to AMC offering mediation/ arbitration of customer disputes under a nationwide program starting uus tau for the asst model year . It would be the industry 's first nationwide arbitration program . Under the program , if a customer ca n't get a problem or complaint resolved at the dealer or zone office , he could go before a mediation panel . If that failed , the matter would go before a third party for binding arbitration , The mediation and arbitration would be handled through the Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan Chicago . The arbitrator would be a volunteer chosen by the BBB and could be a doctor , lawyer , or teacher . SIMILAR TESTS have been conducted over the last few years by the Big Three automakers  --  General Motors Corp. , Ford Motor Co. , and Chrysler Corp . The AMC program differs in two major areas . First , the Big @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too big for such a program and would be one of the last to be served when and if the Big Three went national with arbitration ; and second , in tests by the other automakers arbitration is binding on the factory , not the customer . " The arbitrator would be empowered to reach a settlement and award damages up to the amount of the value of the defect or repair , " Howard Mosher , AMC Chicago zone manager , explained . " The problem In the past is that when you had a complaint with the manufacturer you took that complaint to the manufacturer you were criticizing . With an arbitrator , we are at arm 's length . " We would expect this program to resolve most of the problems through mediation , before they would even go to arbitration . It encourages the dealer and the customer to work together , because if the problem has to go to arbitration neither the dealer nor the customer is sure who 'll win and who 'll lose . " MOSHER SAID owners of any AMC car , Renault @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He said there is no model year limitation . Complaints can be lodged over alleged factory defects or simply that the dealer has been unable to make the needed repair without the customer returning repeatedly . Mosher refused to say whether AMC would adopt the program nationwide this fall , making it the first automaker to do so . - Our dealer network is nationwide and the 13130 is nationwide , so you ca n't rule out whether the program would go nationwide , " ho said .                     