@@668143

When Gore Vidal was recently asked by an Italian newspaper why he chooses to live in Rome , he had an immediate reply . " The Italians have the greatest tenor , Luciano Pavarotti , the greatest writer , Italo Calvino , and the greatest composer , Luciano Berio . " Assessments of the value of Berio ' s music may vary from Vidal ' s , but no one can deny the unique position his work has occupied for nearly 30 years now : Berio uses every technique of the avant-garde , several of which hehimself created , yet much of his music has earned the kind of popular success the avant-garde almost never enjoys . Partly this results from the composer ' s eclecticism - he is not afraid to roam freely among popular idioms , and much of his music begins in the elements of folk music . Partly it results from the kind of political commitment that appeals to younger audiences , partly in the theatricality of presentation that is an important part of much of Berio ' s work . But most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ music , the imagination and sometimes even the glory in the sheer sound of it . Next Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Symphony Hall , the Cleveland Orchestra , the Cologne Radio Chorus , and the BU Celebrity Series collaborate on an almost- unheard of venture for a touring orchestra , a full concert devoted to one contemporary work , " Coro , " a piece for voices and instruments that Berio composed in 1975-1976 . Recently the composer passed through Boston on his way to rehearsals for the Cleveland premiere of " Coro , " and he stopped long enough to have dinner and to talk about " Coro , " about his long association with Lorin Maazel , music director of the Cleveland Orchestra , whom he first met when they were both students at the Berkshire Music Center , and about music and musicians in general - this is a mind that thinks in music , and somebody is less likely to be called an " executive assistant " than a " Leporello . " " Coro " is another manifestation of Berio ' s career-long fascination with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 17th century music was written for open instrumental possibilities ; a Monteverdi score is not a prescription for how something must be played , but a diary of how it was . In later centuries transcription played the role that records play today ; it made music accessible ; it was a kind of musical advertising . I am interested in transcription as an aspect of the creative process - the great transcriptions by Ravel and Schoenberg and Stravinsky are an act of loving , another way of showing the power and the strucure of another piece of music . In Coro ' I am interested not so much in transcribing music , specifically folk music , as in ideas and techniques of folk music , in transposing those ideas and techniques from their original functions into different ones . In one of the sections , for example , a technique of repeated notes , of hocketing among voices , comes from the music of central Africa , where people have the melody as a hidden presence , never sung , behind the rhythmic activity . Overall I think of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which is adapted to my uses from old stones ; the old material has built new shapes and functions . Before it was a farm with pigs , not it is a studio for a composer . " Structurally Coro ' is an hour-long work in 31 contrasting but continuoussections . There are two kinds of texts , folk poetry in several languages about love and work , and an epic text by Pablo Neruda which " puts in perspective that very love and work " with its repeated refrain , " Come and see the blood in the streets . " And there are many kinds of music - a " chorus of voices and instruments but also a chorus of different techniques . " The techniques , Berio says , " begin very far away from each other , and gradually they come together . " But it is not a simple path . This bringing together of dimensions that are assumed to be distant is very important ; it may be the best thing that music can do . " There are 40 singers in " Coro , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ orchestra who plays an instrument of comparable range and with whom he or she sits on a many-platformed stage . " This was for acoustical reasons , " Berio said , before he went on to characteristically political thought , " but I also hoped some listeners would be reminded of the Odessa Steps sequence in Eisenstein ' s Potemkin . ' " There are many levels in Coro , ' and they range from the complex to the very simple . I hope there is something for everybody . "                     