@@670274

ALBUQUERQUE , N.M.  --  The sort of red meat that George Bush is dishing out at a rally of the faithful here  --  assaults against Michael Dukakis ' s support of criminal furloughs and gun control  --  have become the daily diet of the vice president ' s campaign . But while this menu , mixed with attacks portraying Mr. Dukakis as a big taxer and naive on defense , is the staple that delights conservatives and infuriates liberals , Mr. Bush lately has been moving subtly but with increasing speed toward the political middle . In campaign stops of recent days , the Republican presidential candidate has introduced new issues that his own staff classifies as " soft . " Mr. Bush has laid out an education plan that would cost the U.S. an additional $3. 9 billion a year , proposed to spend $100 million to encourage public service by high-school students and pledged to increase funding for space travel and federal prisons , among many other programs . Here in Albuquerque , he emphasizes his commitment to a cleaner environment . Taken together , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fiscal conservatism . And these newer ideas would have a governmental impact , in contrast to his conservative rhetoric , which is more symbol than substance . Moderates are pleased . " When he ' s been specific and when he ' s talking about the future , he has moved toward the center , " says William McKenzie , executive director of the Ripon Society , a group of centrist-to-liberal Republicans . " It ' s really very encouraging . " A few conservatives have started to gripe . " He diminishes the sense of urgency that the anti-liberal majority needs to feel for his candidacy , " says Howard Phillips of the Conservative Caucus . " He ' s making a mistake . " The Bush campaign calculates , however , that conservatives have no place else to go , and James Lake , a senior campaign adviser , says of the new emphasis , " You ' ll be seeing more of that . " According to Bush staffers , the new accent comes from a belief , based on extensive polling , that Mr. Bush has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conservatives . " The first rule of politics is ' secure your base , ' " Mr. Lake says . " Bush did that . " Now the vice president " is working to broaden his base of support to attract all Americans : Republicans , Democrats , independents , " says Mr. Bush ' s chief of staff , Craig Fuller . " It ' s important for him to talk about the softer issues . " To be sure , Mr. Bush continues to mention the conservative buzzwords ; his television commercials stress them . He also relishes slashing at his Democratic opponent as " liberal governor of Massachusetts , " and that seems to placate the conservative rank and file . But this lock on conservative votes has given Mr. Bush license to break with the orthodoxy of President Reagan . Just last week , for example , he told a group of high-school students in Littleton , Colo . , " I ' m not anti-government "  --  heresy for the Reagan administration . He borrows with impunity from the Democrats ' own cache of new ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or YES to America program , is a small-scale version of " national service , " a plan advanced by such prominent Democrats as Sen. Sam Nunn of Georgia and Rep. Leon Panetta of California , but which Gov . Dukakis hasn ' t embraced . Even on matters of national security , Mr. Bush has moderated . He has waffled on a commitment to a rapid deployment of the Strategic Defense Initiative , or Star Wars , and on the campaign trail rarely mentions that program or aid to the anti-Communist Contras in Nicaragua these days . Mr. Bush tries to portray his emerging proposals as compassionate conservatism , which rely on private-sector initiatives as well as federal intervention . His aides also say that Mr. Bush ' s interest in these ideas has been present in the background of his speeches for a long time but only now is being highlighted . Nonetheless , the proposals do mount up . Last Monday , Mr. Bush welcomed back the astronauts of the space shuttle Discovery , and took the opportunity to embrace several popular  --  and expensive  --  ventures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a manned flight to Mars . On Wednesday , his staff distributed a 32-page briefing paper detailing the many things Mr. Bush would do to spur education . These included a $2. 2 billion refundable child-care tax credit and a host of new government regulations ranging from increased policing of child-support laws to requiring employers to offer flexible work schedules to their workers who have children . Thursday was oil-region day , and Mr. Bush reminded audiences in Texas that he supports a package of tax incentives , valued at about $1 billion a year , to aid the nation ' s 11 , 000 independent oil and gas drillers . He also proposed to increase funding for federal penitentiaries by $250 million a year . On other days , Mr. Bush has said he wants to spend more on the Coast Guard , law enforcement and AIDS research . A plan to encourage the use of corn-based fuel would raise the price of food . He also has promised new tax breaks for low- and middle-income taxpayers and for parents who save for their children ' s college education . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented by Mr. Bush in a moderate tone to match their politics . He tells the audience here in Albuquerque : " I feel it in my heart , about a gentler , kinder nation that recognizes a big part of its strength is its kindness , its generosity . " Even though Mr. Bush headed President Reagan ' s task force on deregulation , many of his campaign proposals would entail more government regulation . Take , for example , his garbage program . Mr. Bush has said his goal is to reduce the nation ' s 160 million tons of garbage a year by 25% in his first term . That feat would require both tax incentives and stringent federal regulations that experts say would cost consumers millions of dollars a year.  --  - John J. Fialka contributed to this article . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     