@@734955

txt The Reagan administration began Its final campaign for congressional approval this week of its budget program by predicting a close , but winning . vote . Treasury Secretary Donald Regan told a news conference that he expected the Democratic-controlled House to adopt the " Reagan-bipartisan " budget bill . That proposal was worked out by Delbert Latta IR ? Ohio ) and Phil Gramm ID .. Texas ) with help from White House Budget Director David Stockman . " We think we will be successful in carrying the Gramm-Latta proposal . " Mr Regan said . " It 's close . " he added . " and every vote will count . " Mr. Regan made the prediction after telling the annual meeting of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce that " the American people want less spending and lower taxes . ' He said the people wo n't be satisfied with what he described as " a magic hat " Democratic . alternative that would result in " more spending and higher taxes . " Mr. Stockman and Vice President George Bush are expected to make the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business association today . And the President plans to address a joint session of Congress tomorrow to urge support for his economic-renewal package . It will be Ins first major public appearance since the assassination attempt March 30 . The budget proposal , for the year beginning Oct 1 . is expected to be the first order of business when Congress returns this week from its Easter recess The White House has thrown its support behind the $695 billion Gramm-Latta budget plan in an effort to block a $715 billion package approved by the Democratic-controlled House Budget Committee before the recess . " We are much stronger with the Congress coming back in than we were before they left . " Mr. Regan said , arguing that the congressmen in their home districts must have heard strong support from voters for the President 's program . That sentiment was echoed by Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige , who was interviewed on ABC-TV 's " Issues and Answers ' ? " This is n't the time to compromise . " he said . " The groundswell of support is there " Meantime . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Face the Nation " that he expects the Senate Budget Committee to approve either tomorrow or Wednesday a budget close to the Reagan administration 's initial proposal . He added that the proposal could face full Senate action before the end of the week . On the subject of Japanese auto imports . both Mr. Regan and Mr. Baldrige said it was still toe early to draw conclusions about reports this weekend that Japanese auto makers remained opposed to curbing their exports voluntarily to help the U.S. auto Industry . " You have to remember that the Japanese are superb negotiators . " Mr. lialdrige said . " Part of any scenario like that is a certain amount of smoke blowing . " The Commerce Secretary noted that the Japanese auto makers must be aware that if they decide against voluntary restraints . Congress could pass mandatory limits and risk setting off an international trade war .                     