@@668503

KARCZEW , Poland - Two years ago , it was the union Rural Solidarity that championed farmers ' rights in this peasant village . Now a " pastoral community " is filling the shoes of the outlawed union . These church-sponsored organizations are sprouting up all over Poland . Religious in nature , they are said by the priests who supervise them to be venues for " spiritual self-awareness . " But behind such lofty phrases lie a combination of Christian work ethics and practical information on how to be a good farmer . Local dioceses invite farmers to lectures and weekend retreats tailored to the interests of the rural work force . Other times members meet informally to thrash out problems in the community - with or without priests present . " It ' s not a political movement , " says Josef Broniszewski , a pastoral community organizer in Karczew , near Warsaw . But he doesn ' t rule out that these groups could eventually take on issues more volatile than scripture and irrigation techniques . " It is possible that out of this movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the countryside needs a political force , " he adds . Broniszewski ' s activism is rooted in outrage over centuries of discrimination against farmers in Poland . In the immediate postWorld War II period , private landowners here fought hard to hold on to their property despite attempts under communist rule to collectivize land . Today , 85 percent of the country ' s food production comes from the 3.5 million private farmers , who own 75 percent of Poland ' s arable land . Though the state has increased how much it will pay farmers for products and crops - procurement prices most recently were raised July 1 - the private farmer is still handicapped , particularly because he receives only around 20 percent of the nation ' s farm subsidies . But under a scheme unprecedented in communist Eastern Europe , Polish private farmers may receive a long-awaited boost . An ambitious aid plan , hatched by Poland ' s Roman Catholic Church and backed by Catholic episcopates in the West , would inject agriculture here with around $6 billion worth ofmachinery and farm supplies , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a $2 billion portion the first year , followed by $1 billion annually for four years , the sources say . The plan was verbally accepted by Poland ' s Communist Party leader , Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski , during a June 6 meeting with Poland ' s primate , Josef Cardinal Glemp . This approval was underscored during talks between Jaruzelski and Pope John Paul II . But this preliminary go-ahead does not mean the program is secure , according to Western diplomats who have been consulted on the plan . It is not yet certain , for example , whether the authorities will allow thefunds to be routed solely to private farms . The authorities may want state farms to have a cut . And it is not known whether the church will be allowed to distribute the aid , which it wants to do . Another obstacle is how to make the scheme legal . The church is proposing that the funds be channeled through a foundation , but Poland has no precedent for creating one . According to sources close to church-state negotiations concerning the plan , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a 1921 decree that is still on the legislative books . The state , for its part , is hinting that it would prefer an executive decree along the lines of that prewar proclamation . The organizers of the pastoral communities say that if the foundation gets off the ground , they hope to have a role in the distribution of goods , which include tractors , seeds , tires , pesticides and fertilizer . " I think that for sure if it comes we will be asked to help on the local level , " says a farm leader near Warsaw . " The danger is that the authorities won ' t allow the pastoral communities to flourish . " I realize this is a threat for the authorities but this is the only way for farmers to unite , " says Broniszewski . He believes that for all its similarities to farmers ' Solidarity , which was suspended with the imposition of martial law Dec. 13 and declared void later inthe year , it has a different approach . " Both want to heal society , to heal farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a topical economic situation and now we are looking to self-awareness . " Nonetheless , local security police are casting a wary eye on meetings of the pastoral communities . In some villages , militia view these groups as strongholds for rural Solidarity activists and see them as hotbeds of dissent . Priests involved with the program express concern that the movement will be crushed , but some lay members say they feel their activities will be allowed to go on because they are affiliated with the church . " If we were involved on our own , we would be picked up and harassed . This is a sort of shelter for us , " says one .                     