@@735541

txt A lame-duck session of Congress is what President Reagan asked for , and a lame-duck session is what he got . It looks like we may survive the session without as much damage as we might have expected . Legislation to restrict auto imports by requiring " domestic content " and to make corporations responsible for policing the immigration laws looks like it will be tabled . And a bill passed by the House to " create " 411,000 non-jobs by adding to the deficit is encountering resistance in the Senate . But neither has progress been made on the issues for which the session was called in the first place : Social Security and appropriations for 1983 . It looks as though the only thing to come out of the session will be the five-cent gasoline tax , which the administration claims will be used to repair " infrastructure " and which the Democrats claim will create more jobs , but which will in fact do little of either . That 's bad enough , but the real tragedy of the lame-duck session is how Ronald @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the high ground he held during his early months in office . A case can be made , for example , for , increasing the gas tax and using the proceeds for rebuilding highways and bridges . That 's a legitimate function of government , though we tend to believe it 's a function better suited to state and local government . But clearly the motivation for this particular initiative by the Reagan administration was the fear of being seen to do nothing in the midst of deep recession . And the sad part is that this was the best the Reagan administration could think of . What the nickel gas tax tells us is that the administration has lost its bearings . To cope with recession , it turns to a tax increase  --  not a bad tax to increase , perhaps , but a tax increase nonetheless . It also turns to federal spending . And it does so in a way that fools almost nobody , since it takes no particular wit to imagine who really benefits from such spending and to know that the spending wo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Just how venal the whole business is came home to us when we were watching Sen. Howard Metzenbaum  --  who is forever preaching about the evil special interests ? trying to insert a provision in the gas tax requiring the road-builders to " buy American . " Doubtless the con- crete and steel rod companies were cheering . And though the administration may have forestalled more grandiose spending schemes , that 's likely to be a victory of the moment . Longer term , Mr. Reagan has signaled once again , as he did in last summer 's $99 billion tax increase debacle , that he 's willing to play Congress 's game . The stage has already been set , in Congress and by many around the president , for even bigger assaults on the taxpayer . Once more we hear the balance-thebudget ( meaning soak-the-taxpayer ) drums beating . Scary figures are issued almost daily about the size of the forthcoming deficit . Last summer 's gigantic tax increase apparently having failed to correct the problem , we are being told we must dig ourselves even deeper into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year 's scheduled income tax cut has only just begun . Why President Reagan called a lame-duck session in the first place will no doubt puzzle future historians . A good conservative , it would seem to us , would have been suspicious of having the legislature in session one more day than absolutely necessary . Legislators like to legislate , after all . And the administration was n't really prepared itself to go to the mat on such big issues as MX and Social Security . It 's also clear Mr. Reagan had no clear idea what he wanted to do about the economic situation . Instead he went crusading for nickel-ante stuff like the gas tax . So unless the Democrats badly overplay their hand in the final days of this lame-duck session and add too many egregious bells and whistles to the gas tax bill , Mr. Reagan will be stuck with it . A small band of congressional conservatives have been trying to mount a filibuster against the measure , but it 's doubtful they can hold out for long . They have already been voted down @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sacrifice to the congressional taxers and spenders , he will be pressured to make more . He will find it difficult to resist unless he returns to first principles : You ca n't tax yourself out of recession and into budget balance , and you ca n't create economic growth by taking money from the private sector and giving it to Washington to spend . Mr. Reagan still has a foothold on this high ground , but with many more episodes like this lame-duck session he will find himself a lame-duck president .                     