@@668717

Confident that they ' ve wrung out just about all the savings they can from the structure of the home itself , the country ' s top residential designers are now turning their attention to land planning . Some see land planning as the next plateau for trimming the cost of housing still further . Others view it as a way to hold costs steady while they return to houses some of the design elements they ' ve remove to pare expenses . Either way , the trend is toward small-lot detached housing , perhaps as many as eight or nine single-family houses to the acre , or roughly the same density as a typical town-house development just a few years ago . The reason is simply economic . While the cost of labor and materials has fallen over the last few years as a percentage of total cost , the cost of buying land and developing it has increased dramatically . In the next few years , home buyers can expect to see more and more innovative plans for sites as builders move even further away from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one after the other . " Small-lot , high-density single-family detached housing is now an accepted , permanent and very exciting part of our housing vocabulary , " said Walter Richardson of Richardson-Nagy-Martin , a nationally recognized architectural and planning firm based in Newport Beach , Calif . The innovations in small-lot planning should come fast and furious . Right now , the best minds in the business are touting the " double-zero Z-lot " concept , a variation of the zero-lot line concept Richardson ' s firm helped pioneer more than 15 years ago . Under the zero-lot-line concept , the house is placed up against the side lot line . This creates one usable side yard in place of two unusable side yards , but it also presents several design problems . Since the wall of the house that is on the lot line has to be windowless for the sake of privacy , for example , zero-lot-line houses tend to have dark , dank interiors . Moreover , if the house has a side entry , much of the usable  --  but still narrow  --  side yard is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it has a garage , the view from the street is dominated by a driveway leading to big , ugly doors . Under the double-zero Z-lot approach , there is one or more jogs in the shape of the lot  --  thus the term Z-lot  --  and the house is designed so it touches both side lot lines  --  hence , double zero . In a simple variation of this idea , one in which the lot would shift over several feet about halfway back , the house has two side yards on alternating sides of the site . At the street , the side yard is on the same side as the entry , which would be designed as a private courtyard . From there back , the side yard would be on the opposite side , where it combines with the rear yard . In a more complicated version of the concept , the lot would be turned on an angle instead of going straight back and shift at several points , creating a Z or even a sawtooth effect . " Properly done in any of its endless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concept " can produce dwelling units and lifestyles with the great appeal to the entire spectrum of the marketplace . " " We ' re billing it as the state of the art in land planning , " said architect Donald Evans , who heads the highly regarded Evans Group of Orlando . " A year from now , it will probably be the most popular planning concept going . " The benefits of this latest innovation in land planning are many , according to these two architects as well as other top designers and land planners . For starters , it permits the placement of glass on all four sides of the house . This not only promotes more natural light , but also creates long , diagonal views through the house from the front door to the backyard and beyond , strengthening the highly desirable indoor/outdoor relationship . In layman ' s terms , it opens up the house and makes it feel much larger than it really is . " Bang , " said Evans , " it opens up from the front door and you can see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than 70 feet to 75 feet that you own . " The concept also allows for greater use of smaller lots , especially at the front curb , Richardson says . " It helps create a lively and varied street scene instead of a monotonous streetscape of garage doors that fosters an attached rather than detached look to the project . " Evans , too , likes the idea of getting away from the regimented row-house look , especially in that it allows him to start practicing his trade once again . " By slanting the house on an angle , you can ' t tell how big it is , " he said . " So even if it ' s only 30 feet wide , I still have 60 feet to 75 feet of architecture to work with across the width of the lot and I ' m no longer doing garage-door architecture. "                     