@@734686

txt LAST MONTH , a few days before the national pro-ERA march in Chicago , reporters were called frequently by supporters of the amendment . The callers wanted news coverage for their side of the fieht . That would have been fine  --  normal , in fact , under the circumstances . Except in many instances the callers were n't sure what they were talking about . They would offer personalities for interviews  --  and then would say they were n't sure when  --  or if  --  they would arrive in Chicago . They suggested that hundreds of thousands of individuals were expected at the march  --  only to back off moments later , confessing that no one really knew how many would show up . Then they would plead for advance stories about the event  --  but the press releases that contained the details would n't arrive for another three days . Some reporters were so frustrated they felt sometimes that they never wanted to hear any more about the Equal Rights Amendment . But if a news reporter called the Other Side  --  namely anti-ERA guru @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the two group 's stands . The facts , or what Mrs. Schlatly presents as facts , were always immediately at hand : Information was put in the next mail , schedules were followed ; promises kept . These women , most of whom insist they are simple housewives , appear to be savvy political operatives . They know what they are doing and they are maddeningly certain of their beliefs and ultimate success . Some national conserveThese women , most of whom insist they are simple housewives , appear to be savvy political operatives . They know what they are doing and they are maddeningly certain of their beliefs and ultimate success . Live political organizers suggest that the anti-ERA forces will eventually form the nucleus of a grassroots conservative movement that is building across the nation . AND LAST week , for the second time in a month , the Equal Rights Amendment was defeated in Illinois . Technically , the amendment was n't defeated the first time ; the sponsors called off a scheduled House ratification vote after a nose count determined they were two votes short . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago woman , a NOW volunteer , was indicted by the Sangamon County grand jury for attempting to bribe a legislator opposed to ERA to secure a favorable vote . The woman has said she is not guilty and NOW officials deny the charges . But observers say that if such a thing could happen at all , it just points up how disorganized some pro-ERA forces are in this state . It 's important to note that the same is n't true of all ERA workers here and especially of the national organization . One can always get a straight answer from the Washington headquarters . In Springfield during this last go-round , when everyone from Gov . Thompson on down was certain the ERA would pass , organizers from Washington ran the show . " It was as if they did n't trust their own local staff people , " one reporter noted . Schlatly does n't seem to have that problem . ffer people always seem to be where she wants them and doing what she expects of them . And what she expects may range from handing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or working door-to-door to elect anti-ERA candidates . The anti-ERA forces all dressed in red . " I really think I have more power right here with this organization than I would as a senator , " Mrs. Schlatly said last fall . Her track record is admittedly good . The amendment was defeated in nine states last year and the pro-ERA forces remain three states short of the 38 needed for ratification . They must have their support by Jane , 1982 , or the amendment will die . Some 995,000 of NOW 's ERA budget  --  one-fourth of the total  --  was pumped into this state with great hope that at least Illinois , the largest industrial state yet to ratify , would do so . BUT OBVIOUSLY the tactics did n't work . The green-clad ERA supporters who had packed the House gallery on the day of the last vote left crying . " We 're not the kind of people who fold up our tents and go away , " said Eleanor Smeal , national president of NOW . " We dig in . We will have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been doing just that . They would almost disappear between votes and skirmishes with the other side . There never seemed to be consistent , on-going organization that kept working . Mrs. Schlatly , though , is always there . And she has been there for more than a decade . She has been writing conserve ; tive tracts , organizing her forces , speaking out on her favorite issues , which range from ERA to nuclear arms to opposition to legalized abortion . She uses her facts like a baker uses flour . Maybe the pro-ERA people would do bolter to follow Mrs. Schlatly 's recipe .                     