@@734987

txt LIFE 'S IRONIES sometimes are overwhelming . Three weeks ago , I spent 30 minutes chatting with Jim Riordan about the millions of handguns saturating our society . We were standing together m a nanway outside of a dinner honoring Timothy McCarthy ; the young Secret Service agent who had been wounded last March while shielding President Reagan with his own body . A cocktail party preceding the affair was under way . Because both of us were participants in the program ? I as master of ceremonies and Riordan as the ranking Chicago Police Department representative ? neither of us wanted a drink . So we talked . We talked about police work . We talked about the growing penchant for violence in urban areas . Especially , we talked about handguns and their growing availability . IT WAS THE same kind of conversation I find myself having more and more with police officer friends as the handgun homicide rate escalates and firearms become more deeply ingrained in the Amer-lean lifestyle . Jim Riordan did n't have any answers that evening . Neither did I. But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was going to have to mister enough guts to somehow get a start on purging this supposedly civilized society of its weapons of death . I guess the reason Jim Riordan and I got to talking about guns was the event we were attending . Friends of Agent McCarthy 's father , Police Sgt. Norman McCarthy , had gathered to show their affection and respect for one of their own , a Chicago born and bred Americanof Irish descent . IT WAS THE warmest and most loving affair I ever have attended . Everyone was so glad that young McCarthy had survived . And the agent repaid their affection with tears . As I started the program , someone informed me that Jim Riordan had been summoned to City Hall by Mayor Byrne in his role as Chicago 's first deputy police superintendent . An emergency meeting on the city 's transit crisis was being held . So the program went on without Jim Riordan there to present Agent McCarthy with a plaque . And that was the last time I saw Jim Riordan alive . Less than three weeks later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to stem the flow of blood from three grievous wounds inflicted by a handgun , a Walther .380 automatic allegedly held by a former Davenport , la. , policeman . I ALMOST CRIED when I heard the news late last Saturday night . The irony of my last conversation with Jim Riordan washed over me like a searing flame . Riordan , a 33-year veteran of police work , had spoken with sympathy and understanding of how tough a young cop 's job is today . He knew because he had led them through some of the roughest times while holding various command posts in the patrol division . That is the outfit that really fights crime , the front line shock troops in blue for whom every moment holds the potential for violence and death . Like every other copper , Jim Riordan was on duty 24 hours a day . If something happened in his presence , he knew thathe would have to react , that he could not take a walk like any other citizen because it was his sworn duty . OBVIOUSLY , THAT Is what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Side restaurant when a disturbance erupted at the bar and he did what he was trained to do : intervene , attempt to quell the problem , and make certain that no one else 's life was endangered . He walked the alleged killer out into the hall . Three shots rang out . And Jim Riordan fell mortally wounded . Clearly , Riordan had no reason to suspect that the accused assailant was dangerous . And just as clearly , Jim Riordan was on the spot . He was a public figure , presumably known in the restaurant as a police officer . He had to act . But because he was a prominent police official , his actions probably also were inhibited by the same frustrations that have cost other police officers their lives ? concern over being accused of using excessive force . So he walked the guy out of the restaurant with an arm around ? a shoulder . He did n't get a hold on him , slam him up against a wall , and frisk him . He did n't handcuff him and call for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courageous man , a tough physical man , a guy accustomed to taking care of himself . He was a natural born leader and a cop 365 days a year . I 'm glad that Chicago has many police officers like Jim Riordan. proud that I knew him . I am sorry that Chicago lost him in the prime of his professionalism . And I shall never forget his last words to me . Nor shall I stop speaking out against handguns . That will be my monument to James Riordan , a cop .                     