@@668253

Last week ' s issue of L ' Express explored the reasons why France ' s new president , Francois Mitterrand , has appointed four Communists to serve as Cabinet minister in his Socialist government . The conservative , anti-Communist newsweekly described Mitterrand ' s decision as a " gamble " likely to induce apprehension abroad , particularly among Saudi investors and American policy- makers . With obligatory nationalistic pride , L ' Express noted that " French policy must not be made in Riyadh or Washington . " Yet , though " the French republic is free in its actions , " the magazine cautioned that France " must measure and pay the price of those actions . " Despite its editorial opposition to Mitterrand ' s candidacy , L ' Express acknowledged that " it would be an insult to Francois Mitterrand to suppose that he had not made this calculation : Certain minsters worried about the arrival of the Communists ( in the government ) helped him to do so . " Recalling the " mastery and the finesse " Mitterrand displayed in his long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new president had quite solid reasons for making the political choice he did . L ' Express indicated that , for Mitterrand , domestic considerations outweighed the cost of American and Saudi anxieties . With his presidential power assured for a seven-year term , with an absolute Socialist majority in Parliament for five years , and with the Communists and their powerful trade union harnessed to his cart , at least for awhile , " Francois Mitterrand , " L ' Express explained , " has his hands free to pour France into the mold of the Socialist reforms . " The weekly ' s account of the negotiations that brought Communists into the Mitterrand government emphasized the confidence of the Socialists and the current dependence of the Communists . According to L ' Express , Communist leader Georges Marchais , when confronted with the Socialist demands , exclaimed bitterly : " The only thing missing is a membership card in the Socialist Party . " Socialist Party leader Lionel Jospin was said to have replied , smiling : " When it comes to joining the Socialist Party , we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French leftists foundered on the conflicting Socialist and Communist programs for extending the nationalization of French industries , L ' Express reported that " Marchais did not raise the least objection this time against adopting the program of Socialist nationalizations . " The principal clash this time was about " the extent of governmental solidarity and about external problems . " The article explained that the Socialists had demanded , as the price for four minor Cabinet positions , a pledge of Communist support not only at the executive level and in Parliament , but also in city halls and on the shop floors of industry . The Communist negotiators reportedly argued that the industrial workplace was " the exclusive domain of the Communist Party . " L ' Express reported , however , that within a half hour an agreement on " government solidarity " had been wrapped up - on Socialist terms . In the short run , the Socialists expect that their deal with the Communists will bring what L ' Express termed " social calm . " Ultimately , the magazine said , Mitterrand was gambling that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he was providing the conditions for their obliteration . " The monthly magazine New African reported in its June issue on the " raging controversy " surrounding the widespread use in Africa and other areas of the Third World of the contraceptive injection Depo Provera , which is " manufactured by Upjohn , a United States corporation , but is prohibited for use ( as a contraceptive ) in America . " Reporter Pippa Gordon recalled that " The US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) ruled in 1978 that the drug is unsafe because of the possibility that it may cause cancer and birth defects . " Nevertheless , Upjohn has been marketing the progesterone-based contraceptive " through its subsidiaries in Asia , Latin America and Africa , " Gordon wrote . Gordon said the Depo Provera " has been used on an estimated five million women " and that the International Planned Parenthood Federation , in its Directory of Contraceptives , lists 17 African countries where Depo , popularly known as " the shot , " has been used . The article cited studies indicating that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ widely used hormonal contraceptive may also be linked to side effects such as " amenorrhea ( loss of menstrual periods ) , severe headaches and weight gain . " The most serious of these , however , was " thedrug ' s suppression of the immune system , making users susceptible to other diseases . " According to New African , " the US Agency for International Development ( AID ) , forbidden to export drugs unapproved for use in the US , providesfunds to other sources , such as the International Planned Parenthood Federation and the United Nations Fund for Population Activities ( UNPFA ) , both major distributors of the drug . " Dr. Colin McCord , described as " the chief technical adviser of UNPFA in Bangladesh , " told the African monthly : " I don ' t think the small increment in fertility control which will result from use of this drug justifies the possibility that we might be responsible for an epidemic would be a disaster , not only for the women involved but also for the credibility of population- control programs . " Family-planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Third World countries , stress the fact that it is easily administered in a single injection that may last up to six months . They contend that its side effects are far less harmful than those associated with oral contraceptives . And they insist that any potential risks must be judged against the extremely high rates of unwanted fertility and of maternal mortality to be found in many developing countries . The FDA , in its 1978 ruling against domestic use of Depo Provera as a contraceptive , states : " Benefit-risk considerations are not the same in all countries of the world . In an economically developed nation , like the USA , with an advanced health-care system , the disapproval judgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " n47 WOR PRESS This week ' s issue of L ' Express explored the reasons why France ' s new president , Francois Mitterrand , has appointed four Communists to serve as Cabinet minister in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mitterrand ' s decision as a " gamble " gment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " likely to induce apprehension abroad , particularly among Saudi investors and American policy-makers . With obligatory nationalistic pride , L ' Express noted that " French policy must not be made in Riyadh or Washington . " Yet , though " the French republic is free in its actions , " the magazine cautioned tgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patie nt ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " hat France " must measure and pay the price of those actions . " Despite its editorial opposition to Mitterrand ' s candidacy , L ' Express acknowledged that " it would be an insult to Francois Mitterrand to suppose that he had not made this calculation : Certain minsters worried about the arrival of the Comgment is appropriate . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations with higher birth rates , lower physician- patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " munists ( in the government ) helped him to do so . " Recalling the " mastery and the finesse " Mitterrand displayed in his long and tenacious ascent to power , the weekly suggested that the new president had quite solid reasons for making the political choice he did . L ' Express indicated that , for Mitterrgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " and , domestic considerations outweighed the cost of American and Saudi anxieties . With his presidential power assured for a seven- year term , with an absolute Socialist majority in Parliament for five years , and with the Communists and their powerful trade union harnessed to his cart , at least for awgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patie nt ratios , and less readily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " L ' Express explained , " has his hands free to pour France into the mold of the Socialist reforms . " The weekly ' s account of the negotiations that brought Communists into the Mitterrand government emphasized the confidence of the Socialists and the current dependence of thegment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " Communists . According to L ' Express , Communist leader Georges Marchais , when confronted with the Socialist demands , exclaimed bitterly : " The only thing missing is a membership card in the Socialist Party . " Socialist Party leader Lionel Jospin was said to have replied , smiling : " When it comes to joingment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patie nt ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " ing the Socialist Party , we are more demanding . " Although four years ago French leftists foundered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nationalization of French industries , L ' Express reported that " Marchais did not raise the least objection this time against adoptigment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " ng the program of Socialist nationalizations . " The principal clash this time was about " the extent of governmental solidarity and about external problems . " The article explained that the Socialists had demanded , as the price for four minor Cabinet positions , a pledge of Communist support not only atgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patie nt ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " the executive level and in Parliament , but also in city halls and on the shop floors of industry . The Communist negotiators reportedly argued that the industrial workplace was " the exclusive domain of the Communist Party . " L ' Express reported , however , that within a half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patie nt ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " ment solidarity " had been wrapped up - on Socialist terms . In the short run , the Socialists expect that their deal with the Communists will bring what L ' Express termed " social calm . " Ultimately , the magazine said , Mitterrand was gambling that " by associating the Communists ( with his government ) , hegment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient ratios , and less readily available contraceptive methods . " was providing the conditions for their obliteration . " n10 WORPRE2 The monthly magazine New African reported in its June issue on the " raging controversy " surrounding the widespread use in Africa and other areas of the Third World of the contraceptive injection Depo Provera , whgment is appropriate . The opposite decision may be more appropriate , however , for nations with higher birth rates , lower physician-patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was providing the conditions for their obliteration . " ich is " manufactured by Upjohn , a United States corporation , but is prohibited for use ( as a contraceptive ) in America . " Reporter Pippa Gordon recalled that " The US Food and B07888076                     