@@668722

Abraham Lincoln was a man who rose above politics , many Americans believe ; no mere partisan , our Abe . That is why politicians striving to appear presidential like to twang the mystic chords of his memory . New York Gov . Mario Cuomo traveled to Springfield this week to speak to the Abraham Lincoln Association on the " unfinished work " referred to in the Gettysburg Address . Cuomo ' s self-written speech was reverent , respectable  --  at times eloquent  --  and studded with all the right quotations . The speech also was brought forth in banality , misconceived in its central theme and dedicated to the proposition that no historian has studied the life of Lincoln since the mythmaking of Carl Sandburg . Like so many eulogists before him , Cuomo evoked the image of the Great Emancipator of the slaves , the president who expanded national power to help the poor and the advocate of what the governor called " the immensity of the fundamental ideas of freedom and self-determination . . . and always , at the heart of his struggle and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outsider . . . . " Suspend oratory for a moment . If the work of historians Randall , Donald , Fehrenbacher , Current and Oates has any meaning , it shows that Lincoln ' s central idea was not to free the slaves but to enforce majority rule ; not to permit secession ' s peaceful " self-determination " but to wage war for disciplined democratic Union . True , Lincoln advocated freedom and equality , and the 13th Amendment is his real monument . But not until after 18 months of civil war and a congressional act to confiscate rebel property did he see abolition as his official duty ; and his assurances to worried white workers in the North that he had a plan to ship freed blacks to " congenial climes " in Africa and Central America can hardly be described as a " passion to make room for the outsider . " Lincoln ' s most articulate critic was the man elected governor of New York , Horatio Seymour , who excoriated Lincoln ' s assumption of war powers as unconstitutional and demanded an end to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Democrats who dared to oppose the war . Cuomo failed to quote him . While this year ' s eulogist was misreading the central Lincoln purpose and twisting the legend to serve his own purposes , a political scientist at the same gathering impressed Lincoln scholars with a paper on the partisan life of Abraham Lincoln . In " Always a Whig in Politics " ( Lincoln ' s political self-description ) , Cornell ' s Joel Silbey argued that the young Lincoln was a model local politician , a loyal Whig standing for the protective tariff and the national bank ; an orthodox Whig against the Jacksonian Democrats in Congress ; and a faithful practitioner of patronage in the White House . " He was fully woven into the partisan fabric of his time , " Silbey says . " He was a total political operator  --  a party hack . But so what ? . . . What emerged was a responsible party system . . . . The wiles and commitments of the party activist and regular are , therefore , not easily denigrated . " Lincoln @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draws on the work of this generation ' s historians to make his case that party loyalty and outspoken partisan opposition turn out men and draw issues in a way that may now be out of fashion but were vital in Lincoln ' s day . That practical , compromising Lincoln , working within the Whig and then the Republican Party to achieve power for great purposes , is rarely used as an exemplar by high-mindedly nonpolitical orators today . Just the opposite : We think of the political dissension in the North during the Civil War as divisive and harmful to the Union effort , with Lincoln having to jockey between the radical Republican abolitionists and the conservative Democratic civil libertarian governor of New York ( Seymour , not Cuomo ) . Most of us assume that party politics is a liability in warmaking , and that the one-party Confederacy had an advantage in mobilizing a national campaign . But the absence of a two-party system weakened the South , as Columbia ' s Eric McKitrick showed : Jeff Davis had no way of enforcing political obedience in the states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to be the great instrument in protecting Lincoln ' s " central idea " of majority rule . That calculated internal activism needs a new birth today . If Lincoln could speak at Springfield now , he would show us how a great politician is able to rise above the usual rising above politics.                     