@@734678

txt The general collapse of the Carter administration foreign policy is nowhere - lore evident than in the rise of West Germany 's Chancellor Schmidt as the agreed leader and spokesman for the Western alliance . Because they have lost confidence in the blundering American leadership , the Japanese and Europeans are turning increasingly to one confident , competent chancellor . Their trust in him is such that the Europeans  --  and perhaps President Carter himself  --  are tacitly accepting him as their go-between with the Soviets , a role that traditionally belonged to the ' IS . President , In his preparations for a trip to Moscow later this month , Mr. ** has been canvassing the other alliance leaders for their views and even ' realdent Carter saw fit to send him a ' otter stating the U.S. position on missile deployment to Europe . Mr. Schmidt is an experienced statesman who can be depended upon to fairly represent all the interests of the alliance , but there are pitfalls nevertheless . The greatest danger is that the Soviets will view his mission as an opportunity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use both pressure and blandishments to extract from him agreements or statements that might he load as being in conflict with U.S. deires . The Kremlin will try especially hard to modify the European attitude toward . nodernization of intermediate range nuclear missiles , which is generally scented in Europe Ps a necessary counter to the Soviet deployment of new SS-20 missiles aimed at the West . The most likely Soviet suggestion will be for a moratorium on further deployments by both sides pending talks on a treaty limiting such missiles . Mr. Schmidt officially shares U.S. opposition to such a freeze , which would leave the Soviets with 200 of their SS-20s deployed against zero Pershing Its and cruise missiles . That would make for a destabilizing imbalance and it would work to the West 's disadvantage in the proposed arms limitation talks . St% Mr. Schmidt has made some ambiguous remarks on the moratorium idea , which is supported by the left wing of his Social Democratic Party . He must not give ground , however much it might cost him politically , lest he betray the leadership role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to put some steel in his spine in negotiating a bilateral trade agreement with the Soviets , who will be seeking something so broad that it might suggest West German unwilling . ness to penalize the Soviets for their invasion of Afghanistan . It is inevitable that some sort of agreement will be concluded , but if it contains no punitive limitations the Soviets will point to it as a sign that Western Europe does n't care what happens to Afghanistan . It is difficult  --  even a little humlliat ? ing  --  for Americans to have somebody else do the talking for the alliance at an crucial a time . We are giving up a significant measure of control over our fate . But perhaps by learning how it feels , our own President will be more careful and more sensitive when  --  and if  --  he resumes his proper role as a trusted world leader .                     