@@669924

Record European cold weather that brought snow to the beaches of the Riviera sent tremors through U.S. commodity markets , boosting oil and grain futures prices in anticipation of increased European consumption . A Siberian cold-air mass has driven temperatures to record sub-zero lows in wide-ranging areas from Geneva and Prague to Murmansk , U.S.S.R , according to Weather Services Corp. of Bedford , Mass . Barcelona , Spain recorded a chilling 21 degrees , also a record . The cold wave , which already has hurt citrus groves in Spain , date crops in North Africa and olive groves in Greece and Italy , sent U.S. futures prices for heating oil and livestock feeds such as soybean meal sharply higher yesterday . Heating oil for February delivery at the New York Mercantile Exchange rose 3. 21 cents a gallon to 75. 27 cents . February crude oil , following the uptrend , rose 33 cents a barrel to $25. 76 . Wheat futures prices also rose ; the sub-zero temperatures could damage the winter wheat crop overseas , particularly in the eastern Soviet Union , noted Peter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ futures , the cold weather in Europe  --  where heating oil is a major fuel  --  caused U.S. traders to overlook news that , at other times , would have depressed prices . Texaco Inc. , for instance , cut its posted , or buying , price for West Texas Intermediate , the U.S. benchmark crude , by $1 a barrel yesterday to $28 . Because Texaco is the first major U.S. refiner to cut its posting from $29 , the reduction normally might have been construed as bearish . Also , traders mostly ignored rumors , later denied , that Nigeria had quit the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries . Nigeria already has refused to honor a recent OPEC pricing pact , traders noted . " Nigeria is in many ways a defacto nonmember of OPEC as it is , " said Peter Beutel , a broker and analyst for Rudolf Wolff Commodity Brokers Inc . , New York . Heavy European demand for heating oil may dry up the recent price-depressing flood of heating-oil imports to the U.S. , traders suggested . " U.S. refiners in the Caribbean , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe cargoes that would normally come to the U.S. , " said John Rotunno , broker for Premier Man Inc . , New York . In grains and soybeans , traders noted the bitter European temperatures have forced farmers to increase animal rations . The stepped-up European demand for soybean meal prompted many futures traders to cover " short , " or selling positions , said a floor analyst for Smith Barney , Harris Upham &; Co . The stepped-up European demand buoyed the price of soybean meal in Rotterdam . In addition , analysts said the Soviet Union was rumored to have bought a large quantity of soybean meal from Brazil , another indication of growing demand . In other commodity markets yesterday : ORANGE JUICE : Forecasts that temperatures could dip below freezing in the Florida citrus belt next Sunday or Tuesday boosted contract prices . David Taylor , a meteorologist at Weather Services Corp. , said the chance of sub-freezing temperatures after Sunday in that area is increasing . However , he noted that temperatures would have to dip into the mid-20s before causing significant damage to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three of a freeze next week , and one chance in five of a damaging freeze at this point , " Mr. Taylor said . A damaging freeze in Florida would be the fourth in the past five years for the battered Florida citrus industry . INTEREST RATES : Debt futures prices fell in moderate trading . Treasury-bond prices rose from the day ' s lows in late trading after Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker in a speech expressed confidence that further progress would be made against inflation . Many traders were awaiting the release late yesterday of money supply figures before taking new positions in the market . After trading ended , the government said M1 , the nation ' s basic money supply , declined $500 million in the week ended Dec. 31 , less than expected by many analysts . CURRENCIES : British pound contract prices fell to record lows despite rising energy prices , which normally would aid the economy of Britain , a major oil producer . " That can only be very ominous for the pound , " said Ira Epstein , president of Ira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It looks like the pound will go to parity with the dollar , " he added . Despite the increase in oil prices yesterday , many traders still expect a general longer-term energy-price decline , analysts said . In other currency pits yesterday , prices of the West German mark and Japanese yen rose sharply , while Swiss franc prices fell slightly . Some traders bought contracts for West German marks and Japanese yen to cover short , or selling , positions , analysts said . Traders also instituted " spread " positions by buying marks and selling British pounds , a bet that the mark will outperform the pound , no matter what the general direction of foreign currencies . Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal 