@@669985

BOSTON  --  The Massachusetts public health department ruled that containers of snuff sold in the state after Dec. 1 must have labels warning that the products can be addictive and can cause oral cancer and other mouth ailments . Separately , Rep. Michael Synar of Oklahoma introduced a bill that would require warnings on labels and in advertising for smokeless-tobacco products . The ruling makes Massachusetts the first state to require warning labels on smokeless tobacco , which recently has faced growing scrutiny by public health officials concerned about its rising use , especially among teen-agers . An estimated 11 million to 22 million Americans use smokeless tobacco . To support its ruling , the Massachusetts public health department cited about 40 studies that have linked snuff and chewing tobacco to oral cancer , tooth loss , gum disease and nicotine addiction . Several states are considering label requirements similar to those in Massachusetts . Last month , U.S. Surgeon General C. Everett Koop appointed a panel of scientists to study whether smokeless-tobacco products are health hazards . The study will be used by the Federal Trade Commission @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Koop already has stated in a letter to the commission that smokeless tobacco poses " a cancer threat " and is associated with other mouth diseases . In Washington , a spokesman for the Smokeless Tobacco Council , a trade association , described the Massachusetts ruling as " capricious " and said that " the scientific facts don ' t support the imposition of ( warning ) labeling . " The spokesman said the council welcomes the introduction of Rep. Synar ' s bill , which will give the organization a chance to air its arguments in hearings on the bill . The Massachusetts ruling applies only to snuff , finely ground tobacco mixtures intended for oral use , and doesn ' t affect chewing tobacco . Though both products have been linked to mouth disorders , use of snuff has grown about 57% since 1978 , while sales of chewing tobacco have declined slightly , according to federal statistics . The Massachusetts health agency charged that orally taken snuff , as distinguished from nasally taken snuff and chewing tobacco , is the " prime offending agent " among different types @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Massachusetts agency , said much of the recent growth in the use of snuff appears to be among male youths . A 1984 study in Massachusetts showed that about 12% of males between ages 12 and 17 regularly used smokeless tobacco , often sold in teabag-like pouches inserted between cheek and gum . Tobacco industry analysts said the labeling requirements for smokeless tobacco aren ' t likely to have much effect on sales . " Look at the cigarette industry , which is 20% larger now than when ( cigarette ) warning labels were required in 1964 , " said Arthur Kirsch , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . Much of the market for orally taken snuff is controlled by U.S. Tobacco Co. , a Greenwich , Conn. , concern that makes Skoal and Copenhagen brands . A U.S. Tobacco spokesman declined to comment on the possible effect on sales as a result of the warning label requirement . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     