@@668656

Before he left on vacation , President Reagan vowed to " pull out all the stops " for tax reform in September . Let ' s hope he stops and thinks about one phase of that fight before he plunges further into it . The key issue  --  the make-or-break issue for tax simplification  --  is the deductibility of state and local taxes . It is the $33 billion gorilla , the most widely used of all deductions and the one whose abolition is most critical to balancing the books in the Reagan tax plan . The meetings last week of the nation ' s governors and state legislators reaffirmed their opposition to the repeal of deductibility . Many also showed a willingness to consider ways of compromising on the issue . There must be compromise in order to have tax reform . Reagan is going to have to yield on one of his most cherished  --  and mindless  --  principles . It is the belief that all taxes are bad , and anything that offers comfort to the tax collector has to be opposed . This false @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local tax deductibility . Deductibility eases the pain of the property taxes that finance local schools and police , the state sales and income taxes that pay for education , welfare and transportation programs . As John Shannon , executive director of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations , has said , deductibility is also the most effective device the federal government has found for reducing the fiscal disparities between rich and poor states , wealthy and poor communities . Poor jurisdictions typically require larger tax efforts from their citizens ; their needs are greater , their resources less . Those fiscal disparities , more than any other factor , explain the differences in the tax burdens of differing states and cities . But Reagan has taken the opportunity to depict the " high-tax " states and cities as the playpens of liberals and big spenders . Deductibility , he says , is bad , because it provides a subsidy from the low-tax states to the high-tax states . That argument just doesn ' t wash . The grossest disparities in tax burdens are between the resource-rich states like Alaska and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels of public services  --  like California and New York  --  do have high taxes , but they also have masses of low-income , immigrant populations whose needs the nation expects them to meet . Repeal of deductibility would significantly worsen the competitive position of those states . It would increase the incentives for wealthy individuals and businesses to relocate from high-tax to low-tax jurisdictions . Most of the governors , legislators , mayors and county officials are saying that such a policy levies too high a price for tax reform . On principle , state and local officials are right to resist the Reagan proposal to repeal deductibility . As a practical matter , they probably exert enough influence to block passage of any program that involves complete repeal . But they would be wise not to press the issue to the point of confrontation . As Shannon told the legislators at their meeting in Seattle , they have to be aware of the consequences of letting the income tax system remain unrepaired , even while growing numbers of Americans say they think it operates unfairly . Both as citizens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preserving the credibility of the nation ' s most important revenue system . Any number of available devices will preserve the principle of deductibility but achieve some of the revenue gains needed to balance the books on tax reform . By allowing deductions only for the amount of state and local taxes exceeding 1 percent of adjusted gross income , as Sen. Dave Durenberger ( R. , Minn. ) has suggested , one can strike the bargain that is needed to produce both revenues and votes  --  without violation of fundamental principles . But there can be no effective compromise until Reagan signals that he is ready to abandon his foolish principle that virtue in government consists solely of reducing taxes.                     