@@670187

WASHINGTON  --  With Robert Bork ' s Supreme Court nomination close to collapse , the air is full of Republican recrimination . The White House blames a campaign of unparalleled demagogy . Conservatives , meantime , point fingers both at President Reagan ' s August hibernation and at a White House strategy to portray Judge Bork as a moderate while doing little to counter his opponents . These views may offer consolation , but they won ' t wash as complete explanations . Judge Bork is surely a victim of demagogy and distortion , but , let ' s face it , these are not unknown weapons in American politics . The campaign against Judge Bork was more despicable in degree but , in contemporary Washington , all too typical in kind . The White House description of Judge Bork is also close to what Judge Bork believes about himself . In preparing him to testify before the Judiciary Committee , the White House really did let Bork be Bork . Hard as it may be for conservatives to swallow , the unhappy truth is that no strategy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bork battle  --  the Reagan administration ' s vulnerability to the politics of race . The goal of Judge Bork ' s opponents was to raise so much fear and loathing among blacks that Senate Democrats from the South would be too frightened to vote in favor . A few of Judge Bork ' s own writings gave ammunition to this effort , but they can not explain why so many Southern senators decided to oppose him . Because Judge Bork is himself so clearly unbiased , a campaign based on racial fear could not have succeeded unless blacks were already prepared to believe the worst about a Republican nominee . Judge Bork is paying the price for last year ' s Republican loss of the Senate , when four Southern Democrats won narrow victories only by winning around 90% of the black vote . More fundamentally , Judge Bork and the Republicans are paying the price for six years of Reagan administration failure to build a program to attract black voters , especially the black poor . One Reagan official who agrees with this analysis is Clarence Thomas , chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two ways a voice in the wilderness in Republican politics . Mr. Thomas is a black appointee who has managed to win respect in the black community despite his firm opposition to racial quotas . He also believes in the blasphemy that the GOP must win the hearts and minds of more black voters if it is ever going to be the majority party . " All of this could have been avoided , " Mr. Thomas said of Judge Bork ' s troubles in an interview this week , " if only we ' d had a positive program aimed at blacks in this administration . " By this he does not mean that Republicans , and especially conservatives , should have abandoned their principles and adopted the agenda of the civil-rights lobby . " We don ' t have to change our position on a single issue , " he insists . The fault of the Reagan administration was that it never made the effort to apply its principles in such a way to give much promise to blacks that it wasn ' t the uncaring party of liberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in mind a positive agenda built around a few bedrock conservative values , especially freedom of choice . Off the top of his head , he cites the freedom to choose an education in the inner city with the same high standards and accountability found in suburban schools ; the freedom to get a job and escape the paternalism of the welfare bureaucracy ; the freedom to raise children without crime and drugs . " Too often when conservatives talk about civil rights , they only say what they ' re against  --  they ' re against quotas ; they ' re against sanctions in South Africa , " he says . " Conservatives need to say what they ' re for . " The Republican problem Mr. Thomas describes is a matter both of political strategy and cultural instinct . As a matter of raw politics , many Republicans are still guided by the " Southern strategy " that emerged in the 1960s . This strategy was to combine Southern whites disenchanted with the leftward drift of the Democrats  --  the George Wallace supporters  --  with traditional Republicans to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of that coalition , they could be ignored . In presidential campaigns , this strategy has arguably succeeded . The only Democrat to break the Republican hold on the South in presidential races since the 1960s was himself a Southerner , Jimmy Carter . In local and statewide races , however , the Democrats have retained much of their Southern dominance . And , if the 1986 election is any guide , a " Southern strategy " that ignores blacks may now be an outright loser . If Republican Jeremiah Denton couldn ' t win in Alabama with 62% of the white vote , then it probably isn ' t possible for any Southern Republican to win without more black support . By instinct , too , traditional Republicans aren ' t inclined to think about matters of race or social policy . They tend to care more about taxes , or foreign policy . So they fail to appreciate black sensitivities on issues of civil-rights enforcement , stumbling into losing propositions like the Reagan administration ' s decision to change its position before the Supreme Court on tax exemptions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been right on the merits , " says Mr. Thomas , " but I could have told them the merits would be ensnared on the race issue . " In the same way , President Reagan has missed opportunities to speak out against racial prejudice after such incidents as the Howard Beach beatings in New York last year . Republicans can not expect to change black voting patterns overnight , especially considering the filter of myth and false accusation they will have to send their message through . But they can do much better than they ' ve done , if they ' re willing to make the effort Clarence Thomas and other black Republicans describe . A good place to start is the 1988 campaign.  --  - Mr. Gigot is a member of the Journal ' s editorial board.                     