@@669855

A fortnight in Europe does not dispel the mystery of what is going on in the superpower relationship . This traveling American found Europeans generally applauding our president ' s more genial tone toward the Soviet Union but looking rather cynically on his sudden interest in renewed negotiations , an interest they ascribe to reelection politics . Mr. Reagan , it was believed , could propose meetings with impunity , supposing that the last thing the Kremlin would wish to do is to meet and thereby assure his victory in November . But the Soviet attitude may be changing . If the Kremlin should conclude a Reagan victory to be inevitable , it might well calculate on getting better terms from him before the election than afterward . So the mystery remains . In any event , the disappearance , however temporary , of the " evil empire " line brings a measure of relief . It is hard for Americans to appreciate how far even the most anti-communist governments in Europe depart from the Reagan administration in the diagnosis of the Soviet threat . On June 27 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently touted as Margaret Thatcher ' s probable successor , gave a significant speech on " Russia in Historical Perspective " to the Bow Group of the Conservative Party . It is instructive to compare the views of the British defense secretary with those prevalent these days in Washington . Mr. Heseltine began by doubting that " Soviet behavior can be addressed solely in terms of the onward march toward world revolution . " Indeed , " the roots of what we sometimes take as ' Soviet ' behavior originate to an extent in fears and hopes which have been a feature of Russians ' experience for many centuries . " History , he suggests , has given Russia a permanent sense of territorial insecurity that it has assuaged by the extension of the defense perimeter . Russia is " an historically expansionist power obsessed with the threat which it faces and apparently unconcerned about the threat which it poses ; a state buying security at the expense of other people ' s insecurity . " While Russian expansionism creates serious problems for the world , Mr. Heseltine does not regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long perspective . . . the record of achievement is hardly a compelling one . " He sees Afghanistan less as evidence of Soviet forward strategy and " more a defensive move stemming from the fear of a reversal for socialism in a bordering country . " He notes the disintegration of monolithic communism , Moscow ' s relative failure in the Third World , the rising tensions with the East European satellites . He notes , too , the problems the Kremlin faces at home  --  a rigidly bureaucratic administrative system , industrial stagnation , agricultural inefficiency , Moslem nationalism and fundamentalism in the Central Asian republics . The Soviet threat , in other words , hardly seems to Mr. Heseltine as horrendous as it has been cracked up to be . Still , the phenomenon of expansionism generated by insecurity is real enough . What should the West do about it ? The first priority , Mr. Heseltine responds , is to deploy sufficient military strength to ensure that " there are no risk-free opportunities for the Soviet Union to exploit in areas of our vital interest . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Each side can prosecute the arms race and " stare uncomprehendingly at the other across  --  so to speak  --  fixed bayonets . " Mr. Heseltine sees dangers in this course . At the end of that road lies nuclear war . Nor is he impressed by the notion that the arms race will wreck the Soviet economy . " The history of Russia is the acceptance of deprivation in the interests of national security . " The alternative , the defense secretary suggests , is for the West to seek ways to relieve Russia ' s perennial insecurity in the hope that the Soviet leaders will direct resources away from military spending and toward the needs of their people and their society . " Soviet prosperity and prosperity in Eastern Europe might just develop from the inside a structure which felt confident to experiment with a more liberal and decentralized economic system . " This course requires some modification of Western attitudes . " The price we have to pay is the acceptance of the Soviet Union as a military superpower . We have to recognize that she will compete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But the West has little to fear from this competition if we truly believe in the strength of our values and institutions . Now , whether this British Tory is right or wrong , his view of the East-West relationship  --  and his view must be taken as the view of the Thatcher government  --  is vastly different from that , say , of the American secretary of defense or of the American administration . Also , Lord Carrington , perhaps the West ' s most skillful diplomat , has taken over as secretary-general of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . Lord Carrington has eloquently expressed his scorn for " megaphone diplomacy " and his belief in continued negotiations at all levels with the Russians . Nor are the British alone . The divergence between the Reagan administration and the West European democracies is marked in nearly every NATO country . President Francois Mitterrand of France told off the Soviet leadership publicly for the contemptible treatment of Andrei Sakharov , but nonetheless came back from Moscow with the conviction that his visit had eased Franco-Soviet relations . " We are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " but we are also independent . " Relationships between democratic and communist Germanys continue to improve , and the West German foreign minister advocates , in defiance of Mr. Reagan ' s Star Wars program , a ban on nuclear weapons in space . Eastern Europe provides a clear expression of the divergence . Where Washington seems to regard the East European satellites as faithful creatures of the Kremlin , West Europeans see them as restless , discontented and , from the Soviet viewpoint , quite unreliable . Where the West Europeans favor the use of trade and cultural exchange to promote the independence of the satellites , the Reagan policy , they fear , is driving the satellites into greater dependence on the Soviet Union . Nowhere is the divergence more marked than in the case of Central America . I do not think any NATO ally supports the Reagan policy of militarizing the region and turning it into a major zone of East-West conflict . Our allies find it hard to understand what Washington is so frightened about . When the commander of the U.S. Army in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million , as " a militarist behemoth , " Europeans can only wonder what Gen. Paul Gorman has been smoking lately . The State Department likes to give the impression that Costa Rica , the only functioning democracy in Central America , secretly supports the Reagan policy . But President Luis Alberto Monge of Costa Rica has just brought a contrary message to Western Europe . He affirmed Costa Rican demilitarization and neutrality , called on President Jose Napoleon Duarte of El Salvador to accept the insurgent offer of a summit meeting without preconditions and persuaded all 10 members of the European Economic Community to join the foreign ministers of the Contadora countries in a conference at San Jose in three months time . The U.S. is not invited . The atmosphere of affability surrounding President Reagan ' s European tour should not obscure the grave differences in diagnosis and prescription that divide us from our European allies . The root of these differences lies in the chronic American delusion that we understand the interests of other countries better than they understand their own interests . In Europe we think we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe . In Central America we think we understand the Nicaraguan threat better than does Costa Rica or Mexico or Venezuela or Colombia . Yet both in Europe and Central America our allies are more directly menaced than we are , know the terrain a good deal better and have deeper historical experience in the area . Their assessments of the problem deserve our attention . It is little wonder that many of our friends abroad regard this Washington-knows-best attitude as an unattractive expression of American naivete  --  or of American arrogance . Perhaps we should sometimes remember those fine words in the Declaration of Independence about " a decent respect to the opinions of mankind. "  --  - Mr. Schlesinger is Albert Schweitzer professor of humanities at the City University of New York and a winner of Pulitzer Prizes in history and biography.                     