@@668482

Frederic Winthrop Jr . could not have been more a part of the whole baronial scene in R.T . Crane ' s fabulous summer cottage at Castle Hill in Ipswich Saturday night . Hair slicked back , mustaches trimmed , frock-coated and erect , Mr. Winthrop looked for all the world a throwback to a gilded age , even down to a faultless rendition of the peerage strut . " I always feel sort of dated in this part of the century , " Mr. Winthrop said as he passed from the cavernous , paneled library to an equally cavernous gallery where a dinner of shrimp newburg , turkey , roast tenderloin , sole mousseline , ham in parsley aspic , and veal pate was being served . Like patrons Daphne and Robert Borden of Paynter Farm , Essex ; T. Jefferson and Gloria Coo-lidge of Coolidge Point , Manchester ; David and Marie Louise Scudder and about 160 revelers , Freddy Winthrop was only playing a role , in his case that of an Edwardian lord , to benefit restoration of the Great House and grounds at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the lawns that sweep down to the beach-rimmed sea . " When this house was left to the Trustees of Reservations , which now owns the whole property , it was left with nothing in it - not a stick of furniture , not a chandelier , not a sconce on the wall , " said Mrs. Sheila Webb Mathey , a local representative of the Trustees of Reservations . Now , however , parts of the enormous house ( it replaced an Italianate villa , which Mrs. R.T . Crane had torn down in 1920 because she didn ' t like it ) are furnished , and some reconstruction has been finished . " It costs about a half-million dollars a year to run this place , let alonefix the plumbing and wiring and restore the crumbling masonry , " said Deborah Johnson Stone , a managing director of the Castle Hill Foundation as she helped set up the orchestra for after- dinner dancing . " When I came herefrom California two years ago , there were about 60 private events a year being held here . Now it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conferences , weddings and musical entertainments . They help pay the bills . " Paying the bills is what Saturday ' s " Edwardian Fete " was all about , even if the organizers expected to clear only about $3500 . The invitations were from the improbably noble Baron Frary von Blomberg and also listed as sponsors H.R.H. The Princess Jeanne , Countess Mara Brinska , Baron Ozbolt von Blomberg , Baron Ostoya Starzewski and Mrs. Buist Williams . H.R.H. The Princess Jeanne , however , telegrammed her regrets " official priority " from Middleton Springs , Vt. , which was more than the other titled individuals did . But Mrs. Williams showed up , being a longtime close friend of Baron von Blomberg . And surrealist artist David X. Kenney of Beacon Hill seemed genuinely satisfied at the turnout Saturday for the opening of an exhibit of his work at the Kingston Street Gallery . " I ' m feeling all right now , " Mr Kenney said . " But I was so mad this afternoon when I got here because none of the exhibits were set up and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Baron seems pleased , though . " The Baron , or Bill , as he is mostly known by the many friends who were in attendance , said he was born and brought up a Frary in Deerfield but was adopted in the 1930s by Field Marshall Werner von Blomberg , Reichfuhrer Adolf Hitler ' s fawning , emotional minister of war until 1938 , when he was sacked in the wake of trumped-up scandal . " My family was quite upset and tried to stop it , " the Baron said about his family ' s reaction to his Nazi affiliation . " But I weathered the storm . " Virginia Meyers looked as if she might be another friend of the Baron ' s . " No , dear , " she told a new acquaintance , " I ' m one of the aunts who was supposed to bring a checkbook . I sell prints that tell a story , and I asked David why he couldn ' t paint a picture that tells a story . But I guess we don ' t see art @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed a Bonny Neilan , Cambridge ' s loveliest bartender ( Ryles in Inman Square ) will marry longtime sweetheart Robert Cushman Barber April 30 at the Harvard Faculty Club . . . Seth Greenberg ( " Night life is my business " ) of Stallion Productions in Boston is looking for a million dollars to open a night club . Mr. Greenberg , who is responsible for occasionally filling the cavernous dance halls of Boston ( Paradise , 9 Lansdowne ) , New York ( Studio 54 ) and Pompano Beach ( La Volcanique ) , says , " Boston is starving for entertainment , " and he thinks his track record on the party circuit proves he can provide it . Check ' s in the mail .                     