@@734712

txt WASHINGTON  --  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC voted Thursday to require Chicago commodity exchanges to obtain the CFTC 's approval before they add any new dolly-my months for U.S. Treasury bonds and bills . The Era ; is battling the excnanges over . the recent additions of delivery months , and the CFTC staff noted before Thursday 's vote that previous rules did n't specifically require CFTC approval of such additions . The CFTC action , which takes effect immediately , restricts the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange from listing new delivery months after 1982 without obtaining CFTC consent . The commission 's unanimous 3 to 0 decision was prompted by recent deci sions by the two exchanges  --  over the agency 's objections  --  to double the number of delivery months for Treasury contracts . Both exchanges have historically traded bonds And bills for four months out of the year . The CFTC 's action is designed to affect all future contract decisions , but a commission spokesman said it wo n't alter the recent decisions by both exchanges to add four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mercantile Exchange voted to list for delivery as-day Treasury bill contracts for the " January cycle , " or January , April , July , and October , through 1982 . The exchange had historically traded contracts only in the delivery months of December , March , June , and September . Nine days later , the Board of Trade authorized trading in long-term Treasury bonds for delivery in August , No vember , February , and May , or the " August " cycle . The Board of Trade has traditionally used the delivery months of September , December , March , and June . However , tho CFTC is now engaged in a court battle with the two exchanges to rescind the new delivery months . The CFTC is seeking a preliminary injunction to halt trading in the new months , and will argue the case in Chicago federal court Monday before District Judge J. Sam Perry . THE COMMISSION . the U.S. Treasury Department , and the Federal Reserve Board have argued that there wo n't be adequate supplies of deliverable government securities unless financial futures trading is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10-minute meeting at which agency staff presented a 29-page memorandum recommending new rules that would re quire the two exchanges to get commission approval of new or additional delivery months . CFTC chairman James Stone said he was " profoundly disappointed . . . that the actions of the exchanges have necessitated this meeting . " THE MEMORANDUM approved by the commission cites the " significant concerns " raised by the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Board about the effect of expanded trading on the " debt financing and management requirements of the United States government . " " Given the commission 's responsibilities to ensure orderly trading of futures contracts in government securities " the memo says , " the commission is satisfied that it would be contrary to the public interest to delay the effectiveness of these rules for any period of time . "                     