@@735757

txt Posterity has not been easy on JeanJacques Rousseau . Nazism. communism , modern education and the French Revolution have all been laid at his door . His contemporaries could be equally severe . " Rousseau , Sir , " said Samuel Johnson , " is a very bad man . I would sooner sign a sentence for his transportation , than that The Bookshelf " Jean-Jacques " By Maurice Cranston of any felon who has gone from the Old Bailey these many years . " The passions he excited have hobbled his biographers . Rousseau 's enemies did not scruple to tell the most fantastic lies about him , and his own copious memoirs can be evasive or unreliable . Maurice Cranston. chairman of the department of political science at the London School of Economics , seeks to tidy up the record . " Jean-Jacques , " ( W.W. Norton . 382 pages , $22.45 ) the first of two volumes , follows its subject with sympathy and wit , up to middle age and his first important works . Rousseau was born in 1712 in what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a good family : a patrician mother and a watchmaker father . Isaac Rousseau was a dreamer who pored over old novels with his young son until dawn . He was also a wayward , impulsive man , forced to flee Geneva after fighting a duel . Relatives apprenticed Jean-Jacques to an engraver , who turned out to be a brute ; he fled in turn when he was not yet 16 . In the duchy of Savoy , he found a second home . Francoise-Louise de Warens was something of an adventuress : a Swiss baroness who had deserted her husband ; a bold ( and unsuccessful ) businesswoman ; a devout Catholic ; a flirt . She took a liking to the young adventurer , and for the next 10 years Rousseau passed in and out of her household . She nursed and mothered him ( he called her inantan ) ; he tried to keep her accounts in order . From their hours together , especially those passed in the rolling Savoyard countryside , he learned both the nature of passion and the passion for nature . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Rousseau was on his own once more . He taught ; failing that , he wrote a theory of teaching . He spent a year as secretary to the French ambassador in Venice . a miserly incompetent who grudged him gondola rides , and came at last to Paris . the natural destination of young men on the make . Parisian intellectuals at midcentury divided into three factions . The defenders of the established order , untalented and not patronized by the court , did not count for much . The moderates among the Enlightenment Party , influenced by Montesquieu , looked to English models in politics and philosophy . But the real comers  --  Diderot. d'Holbach , and the older Voltaire  --  were what might be called technocrats : believers in benign despotism ; in many cases , atheists . Their forum was Diderot 's Encyclopedia  --  not a neutral reference work , but an engine of propaganda , a 35-volume harangue against tradition and Christianity . Rousseau did his best to join this world . He wrote articles on music for Diderot . He appeared in salons  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistress  --  a laundry maid , illiterate , plain and unfaithful ( James Boswell would be one of her seducers ) . but true to him in her fashion . The children she bore him he placed in an orphanage . In the midst of this existence came the inspi " ation that transformed Rousseau 's intellectual life  --  and ultimately ours . While on a walk to visit Diderot , he saw in a journal an advertisement by the Academy of Dijon offering a prize for the best essay on the question , " Has the progress of the arts and sciences done more to purify or corrupt morals ? " " I felt my head seized by a dizziness , " he wrote later . " A violent palpitation constricted me . .. . I beheld another universe , and became another man . " Rousseau 's answer to the academy 's question , now known as his First Discourse . was a ringing critique of civilization . Simple men were strong , free , virtuous and sincere ; sophistication brought weakness , slavery , vice and hypocrisy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The enlightened knew it , and attacked the Discourse ( though they also made it a best seller ) . Rousseau responded by broadening his critique . A second Discourse , written four years later , identified society Itself as the source of evil . In the state of nature , men had been good-tempered and solitary But once brought together ( by economic scarcity , Rousseau guessed ) , they became competitive , aggressive and vain . Like Hobbes and Locke before him , he saw a social contract as the only alternative to chaos . Unlike them , he viewed the present social contract as unjust , a systematic bilking of the poor . The breach with the plalosophes was complete . Voltaire commented that after reading the Second Discourse , he felt like walking on all fours . " However , in more than 60 years I have lost the habit . " Rousseau did not want to revert to the wilderness ; the paradise of solitude was lost , never to be regained . He did spend the rest of his life seeking ways to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the education of a just man , and in The Social Contract , the structure of a just government . Maurice Cranston leaves him after a sentimental return to Geneva , . where he believed simple virtues might yet be found . Geneva would disappoint him , as would almost all his friends and patrons . The fault was as much his as theirs . Unstable as his father , willful as his ' mtant . Rousseau was bound to be disappointed by life . He devised , however , a system in which his discontents became civilization 's  --  an anthropology of frustration and a politics of yearning . With passion and eloquence , he imparted it to the world . We share it , and suffer from it .                     