@@669815

The response to recent remarks by presidential adviser Edwin Meese attests to the emotional impact of domestic hunger as a policy issue . The resurgence of the hunger issue must seem anomalous to those who share the common assumption that national food stamp availability has effectively eliminated the hunger problem . Although neither the depth of the recent recession nor the administration ' s response to it could have been easily predicted , the basic disillusionment is an inevitable result of a basic structural change made in 1977 that altered the character of the food stamp program . Earlier , when the Nixon administration made food stamps a true national entitlement , virtually all participating households received each month a stamp allotment sufficient to purchase a minimally adequate diet . The allotment varied by family size , but not by household income . What did differ by income was the amount the household had to pay for the stamps , which varied from nothing for the poorest recipients up to about 85% of the face value of the stamps for the least poor eligibles . For those concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pre-1977 program had some desirable features . Virtually every poor family in the country had access to food stamps sufficient for a minimal diet . Those unable to pay were being given the necessary stamps and those apparently able to contribute something were required to do so . Many eligible households failed to participate , either because of the stigma attached to spending the stamps or because they did not wish to spend so much on food even when subsidized . It was , however , the fixed allotment of earmarked scrip that provided taxpayers the assurance that all participants were indeed spending enough on food to purchase an adequate diet . In 1977 , under the leadership of the political odd couple of Sens . Robert Dole ( R. , Kan. ) and George McGovern ( D. , S.D. ) , and with the eventual support of the Carter administration , food stamps were changed to eliminate the recipient purchase requirement , making them free to all recipients . Under this " reformed " plan , still in effect , recipients with the same family size and different incomes receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called " the bonus value " ) between the old minimally adequate amount of stamps and the amount recipients had been paying for them . Thus , a recipient previously paying $75 per month for $200 in stamps would now receive $125 in stamps , free of charge . This structural change had two major purposes . First , it was designed to reduce fraud , partly from illegal resale of stamps by recipients , but largely from the complexities of handling the money recipients had been paying for their stamps . Second , it was designed to increase recipient freedom as part of a larger Carter welfare-reform effort that never panned out . There has been little impact on poorer recipients : They were formerly paying little for their stamps , and now they pay nothing for a slightly smaller , real allotment . To less poor eligibles , however , the new arrangement has become similar in effect to a cash transfer . If the free food stamps amount to less than the household plans to spend on food anyway , the effect is to free up cash that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is easy to see that some recipients might spend as much as or more than their current stamp allotments on food , yet be spending less than the full stamp allotment they would have received under the pre-1977 rules . In short , the change permitted such households to choose to become both hungrier and happier by transferring some expenditures from food to other categories . The problems inherent in the new structure did not manifest themselves immediately . First , the new system was not fully implemented until 1979 . Then in 1981 , several more changes were made , one of which significantly worsened matters . This was the decision to suspend indexation of the food stamp allotments to food prices , a budgetary move that substantially and permanently reduced the real value of the stamps given to recipients in any given income category . A third factor was the recession , which forced more recipient households into the Hobson ' s choice of reducing food expenditures to maintain other expenditures . These developments have led to a growing concern that there is now a new hunger problem , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to which the present food stamp structure contributes to it . Recipients and the hunger lobby often complain that allotments are grossly inadequate to cover a full month ' s food needs . That is , of course , a predictable consequence of the 1977 reform that the hunger lobby generally supported . This analysis can shed some light on Mr. Meese ' s comment about undeserving people taking advantage of private charitable food programs . Both he and his critics seem implicitly to categorize private charity recipients into two categories : ( 1 ) the truly needy , who may deserve additional food assistance ; and ( 2 ) the undeserving cheaters who exploit food distribution programs . The debate concerns the relative size of these groups . In fact , food stamp rules have created a broad intermediate category of poor people who choose to spend much of their limited cash incomes for items other than food . In a sense , these people are hungry " by choice , " in that they have opted for better housing , warmer homes and so on , rather than fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this group will be looking to food pantries and soup kitchens for aid when the food stamps run out , as the program structure assures that they generally will . The implications of all this depend largely on just how paternalistic one wishes to be . At one extreme , Sen. Jesse Helms ( R. , N.C. ) argues for a return to the pre-1977 system : Recipients who do not wish to spend the paternalistically determined amount on food are undeserving , and should either get off the dole or expect to be treated as crooks . At the other extreme are some liberals and Friedmanite conservatives who would like to see this and various other programs replaced by a cash transfer to be spent as recipients wish . Politically realistic versions of this latter option were proposed , of course , by Presidents Nixon and Carter , and proved neither inexpensive nor attractive to the paternalists . Those who do not share any of these ideological predilections may regard the present program as a least evil , but it does not seem appropriate to make any stronger claim for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of economics and affiliated with the Institute of Government and Public Affairs , University of Illinois . Mr. Sullivan is an associate professor of economics at Miami University ( Ohio ) .                     