@@668462

A 7-year-old boy testified today that his younger sister was regularly beaten by a live-in babysitter , and was thrown to the ground by her hair the day she was fatally injured . " She pulled her up by the hair and threw her on the ground , " Ray Mallett told a Middlesex Superior Court jury . The boy was the prosecution ' s opening witness in the trial of the babysitter , Elizabeth Hutchinson , 31 . She is accused of fatally beating 3- year-old Brandy Mallett at the family ' s Everett apartment last year . Ray , perched on the witness stand wearing a Boston Red Sox jacket , described the day police came to his home and took Brandy to a hospital . He said he was downstairs doing laundry when he heard loud bangs and his sister crying . He also said Hutchinson told him to lie to Brandy ' s father about earlier injuries the girl suffered . " She told him that Brandy fell off the tub , " the boy testified . He said Hutchinson hit Brandy with her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The defense attorney , Charles Balliro , told the jurors and Judge James Nixon that Brandy had fallen down the stairs and that older bruises on her body were inflicted by the father , Roy C. Mallett . Mallett is to be tried later on manslaughter charges . " Brandy Mallett tumbled down those stairs wearing her father ' s bruises , " Balliro said in his opening statement . Earlier , the prosecutor said neighbors heard the babysitter screaming obscenities and beating Brandy virtually every day for months before the toddler died of massive head injuries . " They had a regular routine of slapping and beating going on within the walls , " said Thomas Drechsler , an assistant district attorney . Drechsler said Hutchinson was the only one at home when neighbors heard the noises . Hutchinson sat expressionless during Drechsler ' s opening statement . She is charged with murder and assault and battery in Brandy ' s death . The child died of a blood clot on Oct. 29 , 1982 , 13 days after being admitted to Massachusetts General Hospital with a broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ child ' s father was at work as an auto mechanic the day Brandy was fatally injured . Drechsler contends that Mallett knew the child was being beaten regularly . Brandy reportedly was beaten six weeks after the state Department of Social Services received a report of possible child abuse in the Mallett home . DSS has ordered disciplinary action against several employees involved in the case . Mallett ' s two other children , Ray and 18-month-old Kimberly , now are being cared for by their paternal grandparents in Tewksbury , under state supervision . Ray testified at a probable-cause hearing in December that Hutchinson punched his sister , picked her up by the hair and threw her to the floor the day the child was hospitalized . " She was hitting her with a fist in the stomach , " the boy said . " Betty would be beating on Brandy when she was bad . " Also testifying at the probable-cause hearing was Dr. Joseph Custer , associate director of the child intensive care unit at the hospital where Brandy was taken . He said her injuries ranked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believed Brandy was hit " by a fist , arm or 2-by-4 . " Hutchinson ' s lawyer failed last week in a bid to separate the murder charge from the assault and battery charge she faces . He contended that evidence on the murder charge might hamper the defense on the assault charge .                     