@@734685

txt IT TOOK THE Army to do IL but , at last , there 's an answer to the question of whether a man is cooler wearing an undershirt in the summer . With warmer days approaching and the prospect of another summer with air conditioners tuned dawn to save energy , it seemed a good time to settle the undershirt question , one almost every man has an opinion on but few reason , although its " yes " was qualified have any reasons for . But finally the U.S. Army Natick Research and Development Command has an opinion and a with " it depends . " According to John Hansen , director of the command 's clothing , equipment , Looks and materials engineering laboratory , whether an undershirt will make a man feel cooler depends on how much he perspires and how humid a day it Is . But generally , the Army thinks you 're better off with an undershirt because it becomes part of the body 's cooling mechanism . BASICALLY , the body 's perspiration is absorbed by the undershirt , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down one 's back . Any breeze dries out the T-shirt levapora tion is the scientific explanation , which also means it is ready to absorb more sweat . It is this evaporation cycle that actually cools the body Ewhich is why a breeze can suddenly make you cold : the sweat evaporates no quickly the body temperature changes . But not all undershirts work the same . Hansen points out that " natural fibers are hard to beat " when it comes to absorbing sweat . Polyester does n't absorb moisture , so undershirts that are blends of cotton and polyester wo n't work as well in the evaporation process as all-cotton shirts . The same principle applies to polyester shirts . They are not as cool as cotton shirts because they do n't let moisture that 's built up in the T-shirt for on the skin escape . if you 're wearing a polyester shirt next to the skin , perspiration has nowhere to go . IT ALSO EXPLAINS why some men prefer all wool suits in the summer to suits combining wool and polyester . The wool la @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more readily than the suit with polyester in it . Of course , some people do n't perspire much and , thus , may not feel the need for the absorbing and evaporating qualities in an undershirt . But for those who easily work up a sweat just getting to the office , keep in mind that all-cotton undershirts are regulation in the Army .                     