@@735180

txt The air traffic controllers union elected Gary Eads , a regional vice president , to succeed Robert Poli as union oresident . Mr. Poli , who led the controllers in their illegal walkout last August , resigned last week . A union spokeswoman confirmed yesterday that Mr. Eads , central regional vice president for the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization , was elected by the union 's board New Year 's Day in a telephone conference . The announcement is expected to be made today . Mr. Eads was one of the PATCO officials jailed in the early days of the strike because of his refusal to order members back to work . He has a reputation for taking a " moderate and reasoned " approach toward labor issues and negotiations , a union official said . However , Mr. Poli 's resignation probably wo n't help the cause of the thousands of union members who are hoping to get their old jobs back . President Reagan decided last month that although some former air traffic controllers would be permitted to reapply for federal employment , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The White House was quick to reiterate this after Mr. Poli announced he would resign , effective this Wednesday . " This does n't make the slightest bit of difference , " said a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration . Mr. Poli said he was resigning because he was " the symbol " of last August 's strike , an illegal walkout that resulted in the firing by the administration of more than 11,000 controllers . Mr. Poll said he believed his action would ' ' remove a stumbling block " and prompt Mr. Reagan " to restore all the fired controllers to their positions . " Several of Mr. Poli 's critics from within the labor movement asserted that such a statement illustrated the naivete and poor sense of timing that caused Mr. Poll to set his union on a collision course with the federal government . They said that such a gesture might have made sense several months ago , before Mr. Reagan publicly dashed the fired controllers ' hopes . Within the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization there was extensive debate over Mr. Poli 's plan to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some PATCO leaders maintained that only Mr. Poli had the experience and support to keep the struggling union together : others agreed that he was a stumbling block In the path of helping the fired controllers . In any case . PATCO is only the shell of a labor organization . In October , a federal panel revoked the union 's right to represent its members as a result of the illegal strike . The decision is being appealed . A month later , the union filed for protection under federal bankruptcy law in an attempt to reorganize and deal with about $140 million in claims and debts . Further , Mr. Poll became an awkward cause for many labor leaders . Publicly , labor officials supported PATCO and attacked the administration for " union busting . " Privately , however , AFL-CIO officials were furious that the union 's strike action had taken them by surprise . As a result , support was largely symbolic . Mr. Poli said at last week 's news conference that his only regret was that he had n't got his union 's message @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a statement to members : " The union is intact and our struggle will go on . The executive board ( of PATCO ) will remain committed to goals established by you , and will work to see a speedy and successful conclusion to the strike . " Mr. Poll remains a member of PATCO.                     