@@669014

To his supporters , he ' s a visionary . To his foes , he ' s an opportunist playing political games with the future of the West . To Washington , he often looks like a bear dancing at the end of a Russian chain . After 15 years as West Germany ' s foreign minister , Hans-Dietrich Genscher is both the senior diplomat on the international circuit and the most controversial . He certainly is the only foreign minister to have a theory named after him . " Genscherism , " a tag he gleefully embraces , means the belief that the changes in the Soviet Union are real and lasting and that the West should help them along with maximum cooperation and detente . At the moment , this means accepting the Soviet offer of talks to reduce short-range missiles . The United States and Britain , more cautious , oppose this and are openly angered by Genscher ' s pressures for more detente and by his often devious means of pressing his case . To them , Genscherism seems to be a dangerous flirtation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is the country ' s most popular politician , Genscher stirs anger . " Genscher is a friend of neutralism , " said Ortwin Lowack , a member of Parliament from the Christian Social Union , one of the parties which , like Genscher ' s Free Democrats , belong to the governing coalition . " I once told him he is acting more like the Soviet deputy foreign minister than the German foreign minister . " " Chancellor ( Helmut ) Kohl has clearly confirmed his friendship with the United States , " said Bernt Wilz , a Parliament member from Kohl ' s Christian Democratic Party . " But Genscher sometimes gives the impression of concentrating too much on whether ( Mikhail ) Gorbachev has the sniffles . " " Genscher ' s problem is that he believes he is one of the greatest political leaders of the West , " said analyst Jochen Thies of the German Foreign Policy Institute . " He is a tricky advocate for German policies . But he has never had a vision . " " Not so , " said a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vision of the world , and he has had that for more than two years , since Davos . " It was at a meeting in Davos , Switzerland , in January , 1987 , that Genscher uttered the words for which he is most famous : " Let us take Mr. Gorbachev seriously . Let us take him at his word . " From the U.S. point of view , one of the problems with Genscher is that he has a record of being right . He fought valiantly at Washington ' s side to install cruise missiles in Germany in 1983 . He helped the Americans just as valiantly to get the 1987 treaty removing those missiles . When his foes accuse him of damaging NATO , they have to admit that he has been a loyal and vigorous ally over the years . Even those who disparage his wooing of Moscow do not doubt his anticommunism . Genscher ' s anticommunism , like many of his other beliefs , stems from his background . Born in Halle , in what is now East Germany , his father died @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drafted into the Nazi army and was captured by U.S. troops . After the war , he developed tuberculosis and nearly died . He spent three years in a sanitarium , then fled East Germany , became a lawyer and joined the Free Democrats . Personally , Genscher , 62 , is a mass of contradictions . He stands 6-foot-3 and weighs 210 pounds . But his voice is dull , his clothes rumpled . He lacks charisma . Genscher ' s outstanding trait is his appetite for work . He labors 16 hours a day and travels incessantly . Foes who dislike him personally are overwhelmed by his physical stamina , his mastery of detail . Party loyalty is not a strong suit . He became foreign minister in 1974 when the Free Democrats were in a coalition with the Social Democrats . In 1982 , he deserted the Social Democrats to form a coalition with Kohl ' s Christian Democrats . It is the knowledge that Genscher could again defect to the Social Democrats that has forced Kohl to accept Genscherism against what seems to be his better judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal popularity , are on the ropes . In two recent local elections , they have fallen below the threshold of 5 percent of the vote and dropped out of the local parliaments . The fear that this could happen in national elections in 1991 is believed to be a factor propelling Genscher on his risky but popular course . But there clearly is more to the man than opportunism . In what was considered his best speech ever , he told Parliament last month that he , like many West Germans , comes from East Germany and has a responsibility toward all Germans , including keeping them safe from nuclear missiles.                     