@@668186

If there is a single , unmistakable , indispensable element of Ronald Reagan ' s mandate , it is a cut in personal income taxes by something resembling the 10 percent annually for three years he promised in his campaign . It might be more accurate to state that , to retain any semblance of credibility , Reagan must prevent or reverse the tax increases already built into the system . Millions of Americans got belted in the paycheck the first week in January by the biggest Social Security tax increase in history , an exaction which , the public is informed , will be insufficient to meet the actuarial demands of the system . Martin and Kathleen Feldstein observed in a recent Globe column Jan. 6 that a 10 percent cut in personal tax rates , costing the government $28 billion , would be two-thirds offset by higher taxes resulting from inflation . And this does not take into account the impact of the Social Security tax boost . When Jimmy Carter took office , he declaimed that the federal tax system was " a disgrace to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do anything about it . If Reagan does not move immediately and boldly in this area , his record is unlikely to be much of an improvement over Carter ' s . He has fended off inquiries about what he would do to rescue Social Security by saying he would appoint a committee of experts to study the matter . In fact , there is sufficient Social Security literature already assembled , by the Feldsteins , by Alicia Munnell , by the Cato Institute and in dozens of other studies , to occupy the new President from now until 1984 . The payroll tax , FICA on the paycheck , can not be separated from the personal income tax in any realistic discussion of the taxation of the earnings of working people . One in four of all tax dollars currently being collected by the federal government is FICA . The employer-employee tax on a one- or two-earner family reporting $29,700 in total wages and salaries is $3950.10 as of this year . This maximum tax is due to rise to $6133.50 in 1985 and to $10,235.70 in 1990 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and capital formation , seriously interfering with productivity and growth . What to do ? John Pierson , writing in the Wall Street Journal , has tersely sketched a sensible , politically feasible approach to necessarily radical tax reform that might well meet not only the fiscal requirements of the government but the political requirements of the new Administration . Here it is : " Rate cuts , especially at the top , to encourage work and saving ; an end to loopholes that benefit the wealthy ; a national sales tax to replace part of the income tax , with offsetting income tax credits for the poor ; an end to the double tax on corporate dividends and retained earnings ; indexed taxes for both labor and capital to get the government out of the business of profitingfrom inflation ; and an end to the special treatment of capital gains . " The possibility of earmarking a national sales or value added tax ( VAT ) for the hospital and disability insurance elements of Social Security ought seriously to be considered . Such an approach would at one stroke make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up the sorely depleted Social Security pension trust fund , which is expected to be exhausted sometime in 1982 unless it receives emergency assistance . It also would involve rich pensioners , buyers of yachts , Rolls Royces and costly legal advice , owners of exempt securities and others presently receiving special tax treatment in the funding of a vital , compassionate function of this modern state - aid to the disabled and hospital and medical care for the expanding aged population . That these burdens should be borne entirely by working people in Social Security-covered employment is outrageously inequitable . None of these ideas is new , of course . But the urgent circumstances of persistent inflation , unanticipated deficit and consequent government borrowing demands , newly undertaken defense spending and declining productivity argue strongly for heroic measures whose time has come . David B. Wilson is a Globe columnist .                     