@@735629

txt President Reagan 's new proposal last week to limit nuclear arms in Western Europe was supposed to have a soothing effect on jittery public opinion here . But over the Easter weekend it only resurrected more anxiety and a good bit of street theatrics as well . At the height of Saturday 's shopping activity here , a 28-year-old man named Klaus donned his Ronald Reagan props ? a beatup cowboy hat and I Love San Francisco button ? roped off a small area of the central market square and proceeded to designate it as an " atomic weapon zone . " Cheered on by another man wearing a Chancellor Helmut Kohl mask , the makebelieve president ceremoniously unveiled a cardboard missile that , he assured the gathering crowd , " will guarantee peace and security for you people of Bonn , and for you , Mr. Kohl , in the chancellory office . " The sarcasm was n't likely to offer any comfort to Mr. Kohl , who was at an Austrian health resort and was no doubt kept informed of the turmoil back home this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundreds of thousands of West Germans , encouraged by the labor unions and the opposition Social Democratic Party , marched along the country 's backroads and demonstrated outside U.S. military installations to protest the possible stationing of American nuclear missiles here later this year . ( Similar anti-war demonstrations were held during the long Easter weekend in England , Scotland , Italy . Switzerland and the Netherlands . ) The demonstrations were part of the traditional Easter peace marches that have been winding their way through the German countryside for the past three decades . But instead of just a one-time protest this year , the government is worried that they may be a warmup to greater action this fall . The government also is concerned that the protests may poison their efforts to counteract the heavy dose of Soviet peace propaganda that deluged West Germany during the recent election campaign . " Everyone who joins the ranks of the Easter marchers should know that he aids the politics of those who make the peace in middle Europe uncertain . He becomes , whether he wants to or not , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the general secretary of Mr. Kohl 's Christian Democratic Union , on the eve of the marches . " Some say the Soviets wo n't negotiate to reduce their missiles until the first missiles are deployed here and they see the public response , " says a top security adviser to Mr. Kohl . " It may be that the Soviets will wait to see how much pressure these demonstrations will place on the government . " Despite his impressive election victory last month , Mr. Kohl has had to convince a skeptical West German public that the West has been negotiating sincerely with the Soviets at the current arms control talks in Geneva , Switzerland . Seeing public opinion here waver on the question of accepting more American nuclear missiles should those talks fail , the chancellor hoped to be better able to sell the West 's position once Mr. Reagan moved from his initial " zero-option " proposal . Under this proposal , the Soviet Union would dismantle all of its medium-range missiles targeted on Europe in exchange for a U.S. promise to forego deployment of some 572 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these U.S. missiles , West Germany is expected to station 108 Pershing 2 rockets and 96 cruise missiles . ) But after the Soviets rejected this idea and then advanced a new one of their own , some Europeans , particularly West Germans . began blaming the Americans for bogging down the negotiations . Following extensive consultation with the European allies . Mr. Reagan then announced last week a compromise proposal that calls for , without being specific , a partial cutback in deployment plans if the Soviets reduce their arsenal to an equal number of warheads . Mr. Kohl and other officials in his government quickly seized on this new move as a chance to turn around public opinion to their way of thinking . Even before Mr. Reagan made his announcement , Mr. Kohl was circulating a statement praising the American flexibility and laying the responsibility for the next move on the Soviets . And Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher rushed to say : " The key for the success of the Geneva negotiations now lies in Moscow alone , and with it a great responsibility for the decision on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disarmament or new armament steps . The responsibility for the number of mediumrange weapons that exist in the future lies clearly with the Soviet Union . " But that talk does n't go down well with the swelling number of West Germans who want to prevent any new missiles from coming here . " Reagan 's new proposal is no different really from the zero solution . The Soviets have already rejected it , " says Klaus , the Reagan mimic " It was intended solely for the internal politics of Europe . It 's not going to work . " " What we want , " says a fellow protester , " is no new missiles here : it 's unrealistic to tell the Soviets to give up all theirs in order to keep us from deploying . The West should take the first step . " Although such thoughts are in the minority here , they are n't far from the position of the Social Democrats , who want a solution at Geneva that would drastically reduce the number of Soviet weapons and make the stationing of more American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe , they say , could then be balanced at other negotiations , like the current Strategic Arms Reduction Talks , or Start . Moreover , the Social Democrats , who suffered their worst election showing since 1961 after being turned out of power by Mr. Kohl last October . would like to see the Pershing 2 missiles , which strike much faster than the cruise missiles , dropped from deployment consideration . " If we could avoid the Pershing 2s , the emotion of the public debate here would go down , " says Karsten Voigt , a leading foreign policy expert in the Social Democrats ' parliamentary faction . " The Pershing 2 is perceived by the public as a first-strike weapon and the peace movement sees it as ( having ) a warfighting capacity . There is very elaborate , very detailed discussion of the Pershing 2 in the Federal Republic of Germany now . " As the Social Democrats , as well as the anti-nuclear Greens . continue to keep the missile issue boiling , Mr. Kohl and his ruling coalition will be hard-pressed to keep a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advantage for a government to have support from all parties on an issue like this , " says a Kohl foreign policy adviser . " We supported the Social Democrats on the missile issue when they were in office When Brezhnev would come here . all three parties told him the same thing . There was no misunderstanding of the German government position . We do n't enjoy that advantage . "                     