@@668117

THE HARVARD CHAMBER PLAYERS , Young-uck Kim , violin , and Patricia Zander , piano , in a program of music by Mozart , Faure , Stravinsky and Webern in Paine Hall Wednesday night . Young-uck Kim and Patricia Zander opened the summer chamber- music series at Harvard Wednesday night with a program demonstrating the most elevated taste . But not a moment of it seemed rarified , thanks to the technical attainments , the musical understanding and the sheer communicative power of these two marvelous artists . They make an odd pair , in some ways . They are both extraordinary technicians ; there was nary a scrape in Young-uck Kim ' s tone , and not a note in any position , sounded at any dynamic or velocity , that was out of tune . And of course the clarity and variety of articulation and command of color in Zander ' s playing is something almost unique ; and every performance by Patricia Zander is a demonstration of the honor there is in being an ensemble pianist , because to every capacity of the virtuoso she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come because Young- uck Kim can be a rather fierce musician ; there is something predatory in the way he stalks musical truth ( it is evident visually even , in the way he advances on his music stand as the climactic moments approach ; and he is one of those violinists who vocalizes that extra degree of intensity the bow can not summonfrom the strings ) . Zander , on the other hand , is a pianist of the most extraordinary finish , elegance , and aristocratic reticence . Since this is precisely the way much of Stravinsky ' s Duo Concertante is written , the two instruments working in opposed but complementary ways , this performance was naturally one of the highlights of an evening full of them . The only objection arose from the nature of the Grotrian piano Zander played , an instrument of extraordinary loveliness at all the lower dynamics , but one lacking true grit for the louder , more motoric sections of this piece . What is even more interesting than the ways these artists differ is the way the two of them react @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposing characteristics . Thus Young-uck Kim ' s performance of Webern ' s astonishing Four Pieces , Op. 7 took on an almost hallucinatory restraint-even your breathing seemed to intrude upon the music . And Zander , in the Faure , was not simply fastidious but also bold-just the way the music is . " A charm , " wrote Saint- Saens , about this , the earliest of Faure ' s important instrumental works , " envelops the entire work , and makes the crowd of ordinary listeners accept the most unexpected touches of boldness as very natural . " The performance authenticated Saint-Saens ' s description . The Mozart F-Major Sonata , K. 376 that opened the program was also very fine , though not quite on the level of the rest of it . In this style , Young- uck Kim was unable to match Zander in the charm and variety of her phrasing and articulation ; and she herself used the una corda pedal to excess , presumably to keep the performance in scale , but in the process sharply reducing the full spectrum of color that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was a rebuke to what too often tries to pass as ensemble in too many chamber-music concerts today . The Harvard Chamber Players series continues next Wednesday night with a recital by pianist Jane Coop.                     