@@670025

REMEMBER COUNT DRACULA ' S greatest fear ? The vampire always had to flee to his coffin at dawn to avoid the rays of the rising sun , else he would wither away . Well , an other nemesis of humans , the weed , is about to be subjected to the same peril . A new kind of weedkiller is being developed by a University of Illinois plant physiologist . The herbicide exploits a weak point in the complex chemical reactions by which plants produce chlorophyll , the magic molecule that makes plants appear green . Sprayed on , say , a lawn or a corn crop at night , the weedkiller lies dormant until the sun comes up . Within hours after sunlight bathes the plants , the weeds wither away while the grass or corn plants remain unharmed . The photodynamic herbicide , as it ' s called , is the outgrowth of basic research by Constantin A. Rebeiz of the horticulture department at the university ' s Urbana campus . Since the early 1970s , Mr. Rebeiz has been delving into the secrets of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chemical reaction by which plants convert sunlight , water and carbon dioxide into chemical energy that , in turn , is converted into plant food . DURING THE HOURS of darkness , plants begin taking the first chemical steps in making chlorophyll , building up a supply of precursor molecules . At dawn , light triggers the final reactions ; chlorophyll is produced and photosynthesis gets under way . For years , scientists assumed that nature had selected an efficient method of making chlorophyll and that all plants evolved using pretty much the same step-by-step chemical route . But Mr. Rebeiz , using some new laboratory techniques , has discovered to his and other scientists ' astonishment that this isn ' t true . So far , the Illinois researcher has uncovered six different chemical routes by which plants can make chlorophyll . More astounding to the scientists was Mr. Rebeiz ' s discovery that each species uses a unique sequence of one or more of these routes to make its chlorophyll . This week , in fact , Mr. Rebeiz announced that he is able to reclassify plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make chlorophyll . For example , corn , wheat and soybeans use one of two possible routes at night to make chlorophyll precursors and then , at daybreak , they switch to one of two entirely different routes . Later in the day , they go back to one of the two original routes . Violets , on the other hand , follow a completely different pattern and apples and clover still another pattern . TO SCIENTISTS , the discovery raises a question as to why so many different methods of making chlorophyll evolved . But to Mr. Rebeiz it also suggests a strategy for controlling plants . If two plants growing side by side use different routes to chlorophyll , it should be possible to gum up the works in one without harming the other . This is what Mr. Rebeiz has done . His weedkiller is built around a simple chemical known as ALA ( delta-aminolevulinic acid ) . This is the raw material all plants begin with in making chlorophyll regardless of which routes they use to the final product . Mr. Rebeiz has found that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ALA at the proper time , it will accumulate a surplus of precursor molecules . In the presence of light these precursors are activated , but the plant is unable to deal with them . The plant essentially chokes or poisons itself . Nearby plants , using different routes , are unaffected even though they also might have received splashes of ALA . In field tests , Mr. Rebeiz has sprayed a lawn of bluegrass at night with ALA and the next morning watched such broadleaf pests as creeping charlie , wild clover , mustard , thistle and dandelions wither away in the sunlight while the bluegrass remained unharmed . ALA alone has all the markings of an ideal herbicide . It is present throughout nature and is nontoxic to animals . It quickly degrades and is completely gone from the environment within 24 hours , Mr. Rebeiz says . TO TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE of the new strategy , however , the scientist has developed a dozen additives for ALA . Some of these enhance a plant ' s conversion of ALA to the poisonous precursors , others inhibit the conversion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plant to make excessive amounts of ALA . With this array of additives , Mr. Rebeiz says , weedkillers can be tailored to specific crops and weeds . Regional distributors of farm chemicals could easily mix formulations to deal with local weed problems , he believes . The main question concerns the toxicity of the additives . " At the worst , they won ' t be any more toxic than the herbicides we now have , " Mr. Rebeiz says . In any case , they will be much more selective . The University of Illinois last year filed for patents on Mr. Rebeiz ' s research . The school ' s lawyers , the scientist says , currently are negotiating licensing agreements with a major Illinois company , which he declines to name . He says he and his colleagues have already worked out a photodynamic herbicide formulation to control weeds that plague corn and soybean crops . Mr. Rebeiz says he has another surprise in store for farmers and gardeners , which he will announce this summer . It seems he and his wife , a botanist who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are vulnerable to a photodynamic insecticide . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 