@@668222

It began as a whisper . Now it is a roar heard from all parts of the state as the federal government begins dismantling what labor , industry , and many politicians think is one of the most successful antidotes for unemployment . Last week the protests against eliminating CETA skill programs was heard in Lawrence . At the Wang Laboratories Inc. , the Lower Merrimack Valley Industry Advisory Council hosted a conference so business and industry could voice its concern about reductions and eliminations of CETA skill training programs . Two weeks ago , it was the Women in Construction that warned that its funding had been knifed so that it will have to close up shop at the end of this month . In Springfield and New Bedford skill training , partly funded by CETA programs , will be all but eliminated , according to some CETA authorities . Why the uproar ? The facts are that these CETA programs in Massachusetts have provided the basic skills to help disadvantaged people get off welfare and into industry . So successful have been the Springfield and New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people from across the nation have visited and tried to copy their success . Massachusetts Women in Construction was a national model copied by other states because it worked . It provided the preapprenticeship training that made women eligible to work in trades never open to them before . It had to have something since even the building trade unions and contractor associations thought it was successful . Mayor Lawrence P. LeFebre of Lawrence bemoans the loss of such CETA programs as injuring Greater Lawrence ' s efforts to keep and maintain a steady labor pool to meet the area ' s labor needs , a must for both small and large businesses . He insists such programs are essential for the continued growth and revitalization of his area ' s economy . The same sentiments are being echoed in Springfield , Lowell , New Bedford , Fall River and Boston . It is the older urban areas that will feel the crunch the most . But the most important ingredient supplied by these government sponsored programs has nothing whatsoever to do with economic benefits . The thing it gave disadvantaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of American workers with a paying job instead of taking handouts . Most of the people who have enrolled in these training courses have found jobs - paying jobs that permitted them to get off the welfare lists . Yet such are the ways of government statistics , once the programs are eliminated most of those who would have taken advantage of the programs will not even be counted as unemployed . The reason for this is that the people who would have entered such programs will have given up hope of ever finding a job and won ' t be looking . And if you are not looking for work , according to the federal government , you are not counted as unemployed . It was the CETA programs that might have made them employable in the eyes of industry . The CETA skill programs have proven that the unemployable can be made employable . And to too many of the state ' s unemployed the abolition of these programs is going to be intrepreted as meaning the federal government would rather provide handouts than jobs . The protests are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indication that anyone in Washington is listening . A presidential election donnybrook is shaping up for the Oil , Chemical and Atomic Workers International union . Anthony Mazzocchi , health and safety director of the union , has announced his candidacy against Robert F. Goss who is serving his first term as president . The election will be held in August at the union ' s Denver convention . Massocchi , 54 , lost the election to Goss in 1979 by 1 percent .                     