@@670239

WASHINGTON  --  Japan blocked a U.S. request for a multilateral review of Japanese quotas on beef and citrus imports , but expressed hopes of settling the dispute through another round of bilateral negotiations . Japanese officials said the impasse is only temporary , noting that Agriculture Minister Takashi Sato could return to Washington by the end of April to present a workable program for liberalizing Japanese imports of high-quality beef , oranges and orange juice . The Reagan administration , disappointed by the Japanese action , said it will resubmit its request for a multilateral review to an international trade body in early May . Japan ' s " continued resistance " will " undoubtedly lead to a further escalation of this dispute , " U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter warned . Notwithstanding protests from its farmers opposed to increased beef and citrus imports , Tokyo remains under pressure from other Japanese economic interests to settle this and other pending trade issues in order to defuse U.S. congressional anger against Japan . Mr. Sato recently failed to persuade the U.S. to renew a bilateral accord covering these commodities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these quotas scrapped completely rather than have incremental quota increases that Japan offered earlier . The U.S. move blocked by Japan on Friday would have created an independent panel to hear the dispute under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , a Geneva-based body regulating global trade . Under GATT rules , such a panel can ' t be established unless all of GATT ' s 96 member nations agree to it . Japanese officials said their action was intended only to give Mr. Sato more time to muster political support for a compromise that could satisfy the U.S. without threatening the livelihoods of thousands of Japanese farmers . U.S. officials estimate that U.S. beef exports to Japan could double to $1. 3 billion annually if the quotas were eliminated . However , Japan is seeking a lengthy grace period to soften the blow to its cattle industry . In another trade issue , South Korea has indicated that it ' s prepared to settle its beef squabble with the U.S. after South Korean parliamentary elections April 26 . Using methods similar to Tokyo ' s , Seoul last month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hear this dispute . The U.S. has complained that South Korea has banned all imports of U.S. beef since May 1985 , despite previous commitments to lift this curb . South Korean officials said they will have more latitude in reaching an accord with the U.S. after the elections . If such an agreement isn ' t reached , South Korea could be the target of an unfair-trade investigation by Mr. Yeutter ' s staff at the behest of the American Meat Institute , a Washington-based organization representing the cattle industry . That action could lead to trade penalties against South Korea . In Tokyo , meanwhile , a spokesman for Japan ' s Foreign Ministry said the U.S. and Japan will hold a working-level meeting April 19 and 20 on monitoring exports under rules of the Paris-based Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls . The spokesman said Japan will explain its strengthened monitoring of sensitive exports to Communist bloc nations . Separately , the European Community asked Japan to clarify terms of a U.S.-Japan agreement to open up the Japanese public-works market to contract bidding by U.S. construction companies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets with bilateral accords that exclude other countries . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     