@@669847

WASHINGTON  --  President Reagan , fearful that Iraq is steadily weakening in its war with Iran , has ordered aides to lay new plans to protect other Persian Gulf states from the violence and to shore up Iraq . As an outgrowth of the president ' s secret order , signed in recent days , the administration has just dispatched a high-level team to oil-rich Persian Gulf states in hopes of arranging contingency plans for U.S. use of military facilities in case the war spreads , U.S. officials said . The team , led by Assistant Secretary of State Richard Murphy , will visit Saudi Arabia , Oman and Bahrain , the officials added . The president ' s order also instructs the State Department to look at ways to prevent an Iraqi " collapse " in the war , perhaps by persuading countries such as France and Jordan to provide more arms . The new activity reflects growing fears among senior Reagan administration officials that Iraq could buckle under or that Iran might simply decide to widen the war . Either way , the conflict could present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even before the presidential election in November , officials fear . U.S. officials widely expect a big new Iranian offensive soon . Intelligence experts estimate that Iraq will be able to resist that , but they wonder how long Iraq , an economically strapped country of 14 million people , can continue to fight a war of attrition against Iran , a country of 42 million . Even if Iraq continues to repulse attacks , as some experts expect , Iran could decide to lash out at Iraq ' s Arab supporters by launching terrorist attacks on other Gulf countries . Despite the American fears , many diplomats and administration aides still doubt that Saudi Arabia and other moderate Gulf states are ready to agree with the U.S. officials traveling to the region on specific new contingency plans for dealing with a spreading war . The Arab states continue to fear that they will invite a radical backlash if they openly plan any military activities with the U.S. Officials and diplomats say that a lower-level , less urgent U.S. mission to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states in December didn ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to facilities in an emergency . " There ' s no indication these people are going to come back with anything more specific than what already exists , " warns one administration official . Officials and diplomats say that a lower-level , less urgent U.S. mission to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states in December didn ' t make any progress in laying plans for U.S. access to facilities in an emergency . " There ' s no indication these people are going to come back with anything more specific than what already exists , " warns one official . This official asserts that the mission is part of a " long-range " and ongoing effort to discuss possible use of facilities with Arab states , rather than a " scramble to lay down plans for U.S. intervention . " Like the U.S. , Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states are deeply worried that Iran could overrun Iraq and start spreading its brand of Islamic fundamentalism around the Persian Gulf . But in the wake of the withdrawal of U.S. Marines from Lebanon and the lack of progress on American initiatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ skeptical than usual about depending on Washington for security . Still , officials said that Saudi King Fahd personally approved the visit by the American team , which also will include Major Gen. Edward L. Tixier , a deputy assistant secretary of defense . The officials are expected to arrive in the Gulf region in the next few days , administration aides said . A presidential directive , issued before the officials departed , said they will review with Gulf leaders ways the Iran-Iraq war might escalate . In addition , it said , they are to attempt to " obtain agreement for contingent access to Gulf facilities " if escalation looks likely . Officials note that , since the U.S. mission to the region in December , Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states have grown increasingly concerned about Iran ' s attacks in its war with Iraq . The war " has a starker reality than it did in the past , " an administration aide asserts . Thus , some officials argue that this is a good time to again approach the Saudis and others to discuss plans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , will ever publicly declare it has agreed to military contingency plans with the U.S. But they say that the Saudis may be willing quietly to expand military facilities on their own , with a tacit understanding that Americans could use them in a crisis . At the same time , the U.S. would like to strengthen Iraq ' s defenses against a possible new attack from Iran in the 40-month-long war of attrition . U.S. officials believe Iran hopes to conquer Iraq with a major offensive and then look elsewhere in the Gulf region to spread its influence . Officially , the U.S. remains neutral in the Iran-Iraq war . But as the president ' s new order indicates , the U.S. is tilting increasingly toward Iraq as the chances for an Iranian conquest increase . But U.S. ability to help Iraq directly is limited . The Reagan administration itself isn ' t prepared to ship arms to Iraq , a harshly anti-Israeli state that the U.S. has accused of human rights abuses . Moreover , the chances the U.S. could find a way openly to aid Iraq may have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Iraqis have been using chemical weapons in the war with Iran . Iraq has consistently denied using the weapons . But United Nations experts have confirmed that they are being used against Iranian soldiers , and the Reagan administration has condemned Iraqi use of the weapons . So the U.S. is focusing on stepping up consultations with France and Jordan to see whether they can send arms to the Iraqis . France , which has widespread investments in Iraq , has sent the Iraqis advanced warplanes and missiles in the past year , and plans to send a new batch of planes this year . Also , Iraqi Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz said in a recent interview that the U.S. has assured Iraq that Israel won ' t attack a proposed new pipeline to transport Iraqi oil  --  a pipeline that Iraq desperately needs for oil sales that can finance the war effort . And the U.S. has begun actively trying to stem the flow of weapons deliveries to Iran . American officials say that U.S. pressure already appears to have succeeded in reducing the supply of weapons to Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Israel . But China hasn ' t pledged to stop selling arms to Iran , officials say . All told , senior Reagan administration officials are frustrated and worried by their limited ability to influence the course of the Gulf war and the political problems that hamper their efforts to help other states protect themselves from the violence . Some say they are more worried about the prospect of violence spreading through the Gulf than any other potential foreign-policy crisis this election year . Of course , experts have been wrong many times before in their forecasts about the course of the long war between Iran and Iraq . Predicted offensives often have fizzled , and , in the last few weeks , Iraqi defense has proven to be stiffer than many skeptics had predicted . But it is precisely this record of uncertainty that troubles some Americans and Arabs . Saudi Arabia ' s ambassador to the U.S. , Prince Bandar Bin Sultan , told reporters at a lunch yesterday : " The unpredictability of ( the war ) is what worries everybody . " Credit : Staff Reporter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @               