@@668840

Ralph Sampson said Friday he would enjoy playing with his friend Michael Jordan and the Bulls . The 7-foot-4-inch center has spent his entire career with the Houston Rockets , but is a free agent and will remain so until the National Basketball Association signs a collective bargaining agreement with the players union . Sampson told WMAQ-AM that he enjoys the thought of playing with Jordan , whom he played against when Jordan was at North Carolina and Sampson at Virginia . " Michael and I talked a month or two ago at his basketball camp and we spoke about the idea , " Sampson said . Bulls management had courted Sampson after he failed to reach an agreement with Houston , but the Bulls traded for center Artis Gilmore on draft day and said they were no longer interested in pursuing Sampson . Asked if , under the right conditions , it would be correct to say he wants to play in Chicago more than anywhere else , Sampson said , " I just might say yes . Chicago would be a great place to play . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come out to support the team . " Tailback Parnell Sylvio , a junior college walk-on for the Indiana University football team , died of a stroke after collapsing during the first day of practice . Sylvio , 20 , a 6-foot , 200-pound transfer from Nassau Community College in Garden City , N.Y. , had completed test runs of 880 and 440 yards , with a 10- minute break in between , when he complained he was not feeling well , said sports information director Kit Klingelhoffer . After being transported by golf cart from the track where the runs were performed to the football field , Sylvio collapsed , Klingelhoffer said . Sylvio died about 6 p. m . Klingelhoffer said he believed it was the first death during training in the school ' s football history . Cook County Circuit Judge Albert Green has restored a Peoria off-track betting license to Balmoral Racing Club , saying the Illinois Racing Board lacked authority to reverse its decision to grant the license . Last month , the board gave exclusive rights to the Quad City Downs , effectively revoking a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state constitution contains no provision permitting the board to change its mind . Doug Williams threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to Ricky Sanders and Steve Cox kicked a 56-yard field goal as the Redskins beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 23-17 in a National Football League exhibition game in Washington . Stefan Johansson ' s Formula One car burst into flames after he hit a deer during practice at the Austrian Grand Prix in Zeltweg . The deer was killed and blood spattered the car . Johansson was unhurt and will drive a backup car in Sunday ' s race . Johansson ' s McLaren-TAG was going nearly 150 miles an hour when it hit the deer head-on . The car went crashing into a barrier and skidded down the track , hitting the barrier repeatedly . " There are bits of the deer all over , and the car smells horrible , " said Joe Ramirez , the team coordinator for McLaren . Nelson Piquet set a track record to take the provisional pole . His top speed was 159. 457 m. p. h . Nigel Mansell was second . Defending champ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 500 at Pocono International Raceway in Long Pond , Pa . His speed was 200. 915 m. p. h . Rick Mears was second . Elliott Forbes-Robinson was more than two seconds quicker than Sarel van der Merwe during qualifying for the Lowenbrau Classic IMSA Camel GT sports car race in Elkhart Lake , Wis . Driving the Nissan GTP prototype , Forbes-Robinson ' s average speed was 116. 824 m. p. h . Dave Wharton took more than a second off the 400-meter individual medley world record at the Pan Pacific swimming championships in Brisbane , Australia . Wharton ' s time was 4 minutes 16. 12 seconds . The record had been 4 : 17. 41 by Alex Baumann , set at the 1984 Olympics . Curt Fraser of the Black Hawks had a goal to help Team USA to a 3-1 victory over the U.S. Olympic Team in Lake Placid , N.Y. . . . Tim Kerr , 27 , the Philadelphia Flyers ' leading scorer last season , is expected to be off the ice for at least nine weeks after surgery to correct a problem with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after earlier surgery . The Flyers said he could be out until mid-November . Edwin Moses finished 10 meters ahead of Kriss Akabusi , winning the 400-meter hurdles in 48. 07 seconds in London . Butch Reynolds won the men ' s 400 meters in 44. 42 , with Innocent Egbunike second at 44. 80 . . . . Stefan Fernholm threw the discus 229 feet at a meet in Malmo , Sweden , the longest toss this year.                     