@@668049

It and its myriad small business counterparts throughout New England form the job-generating economic backbone of the region . That ' s a central conclusion of a forthcoming 522-page report , funded by the US Small Business Administration and the Small Business Foundation Inc. , written by a series of experts on the New England economy . The numbers may startle folks who derogate the importance of small companies : Independent businesses employing 19 or fewer people were responsible for creating 70 percent of the net number of new jobs in the region between 1969 and 1976 , according to David L. Birch , a senior research scientist at MIT whose paper leads off the report . At the same time , said Birch , independent companies with 20 to 500 employees experienced a 14 percent net loss of jobs . " Sure there ' s a very high rate of failure among smaller businesses , " said Birch in an interview yesterday , " but there ' s also a very high rate of job generation among them . It ' s like a bathtub with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in and water going out . But the small business bathtub is fuller than the others . " The report ' s editors , Prof. Jeffrey Timmons of Northeastern University and David Gumpert , associate editor of the Harvard Business Review , said that " historically , small businesses have pioneered in establishing and supporting New England ' s major industries , and today firms employing fewer than 20 persons comprise the backbone of the region . " " Despite the crucial importance of small business to New England , the region ' s small business sector appears to be systematically penalized by existing policies , regulations , and institutional factors " they added . " Unless substantive policy initiatives are launched to reward and encourage rather than penalize small firms , this strength will become the Achilles heel of the region ' s economy by the end of the 1980s . " The editors single out the following recommendations : - Develop , test and carefully evaluate vehicles that can identify and assist potential and growing " backbone " entrepreneurs and be prepared for frequent failure at a rate of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in entrepreneurial and management skills . - See whether it would be feasible to offer small firms the exclusive rights to inventions they develop under government grants or contracts . - Increase federal research and development to contracts to small high- technology firms and universities . - Seek federal procurement policies to increase the demand for the products and services of small business firms , with particular emphasis on firms run by women and minorities . - Develop ways to close the credit and risk capital gaps faced by " backbone " firms through a public-private effort which would make equityinvestments and low-interest loans in the $10,000 to $100,000 range , and improve the flow to informal capital . - Provide federal assistance to lower the property tax rates for firms that create jobs . - Stimulate urban revival by development grants and other direct and indirect incentivies to developers and small firms which participate in redevelopment projects . - Create a special unit in the US Commerce Department to set up a program , modeled after the Massport foreign trade program , to foster exporting by small firms and involve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ needs . - Provide direct energy and transportation tax credits to job generating firms . - Alter legislation concerning interpretation of the so-called " prudent man rule " so that ERISA and other pension funds may earmark five to 10 percent of their resources to risk capital .                     