@@735212

txt Acme-Cleveland Corp . disclosed in proxy material that several executives received " golden parachute contracts " guaranteeing that payment of their salaries would be extended in the event of a hostile takeover of the company . The agreements cover " about four or five " officers . Richard Ainsworth , vice president and treasurer , would n't name the contract holders . But one apparently was B. Charles Ames , who joined the company last year as president and chief executive officer . Mr. Ames previously was president and chief executive of Reliance Electric Co. , which w ? s acquired by Exxon Corp . in 1979 . Acco:ding to proxy material prepared for a stockholders meeting to be held Thursday , the agreements " are designed to retain the executives and provide for continuity of management . " They would n't take effect unless there was a " change in control . " The agreements provide that a change of control would occur if " the persons who were directors immediately before the transaction cease to constitute a majority of the board of directors , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . terminates involuntarily ( other than for cause ) . " The contracts also provide that a change of control would occur if two or more persons were elected directors against the desires of a majority of the board . The company has 10 directors . If a change of control occurs , the executives could continue in their then-present positions for three years without a salary decrease . Should they be fired during the three-year period , their salary and benefits would continue for at least two years from the date of firing . " I do n't think it 's all that unusual . " Mr. Ainsworth said of the contracts . " The basic reason ( for the contracts ) is to attract highly qualified and capable people and to retain them . " He said there was n't any indication the company would become an acquisition target . The company also disclosed it entered a " termination arrangement " with Herbert A. Gardner , who left the company last year after being passed over for the job of president and chief executive . Acme-Cleveland said it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ operating officer , a leave of absence from March 31 , 1981 , through March 31 , 1982 , at his annual base salary of $133,000 . Mr. Gardner , 56 years old , will retire April 1 . and will receive supplemental retirement benefits from the company until he reaches age 62 . Those benefits are designed to make up the difference between the early retirement benefits payable at age 56 and at age 62.                     