@@670139

BRUSSELS , Belgium  --  The European Community Commission said it will investigate possible Japanese dumping of some types of computer memory chips in Europe . The commission said it was acting in part because it wants to encourage European manufacturing of semiconductor chips . It decided to open the investigation in response to a request filed last December by the European Electronic Component Manufacturers Association . The industry association contends that the chips have been dumped on the European market at substantially below cost in order to boost Japanese exports to the community . The association asserts that the Japanese are selling the chips at less than half of their fair market price in Europe . The commission ' s decision to investigate that claim is in line with the EC ' s recent policy of stepping up anti-dumping actions against Japan . It also follows the commission ' s complaint before the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , or GATT , charging that the U.S. and Japan unfairly entered into an agreement on semiconductor pricing . Willy de Clercq , the EC external relations commissioner , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices " are fixed arbitrarily " by the U.S. and Japan . Takeshi Kamitani , a spokesman for the Japanese mission to the EC , said he wasn ' t in a position to comment on the merits of the dumping complaints . He said he hoped the investigation would be conducted " strictly in conformity with GATT regulations , " including a " strict estimation on prices and costs and damages to the European side . " In past dumping cases , the Japanese have disagreed with the EC ' s methods of calculation , he said . Mr. Kamitani also worried that Japanese semiconductor makers would be hurt during the investigation because of importers ' concerns that dumping duties eventually could be levied . " Maybe at the end of the investigation the EC will find dumping not well founded in fact , but during the course of the investigation Japanese companies may have some difficulties exporting to the European market , " he said . The EC action comes against a backdrop of stepped-up pressure on Japan by the U.S. and Britain on trade issues . The U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariffs on imports of Japanese electronic products that contain semiconductors , charging that Japan violated the agreement between the two countries on pricing and world market share of semiconductors . Japan yesterday said it isn ' t ready to take additional steps at the moment to avert those tariffs . Britain , meanwhile , has threatened retaliatory action against Japan for allegedly discriminating against British telecommunications equipment . A commission spokeswoman denied that the U.S. and British actions had influenced the EC decision . Sources outside of the commission , however , said announcement of the investigation appears to have been speeded up . The investigation announced yesterday will involve semiconductor chips called erasable programmable read-only memories , or Eproms . The investigation is expected to last several months and could lead to a call for Japanese manufacturers to increase their prices on the European market or face anti-dumping duties . The EC computer industry in 1986 used Eprom chips valued at about $170 million , of which about 78% were imported from Japan , according to commission figures . The Japanese share of the EC market was up from 60% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ EC is still considering a more recent request by the industry association to investigate possible dumping of another type of semiconductor chip , dynamic random-access memories , or Drams . The commission declined to comment on when it would make a decision on that request . It also was learned yesterday that the commission , probably within a few weeks , will open a dumping investigation of Japanese electronic printers . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     