@@734722

txt he.v York Times Nerds Service MIAMI-1n the third etliner hijacking this week , a National Airlines DC-10 bound from Miami to Puerto  --  Rico with 223 persons aboard was diverted to Havana Thursday night , but was allowed to leave Cuba for its original destination after more than four hours . National 's Flight 372 was hijacked at about 7:40 p.m. by two men carrying a jar apparently filled with gasoline , said William Nettles , a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent . The accused hijackers were held in Havana . Wednesday , seven men diverted an Air Florida flight to Cuba after threaten . ' ing to ignite gasoline . They have been identified as Cuban refugees who arrived in the Freedom Flotilla earlier this year . SUNDAY , ANOTHER Air Florida Jet was hijacked by one man , also identified as a Cuban refugee . He threatened to blow up the plane with a " bomb " that turned out to be a bar of soap packed in a box . Federal Aviation Administration officials have attributed the hijackings to homesickness on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Florida this spring . Airport employes in Key . West said they had overheard some of the hijackers in Wednesday 's case complain that they had n't been able to find jobs . If some refugees want to return to Cuba . some want to be sure they go back by some legitimate means , not hijacking an aircraft to do it , " said Jack Barker , an FAA spokesman in Atlanta . Thursday 's hijacking came after the flight left Miami International Airport at 6:30 p.m. , Barker said . After more than four hours at Havana 's Jose Marti Airport , the jetliner took off for San Juan at 1:11 a.m . Friday , Barker said . There were no reports of injuries alining the 211 passengers or 12 crew members , he said . THE CUBAN government reported it removed two accused hijackers from the plane , Barker said . Earlier , officials said they thought there were as many as five hijackers . The hijackers were Spanish-speaking men , but it was not known whether they were Cuban rerugees , he said . Thursday 's hijacking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the new wave of hijackings began . Representatives of 17 airlines serving Miami met Thursday with officials of the FBI , the FAA , and the Dade County Public Safety Department to discuss ways to end the hijackings . One precaution considered was renewed use of the " behaviorial profile " to spot potential hijackers by their mannerisms and personality traits . Eastern Airlines delayed a Miami-toSan Juan flight for two hours Thursday for a " precautionary check " against a possible hijacking , all airline spokesman said . " With all the things that have happened in the past week , there comes a time to exercise more caution , " an Eastern spokesman , Jim Ashlocic , said .                     