@@670176

BORK ' S DEFEAT could signal a new round of administration infighting . Conservatives move swiftly to head off any move by Chief of Staff Baker to pick a moderate court nominee . That would give Reagan foes " the ability to say they had broken his back , " says a Justice Department official . Some conservatives hope the flap will lead to Baker ' s departure . Reagan ' s mood may strengthen the hard-liners ; aides say he is angry and determined to punish his foes . White House aides grow weary of sniping from the right . They argue that conservative groups failed to mobilize on behalf of Bork , leaving the White House to carry too much of the load . Some charge that conservative activists are more interested in raising money than winning on issues . Right-to-lifers write Meese that they ' ll go to the wall against oft-mentioned candidate Judge Patrick Higginbotham because of his decision voiding Louisiana abortion restrictions . DEMOCRATS FRET about the problems of their current candidate crop . Some party leaders continue to hope that one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with New Hampshire ' s filing deadline just nine weeks off , there seems little chance that Cuomo , Bradley or Nunn will run . Moynihan ' s plea for favorite-son candidacies to ensure an open convention finds few converts . Dukakis controls damage to his Iowa effort from the Biden tape flap , naming Susan Estrich , a Harvard law professor , to head his national campaign . Gephardt woos key Biden supporters , lavishing praise on him in public appearances . Jackson wows white audiences in Iowa and Democratic National Committee members in Washington , but he and Babbitt both face money woes . Gore ' s move to the right draws increasing interest . STALEMATE LOOMS in the Senate over invoking the War Powers Act . Weicker ' s introduction of a resolution yesterday would give Congress the chance to call troops home from the Persian Gulf after a given period . He and fellow Republican Hatfield press for a straight invocation of the law , but Democrats push a modified version that doesn ' t raise sticky constitutional questions ; they are " afraid of being doves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there aren ' t enough votes to end an inevitable filibuster by GOP leaders but say that the debate will send a signal of congressional uneasiness . Some Republicans float the notion of a commission of lawmakers that would advise the president about strategy in the gulf . But the administration resists significant compromise on the issue , saying it would violate the separation of powers . CLEAR PICTURE : The movie and TV industries , which continually clash over issues like TV syndication profits and network-produced shows , find something they can agree on . Movie lobbyist Jack Valenti and NBC President Robert Wright are among the co-sponsors of a testimonial for Senate communications Chairman Inouye . OLD ROSTENKOWSKI AIDES never die . They just join the Washington office of Dewey Ballantine , the big New York law firm . David Brockway , staff chief of the Joint Committee on Taxation , is the latest . Former top Ways and Means aide John Salmon joined the firm in 1985 ; successor Joseph Dowley signed on early this year . BROADCASTERS ABANDON for this year their push for legal changes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The National Association of Broadcasters says lawmakers wanted too much in return , including reinstating the fairness doctrine . VOLCKER VOLUNTEERS a prediction . Sitting in a New York audience of economists , the former Fed chief was approached by a reporter with a question about Japanese interest rates . " I have no comment on Japanese interest rates , but I ' ll give you an extended comment on U.S. interest rates , " he said . The room grew silent . " They will fluctuate , " he said with a laugh . FREER TRADE with Canada faces questions as the new treaty faces scrutiny . Interest groups and lawmakers question key provisions . The merchant marine industry already launches its opposition , fearing lost repair and other business . The U.S. uranium and meat industries could face greater competition . Wine makers , initially jubilant about liberalized marketing of U.S. labels , could turn sour if the provincial officials who control wine sales refuse to go along . Michigan Rep. Levin will demand clarification of auto provisions ; he still sees loopholes allowing Canada to lure Asian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warns the White House he will focus on whether the pact sets a bad precedent by allowing challenges to U.S. rulings and even new laws before arbitration . Key chairmen Bentsen and Rostenkowski take a wait-and-see stance . Democrats may try to trade their OK for a White House deal on the trade bill . MINOR MEMOS : Rep. Cooper tells Fed Chairman Greenspan : " I don ' t know whether you took lessons in Delphic utterances , but I think you ' ve passed the boards . " . . . Sen. Gramm says he and OMB director Miller spent their freshman year of college drinking beer and discussing " the leisure of the theory class . " . . . Just in case the Dukakis-Biden furor went unnoticed , the Massachusetts GOP sends political reporters copies of a Boston tabloid with the screaming headline , " Duke ' s Darkest Hour. "                     