@@668110

Jane Cahill Pfeiffer resigned as chairman of NBC yesterday in a formal note to network president and chief executive officer Fred Silverman two days after he had , in effect , fired her . Pfeiffer , a 47-year-old former IBM executive and - at a reported NBC salary of $400,000 - one of the highest-paid women in American business , was stripped of all duties Tuesday by Silverman . Unofficial industry sources said Silverman acted under pressure from Edgar H. Griffiths , chairman of RCA , the network ' s parent company , in the second major RCA executive ouster in less than a month . Silverman said yesterday in a prepared statement that an agreement was reached with Pfeiffer on her contract , which was to run until October 198l , and that " all outstanding issues have been satisfactorily resolved . " An NBC official refused to comment further on the dollar settlement or on a replacement for Pfeiffer . Silverman said Pfeiffer also had stepped down as a director of both NBC and RCA . In a brief , two-sentence " Dear Jane " note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " valued the contributions " she had made to NBC in her 20-month tenure , and wished her " all success in your future endeavors . " The note crossed paths with her " Dear Fred " letter of resignation , also dated July 10 , in which Pfeiffer detailed what she saw as the network accomplishments during her time in office , admitting that " the road has not been easy , and our goals have not been fully achieved . " She spoke of a past " erosion of morale " in NBC ' s news division , which has fallen from second - behind CBS , ahead of ABC - to third in the network ratings , and noted that this morale problem " has been turned around " of late . She cited NBC ' s recent hiring away of two top CBS newsmen , Roger Mudd and Marvin Kalb , and praised the leadership of both NBC News president William Small and his boss , network vice chairman Richard Salant . Salant and the heads of two other divisions , legal and personnel , reported to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pfeiffer was actually outranked by network president Silverman in a complicated executive structure . She also mentioned the network ' s West Coast division , source of NBC ' s entertainment programing , as " having made strides , " and now being " recognized by the creative community . " NBC has ranked third in prime-time programming for three years . After Silverman relieved her of duty Tuesday , ordering the division heads in her control to report directly to him , Pfeiffer indicated that he , too , may be in trouble with the parent RCA and was seeking to renew his own contract . Pfeiffer reportedly said Silverman told her " he would probably follow me out the door in six months , and there was no way we both could stay . " The Tuesday action reportedly climaxed a series of complaints about Pfeiffer ' s performance from other network and RCA executives . Silverman was hired away from ABC two years ago to lead NBC out of the cellar in prime-time ratings , and help improve profits , which reportedly are but half of the rival @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brass , whose chairman , Griffiths , recently forced the resignation of RCA president Maurice R. Valente . Pfeiffer , who served IBM for 20 years and once was considered for a Carter Administration cabinet post , joined NBC shortly after Silverman . It was she who engineered his jump from ABC . In her resignation letter , written at her Connecticut home and delivered to NBC ' s New York headquarters , Pfeiffer said she has " much affection for the people at NBC , and wish you well . " She refused to talk further about Silverman or the network , but friends said she was " disappointed that that is the way people in some companies operate . " She reportedly plans to relax for awhile , and is quoted as saying " I think I ' ll have a wonderful summer and work on my golf and tennis . Maybe I ' ll get to the beach , and that will be delightful , too . "                     