@@668736

The city is seeking to increase the construction budget by more than 50 percent for O ' Hare International Airport ' s people-mover system , a key but controversial component of the airport ' s $1. 5 billion improvement program , aviation industry sources disclosed Wednesday . Airline sources said the officials apparently want to lengthen the transit system and change its configuration around the terminal area . City officials declined comment or were unavailable to explain the proposed increase . However , under a proposal presented by top city officials to the airlines that operate at O ' Hare , construction costs for the mini- transit system would zoom to $150. 4 million , up from the $97. 9 million previously budgeted , the sources said . The airlines , which are paying for most of the O ' Hare upgrading , including the people mover , reportedly were less than enthusiastic about the proposal when it was presented Tuesday . " I can tell you this , " said an executive . " The people mover is a long way from happening as far as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my view . The whole premise has gone haywire . " The people mover is designed to speed and improve passenger circulation throughout the airport , tying together O ' Hare terminals and connecting the terminal complex with rental car and remote parking areas . An airline official said one element of the revamped plan , and one that would increase costs , calls for extending the system to an area on the airport where the city hopes to promote construction of a hotel and commercial complex . Under an agreement governing the entire project , the airlines must be consulted about proposed budget increases . If the airlines refuse to approve the $150 million figure for the people mover , the city might still choose to spend that amount . But to do so , it would be forced to reduce some other element of the airport project . The massive O ' Hare program , scheduled to stretch into the early 1990s , includes plans for a new terminal for United Airlines , a new international terminal , improved cargo and parking facilities and improved aircraft taxiways . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ budget change by June 4 . Paul Karas , city public works commissioner , declined comment on the proposed cost increase . Attempts to reach Jerome Butler , aviation commissioner , and Earl Hord , first deputy commissioner , were unsuccessful . J. Richard Street , a United executive who heads a committee of airline representatives at O ' Hare , also was unavailable for comment . Though a contract has not been signed , the city has selected the Matra French Group to construct the people mover , which would operate on a " guideway " that would snake through the airport . In September , Matra proposed to build a version of the system then under discussion for $101. 4 million , with an agreement to manage it for five years for an additional $18 million . Norbert Charbit , vice president of the firm , said Wednesday that later negotiations concluded in April resulted in a reduction of the construction cost to $95 million . Charbit said the city has not asked for further talks since then , and he expressed surprise at the proposed budget change and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the Matra executive expressed confidence that an agreement on a new figure for an expanded system could be reached quickly . Though the first spade of dirt has not been turned on the people mover , it has been the subject since 1984 of political squabbling and interdepartmental strife at City Hall as well as court battles over who will build it . A group headed by Westinghouse Electric Corp. originally won tentative approval from the city to construct the system . Matra , which had submitted a lower bid , filed suit and the city decided to enter a new round of negotiations with all the firms interested in the project . In September , city officials announced that the French firm had been chosen for the job . That prompted a suit by Westinghouse , but a Cook County Circuit Court judge ruled that the city had acted properly.                     