@@735605

txt Financial Federation Inc. lost a court fight with a large shareholder it claimed had attempted Illegally to gain control of the company . Ruling in a suit brought by Financial Federation last year , U.S. Judge William Gray said Severyn Ashkenazy and several other defendants did n't violate securities law in accumulating more than 20% of the thrift holding company 's common stock . According to lawyers for both sides , the judge ruled that Mr. Ashkenazy and his alleged associates did n't act in concert and therefore did n't need to report their total purchases to thrift and securities regulators . Mr. Ashkenazy currently owns slightly less than 10 ' , , of the company 's stock and he has an option to purchase an additional - IT , . He said previously that he might try to accumulate a 25% interest , but yesterday he said he was n't sure he would buy more stock soon . Proxy Material Responding to certain counterclaims filed by Mr. Ashkenazy , Judge Gray also stated that proxy material prepared by the company for its 1982 annual meeting was misleading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they passed a bylaw prior to the meeting that was designed to prevent Mr. Ashkenazy from taking a seat on the board . Mr. Ashkenazy won two seats on nine-member board after a proxy fight at the April 1982 meeting . The judge had issued an injunction against the bylaws change pending yesterday 's decision . In addition to Mr. Ashkenazy . who is a Los Angeles developer and hotel owner , the Financial Federation suit named his company , Ashkenazy Enterprises Inc. , Harold Brown , Marshall Goldblatt and Fred Roven as defendants . In a telephone interview , Mr. Ashkenazy said : " I feel I am totally vindicated . I would hope that this will be a new beginning in my relations with other board members of FinFed. and I would sincerely hope that Mr. Johnson and Mr. Popejoy would stop throwing mud at me and would get down to business to make FinFed one of the finest savings and loans in the nation . " Edward Johnson , Financial Federation 's chairman , and William Popejoy , president and chief executive officer , could n't be reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he was surprised by the decision and that there is " a very good chance " Financial Federation will appeal . Legal Skirmishing The court decision follows more than 12 months of legal skirmishing between Financial Federation and Mr. Ashkenazy in state and federal courts . At various times , the Securities and Exchange Commission and state and federal thrift regulators also have been involved in the battle . Last April , the SEC filed a similar suit against the four stockholders but settled the charges out of court in August . More recently , the Federal Home Loan Bank Board said in February that it is investigating whether Mr. Aslikenazy violated federal thrift laws in accumulating his holdings . Aside from the Bank Board investigation , there are other matters still pending . Last month , Mr. Ashkenazy filed suit in state court charging Financial Federation and certain officers and directors with defamation and interference with contractual relations . According to a lawyer for Mr. Ashkenazy , the suit will be transferred to federal court for resolution later this year . Also pending is a possible investigation of Ashkenazy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a state court bailed the California Savings and Loan Department from investigating Mr. Ashkenazy 's fitness as a director until the resolution of the federal court case .                     