@@668799

The still-young mayoral election campaign took another sharp personal turn Friday as Mayor Harold Washington warned Ald. Edward R. Vrdolyak ( 10th ) that he will reply in kind to personal attacks based on his past , and then he did just that . " I eschew it and dislike it , " the mayor said about attempts to tarnish a person through his past associations . He then launched into an attack on Vrdolyak ' s brother , Peter , who served two months in jail in 1971 after pleading guilty to federal interstate vice charges , stemming from stag parties staged by the 10th Ward Democratic organization . Washington also alluded to Peter Vrdolyak ' s plea of guilty to embezzling union funds in 1980 , for which he was placed on five years probation . In addition , the mayor mentioned the alderman ' s past civil tax controversies . Vrdolyak repeatedly has talked about the mayor ' s federal conviction for failing to file income tax returns and his subsequent 30-day jail sentence . " I have paid for my past peccadilloes , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show " At Issue , " to be broadcast at 9 : 30 a. m . Sunday . " Mr. Vrdolyak has not . " Moments before Washington attacked Vrdolyak , who has begun circulating petitions for a possible mayoral bid , was one floor below him in the WBBM television studios , taping the Channel 2 " Newsmakers " show . Although Vrdolyak has said several times this week that he will make every attempt to keep race out of the upcoming mayoral contest , he spent much of the TV show criticizing WBBM-TV for agreeing to an intensified affirmative action program in response to a boycott called by Operation PUSH earlier this year . " You suffered a boycott . You went through a long process , where you had to sign an agreement with the PUSH organization . You have extreme sensitivity how you cover black elected officials , " Vrdolyak snapped at the program ' s host , Walter Jacobson . " You already admitted you treat me different . You already admitted you can talk to me about baggage , but you can ' t talk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jail , " Vrdolyak said . " Here , everytime there ' s a chance to give the benefit of the doubt to this administration , you bend over backwards , " he said . Washington also took a jab at the news media , saying , for the most part , it was irresponsible to report Vrdolyak ' s comments earlier this month that Sheriff Richard Elrod ' s Nov. 4 election defeat was partially caused by anti- semitism in the black community . " That was patently false , " Washington said , adding that " the media must be the arbiter " in deciding what charges to report . Washington also repeated his charge that Vrdolyak ' s tentative mayoral candidacy was not serious and that the alderman was acting as a " shill " to enhance the candidacy of former Mayor Jane Byrne . Byrne denied that charge Friday while she was taping another television program , " Eyewitness Forum , " on WLS-TV ( Channel 7 ) . Byrne said she had not had any strategy meetings with Vrdolyak , as Washington said , and , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said she planned to avoid any personal attacks on any of her opponents , but would concentrate on their records in office . And , to back up her claims , she unveiled a new series of television commercials critical of the Washington administration ' s record on tax increases over the last 3 1/2 years . Vrdolyak , during the taping of another television show , " City Desk , " on WMAQ-TV ( Channel 5 ) , said he has not decided if the Cook County Democratic Central Committee , which he heads , will make an endorsement in the Feb. 24 mayoral primary election . Referring to several Democratic ward committeemen who have announced their endorsements of Byrne , Vrdolyak said , " I think it ' s meaningless when you have committeemen who make an agreement and then break it to do their own thing . " He had asked committeemen to withhold endorsements until it is clear who are the candidates.                     