@@668148

THE BOSTON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA - Seiji Ozawa , conductor , with soloists , the Tanglewood Festival Chorus , John Oliver , conductor , the Boston Boy Choir , Theodore Marier , director , the Brooklyn Boys Chorus , James McCarthy , director , in a performance of Mahler ' s 8th Symphony in Symphony Hall yesterday afternoon . Mahler ' s 8th Symphony is at once his most ambitious and least characteristic work . Its two vast movements , the great hymn " Veni , Creator Spiritus " and the setting of the final pages of Goethe ' s " Faust , " link the world of unquestioning belief and the whole tradition of humanism - much as the end of " Faust " itself encompasses classic and romantic , Greek and German tradition . The music , which Mahler wrote with astonishing speed , as if in a single impulse , calls for enormous forces ( 1030 people were in the first performance Mahler conducted in Munich ) ; the composer himself said his work was so " individual in content and form " that he could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universe begins to vibrate and resound . These are no longer human voices , but planets and suns revolving . " And indeed that is what you can feel when you are listening to a great performance of the final chorus of this music as the music spirals upward in its ecstatic conclusion . However it is equally possible to resist the symphony , to feel the absence of those autobiographical qualities that make Mahler such a personal composer ; he is one of the great questioners of music , and he can seem unconvincing as he piles answer upon answer , climax upon climax . Such a lot of effort , Stravinsky wrote to the composer Delage after hearing this symphony , to establish that two plus two equals four . Seiji Ozawa ' s 1972 performance of this symphony at Tanglewood , which I didn ' t hear , was reportedly one of the great triumphs of his career ; certainly much in the current performance is very remarkable . For once soloists seem to have been chosen on some basis other than calling the New York managements and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , the second alto , were excellent , and the singing of two of the sopranos , Faye Robinson and Deborah Sasson , was rapturously beautiful . ( Despite the splendid sonority of the baritone Benjamin Luxon and the bass Gwynne Howell , it has to be reported that these two artists brought over from Britain were in no way superior to the two Americans who sang these parts in San Francisco a few weeks ago , William Parker and John Cheek . ) John Oliver ' s Tanglewood Festival Chorus is beginning its season on its own most remarkable level - there was nothing forced in even the largest , highest climaxes , and the soft singing never lost focus and intensity ; a wonderful , rolling bass sound underpinned everything . The two boy choirs from Boston and from Brooklyn contributed enthusiasm and accuracy , and James David Christie at the organ launched the proceedings with an exalting roar . These forces numbered 389 ( 121 orchestra players , counting the extras and the balcony brass , 200 adult choristers , 60 boys , and 8 soloists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced at the first performance . But they taxed the physical resources of Symphony Hall to the uttermost - the chorus spread from the extended stage into two sections of the first balcony ; Sasson and a brass ensemble performed from the second balcony . And the end of the first movement summoned more volume than it seemed even Symphony Hall could take - it was an exciting , deafening jumble of sound . Ozawa excels in organizing forces of this size - that jumble of sound was probably an acoustical rather than a musical phenomenon ; it was amazing to watch him coordinate all that energy and effort , and from memory . Of course the symphony calls for everyone to go full-tilt only at climactic moments , and much of the music calls for more finesse than force ; and this is something that needs to be rehearsed as extensively as getting 389 people into the same place at the same time . But there was little evidence that that kind of rehearsal had occurred - countless specific directions of the score about modification of tempo and contrast of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make a magical hush were acted on . The first movement never did find the right balance between grandeur and impetuosity ; much of the orchestral playing there was rough in attack and coarse in sound . On the other hand , Ozawa ' s shaping of the whole final chorus , the " Chorus mysticus , " was masterly and as the words dissolved in the mystery and majesty of music one heard the universe resound as the planets and the suns revolved in their courses .                     