@@670097

I would like to respond to the article on the quality of care provided by health maintenance organizations ( page one , Sept. 16 ) . First , it is important to understand that we aren ' t talking about some fly-by-night operations . The vast majority of HMOs are affiliated with highly reputable doctors and medical centers in their communities . The care provided is in accordance with standards set by physicians in the community . HMO physicians are trained at the same medical schools as their fee-for-service counterparts . To say the HMO doctors would cut back on care for the almighty dollar is to imply that physicians who are paid a fee for each service they perform will order unnecessary services just to make a buck . Undoubtedly there are doctors guilty of both extremes , but they are a minority . In discussing quality of care at HMOs , it is essential to recognize that HMOs have pioneered techniques in monitoring the quality of care provided in the doctor ' s office . People who receive their care through the fee-for-service system have no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that care will be reviewed by anyone to make sure the proper procedures were carried out in the proper way . HMOs do this as a matter of course . They know that too many tests and procedures can be as dangerous as too few . The whole point of monitoring quality is to make sure the care provided is appropriate . When it comes to medical services , more is not always better . The article failed to mention one of the major conclusions of a recent Rand Corp. study  --  that medical care at HMOs " may have been better for health " than the fee-for-service system . One last point : Since 1973 , enrollment has gone from four million to 21 million people . They have the option to go back to their fee-for-service doctor and traditional insurance if they are not satisfied . With a membership growth rate of 26% the past two years , HMO doctors must be doing something right . James F. Doherty Washington  --  - Your generally excellent article ( Aug. 20 ) on Rand Corp. ' s study of patient satisfaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as providing a " negative picture of HMOs . " In so doing , however , you overlooked several important finds of the study . Unlike those who were assigned ( for purposes of the experiment ) to Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound , individuals who had chosen for themselves to enroll in the HMO were just as satisfied overall with their medical care as those who used fee-for-service physicians . In addition , dissatisfaction with doctor-patient relationships for those assigned to the HMO was greater in the experiment ' s first year than at the end . This suggests that some of the difference may be transitory , caused by disruption of exisiting doctor-patient relationships that most enrollees , assigned or self-selected , would experience when entering a traditional HMO . However , the assigned group was still less satisfied with these relationships at the experiment ' s end , probably because HMO physicians practiced a different style of care and enrollees had less opportunity than fee-for-service patients to see the same physician on subsequent visits . We believe our results are best summarized as posing the following questions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afforded by the HMO when the trade-off involves longer appointment waits , reduced availability of hospitals and specialists , and poorer doctor-patient relationships ? " While reduced access may be necessary to achieve cost savings , it is not clear that the quality of the doctor-patient relationship has to be part of this trade-off . As our article notes , systems of care that can cut costs without harm to this relationship are likely to do well in the competition to attract and retain consumers . Allyson Ross Davies John E. Ware Jr . Joseph P. Newhouse Robert H. Brook Rand Corp . Santa Monica , Calif.                     