@@735076

txt Air India plans to order three Lockheed Corp . L-1011 long range " Dash 500 " jetliners , boosting the troubled jumbo jet program , industry sources said . By becoming the first new customer for the program in two years , Air India seems likely to encourage Burbank , Calif. - based Lockheed to maintain a production rate of at least one a month next year . The purchase is valued at more than $200 million . Neither Lockheed nor Air India would confirm that Lockheed has been selected in the airline 's program of replacing its nine older Boeing Co. 707 jets . But the industry sources said a " letter of intent " has been sent to Lockheed , indicating that Air India will buy three L-1011 TriStars and will place three more of the planes on option . Spare Parts A long range L-1011 scheduled for delivery in two years normally would sell for less than $70 million , but the Air India order apparently involves a large amount of spare engines and other parts . Such a large order is n't unusual for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is being flown by 12 other airlines , with three more to get their first planes this year and in 1982 . Lockheed 's last new customer , Air Portugal , ordered three planes in September 1979 . Lockheed Chairman Roy A. Anderson has said in recent months that if a dearth of orders forced a " protracted " annual production rate between six and 10 aircraft , the company would consider canceling the program or taking other action to cut its losses . Lockheed currently is running its line at an 18-a-year rate , but hopes to maintain a 12-a-year rate next year and build from there on anticipated new orders . Depressed Market The world-wide market for jumbo aircraft has been depressed in the past year of slow airline traffic growth , and carriers , especially in the U.S .. have ordered a range of newly designed , more fuel efficient airliners powered by twin-jets . The L-1011 and its main competitor . Douglas Corp . ' s DC10 , are tri-jets . Air India had been considering both planes for its long routes from Bombay into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For its more populous flights , it uses 10 Boeing 747 jumbo planes , with four engines . The airline is counting on receiving its new planes in 1983. when it will start retiring the 707s , the spokesman said . Unlike most U.S. carriers , Air India has been turning a profit this year . Thus , the three L-1011 options may be firmer than most of the 47 options Lockheed currently holds from airlines around the world . Lockheed 's L-1011 backlog has dwindled to 35 , from 53 a year earlier , as orders have dried up . At the end of June , 208 of the planes were in service . Wall Street analysts generally believe Lockheed would be better off discontinuing the TriStar program , which has been a constant drain on earnings , and concentrating on its profitable defense contracts . Lockheed stock prices fall , as a rule , when the company talks bullishly about prospects for the L-1011 . In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Lockheed stock closed at $34.125 , down $1.50 . Mr. Anderson has said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future . At least three engines are required for long or over-water flights , and the L-1011.500 is designed for what he calls " long thin routes " that do n't generate enough passengers to fill a 747 . Some Lockheed officials had said selection of the L-1011 by Air India could give a boost to sales efforts with other developing nations , by showing one airline 's faith in the continuance of the program . One Lockheed officer said the company would have 10 planes to produce next year for 1983 delivery , if the Air India order is counted . One single-plane order has n't yet been announced , he said , and the other six aircraft are to be built for Delta Air Lines and Air Portugal . Lockheed expects at least two outstanding options to be converted into firm orders later this year for 1983 delivery , he said .                     