@@668067

A Boston City Council hearing on an application for $19.8 million in federal funds to help finance the proposed $350 million Copley Place complex was abruptly canceled yesterday when the city and the developers could not reach agreement on construction hiring requirements . At issue is the city ' s requirement that at least 50 percent of the construction workers be residents of Boston , that 30 percent of the work be done by minority construction firms and that 10 percent of the workers be female . Citing court challenges to the requirements , the developers have balked , saying that if they go along , they may be told in the midst of construction that their hiring practices were illegal , according to a source familiar with the negotiations . Representatives of both sides met until 10 p.m . Wednesday in an effort to resolve their differences . Teri Weidmer of UIDC said yesterday that although no agreement has yet been reached , " We do not think the project is in serious trouble . " We are very close to reaching an agreement that reflects the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The executive order was issued by Mayor Kevin H. White during his re- election campaign last September . He vowed Wednesday to enforce the order even if it meant losing the project . Yesterday , White said he was " optimistic " that an agreement would be worked out that would comply with terms of the order . The complex would be built on 9.5 acres of vacant land near the Copley Plaza exit from the Massachusetts Turnpike and in air rights over the turnpike itself . UIDC has already signed a lease with the turnpike requiring that once the project is complete , 50 percent of the permanent jobs would go to Boston residents ; 50 percent would go to women ; 30 percent would go to minorities and 17.2 percent would go to residents of the neighboring area . The lease also calls for 20 percent of construction workers to be minority and 5 percent of the work to go to minority firms . Weidmer indicated that the lease would have to be re-worded if UIDC were to follow the mayor ' s order . Of the $19.2 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by UIDC to the city of Boston , with interest , and would be used in the future to fund neighborhood development projects . Some $3.8 million would be an outright grant and $1 million would be used to administer the program . The proposed project includes two hotels with a total of 1700 rooms ; an office building with 640,000 square feet of space ; retail area of 359,000 square feet and a parking garage with 1500 spaces . The retail area would include one large department store - most likely Neiman-Marcus - and numerous smaller stores . The grant and loan application must be approved by the city council and forwarded to HUD by April 30 . Although yesterday ' s hearing was canceled , another hearing had already been scheduled for Tuesday and will be held as planned , according to Councilman Lawrence S. DiCara , chairman of the Committee on Planning and Development which is holding the hearing . B08025295                     