@@734976

txt For a number of years it has been evident through polls and the public prints that most Americans are deeply concerned about the excessive presence of handguns in our society . That concern grows more acute as we see Presidents , public figures , friends , and fellow citizens gunned down ; as we read of tragic accidents and petty quarrels that result in death and injuries by the tens of thousands ; and as we grow ever more fearful of the stranger on the street , the drunk at the bar , or the person knocking on the door in the dark of night . In this fear , Americans have embarked upon a deadly spiral of handgun proliferation . They have obtained guns by the millions to protect themselves from the millions already in circulation . But the protective weapons themselves have only added to the climate of fear as they are stolen by criminals , found and fired by children , or used in the passion of a quarrel . The Tribune has advocated strict and comprehensive handgun control for many years , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would like to see this society move to a point where it is possible finally to restrict handgun possession to a few small and specialized fields ? police , the military , private security , and sport target shooting . In the meantime , we favor handgun registration and licensing and any federal measure that promises to move in this direction . Now , perhaps , Americans are beginning to sense the futility of using handguns to defend against handguns . They are coming to the conclusion that the answer to the threat of handguns is Armed and dangerous America is armed and dangerous , a nation so saturated with deadly handguns that all citizens  --  those with guns and those without  --  must live in fear . In this and subsequent editorials this week The . Tribune will seek to penetrate the bewildering mire of emotion surrounding the handgun issue and to suggest what can be done to free America from the menace of handguns. to remove the threat , physically and irrevocably . Handguns must ultimately be brought under strict control . In this and subsequent editorials we will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguments . We urge our readers ? whether for gun control , against it , or undecided ? to consider carefully our arguments and those of the other side . Above all , we urge you to make your voice heard ? through letters to our Voice of the People and to your representatives in government , and through contributions to groups seeking to influence legislation . We know very well that many will disagree with those opposed to handgun control are already making themselves heard , . loud and clear . But we are confident that the vast majority will share our concern . If this majority makes itself heard as loudly and clearly as the minority , our legislators are bound to respond . Tomorrow : The legality of handgun control .                     