@@670064

When China and America resumed educational exchanges in the mid-1970s after a three-decade lapse , both countries seemed to have a lot to gain . To Chinese seeking to modernize a backward economy , study in the U.S. offered a chance to make up for the gaps in scholarship left by decades of political and social strife . To Americans seeking a friend in Asia to counter the Soviets there , scholarly exchange offered a chance to influence China ' s elite . In terms of the number of scholars involved , the program has done quite well . It has eclipsed Chinese exchanges with other countries , including the exchange with the Soviet Union when it was friendly with China in the 1950s . And even when the Chinese have boycotted U.S. wheat , threatened U.S. airlines ' landing rights and canceled cultural exchanges in disputes over textiles and Taiwan , educational exchanges have been left untouched . " A Relationship Restored " ( National Academy Press , 266 pages , $19. 95 ) , by David M. Lamapton with Joyce A. Madancy and Kristen M. Williams @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comprehensive analysis of Sino-American educational exchanges , and what it shows is that the Chinese have come a lot closer to meeting their goals than the Americans . The aim of the U.S. may be to teach Western ideas and values to China ' s next generation of policy makers . But most Chinese students seem to have other priorities . Between 1979 and 1983 , the authors say , fewer than 12% of the Chinese students sent here by their government studied business , law or the humanities . And the number of students who chose American studies was too small to tabulate . Rather , students ' choices reflected the Chinese government ' s desires , expressed in many an annual plan , to acquire Western technology . So two-thirds of the hand-picked Chinese government-sponsored students have brought home skills in engineering , mathematics , biology or physics . Partly that mirrors the usual flow of information from a rich to a poor country . But the trend in China , the authors say , has been more pronounced . And in America ' s unfettered research atmosphere , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , were it sought directly by Chinese businesses or government agencies , might be subject to export controls . Meanwhile , U.S. scholars visiting China to research such fields as archeology , anthropology and political science still find their studies seriously hampered by Chinese government restrictions on fieldwork . Americans are rarely allowed to take part in archeological digs . Access to archives , museums , research institutes and libraries is frustratingly limited . At the start , American universities insisted that the Chinese pay their own way . It hasn ' t turned out that way . Between 1979 and 1983 , the authors estimate , $337 million was spent to educate Chinese students here . The U.S. government , foundations and universities , and American friends and relatives here paid far more of that cost than the Chinese government . What ' s more , Chinese students here are sometimes required to kick back part of this U.S. money to their work units in China . American scholars studying in China , however , face ever-escalating government-imposed fees for research materials and for such activities as conducting interviews and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange lies with the Chinese government . But part lies also with American universities , which have vigorously supported Chinese students ' admissions without , perhaps , calculating closely enough what they might get in return . American universities say they have bent over backward for Chinese students at least partly because of the students themselves . They are an impressive lot , many of whom have overcome huge odds to arrive here . " I have to believe they enrich our student body , " the admissions director of an Eastern school of management said recently . But when Chinese students return home , they return to the system that sent them . For all the prestige that a foreign education conveys in China these days , there ' s also a lot of suspicion , hostility and bureaucratic opposition . A Chinese government official estimated a few years back that 70% of returned students weren ' t being used appropriately , and contact with foreigners , while permitted , was no simple matter for them . While covering China for this newspaper from 1983 to 1985 , I was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had come to know a Chinese graduate student who was a sophisticated interpreter of government and politics , and we were friends . He tutored me in Chinese and we talked freely . But when I ran into him in Peking last year , I was a foreign correspondent , he had become a sought-after foreign trade adviser , and we were strangers . " It ' s not safe to talk to you , " he whispered , edging away from me . " I ' ll call you . " He never did.  --  - Ms. Bennett is a reporter in the Journal ' s New York bureau.                     