@@735058

txt The mystique of the Supreme Court ? from its august quarters to the stately photographs of its members ? has a powerful appeal to Americans . This small group of individuals is entrusted foe life with the duty to stand for the lasting prInci/ pies of the Constitution , against the temporary immilses to abandon them . This mystique is the main source of the Supreme Court 's politiCal strength , but it has eroded . And this leaves the court vulnerable to he dangerous recent efforts to reduce its authority . Many forces have come , together.at this period In our history to reduce the unique stature . of the court : ' It , has become fashionable to debunk all myths , no matter how useful . We have learned to believe that no principle can be absolute , and this leads ? to a distrust of the very idea of principle . Our whole view of the world ? through science , philosophy , : the arts ? lids been darkened by ambiguity ; ' certainty of knowledge about anything ? let alone  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ become suspect . ; ? But too often the Supreme Court 's own behavior has played into the hands of the demystifiers . And the original decision overturning anti-abortion taws is a case In point . The Tribune supported the court 's abortion decinion and continues to ' support the availability of regal abortions . But how the Supreme Court explains its decision and the precise way in which that decision Is stated make all the difference in whether a controversial ruling will weaken the court . And in the abortion case , the Supreme Court ' could n't have done this part of its work snore ineptly . Justice Harry Blackman 's majority opinion has many flaws , which have been thoroughly examined by legal scholars , But one of them stands out in its ill effect on the public 's perception of whether the court is a special , principled institution . Justice Blackmun wrote , in effect , that the Constitution 's guarantee of privacy ( which , by the way , is nowhere to be found explicitly in the Constitution ) means that pregnancies in the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the second three months can be regulated just a little , and pregnancies in the last three months can be aborted only to protect the health ? Including that slippery notion , the mental health .. ? of the mother . Now this may very well be a suitable way for a piece of legislation to treat the question of abortion , but it Is simply implausible that it can be Inferred from the text of the Constitution . It is quite explicitly based on medical judgments made by Justice Blackmun , who has no special competence ( or for that matter authority ) to make them . And , since medical ideas change with every new discovery , these medical judgments can not stand the test of time . In fact , already the law has had to face the gruesome business of what to do when an abortion leads to the delivery of a fetus which , with current medical technology , may be able to survive . If the late Alexander Bickel was right that the court " should declare , as law only such principles as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreseeable future ? gain general assent , " the Supreme Court under fire A series of bills in Congress challenge the fundamental power ' of the Supreme ' Court to determine the meaning of the Condtitution . This is the second of three editorials examining how the court has made itself politically vulnerable ? by squandering ? its special strength and how this essential institution of government must now be defended . h justices should have been extremely careful in ow , they handled the abortion case . Instead , the court blundered ahead , ' deciding the issue in a way indistinguishable from the way a legislature would go about deciding it and falling to make any persuasive link between its judgment and the constitutional text . ? ? The Supreme Court , after all , did not . have to settle the entire abortion question in a single term ' of court . It did not have to preenipt state legislatures entirely ; it could have declared unconstitutional laws that flatly prohibited virtually all abortions and left it to legislatures to experiment with different approaches . It did not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very final stages of pregnancy when the distinction between a fetus and a baby is little more than a function of its location . The Supreme Court need not have settled one of the more difficult moral questions of our time in a single , thunderous stroke . Apparently it so lacked humility that it actually thought it could . The abortion case , though one of the most controversial , is not an isolated example ' of the i court 's arrogant failure to reach its decisions in a principled fashion . It settled the difficult question of reverse racial discrimination by reaching for an expedient middle position that satisfies no principle ; it should have avoided the issue entirely until the society was ready to accept the proposition that the principle of equality means that , the law should be color-blind . It created a body of legislative reapportionment law that had the odd result of declaring unconstitutional state systems that mirrored the bicameral arrangement the Constitution itself established for Congress . And the repeating spectacle of the nine justices writing nine separate opinions on a point of constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether the court is really dealing in principle at all . If the Constitution really says something worth enforcing , can all nine justices have sharply divergent opinions about what that something is ? As the mystique of the court declines , people begin to believe that the justices are not really interpreting the Constitution at , all but rather deciding , like enlightened despots , what they think is best for all the rest of us . And if that is the only question , then the people are better judges than the justices . . ? Of course it is not the only question , and this is why the political weakness brought on by the Supreme Court 's self-inflicted wounds is so very dangerous right now . Tomorrow : How the court can be protected .                     