@@668487

ALBUFEIRA , Portugal - The Portuguese government said today that a Moroccan is being held in the assassination of a leading PLO official who had advocated peace with Israel . Roberto Carneiro , Portugal ' s acting internal administration minister , identified the suspect only as 26-year-old Al-Awad of Casablanca . Carneiro declined to say if authorities believe the suspect was the man who yesterday fired five shots into the head and chest of Issam Sartawi , 47 , a cardiologist trained in the United States . In Damascus , Syria , a radical Palestinian faction which has broken awayfrom the PLO claimed responsibility for the attack on Sartawi , who was European coordinator for the Palestine Liberation Organization . " It is our pleasure to communicate to you our success in implementing the death sentence towards a criminal and a traitor , " the Revolutionary Council of the Fatah said in a statement issued in Damascus . The council said it carried out the attack because Sartawi had " sold out " the Palestinian cause . It denounced the dead man as a " cheap servant " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The council claimed responsibility for the attempted murder in London last June of Ambassador Shlomo Argov of Israel and for the killing in January 1978 of Said Hammani , another Palestinian moderate who was PLO representative in London . Sartawi ' s killer , who was clad in a light suit , eluded immediate capture despite heavy security at the hotel where Sartawi was shot while attending the 16th Congress of the Socialist International in this coastal resort town , 120 miles southeast of Lisbon . Carneiro said the suspect was carrying a Moroccan passport and US currency when he was arrested last night at a small hotel in Lisbon 11 hours after the shooting . He said the man identified as Al-Awad had entered Portugal from Spain on Friday . The Lisbon police said the suspect would appear tomorrow before magistrates who would rule if there were grounds for keeping him detained . Inspector Daniel Apolonia said the police were seeking the driver of a taxi that fled a Portuguese National Guard patrol a few hours after the attack at the town of Ourique , 40 miles north of Albufeira @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was attending the socialist conference as deputy general secretary of Britain ' s largest labor union , the Transport and General Workers , said he was surprised that the assassin had escaped from the hotel . " I have never seen so many security men at a conference as I saw at this one , " Kitson said . " There must be repercussions from this , because this was a man of peace . It builds up the hate once again . " Witnesses said the gunman walked up to Sartawi and fired five times . His secretary , Anwar Abu Eisheh , was hit in the thigh . People screamed and ran for cover as Sartawi fell to the floor beside the reception desk and died in a pool of blood . National guardsmen fired several shots at the killer as he fled . A policeman chased the gunman through the streets but lost him in a park . Eisheh said in a radio interview that he saw two men run from the hotel . Sartawi was a key figure in contacts between Israelis and the Palestinian guerrilla movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting between Yasser Arafat , the PLO chairman , and Israeli leftists . He was nominated for the 1983 Nobel Peace Prize by the American Friends Service Committee , the US-based Quaker organization , for his conciliatory stand . He reportedly worked toward the exchange of Israeli and Palestinian prisoners taken during the Israeli invasion of Lebanon last June . The Socialist International , a conference of socialist politicans , ended its four-day conference yesterday with tributes to Sartawi and calls for Mideast peace talks , nuclear disarmament and redistribution of the world ' s wealth . Arafat , visiting North Yemen , said Sartawi ' s death was " a great loss to the Palestinian revolution . " " The Israeli intelligence carried out this crime , aided by some agents who operate under various slogans and various names , " Arafat said , according to the Yemen News Agency . " But they are directly connected to the Mossad , " he asserted without elaboration . Arafat said Sartawi died on the 10th anniversary of the assassination of three top PLO figures in Beirut . He said the three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intelligence agents . The Israeli government denied any involvement with Sartawi ' s death . Leftists in Israel mourned the loss of a man who had helped them establish contacts with the PLO in pursuit of peace negotiations .                     