@@669867

Durham , N.C.  --  The American Dance Festival , in progress on the campus of Duke University until July 21 , came into existence exactly 50 years ago this month as the Summer School of the Dance , a six-week program of classes and performances given at Bennington College in Vermont . In those days , the word " dance " in such a context invariably meant " modern dance , " and , indeed , the faculty at Bennington was led by Martha Graham , Hanya Holm , Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman  --  intrepid and high-minded pioneers of a new and largely American form of dance . Half a century after this extremely diverse quartet first banded together in what was as much as anything a show of solidarity designed to mitigate the indifference and misunderstanding of the world at large , it is clear that the battle for modern dance , which it fought so gamely , has long since been won . Nothing could demonstrate more clearly the extent of the victory than the absence from the Duke festival today of any sign of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , any sign of modern dance in the sense of a generally accepted dance orthodoxy . In some ways , the most exciting features of this year ' s American Dance Festival are the variety of approaches on display and the lack of self-consciousness on the part of choreographers and performers . Today , dancers make use of their talents in whatever way they please . Not only is the range of offerings at Duke extraordinarily broad , so is the sense of artistic options . Thus there are classes in a number of very different dance techniques , including jazz and ballet . Fifty years ago , the presence of ballet , in particular , would have been inconceivable , since in those days it was regarded as the lethal enemy of modern dance . As one can see from the Festival , nowadays more and more modern dancers regularly take ballet classes without worrying about anything except the quality of the instruction . The result of this ecumenism is an atmosphere of tolerance and mutual regard . Participants in the Festival are plainly open to new experiences . Dancers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , talking to them , learning . A major achievement of the Festival , directed since 1969 by Charles Reinhart , is to have extended greatly the community of dance . The Festival also makes a point of extending the knowledge of dance . In an informative exhibition in the University Art Gallery , a superb collection of historical photographs charts the development of non-balletic dance since Isadora Duncan . In addition to the classes in technique , there are workshops in physical therapy , dance medicine and dance criticism . There is also a program , arranged in conjunction with the U.S. Information Agency , designed to bring choreographers and dancers from all over the world to observe the workings of American dance . This year ' s observers came from places including Senegal , the Philippines , India , China , Mexico and Indonesia . Signs of the powerful influence exerted by American dance during the past two decades can be seen in the companies from Europe and the Far East performing at Duke . Though the London Contemporary Dance Theatre , the Uday Shankar India Culture Centre Dance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the eight  --  have individual " voices , " they have all learned to use them in ways first revealed by American dance . The major achievements of American dance have been represented here recently by visits from the companies of the two most exciting choreographic talents currently at work in this country , Merce Cunningham and Twyla Tharp . Both were commissioned to create pieces for this year ' s Festival . The Cunningham premiere , " Doubles , " was sponsored by Samuel H. Scripps and the AT &; Foundation , and is another of the choreographer ' s original and profoundly beautiful works . During the course of " Doubles , " an ever-changing series of relationships unfolds in an atmosphere of rapt intensity mixed with strange outbursts of joy . Mr. Cunningham , who has confessed to liking ambiguous titles , seems to have called the work " Doubles " because it is performed in repertory by two different casts , and also because it contains several passages in which two dancers are linked together . An especially striking feature of the piece is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet , sustained section at the beginning of the work , Lise Friedman is wonderfully taut  --  a fact underlined by Neil Greenberg , who darts swiftly about the stage , as if to take up the rhythmic slack . Most memorable of all is Alan Good , who dances like an unpredictable force of nature . At one point , he leaps into the air like a porpoise , and a moment later falls to the floor and rolls over . At another , he sits on stage watching three women dance . When they finish he himself begins to dance , but after a few moments he breaks off in the middle of a phrase and walks off stage . It is as though we were watching somebody in the process of changing his mind . The rest of the cast  --  Louise Burns , Megan Walker , Susan Quinn Young , Robert Remley  --  is all first-rate . The electronic music by Takehisa Kosugi sounds like a bird sanctuary heard from a great distance . Mark Lancaster ' s lighting and elegant , spare costumes emphasize the clear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the performance , the audience in Page Auditorium gave the dancers a standing ovation such as one rarely hears in New York . The sound of its enthusiasm is an index to the success of the Festival as a whole.                     