@@735368

txt In a move that underlines Pentagon plans to increase the military use of outer space , the Air Force created its first major command dedicated to carrying out space missions , including antisatellite warfare . Creation of the Space Command , announced by Air Force Chief of Staff Gen. Lew Allen , puts space missions on an equal footing with tactical and strategic air operations within the Air Force hierarchy . Within a year , Gen. Allen said , he hopes the new Space Command can become an even more powerful " unified command . " controlling Navy and Army space activities . is well . Such a unified command , would be the organizational equal of the most important U S. military hedquarters. such as the European and Pacific commands Up to now , the Air Force has assigned responsibility for such space missions as spy satellite launches and military use of the space shuttle to its research arms . Gen. Allen explained that " we are making a decision that we are now heavily committed to operations in space .... We are progressing past the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and development . " Responding to questions at a news conference , he declared . " The Air Force believes it will make increasing use of space capabilities .... As we move into the future . we anticipate more routine operations " in space . Operating from a mission control center the Air Force is building at Colorado Springs . Colo. , the new command will conti ol military satellite missions . space shuttle flights that carry secret ** cargoes , and flights of a new I T.S satellite-killing missile that is expected to he tested soon The command will begin operating Sept. 1 In addition , Gen. Allen said , the new command would be responsible for planning and operating any future manned military space vehicles that may be developed by Air Force researchers and any orbiting laser weapons , if the U.S. decides to develop them . The new command will take over operations of the Aerospace Defense Center , the underground post in Colorado that forms the heart of the joint U S.-Canadian North American Aerospace Defense Command , or Norad . It also will have a 200 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Command . Lt. Gen. James V. Hartinger , ho currently runs both the underground center and Norad , will be the first leader of the Space Command The new command wo n't control research on space hardware , which is being assigned to a new technology center in New Mexico under the control of the Air Force 's weapons-buying organization , the Systems Command . But the two groups will be linked closely . Gen. Allen said the command wo n't require additional personnel or construction funds in fiscal 1983 , which starts Oct. 1 . However , he said money for additional people and buildings will show up in future budgets . " The reason for this reorganization . " Gen. Allen said , " is to make sure we have a single commander who will be responsible " for Air Force space operations , just as the commander of the Strategic Air Command is responsible for Air Force intercontinental nuclear weapons . The leader of the Space Command , he said , " would be the one to whom orders would go " for any U.S. attacks on satellites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Force budget still goes for Earth-bound missions , such as operating fighter and bomber aircraft . But space activities are increasing , partly because U.S. military operations depend heavily on satellite surveillance and communications , and partly in response to Soviet advances . Only last week , the Soviet Union conducted a combined exercise of its nuclear weapons , antimissile and antisatellite forces that Gen. Allen called " remarkable " for its complexity . The Air Force plans to test in coming months its own antisatellite missile , to be hurled into space from the wing of an F-I5 fighter . In addition , the Air Force has reserved over a third of all space shuttle flights for military cargoes .                     