@@670256

The root of the problems besetting West Germany is to be sought in micro-economic shortcomings . Germany needs to concentrate on the supply side in its broadest sense to create more scope for sustainable and inflation-free growth . This is emerging as the consensus view in international and national studies of our economic performance . Lower tax rates , deregulation , the reduction of subsidies , the privatization of state-run enterprises , greater flexibility in the labor market and more access to markets are some of the important goals . Such policies are of particular relevance in the current environment , when our industrial sector is battling against strong external competition and when we have to rely more on domestic demand . In West Germany , as in other large industrialized countries , an ever larger share of domestic demand emanates from the service sector . Last year , for example , when our manufacturing sector actually stagnated , services including trade grew by a healthy 3% . The services sector is , however , much more regulated than industry . Growth could be higher if regulations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ markets are a must : They would promote competition and stimulate demand . As one example drawn from the multitude of cases calling for remedial action in this nation I would cite the rigid shop-closing hours . Currently in Germany , stores close their doors most Saturday afternoons and early in the evening . Although this season a broadening of hours one evening a week is getting a lot of press , the shop hours need liberalization . They are a legacy of the 1930s and archaic in the context of today ' s society . At the end of the 1980s West Germany finds itself in a strange position with regard to structural reform oriented to the market . This is the nation that achieved such outstanding success with a free-market policy  --  the " economic miracle " following World War II . Ludwig Erhard , who exactly 40 years ago introduced that policy , was a classical proponent of supply-side policies in the purest sense . Later on , in the late 1960s and 1970s , economic policy wasn ' t anti-market in principle . But it did emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continuous weakening of the forces of growth . As early as the mid-1970s the German Council of Economic Experts , advising the Bonn government , began embracing supply-side arguments without gaining much influence on government policies . Elements of free-market policies did regain support at the end of the 1970s , and have certainly gone into forming official policy since the Kohl government came to power in 1982 . This policy , however , has not so far been fully implemented . In other countries , keeping the state as far as possible out of people ' s economic decisions and letting markets , not governments , steer economic development has become a binding political tenet . In this respect , Germany has fallen behind . This criticism may appear somewhat exaggerated : We have worked on the personal income tax reform and the complete or partial privatization of companies such as VW , VEBA and VIAG . But it does contain more than just an element of truth . With regard to supply-side policies the stumbling block is to be sought not so much in the principles but rather in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Our political landscape makes change difficult . The proportional representation system means that Chancellor Helmut Kohl has to work with two partner parties , the Christian Social Union and the Free Democratic Party , while Britain ' s Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and her Conservatives rule alone . Government more generally is complicated by the existence of two broadly based " people ' s parties , " both strongly interested in becoming and remaining attractive to all segments of the population . West Germany ' s decentralist federal political organization means state governments have more power than in comparable nations . Finally , the fact that no year goes by without important elections on the state or federal level contributes to political uncertainty . The German problem is , however , not just a matter of political organization . Resistance to change reflects a broad attitude in large parts of the population . Increased public spending and tax cuts go down well with the public and special-interest groups alike . Pushing deregulation and cuts in subsidies is harder . Such policies always mean interest groups are likely to get hurt . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population that does benefit doesn ' t as a rule form an organized or vociferous body . Milton Friedman has described the result of such a balance of forces as " the tyranny of the status quo . " That tyranny can be broken only on rare occasions  --  in an economic crisis , for example , or immediately after a new administration takes office . But Germany now is not in a crisis  --  we probably will continue with our " 2% society , " that is , with a growth rate of 2% that we ' ve had for some years now . The problem is that 2% is too poor a performance to solve the economic problems before the nation , but perhaps too good to engender the kind of crisis atmosphere we had in 1982 , when major changes suddenly became possible . A year and a half into its second term , the governing coalition has used up its energy on such issues as the reform of the personal income tax and the health system , or the European Community budget in that period . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has installed a deregulation commission that is to produce a report two years from now , even though we need quick and decisive action . The Common Market promise  --  the program to create a European internal market for goods , services , labor and capital by 1992  --  is the only hope . It implies grandscale deregulation throughout the Common Market . Some progress already has been made in overcoming national protectionist attitudes : Even sacrosanct traditions such as the " no additives " campaign of German beer producers have had to yield . The completion of the internal market would be exactly the right medicine for Germany , and for the sluggish world economy as well.  --  - Mr. Herrhausen is chairman of the board of Deutsche Bank . This article was adapted from his remarks at a seminar on West Germany held recently by the foundation of the publishing concern Bertelsmann AG.                     