@@735216

txt With a flee-market rhetoric of deregulation , candidate Reagan told us that energy policy in the 19805 would not repeat the debacle of the 1970s . The election of a like-minded Senate and a more conservative House suggested the possibility that the rhetoric indeed might not be empty But ideological principles appear to be going the way of all campaign promises . Immediately upon taking office . President Reagan decontrolled oil prices . This seemed to fulfill at least part of his promise to make deregulation the new cornerstone of energy policy . And indeed , decontrol did have benefits . It immediately abolished subsidization of oil imports under the infamous " entitlements program . " It also rid the economy of an onerous system of price and allocation controls . These had created gasoline lines , reduced competition in the oil industry and devoured over a billion dollars annually in paper work and bureaucracy . However , the irony of the Reagan decontrol edict is that it did n't do the one thing it was supposed to : return oil production decisions to the marketplace . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misnamed " windfall profits tax " ( WPT ) . A Worried General Public Like Nabokov 's incantation of " Lo-leeta , " the words " windfall profits tax " roll off the lips seductively . They suggest to both the general public , worried about oil company " rip-offs , " and to economists , concerned with tax distortions , that the WPT benignly extracts only lucky and unexpected gains without disturbing the efficiency of the energy market . In reality , the WPT is an excise tax which substantially undoes decontrol . Decontrol allows producers to raise their prices to market levels , but the WPT taxes away the largest part of the difference between the market price and the old controlled prices . Indeed , today over half of domestic crude oil is selling at an aftertax producer price that is less than 60% of the market price of imported oil . The result is a loss in production and collateral increase in imports equal to roughly one million barrels per day ( mmbd ) , or 25% of our import demand  --  an amount strikingly close to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1970s . Why , despite universal agreement that the oil price policies of the last decade were a disaster , has there been so little substantive change ? For the current administration , the answer lies in the pressure to balance the budget . The WPT currently generates approximately $30 billion of federal revenues a year . Without this money , the 1982 deficitwould certainly push even the administration 's estimates well into triple figures . With little chance that the budget will be soon balanced , any real improvement in oil policy is unlikely . Indeed , things are probably going to get worse . With little attention from the press and even less attention from the White House , both the Senate and House have passed ? with overwhelming bipartisan support ? " standby " legislation that could reimpose virtually all of the oil regulations of the previous decade . This legislation , which may come to a final vote in Congress this week , would " temporarily " recontrol oil prices and allocate supplies in the event of an " emergency " such as the 1973-74 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this : Price and allocation controls that turned past emergencies into disasters should be reimposed only during another emergency . The key to understanding why we continue to shoot ourselves in the collective foot lies in the difference between the public interest and private interests . The powerful interests supporting recontrol  --  farmers , small refiners , oil marketeers  --  plan to be at the top of the priority list used to allocate price-controlled supplies during the next world supply disruption . Ironically , the only formidable opposition to the reimposition of oil pnce controls comes from a Democrat , Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey . The White House has been too distracted to pay any attention to the camel 's nose now creeping under its energypolicy tent . But congressional approval of the final legislation is imminent . This means the White House is about to have its first major policy decision  --  the decontrol of oil prices  --  summarily reversed . The " standby " and " temporary " wrapping paper around this legislative clone of the 1970s policies will allow President Reagan to sidestep a veto . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices will leave us with both price controls and a windfall profits tax . We would then not only forgo domestic oil production but also suffer through another decade of shortages , regulatory burdens and prices that distort our adjustment to the world ushered in by OPEC in the 1970s . Moreover the controls imposed may not be " temporary " at all . The present legislation is the reincarnation of the price and allocation law adopted under a conservative Nixon administration during the 1973 oil embargo . The controls imposed by this law survived until 1981 . Their removal came only at the expense of an excise tax ( the windfall profits tax ) scheduled to last until 1991 ? an 18-year " temporary " policy . If things are bad and getting worse in oil policy , the prospects for improved natural gas policies do n't look much better . In 1978 . Congress and the Carter administration began the long overdue move to deregulate natural gas . For over two decades , price controls discouraged additions to our natural gas reserves . By the mid1970s , these controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finally end these problems , the Natural Gas Policy Act ( NGPA ) implemented a " phased removal " of price controls , with a target date of 1985 for complete decontrol . However as a result of unexpectedly sharp increases in world energy prices in 1979-80 , the best laid plans of the NGPA went astray ; and the 1985 NGPA target prices will be far blow market levels . This has created the go-called " gas spike , " a sharp jump in gas prices of up to 60% on Jan. 1 , 1985 . This price spike has cooled congressional willingness to allow natural gas decontrol to proceed on schedule . If Congress asks the country to wait just a little bit longer for a rational natural gas policy , the situation that has created natural-gas shortages will continue . A recent report by ICF Inc. ( the Department of Energy 's forecaster ) finds that continued controls on natural gas would reduce production in 1990 by 1.4 trillion cubic feet annually . This foregone domestic energy production , equivalent to 250 million barrels of oil , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a longer phase-out of gas price controls , the administration that gave us ketchup as a vegetable may soon give us mustard as an energy policy . The burgeoning budget deficit is clearly pushing President Reagan toward acceptance of NGPA decontrol coupled with a " windfall profits tax " on natural gas . Indeed , when quizzed by reporters about the firmness of candidate Reagan'swritten pledge to veto any natural gas windfall profits tax , Treasury Secretary Donald Regan responded that the promise was written " on paper , not on cement " and suggested that the administration could " cut it up in little pieces and put mustard on it . " The reason : A natural gas excise tax would " enhance " federal revenues by $10 billion120 billion per year . Cloaked in Rhetoric The direction of U.S. energy policy has not really changed much with the coming of Ronald Reagan . In the 1970s , price controls , producer excise taxes , government allocation of supplies and the like were intended to buffer energy consumers from higher prices . In the 1980s , the primary motivation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of energy policies ( albeit cloaked in conservative rhetoric ) , is the funding of a new set of government priorities while cutting general income taxes . The national goals embodied in the current budget may be laudatory . Still , the Reagan administration 's backsliding on energy policy raises two fundamental issues . The first is political . A central tenet of American democracy has always been that government policies undertaken for the general good should not be financed by confiscatory taxation of specific groups . It may be difficult to weep over the fate of oil and gas producers , who after all have not done poorly over the last decade . But we must at least wonder whether it is appropriate that government programs such as the defense of ourselves and our allies be financed by the stockholders of American oil and gas companies . The second issue is economic . Reasonable people can disagree as to whether social justice demands that energy policy be used to block the flow of income from consumers to producers that would occur in an unregulated market . But it is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regulatory policies ostensibly adopted to serve this goal wreak havoc on the U.S. economy , to the benefit of no one and the great harm of all . It would be nice to see a return of candidate Reagan . whose energy policies promised real improvement . This would appropriately force President Reagan to reconsider either the size of his expenditures or the depth of his tax cuts . Mr. Kalt is an assistant professor of economics at Harvard University and author of " The Economics and Politics of Oil Price Regulation " ( MIT Press , 1981 ) . Mr. Navarro is a researcher at the Energy and Environmental Policy Center at the John F. Kennedy School of Government and a teaching fellow at Harvard University .                     