@@669016

A new program at O ' Hare International Airport designed to free up veteran controllers by hiring a private firm to conduct training is a costly public relations ploy that is failing to improve operations at the airport , union officials and other program critics contend . The private contractor , Systems Requirements and Services Associates Inc. , or SRSA , was hired last October after controllers at the understaffed airport had committed a record number of errors . U.S. Sen. Paul Simon ( D. , Ill. ) hailed the move at the time , citing Federal Aviation Administration assertions that five veteran " full-performance-level " controllers assigned to train " developmental " controllers would be freed to handle planes . But the critics charge that the net increase to O ' Hare ' s controller staff so far is zero ; that full-performance-level controllers continue to be used heavily to train developmentals and SRSA instructors ; and that the contractor has failed to meet one deadline for assuming exclusive responsibility for classroom training and probably will miss another to take over simulator laboratory training . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of people , " said one FAA source familiar with the new program . " In many areas the workload has increased because FPLs ( full-performance-level controllers ) not only are handling some training , but they constantly have to check on SRSA instructors . " " It ' s kind of a nightmare right now , " said Chris Rzeszutko , president of the O ' Hare chapter of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association . In some cases , trainees have come to doubt " the abilities and credibility " of SRSA teachers , he said . Meanwhile , Simon has turned over a list of alleged SRSA shortcomings to the office of inspector general of the U.S. Department of Transportation . The allegations " came from someone who claims to be close enough to the situation to have documented what ( he or she ) believes to be problems , things that warrant closer review , " said David Carle , the senator ' s press secretary . Officials of the contractor and the FAA defended the company ' s performance . The SRSA team is made up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of more than 200 years of experience , said William Yocius , the company ' s O ' Hare site manager . " I think the quality of training will be improved tremendously because we have time to sit and write formal lesson plans and give continuity to the program so each student will get the same training , " he said . The April 1 date by which SRSA was to have assumed all classroom training was only a target , said Michael Baldridge , O ' Hare ' s assistant air traffic manager . Baldridge said he believes that SRSA will be able to take over both classroom and lab duties by year-end . Baldridge conceded that several full-time full-performance-level training specialists who initially were freed from their duties by SRSA ' s arrival have since gone on to administrative posts and , thus , have not eased the traffic load at O ' Hare . However , the former training job slots eventually will be filled by controllers who will handle traffic , he said . Contract training at other FAA facilities " has really worked well , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrator for air traffic . While acknowledging that there has been no immediate improvement in staffing at O ' Hare , he asserted that the training program " wasn ' t intended to be a quick fix. "                     