@@670042

The modern Senate is a frustrating place to do business for those who would serve the republic . In these times of legislative entrepreneurship , ubiquitous television cameras and thousands of ambitious , turf-grabbing staffers , the legislative process is bogging down . This is the argument of " Running in Place : Inside the Senate " ( Simon &; Schuster , 204 pages , $17. 95 ) by James A. Miller , a CBS News producer who previously served as a speech writer for former Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker . Fleshed out a little from Mr. Miller ' s journal , this slim book is an account of one week in the Senate during April 1983 . Mr. Miller focuses on three senators and three influential staffers , weaving their legislative undertakings  --  principally the fiscal 1984 budget resolution , Central American policy and immigration reform  --  into a picture of life on Capitol Hill . Mr. Miller ' s examination of the minutiae that make up that life is exhaustive . He leaves no doubt about such matters as appropriate dress for a congressional office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and where lunches of varying degrees of status may be had . Personalities are carefully observed , quirks and all . The author evidently assumes that a heap of such detail will somehow develop his themes , but these are conjured up only with determined extrapolation by the reader and the help of a brief introduction by George F. Will , another former Miller employer . The thesis generally is that the Senate is no longer a place where policy can be expected to undergo judicious scrutiny , the saucer into which legislation is poured to cool , as George Washington saw it . The reasons for this are several . One is that senators are no longer the creatures of serene reflection they were supposed to be as the result of six-year terms . Partly because of the evolutions in fund raising and communications , they now spend almost as much time running for reelection as do members of the House , a breed envisioned by the Founders as being more frenetically responsive to the electorate . The party discipline that traditionally leavened such ambition seems to have broken @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alternative and the diminution of the power of the committee chairmen . The result is a group of legislative entrepreneurs , each pressing his own narrow agenda with little regard for broad , national interests . With 100 agendas vying for limited floor time , and filibuster an everpresent possibility , very little can be accomplished . Mr. Miller views the failure of Sen. Alan Simpson ' s immigration bill to survive a House-Senate conference as the typical fate of legislation that breaks down along ideological lines . A bill has a greater chance of success if it is grounded in the intense parochial enthusiasm that lends itself to mutual back-scratching . The increased work load engendered by responsiveness to pressure groups is another problem . The senators are a harried lot , obliged to spend much of their time mugging for the cameras and pressing the flesh . As a result , they turn over much of the business of running the government to the young tigers on the Senate staff . The willfulness of these staffers in staking out fiefdoms for their bosses and themselves is perhaps the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if somewhat overdrawn , is a portrait of Steve Bell , former staff director of the Senate Budget Committee and alter-ego of Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici . Perhaps the most powerful Hill staffer of the ' 80s , Mr. Bell may have been the single most effective voice in Congress for raising taxes . ( He has recently joined former budget director and fellow tax-hikemonger David Stockman at Salomon Brothers , an investment banking firm . ) So there are substantial themes hovering about " Running in Place . " Generally , though , Mr. Miller is at his weakest on the rare occasions when he slips from observation of detail into analysis . His point of view , not surprisingly , is that of a majority leader who wants to get something accomplished . But it can not be gainsaid that the modern Senate is one heck of a cooling saucer , a most effective retarder of legislative zeal . How the shortcomings Mr. Miller notes are at cross purposes with the original theory of the Senate ' s function , he does not say . Nor does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 years , although this may have been the biggest fish in the pond into which Mr. Miller dropped his line . A quick , easy and enjoyable read , and undoubtedly an accurate account of how the Senate conducts its business , " Running in Place " is not the thoroughgoing examination of the modern Senate one would have hoped for . It would no doubt have been markedly improved had George Will been persuaded to tack on about a dozen pages at the end as well . But the book is timely . Surely no one paying attention to Congress believes the solons are as effective as they might be . Mr. Miller ' s contribution to an understanding of the problem is modest , but of interest to readers concerned about how their government works.  --  - Mr. Jackson is an aide to Rep. Beau Boulter ( R. , Texas ) .                     