@@668344

Last week ' s decision of Doubleday &; Company not to renew a longtime co- publishing contract with Boston publisher Seymour Lawrence , won ' t affect the latter ' s fall list . " It was purely a corporate decision to phase out Doubleday ' s imprints , " said Lawrence . " We have a serious , distinguished and profitable backlist ; our books continue to sell , and all I can say at this point is that our frontlist will appear in the fall and that I ' ll probably make an announcement about our future plans in a few weeks . " A co-publisher generally has a contractual arrangement with a commercial house , in Lawrence ' s case , with Dell Books , Doubleday ' s subsidiary . In return for a percentage of a book ' s income , the co- publisher makes arrangements with authors and edits a manuscript , while the publishing house handles printing , distribution , promotion and sales . " Let me point out , " he continued , " Seymour Lawrence Inc. , is owned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ independent and incorporated under Massachusetts law . " Since 1965 , Lawrence has published more than 200 books with Delacorte , the hardcover division of Dell . Fiction appears under his name , non-fiction under Merloyd Lawrence . Among their authors are Kurt Vonnegut , Thomas Berger , Tim O ' Brien , Robert Parker , J.P.Donleavy , and the late Katherine Anne Porter . In the Radcliffe College biography series , " Women of Crisis , " by Robert and Jane Coles , and " Helen and Teacher , " by Joseph Lash , will be joined by the forthcoming " Buying the Night Flight : Women Foreign Correspondents , " by veteran journalist Georgie Anne Geyer . Other books scheduled for fall are new novels by Vonnegut , Richard Brautigam and Craig Nova , and the reissue of three early Berger novels , " Reinhardt In Love , " " Vital Parts " and " Crazy In Berlin . " Also scheduled is a completely revised and updated edition of John Holt ' s " How Children Learn . " The Lawrences have 55 unpublished titles , and anticipate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigor and professionalism given earlier works . The Boston publisher spoke of the close ties with authors the co-publishing system creates , and compared the latest phase of his firm with the period in the mid- ' 60 ' s during which he left Atlantic Monthly Press , where he was senior editor , striking forth on his own . Along with Lawrence , Eleanor Friede , with an imprint for eight years at Delacorte , won ' t have her contract renewed April 30 . At Macmillan she developed a series of magazine articles by Richard Bach into the immensely profitable " Jonathan Livingston Seagull , " and has recently issued James Clavell ' s " The Children ' s Hour . " Lawrence said he had expected to renew his association with Dell on the basis of earlier assurances . Dell ' s decision , he said , was " purely business . " Topping the title of Robert Ludlum ' s April 27 talk here is going to be difficult . The author of the recent best-selling thriller , " The Parsifal Mosaic " ( Random House ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Onus of Being a Writer . " Co-sponsored by the Harvard Book Store Cafe , the Ludlum pensees take place at the Rabb Lecture Hall of the Boston Public Library , Copley Square , at 7:45 p.m. , followed by a reception at the Cafe on the corner of Newbury street . The Czeslaw Milosz Norton Lectures at Harvard have been packed to capacity , so the university has scheduled another appearance by the Nobel Laureate . This time a poetry reading in May . Highlights in poetry this week include a free reading by Dannie Abse in the Farnsworth Room of Lamont Library tomorrow at 4:30 and a joint reading by Cora Brooks ( " Poems For a Book of Hours " ) and Jay Parini ( " Anthracite Country " ) at the Cronkhite Graduate Center , 6 Ash st. , Cambridge , Thursday at 8.                     