@@668199

Austin Wakeman Scott , Dane professor of law emeritus at Harvard University and one of the nation ' s leading authorities on the law of trusts , died Wednesday in Brigham and Women ' s Hospital , Boston . He was 96 . Mr. Scott , whom the late law school dean Roscoe Pound once called " Mr. Harvard Law School , " had been a member of the law school faculty more than 50 years when he retired from teaching and became professor emeritus in 1961 . " Many generations of faculty and students have come to know Austin Scott , and each in its own way has derived special pleasure , not only from his work , but also from his special style and humor , " said Albert M. Sacks , present dean of the law school . The former solicitor general of the United States , Erwin N. Griswold , who served as dean of the law school from 1946 to 1967 , said of Mr. Scott : " He was one of the great figures of the Harvard Law School in this century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority on the law of trusts . He was also a great teacher and his classes were widely enjoyed by students . He had a long life and his passing will be mourned by thousands of law school graduates and by many lawyers throughout the country . " Born in New Brunswick , N.J. , on Aug. 31 , 1884 , Mr. Scott attended Rutgers Preparatory School and Rutgers College . He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1902 and received his bachelor ' s degree the next year . After teaching mathematics three years at Rutgers Preparatory School , he entered Harvard Law School in 1906 and graduated in 1909 . A few months later he began teaching at Harvard . He became an assistant professor in 1910 and Story professor of law in 1919 . During 1915 and 1916 he was acting dean of the law school . On his only leave of absence from Harvard , from 1911 to 1912 , he served as dean of theCollege of Law at the State University of Iowa . He was appointed Dane professor at Harvard in 1938 . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earned him a place in the literature of Anglo-American law . " Mr. Scott on Trusts , " a five-volume work originally published in 1939 and now in its third edition , and his casebook , " The Law of Trusts , " are considered preeminent in their field . In 1956 , for the second edition of his " Treatise on Trusts , " Mr. Scott received Harvard ' s highest faculty award , the Ledlie Prize , presented to an individual who " has by research , discovered or otherwise made the most valuable contribution to science , or in any way for the benefit of mankind . " Mr. Scott was also a recognized authority on civil procedure and judicial remedies , in which fields he edited three casebooks and taught several courses . He was a regular contributor to the Harvard Law Review and had also written for the Columbia Law Review , Yale Law Journal and many other legal publications . For his accomplishments , he received honorary doctorate of law degreesfrom Brown , Harvard and Rutgers . In the spring of 1954 , while giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he received that university ' s honorary degree of Doctor of Civil Law . Mr. Scott served as president of the Assn. of American Law Schools in 1928 . He was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences , a member of the Massachusetts Historical Society , the Academie Internationale de Droit Compare and an honorary member of the Society of Public Teachers of Law in Great Britain and Northern Ireland . He leaves a brother , Sergeant Scott of Granville ; three grandchildren , Peter C. Scott of Concord , N.H. , Charity Scott of Baltimore , Md. , and Stephen Scott of San Francisco . A private service will be conducted for family members , and a memorial service is expected to be conducted in two weeks at Harvard ' s Memorial Church .                     