@@668931

There ' s one campaign promise Democratic vice presidential candidate Lloyd Bentsen has made to Texas Hispanics that will undoubtedly be fulfilled by Republicans and Democrats this year . " You will get a lot of attention and hear a lot of promises , " he said . No kidding . Texas is being courted by both parties because it may well be the key to this 1988 presidential election and it could go either way . Hispanics in Texas are in a position to decide which party wins the pivotal state . Divided philosophically between conservative and liberal leanings , Hispanics can be expected to vote Democratic on social issues . But they are strong on defense issues as well , giving them an occasional Republican tilt . Hispanics of both parties hold public office in Texas . Democratic candidate Michael Dukakis ' selection of Bentsen as his running mate was designed to appeal to Texas and to Hispanics there and throughout the Southwest , which is generally Republican territory . Bentsen grew up in deeply Hispanic south Texas . But the strategy in George Bush ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race is between Bush and Dukakis , not Bush and Bentsen . Texas is one of the places Bush claims as home , and it would have more than likely been his in the election but for Dukakis ' choice of Bentsen . Now it ' s a fight for the state ' s 29 electoral votes . " It ' s almost a matter of education , " said Jim Shearer , Texas campaign chief for Bush . " Michael Dukakis is a Yankee liberal . Once they know that and they know that Lloyd Bentsen is also running for the Senate , they will vote for us . " Bentsen has a formidable organization in the state , and proudly announces that he has campaign chairmen in all 254 counties . That organization was designed to get him re-elected to the Senate , long before he was selected as the vice presidential candidate . A Texas law , which was passed in the 1930s and updated for Lyndon Johnson , allows him to run for both vice president and senator . Bentsen , who has raised $7 million for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opponent , broadcast television ads this week explaining why he is running for two offices . Essentially , he cites the state law as saying that if he were to quit , no one could be named to replace him on the ticket and the Republican , Rep. Beau Bolter , would win . He says Texans can not afford to lose him in the Senate , since he has risen to a powerful position as chairman of the Finance Committee . The dual candidacy forces him to maintain careful lines between his two campaigns . And it is forcing many Texans , who have supported both Bentsen and Bush in the past , to choose between them . Texas business owners are in the toughest bind . Bush and Bentsen , both multimillionaire entrepreneurs , have engaged in a sort of " battle for the businessmen . " Both campaigns are compiling a list of prominent business leaders to trot out at the appropriate moment in the campaign and both have counted on business support in the past . Back in 1970 , Bentsen beat Bush for the Senate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did then and one Republican senator , Phil Gramm . Bentsen , campaigning all this week in Texas throughout what is generally conceded to be " Republican week " because of the New Orleans convention , also tried to make the most of his Hispanic connection . He paid tribute to the late Willie Velazquez-the same Willie Velazquez cited by Dukakis in his acceptance speech-at a fundraising dinner sponsored by Velazquez ' organization , the Southwest voter Registration Project . Traditionally nonpartisan , the group has registered 2. 3 million Hispanics nationwide to vote in the last 10 years . Both sides know how important those votes will be in Texas as well as in California , another pivotal state . But George Christian , a former speechwriter for President Johnson and now a political consultant in Austin , notes that George Bush " is popular among Hispanics . The Democrats can ' t take them for granted . " Bush ' s Hispanic organizer in South Texas , Tony Salinas , points to Bush ' s half-Hispanic grandchild as proof tha Bush is closer to the Hispanic community than Dukakis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000-700 , 000 votes in Texas , and experts note that Jimmy Carter carried Texas in 1976 by only 130 , 000 votes . Andy Hernandez , who took over from Velazquez as president of the Southwest voter registration group , loves the attention and doesn ' t worry about candidates trying to ingratiate themselves with his group . He doesn ' t mind President Reagan nominating Texas Tech president Lauro Cavazos as secretary of education , the first Hispanic member of the Cabinet . He doesn ' t mind Dukakis and Bentsen speaking Spanish . " Because Hispanics are the voting bloc that we are , they are taking us into account , " Hernandez said . " No , I don ' t see it as pandering . I see it as bringing us into the mainstream . It ' s a recognition of our political power . That ' s not bad , that ' s very good. "                     