@@734572

txt ANN ARBOR , Mich. ? One student called it " no big deal . " Another insisted it was n't even entertaining . Nevertheless , at the University of Michigan here , pornographic movies  --  the scratchy , 20-minute , no soundtrack variety  --  are as common as dandelions in spring . " At least we 're in good company . They show them over at the law school , too , " said Sue Ferrick , 22 , a senior engineering student and one of the resident directors at South Quadrangle dormitory , a complei of men 's , women 's , and coed houses on the Michigan campus . Ferrick says students can view porn movies at several places on campus , the most common being the men 's fraternity houses . Women , though , also are getting into the act : South Quadrangle , for example , holds an annual porno movie night for women each year on April Fool 's Day . ' The purpose , Ferrick said , is educational . " It 's for the freshmen women especially , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . . They come up here and are forced to decide what their sexuality is going to be . Men make sexual jokes , and they do n't understand , or they 're embarrassed . I had never seen a porn movie before ; they 've seen one , so we wanted to show the movies in the context . " FERRICK SAID that no university funds are used for the movies . Rather , she said , most of the dorms borrow them from the men 's frat houses  --  which apparently keep a store on hand  --  or charge 25 cents a customer to cover rental charges . And sometimes , she added , the students record soundtracks to accompany the films . " We work up some accompaniment with popular songs . " " We do it to ease up the atmosphere , to lighten it up a bit , " she said . Despite the extra touches , however , Ferrick ? said that most women at the university do n't exactly become blue ' Some get grossed out , some laugh , but most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Of the 35 to 50 women who attend the annual porno movie night , " no one comes back for reruns . " " Ws always basically new women , " she said . " Some get grossed out , some laugh , but most them just look upon it as an experience . " Meanwhile , Mary Bewley , director of South Quadrangle dormitory , said the university has no policy on the showing of X-rated movies on campus . " There has never been a policy , and we 've never felt we needed one , " she said . Ingsts-Reldsr Nrsspasel.                     