@@668773

Praise Bose and pass the amplification . Bose reaches the zenith of television sound . Rather , Bose and Zenith team up to improve TV sound . Dr. Amar Bose , a professor of electrical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology , founded the corporation bearing his name and remains its director . Besides being a talented inventor , Bose excels at marketing . While the rest of the engineering geniuses in the audio industry exist contentedly within that industry , Bose avidly finds new avenues for his innovations . For example , he interested General Motors in using his speaker and amplifier technology in the now famous GM/Delco-Bose Music System in top- of-the-line GM cars , for the first outstanding factory equipped automotive sound system . You might recall reading about the Bose Acoustic Wave Music System ( AWMS ) in this column about 18 months ago . This attractive , small package , humorously referred to as a " yuppie boom box , " produces more clean , natural bass than any box its size . Bose discovered that by properly coupling a loudspeaker with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or more accurately " waveguide , " would greatly amplify the bass frequencies . In the past , to hear ample bass you needed either a large speaker , a large enclosure , and/or lots of amplifier power . Bose ' s " waveguide " technology fosters significant bass from a small speaker in a small space with relatively low power . Although the " waveguide " is more than 6 feet long it can be bent and folded into a small space and still achieve the desired effect . You might visualize the Bose " waveguide " as an organ pipe , except instead of acoustically amplifying a single frequency it amplifies a broad range of low frequencies . The AWMS proved extremely successful for Bose . Dr. Bose continued to explore new applications for his enhanced bass sound system . Meanwhile , the TV stereo system developed by Zenith received FCC approval , and this last year about 15 percent of new TVs sold included stereo sound . This conflicted with another trend in TV toward larger screens in smaller cabinets . Bose realized that his " waveguide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He then searched out a U.S. television manufacturer with an image complimentary to Bose . Zenith , based in the Chicago area , came out the winner . The Bose " waveguide " hides in the back of the TV cabinet and fires out the rear . Because prevailing theory assumes that bass is omni-directional  --  meaning that it contributes little to the stereo effect  --  the Zenith TVs such as the Bose AWMS reproduce bass in mono . The midrange and high frequencies are reproduced in a combination speaker with the cutesy name of Twiddler ( Tweeter-midrange ) . A pair of these on the left and right front provide the stereo effect . Unfortunately , the sound from these is not as smooth as the bass from the Bose . Bose maintains that outboard TV speaker systems create too wide a stereo image for the TV picture . While true in many cases , sonic extravaganzas such as " Star Wars " benefit from that wide stereo . Also if you ' re sitting far back from this 27-inch picture TV you won ' t hear much stereo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can use the amplifiers and speakers from this TV as part of an audio system . Zenith includes the Bose sound system in four 27-inch models , the only difference being the cabinetry . These sets , part of Zenith ' s Digital System 3 series , include all the video frills such as computer inputs and even teletext . Although a final price has yet to be announced , estimates run about $1 , 500 . Bose and Zenith deserve accolades for finally dealing with TV audio in a sensible way . Until now sound has always played second fiddle to the picture . A good sound system makes the picture seem bigger and brighter.                     