@@734827

txt WILLIAM SIMON , THE man who could have been Ronald Reagan 's Treasury secretary , commandeered the bestseller lists three years ago with " A Time for Truth , " a collection of the pungent barbs that have become Simon 's trademark . Now , fresh from a successtul presidential campaign in behalf of Reagan , the close Reagan confidante has written another book . Unfortunately for those looking for an intelligent contribution to today 's political literature , this new companion volume , " A Time for Action " is more of the same simplistic Simon diatribe against the evils of big government and yet another of the popular conservative harangues that are cluttering both our bookshelves and public policy debate . IN THE PATTERN OF the prolific new conservative cultists who have made antigovernment tirades a hot-selling literary genre , Simon warns that the federal bureaucratic monolith stands poised to eat the economy and us alive . As the American people sit trembling in their homes probably financed with government-guaranteed loans , sheltering their children who probably will go to college with government assistance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and conspiring liberals and their " counterculture " allies at home . In a message that should sell well Books with a public looking for anyone to blame but themselves , Simon , a Treasury secretary in the Nixon and Ford administrations , emphasizes that we are mainly victims of agitators who wish to destroy our lifestyle and an oversized government that has become a patsy in world politics . SIMON DOES N'T COMPLETELY let the American people off the hook . He chides us for allowing ourselves to be treated like " helpless , self-indulgent infants who need a federal nanny to look after us at every waking moment . " But the main focus of blame is on his real villains : the carnivorous media , wasteful government regulations , and wasteful agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency , exploitation such as welfare fraud , and growing government budgets that grab funds away from investment in private industry . Of course , his chief scapegoat is spending on social programs , but there is little mention of huge cost overruns in military projects . And Simon , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ departure in 1977 , treds more lightly on business ' long record of using the government to get what it wants . AN APPROPRIATE symbol for what is happening to our nation might be Peter Pan  --  and I do n't mean peanut Authorof ATimeForTrutli butter , " prose . " Our desire to achieve immediate gratification , avoid responsibility , and have others care for all our needs is like nothing so much as infantile regression . " says Simon . Simon 's answer is the often-heard call-to-arms : step up military spending , balance the budget , limit federal spending by a constitutional amendment , reassert ourselves abroad , slash taxes , limit money supply growth , deregulate energy production , , and control " the rogue elephant of bureaucracy . " IN A PERIOD WIZEN the American public evidently is ready for an introspective and constructive debate on its expectations ? of government , Simon has only succeeded in engaging in more tiresome and redundant rabble-rousing.                     