@@735146

txt Like all strong and effective leaders , the Navy 's Adm . Hyman G. Rickover has been the target of criticism and the subject of controversy , The Tribune recently faulted the 81-year-old admiral for continuing his practice of conning new nuclear submarines during sea trials despite his age and the fact that he had ordered " crashback " maneu , yers that went dangerously awry . But we can not rejoice in his retirement from the Navy and in his removal from command of the nation 's nuclear submarine service . Even though he has been arrogant to the point of insubordination in his management of that vital program , it is difficult to imagine that anybody . else could have done it as well as he did and continues to do . Age has not diminished his devotion to duty and to country , and it has not led him to lower by one iota his exacting standards . There have been many great fighters in the long and illustrious history of the U.S. Navy , arid there have also been great thinkers . Among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Hyman G. Rickover is Alfred Thayer Mahan , the strategic theoretician who created the intellectual ? basis for 20th Century American seapower . Besides recognizing the pivotal importance of strategicnuclear submarines and persuading a skeptical Congress and naval leadership to support their construction , Adm . Rickover was able to take over the monumental task of creating the new fleet . As a manager he was harsh , demanding , and utterly intolerant of laziness . He was also loved and respected by the tens of thousands of ' sailors who accepted the long hours and gruelling ? conditions of life in his silent service . ? Perhaps , now that , the hard part is finished , it is time for him to turn over the program to others . Perhaps he has grown too old , or perhaps his abrasive personality finally has rubbed too many . proud admirals and touchy politicians the wrong way . It wo n't help much to give him a title and an office in the White House , and it wo n't matter much . that the President and the other admirals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for ' personal glory ; he never wanted anything but his submarines and his hard-working sailors . As Of Jan. 31 , he 'll be out of it , kicked upstairs . The submarine service will go on its silent , invisible way , holding the line between an uneasy peace and a catastrophic war . But it wo n't be the same without that tough , grumpy little man in charge .                     