@@668114

DETROIT- The Republican platform committee finished its work today on a l980 issues document , delivering a searing blast at the foreign policy and national defense programs under both President Jimmy Carter and the Democratic-controlled Congress . " Never before in modern history has the United States endured as many humiliations , insults and defeats as it has during the past four years - our ambassador murdered , our embassy burned , our warnings ignored , our diplomacy scorned , our diplomats kidnaped , " an introductory section to the platform adopted unanimously today stated . The platform preamble cited " unparalled unity within our ranks " and said the Republican Party , under Ronald Reagan , could " make America great again . " The platform asserted that " America is adrift " and headed toward " one of the most dangerous and disorderly periods in history . " " In ultimate humiliation , millitant terrorists in Iran continue to toy with the lives of American diplomats , " it asserted . The proposed l980 platform , now being reviewed by Reagan in Los Angeles , reflects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the party ' s platform chairman . Calling for sharply higher defense spending , a broad tax cut and efforts to strengthen the family , the platform was tentatively approved in committee last night by drafters who sought to avoid contentious debate when the convention opens next week . Meanwhile , advocates of a plank conspicuously missing from the platform - support for ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment - sought ways to dramatize their cause . Rep. Margaret Heckler ( R-Mass. ) urged Reagan to meet with delegates who support the ERA to explain what role women would have in his administration . And a national women ' s group planned a protest march at Cobo Hall here next week for the opening of Republican National Convention . With its preamble written , the 106-member resolutions committee finished work on the bulk of the document with acceptance of a foreign policy and defense section carefully shepherded by Reagan loyalists . These planks in particular , reflect Reagan ' s statements and positions . Committee Chairman Sen. John Tower ( R-Texas ) said today that while parts of the platform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not think this will hurt Republicans in November . " I think the country has moved to the right and I think the Republican party reflects that rightward move in the country , " Tower said . He was interviewed on NBC ' s " Today " show . He called the overall product " a pretty moderate platform " and denied that the Reagan campaign organization " was heavy handed in bludgeoning people into voting a certain way . " " They passed the word they would prefer not to have an acrimonious debate and I think that was helpful , " Tower said . Yesterday , Tower had told committee members : " . . . in the areas of foreign policy and national defense , we should and must be in lockstep with our presidential candidate . " He cautioned against strident , hard-line amendments that might embarrass Reagan or hurt his chances in November . None was offered . Richard V. Allen , Reagan ' s top foreign policy adviser , who worked closely with the panel on the foreign policy and national defense planks , said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . I couldn ' t find anything in this platform that would give us problems . " Allen said a copy of the platform draft was to be read by Reagan in Los Angeles last night , but he felt sure Reagan would have no difficulties embracing it . Allen said that while he and other Reagan lieutenants had helped steer the platform through the committee , " there was no steamrollering , no engineering , no intimidation of any type . This was an open , free , frank , candid and most enjoyable process . " The platform calls for a sharp increase in US defense spending , a tougher posture toward the Soviet Union , a Reagan-endorsed , 10- percent tax cut for Americans and an anti-abortion amendment to the Constitution . It also calls for filling Supreme Court and other federal judicial vacancies with justices " who respect traditional family values and the sanctity of innocent human life . " It also repeats many oft-stated Republican themes , many of them carryoversfrom the 1976 platform : immediate deregulaton of domestic oil and gas production , continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ businesses , a balanced federal budget , a ban on forced busing to achieve racial equality and support for nondenominational prayers in schools . And in one plank added at the last minute , written by Rep. Bud Shuster ( R- Pa. ) , the committee made it clear Republicans intend to remain in at least one driver ' s seat . " Republicans reject the elitest notion that Americans must be forced out of their cars , and instead , we vigorously support the right of personal mobility and freedom as exemplified by the automobile and our modern highway system , " it reads in part . The platform also upholds the principle of free trade , but says the party " will not stand idly by " while millions of American jobs are lost in the auto , steel , electronics and textile industries because of foreign barriers to US goods and subsidies by other governments promoting low-priced exports to the United States . The platform also has special provisions appealing to blacks and Hispanics , and expresses compassion for poor and unprivileged Americans . And some items that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their absence : support for ratification of the ERA and of a constitutional amendment to give the District of Columbia full voting rights in Congress . The platform committee will meet again Monday to give its formal approval to the full document . It will be taken up on the convention floor Tuesday evening . Two hours are scheduled , but committee aides said it was unlikely more than an hour will be needed .                     