@@668374

Screen star Anthony Quinn recently offered $1 million to Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez for movie rights to " One Hundred Years of Solitude . " The offer was rejected . " Anthony Quinn , with his million dollars and everything , will never be . . . Col. Aurelio Buendia ( protagonist of the novel , " declared Marquez . " My reticence to make movies out of . . . all my published works is due to my desire for direct communication with my readers , so that by means of the letters I write they can imagine the characters to be as they wish and not as the borrowed face of an actor on the screen . " - " The City Observed : Boston , " by architect and professor Donlyn Lyndon has just been published simultaneously by Random House and Vintage Books . It is the second in a series of what promises to be a distinguished sequence of architecture guides to American cities . Lyndon notes and discusses 350 buildings , as well as parks , public spaces , sculptures and streets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , he says , of the Hemenway Building : " For all its seven stories , there ' s a definite aura of smoking jackets about this building , an Edwardian gentleman ' s building . Perhaps the aura is just a lingering aroma of the old S.S. Pierce store that once occupied the ground floor and below . " Of the Boston Public Library addition : " Along the street at ground level the addition becomes particularly offensive . Where the original library has a welcoming bench incorporated in its base , the bottom of this one disappears behind a blunt fence of upright granite slabs more than head height , which rebuffs any possible sense of connection with the building . " Of the First National Bank of Boston : " All the jokes about pregnancy that this building has engendered are inept as the building itself . The bulge , tapered top and bottom , that makes this building unforgettable carries with it no promise of a redeeming future . " - After a long and varied career at the Boston Sunday Post , Hiram Lyday Sloanaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Post passed on , but Sloanaker ' s sonnets and lyrics and book reviews appeared in all the Boston papers and the New York Times until his death in 1972 . Now his poems have been collected by his son , John , and published under the title " Rhythms " ( Vantage ) , to which Sloanaker ' s long-time friend , Dr. Harold E. Edgerton of MIT , has contributed a high-speed photograph for the cover design . Hiram Sloanaker was an occasional poet as well as a writer of lyrics , and among his verses are elegies for Cardinal Cushing and Charles Munch , and an apostrophe to " E. D. , the Virgin of Amherst. " - " The General Managers " ( The Free Press ) , by John P. Kotter , professor of organizational behavior at Harvard Business School , has been chosen as a main selection of the Fortune Bookclub . Based on first-hand studies of 15 successful managers , the book explores how managerial behavior works . Kotter ' s investigation , conducted between 1976 and 1981 , concludes that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ step into any business and run it . " Nor does success depend upon education or a formal mastery of management skills . In fact , the most successful managers are " specialists " who depend upon detailed knowledge , often acquired over decades , of their industry , technology , products and markets . Equally important are the informal networks of relationships with colleagues - relationships that result in getting things done . These friendships take years to develop . Outsiders , no matter how talented , rarely do as well . At 34 , Kotter is one of Harvard ' s youngest full professors . He has also published " Power in Management , " " Organizational Dynamics " and " Self Assessment and Career Development . "                     