@@668618

The new year will be decisive for video and television . An international committee representing virtually every country with television services convenes in September in Geneva to recommend new worldwide standards for television transmission that will eventually supplant those in current use . It is expected that the CCIR ( Comite Consultativ International des Radiocommunications ) will favor high-definition television ( HDTV , for short ) as the video standard of the future . When adopted by the broadcasting services , HDTV will make the quality of television images comparable to 35 mm. photography , both in sharpness and color fidelity . Or , to draw another comparison , the image on the television screen will be like a fine color print on glossy paper . This quality gain will result from a greater amount of image information carried on the proposed system . This would also allow television to be projected on very large screens without objectionable loss of sharpness or color saturation . Nearly everyone agrees that there is a need for such radical updating of television standards . Many engineers regard the present television system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its most basic aspects it dates back more than 40 years . The United States was the first country to set national standards for television through federal regulation . The present standard of 525 scanning lines per frame was adopted in 1941 and reflects a relatively crude technology . A chance to update and refine the scanning pattern , which largely determines the quality of the picture , was passed up when color was introduced . Instead of permitting more scanning lines , the Federal Communications Commission ruled in 1953 that the new color system had to be compatible with the old black-and-white system and employ the same skimpy number of lines . Even though only a comparatively few sets existed at the time , it would have been politically awkward to render them obsolete by setting new broadcast standards . Besides , most television screens in those days measured less than 10 inches diagonally , and on those small screens the old standard provided sufficient image detail . Today , with larger picture tubes and with projection TV gaining popularity , more image information is needed to yield a satisfactory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It certainly falls far short of what could be realized with up-to-date HDTV , which yields 1 , 125 lines per frame in addition to far better color rendition . The need for technical updating is keenly felt in the United States and Japan  --  the two countries sharing the old standard . Television came to Europe much later , and the European standard  --  also adopted in most other countries  --  offers 625 lines per scanning frame , yielding a sharper , more detailed picture . Even so , European broadcasting services are likely to go along with proposals for HDTV , which would dramatically improve picture quality and at the same time unify technical standards on a worldwide basis . Keeping track of these intricate and often politically tinged developments is William Connolly , president of the Sony Broadcast Product Company , which has developed much of the equipment for HDTV . Connolly argues for improved picture quality not only for esthetic reasons but also because he envisions the future home video screen as a display terminal for electronic information services , offering access to various data bases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sufficient optical resolution  --  i. e. , image sharpness  --  to allow comfortable reading of text and numbers . In short , he foresees video displays of a quality comparable to today ' s best computer terminals . Connolly puts the basic question this way : " Can the United States , the world ' s technically most advanced country , go into the 21st Century with the most antiquated system of video transmission ? " Informed observers have little doubt that HDTV will emerge as a worldwide norm , and they feel that crucial decisions must be made immediately . Technical proposals for the September meeting in Geneva must be submitted in 30 languages by June ; so , engineers and their translators won ' t be getting much sleep in the next few months . Japan , as usual , has jumped ahead and isn ' t even waiting for the Geneva decision . NHK , the Japanese state broadcasting company , already has a 1 , 125- line HDTV system on the air , relaying the signal directly from a satellite to the happy owners of advanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Los Angeles Olympics last summer , NHK already had equipment geared to this system , sending vastly superior pictures back home . At present , most American broadcasters prefer to say very little about HDTV because of the many uncertainties yet to be resolved . Besides , they don ' t like to call attention to the shortcomings of the present mode of television transmission . One exception is CBS , which has developed a method to deliver HDTV to American homes without disrupting the present system of broadcasting.                     