@@668703

Still more bad news for the Bulls : X-rays reveal that center Jawann Oldham suffered a broken jaw Wednesday night in Philadelphia when he collided with the 76ers ' Julius Erving . Oldham will be unavailable at least through Sunday ' s game with Dallas . After that , his condition will be monitored on a day-to-day basis . Meanwhile , Michael Jordan ' s condition , unfortunately , is already known . The Bulls ' superstar will miss at least four more weeks and most likely the rest of the season after deciding that the cracked bone in his left foot wasn ' t sufficiently healed to play . " The bone scans show there is still a small crack , " he said . Jordan plans on returning soon to the University of North Carolina to continue working toward his degree in cultural geography . But even though he ' ll be hundreds of miles away , his presence will be felt . The statements Jordan made at a team meeting last week , criticizing the lack of effort from certain players , have stirred a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quitter , and I wouldn ' t classify my teammates as quitters , " Sidney Green said . " When one of your teammates says things like that , it really hurts . " " Michael ' s the franchise , and he can say anything he wants to say because he has the right , " Gene Banks said . " But to say that the guys have quit , well , I don ' t know how he can speak for 11 or 12 guys . " Michael is doing everything in his power to be a part of the team as far as the press is concerned . He is trying to use the press to get certain guys motivated . " Banks pointed out that the Bulls have to realize what prompted Jordan ' s critique . " He is not playing basketball , something he truly loves , " Banks said . " For a man to not do something he truly loves , he is going to have frustrations . " Jordan was reluctant to comment , saying , " I ' m not trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hurt dog will holler . I didn ' t say the whole team wasn ' t trying , just certain players . " The guys that are playing hard , they know who they are . But in a situation like this , if you feel the comments are directed at you , you ' re going to holler . " Kyle Macy analyzed the situation and sided with Jordan . " I think the things he said , he wasn ' t trying to disrupt the team , " Macy said . " He is trying to challenge them to get some kind of response . Michael is not that egotistical a person that he would be talking bad about other guys and thinking he ' s King Bull . One of Michael ' s traits is that he is one of the most talented players in the league and yet humble . He doesn ' t come across as the cocky type . " If some guys ' feelings are hurt , maybe they should take a closer look at themselves . Michael is trying to help the team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems than we already have ? " In an effort to shake up his nosediving team , Bulls ' coach Stan Albeck told the players there would be a change in the starting frontline for Friday ' s game against Indiana . Most likely , that meant emerging rookie Charles Oakley would replace the slumping Green . " If it happens , I ' ll be happy , " Oakley said . " It would be another step for me . You work hard , and something good will happen . " Oakley has been all over the backboards lately , particularly at the offensive end . In the last seven games before Friday ' s game , the powerful 6- foot-9-inch , 242-pounder averaged 16. 7 points and 11. 6 rebounds , including an impressive 5. 3 offensive rebounds . He had 9 against the 76ers Wednesday.                     