@@669902

NEW YORK  --  Congress ' s failure to act on a regional banking bill puts the next battle over the issue before the Supreme Court , which may decide whether to hear a challenge to New England ' s regional banking setup within two months . Bankers say uncertainty over a suit by Citicorp and Northeast Bancorp of New Haven , Conn. , challenging three New England bank mergers , already delayed the announcement of some interstate mergers . Regional banking laws , which have been adopted by New England , and Southeast states and are being considered in many others , allow interstate mergers between banks within a region , while excluding all others . They have led to a spate of merger agreements in New England , and , more recently , the Southeast ' s first interstate banking combination was announced . The laws are designed to keep out big New York , Texas and California banks . In August , the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York turned back a court challenge by Citicorp and Northeast , to regional banking laws in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Court to decide the constitutionality of the regional banking statutes , which they say will lead to the " balkanization " of the banking system . " If the court declines to hear the case , or decides in favor of the states , you ' ll probably see a whole series of these regional statutes , " says H. Rodgin Cohen , a banking attorney . The failure of Congress to pass legislation governing regional banking has focused attention on the appeal filed by Citicorp and Northeast . " In a sense , ( the case ) is the only game in town , " says L. Edward Shaw Jr. , general counsel of Chase Manhattan Bank , which has filed a court brief in support of Citicorp and Northeast . The Senate last month passed banking legislation authorizing states to enter regional banking pacts . But the bill never cleared the House . Banking lawyers say that a major issue in the court challenge is whether the 1956 Douglas Amendment allows states to enact regional banking laws . The Douglas Amendment bars a bank holding company from acquiring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bank is located specifically allows such acquisitions . Citicorp is worried that it and other big banks are being " redlined " by state governments and won ' t be able to expand around the nation . Citicorp has been pressing states to change their laws to permit full interstate banking . Northeast , a much smaller bank , is pursuing the suit because it has agreed to be acquired by Bank of New York Co. , but can ' t as long as Connecticut law prohibits New York banks from buying local banks . If the Supreme Court decides to take the regional banking case , it isn ' t likely to be heard this year . That could further delay the three proposed mergers that are challenged in the suit ; by filing their appeal to the Supreme Court , Citicorp and Northeast were able to continue a court stay against those mergers . The other two mergers opposed in the lawsuit are Hartford National Corp. ' s proposed acquisition of Arltru Bancorp , Lawrence , Mass. , and Bank of Boston Corp. ' s proposal to acquire Colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the Supreme Court to hear the appeal while continuing the stay would mean additional delay and " will be a hardship , " says Walter J. Connolly Jr. , chairman of CBT Corp . , Hartford , Conn . CBT announced plans in June 1983 to merge with Bank of New England Corp. of Boston but hasn ' t been able to complete the merger because of the suit filed by Citicorp and Northeast . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     