@@670201

Liberty Press ' s " Selected Writings of Lord Acton " ( three volumes , 558 , 581 and 686 pages , $15 each ) is a handsome edition of essays , lectures and reviews by a Victorian historian whose reputation for the breadth and depth of his learning was unmatched in his time . Barred from study at Oxford or Cambridge by his Catholic faith , though a rich and aristocratic Englishman , he was trained by tutors . He emerged as a liberal but devout critic of his church , and an advocate of political liberalism in the 19th-century sense of support for individual freedom and hostility to the power of the state . Toward the end of his life his career was crowned by appointment to the Regius Professorship of Modern History at by-then-reformed Cambridge and to edit the great project that seemed the culmination of the 19th-century dream of universal and scientific scholarship , " The Cambridge Modern History . " For a half-century after his death , Acton ' s writings and ideas had little influence , which would not have surprised him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His " History of Liberty , " much discussed and eagerly awaited , remained a collection of notes and has been called " the greatest book that never was written . " He failed to deliver his promised introduction or any articles to " The Cambridge Modern History . " His ideas , a strange combination of Catholicism and 19th-century liberalism , puzzled even his contemporaries . In the middle of this century , however , interest in Lord Acton and his ideas revived . Two world wars , the Great Depression , the brutal totalitarianism of Hitler and Stalin , and the threat that communism and the Soviet Union posed to the survival of liberal democracy in Europe and elsewhere , destroyed the materialistic , relativistic optimism of the Whiggish thought that dominated Europe and America at the turn of the century . Acton ' s epigrammatic dictum  --  " Power tends to corrupt and absolute power corrupts absolutely "  --  seemed very much to the point . His insistence on a transcendent morality that should judge powerful men more harshly than others , his belief in liberty as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a good society , was attractive in an age in which too many intellectuals argued that desirable ends justified abominable means and in which despotism sought to justify the suppression of liberty by subordinating it to other goals . One of the first to see the relevance of his ideas to contemporary problems was Gertrude Himmelfarb , whose brilliant biography ( " Lord Acton : A Study in Conscience and Politics , " Chicago , 1952 ) stimulated a revival of interest in Acton . " He is of this age more than of his , " she said . " He is . . . one of our great contemporaries . " J. Rufus Fears , the editor of these volumes , takes the same view : Acton ' s " analysis of the nature of individual and political freedom and of the forces that foster and threaten that freedom speak to the most profound concerns of the late twentieth century . " The recognition of this undeservedly neglected figure is both understandable and just . Acton is rightly seen as a critic of a world that had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which people came to look to an all-powerful state , unchecked by church , aristocracy or other mediating elements , for the satisfaction of all their needs , spiritual as well as material . Omnipotent governments still rule the vast majority of humanity , and wretched peoples still do without liberty in exchange for unfulfilled promises of secular utopias . Even in the liberal democracies , the educated elites are taught to look for progress , justice and prosperity to a centralized state , less and less checked by constitutional safeguards or by mediating institutions . In such a world , the skeptical essays of Lord Acton make bracing reading , and his unswerving moral judgments resting on a solid rock of belief provide a refreshing contrast with the unthinking relativism of our own day , when to understand all is not only to forgive but to justify all . Yet time and experience have revealed some dangers inherent in Acton ' s views . To criticize human behavior from the standpoint of absolute morality , to hold the actions of human beings on earth to the standards of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Every society subjected to such a test must fail , yet every successful society must have its members believe in its essential goodness . The dangerous irony is that the freer and better the society , the more likely it is to undermine its own legitimacy when judged by the unrealistic standards of absolute morality . Tyrannies , which suppress all criticism , have no such problem . In this way , insistence on the best becomes the enemy of the good . The love of liberty , moreover , should not be allowed to obscure humanity ' s other needs . Aristotle rightly emphasized that human beings need a state organized on just principles that alone can provide the opportunity for the pursuit of happiness at the highest level , and such a state must have the capacity to protect its citizens in an imperfect world . That requires power ; its corrupting tendency must be guarded against , but power need not be evil . On the contrary , as Pascal pointed out , " Without Power , Justice is unavailing . " Lord Acton remains important today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimism and the statism to which it may have contributed . Perhaps he is also valuable as an example of the dangers of rejecting the more pragmatic views of men like Burke and Aristotle who were ready to make moral judgments but judged human behavior by human standards . Cicero said of his high-minded and fanatical contemporary that Cato ' s trouble was to think he was living in Plato ' s Republic instead of the dung heap of Romulus . Something like that might well have been said of Lord Acton.  --  - Mr. Kagan is Richard M. Colgate professor of history and classics , and acting director of athletics at Yale University.                     