@@734798

txt WHEN THE PUBLIC address announcer , Harvey Wittenberg , announced there was one minute remaining in Sunday night 's hockey game , a cheer went up from the remnants of the Chicago Stadium crowd of 11.539 .. It was the kind of game , the kind that caused Black Hawk General Manager Bob Pulford to bury his head in his hands and prompted Coach Keith Magnuson to play hide-nd-seek with reporters . The Hawks , putty in the hands of a rookie goalie for the second straight night , were humiliated by the Minnesota North Stars 7-1 . This time it was Don Beaupre , who turned 19 in September who put the whammy on the Hawks ' offense , emulating the performance of the Islanders ' Roland Melanson in New York Saturday night . AGAIN THE HAWK defense frequently left goalie Tony Esposito at the mercy of some of the National Hockey League 's best snipers . Esposito 's biggest antagonist was center Glen Sharp-ley , whose name came up in Saturday night trade talks between Pulford and Minnesota GM Lou Nanne . Sharpley scored the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on a powerplay and then stamped out the last Chicago hopes with a third-period goal that made it 4-1 . " I was a little disappointed to pick up a paper this morning and read they were thinking about trading me , " said Sharpley . " But he Nannel has assured use it 's not in the books right now . " Nevertheless , Nanne said he is willing and able to help the Hawks . " WE HAVE 24 people on our roster and I want to get it down , " said Nanne . " I know I ave people who can help Chicago right now . But if Bob Pulford wants them he 's going to have to give up something . I 'm mainly interested in draft choices . " Bob Murray , the Chicago defenseman who reportedly was offered along with Junior draftee Ken Solheim and a second-round pick in the 1981 draft , did n't suit up for Sunday 's game . " No , he is n't injured , " said Magnuson when he finally emerged from the equipment room . Seated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brother , Michael , the team 's vice-president . " I do n't think so , " replied Bill Wirtz when asked if a trade would be the answer to the tailspin that has seen the Hawks tumble to an 0-3-1 record in their last four games . " We 've just got to work these things out . " The bugs are most conspicious in the defense , which last year was one of the strongest in the National Hockey League . They have the worst goals against record in their division and third worst in the league . " MAYBE WE 'RE NOT preparing , ourselves the way we should , " said defenseman Keith Brown , who was on the ice for five Minnesota goals . " Our goals-against average is atrocious . We 're giving up way too many good chances . Tonight we laid down and died and let them get cheap goals . " We 've got to have 20 guys playing 60 minutes . Some nights we 're playing 20 minutes and some nights 40 . But that 's not good enough . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stadium since Nov. 19 , 1972 . During the last decade they have ' a 0-16-3 record to show for their , trips to Chicago . " Tonight probably was as soundly as we 've played all year , " said North Star Coach Glen Sonmor . " Some nights we are n't intense on the road . Tonight we were very intense . " So was Chicago ? for the first two periods . When ' Chicago scored that goal Tim Higgins ' third this season ) late in the second period . " A goal like that can give a team momentum . " Higgins ' goal cut the North Stars ' lead to 3-1 . But instead of getting momentum in the final period , the Black Hawks yielded four goals . Three of the goals  --  by Mike Polich , Fred Barrett , and Craig Hartsburg  --  came in the final four minutes .                     