@@735742

txt The AFL-CIO 's Executive Council appears all but certain to advance the federation 's planned endorsement of a presidential candidate to October from December . The decision on the move , likely to be made today by the 35-member ruling council at its summer meeting here , suggests former Vice President Walter Mondale will receive the labor federation 's backing this fall . Mr. Mondale. the clear favorite of the AFL-CIO 's leaders , has been pushing hard for the earlier endorsement . He argues that it would enhance labor 's ability to influence his bid for the Democratic nomination during important nomination primaries early next year . Top officials of several major unions interviewed here agree quicker action is needed to aid the Mondale candidacy . They also believe an early-October endorsement by 1,000 voting delegates at the AFL-CIO 's convention in Hollywood . Fla. , would give the appearance of wider rank-and-file support . " We think the convention should have the final decision in this , " said Gerald , president of the one-million-member American Federation of State . County and Municipal Employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's clear there 's a consensus " on the council for an October endorsement , concurred the political director of a second big union . " I do n't think there 's anything here that can stop this . " The previous plan had been for the heads of the 96 AFL-CIO unions and certain state and local officials to make the decision in December . Policy Change Whatever the timing , this will mark the first time the federation has backed a presidential contender before the primaries . A pre-primary endorsement gives AFL-CIO unions extra months to gear up a nationwide array of telephone banks and an army of millions of volunteers to help unionists register and vote . The policy change , announced two years ago , reflects labor 's discomfort with the past two Democratic candidates , George and Jimmy Carter . Federation rules require any early endorsement to be approved by officials representing two-thirds of the AFL-CIO 's 13.7 million members . " The key number is nine million , " Mr. said . " In our judgment he ( Mr. Mondale ) is awfully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be correct , " agreed Sol Cliaikin , president of the 300,000-member International Ladies ' Garment Workers Union . But an earlier AFL-CIO endorsement does pose certain problems , other union leaders concede . A few unions have yet to finish efforts to determine their members ' political preferences . The move to October , which would imply support for Mr. Mondale , may suggest to " members that you 've voted for them " already , observed Vincent Sonbrotto , president of the National Association of Letter Carriers . His union wo n't count presidential preference ballots from its 252,000 members until Sept. 30 . Possible Problem Another possible problem crops up if Mr. Mondale 's candidacy falters in coming months . The labor federation probably would lack the time to influence the selection of Democratic convention delegates favoring someone else . Mr. Mondale 's failure to win the nomination also would weaken the political effectiveness of any future AFL-CIO pre-primary endorsement . Whether it occurs in October or December , the endorsement also does n't automatically assure a candidate of widespread sup- port from AFL-CIO members . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ how to vote , " Lane Kirkland. the federation 's president , emphasized at a news conference . Sen. John Glenn of Ohio . who also is seeking the Democratic nomination , told a separate news conference that he would compete for unionists ' votes regardless of what happens at today 's council meeting . Added a Glenn aide , " Labor 's support is n't a guarantee of success " for Mr. Mondale . The economy , rather than politics , dominated the Executive Council 's official discussions yesterday . Among other things , it urged Congress to adopt a national industrial policy that " would modernize basic industries . " The council talked about the need for such a policy with Massachusetts Democratic Sen. Edward Kennedy , Mr. Kirkland said , " but the timing of any legislation and the form of it is something that has yet to be decided . "                     