@@734561

txt " Exciting " is. an unexpected yet apt word to describe the enterprise outlined by President Carter in his State of the Union message , The message was electrifying in its firm statement of national purpose at a time when the Soviet Union is embarking on a dangerous new policy of aggression and colonial expansion . The bursts of applause punctuating the speech reflected a sudden awareness all across the land that the time has come for America to put aside its doubts and exercise its vast economic , military , and moral power in defense of fundamental national and world interests . The excitement of the enterprise , however , is not the prospect of military confrontation with the Soviet Union . If our response consisted only of rattling sabres we should feel alarm and despondency , not excitement . But the message was much more than that . It was a reasoned call for Americans to unify in a broad national program of action and sacrifice , ranging from military preparation to energy conservation . It was a program aimed at preserving peace , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict can be avoided later . The vital national interest involved can be stated in a single word : oil . As the President pointed out , the new Soviet thrust is aimed directly at the source of two-thirds of the world 's exportable petroleum . Without that oil flowing freely through the Persian Gulf , most of the noncommunist world would face economic collapse . Control of that flow by the Soviet Union would carry with it control of Western Europe , Japan , and ultimately the United States . To prevent such a catastrophe , the President called for a series of actions at home and abroad , actions that deserve and require the wholehearted support of Congress , the American people , and our allies . The first of these actions is the warning to the Soviet Union that the Persian Gulf must remain inviolate , and that the U.S. is prepared to use military force If necessary to preserve its inviolability . The line drawn around that vital stretch of water was left indistinct , and necessarily so . A hard and fast perimeter would only invite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did in Korea , whereas imprecision will engender uncertainty and therefore caution in the Kremlin . Essential to the effectiveness of that warning are other actions contained in the President 's message . Congress must appropriate funds needed to build up the conventional forces of ourselves and certain allies , including those of Pakistan . Revitalization of the Selective Service System so draft registration can begin is necessary both to reduce mobilization time and to demonstrate to the Soviets our willingness to make that enormous sacrifice if forced to do so by their continued aggression . The intelligence system must be freed of the excessive limitations that have rendered it nearly useless in evaluating and countering Soviet ambitions . But military measures are only a part of the President 's " exciting enterprise , " and not the most important part . The main resistance to Soviet aggression must come from those in the region most threatened by it , and every effort must he directed at resolving the issues dividing them . The most vital of those issues is the Arab-Israeli dispute , which must be resolved by providing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words of the Camp David agreement  --  for the people of the West Bank and Gaza . Diplomatic efforts must also be directed at the Soviet Union , and not only in the form of protests . The path of negotiation must remain open , and progress toward arms litnitatiuns must continue . Faced with the possibility of conventional conflict with the Soviet Union , It is more important than ever that the strategic arms limitation treaties , I and II , remain as barriers to a destabilizing nuclear arms race . The President said that those treaties should continue to be observed by both countries . Senate ratification of SALT II would help guarantee that they will be observed . It is here at home , however , in every state , city , and household , that the most demanding sacrifices must be made . As the President said , " Our dependence on foreign oil is a dear and present danger to our national security . " Every citizen must reduce that dependence through conservation in personal habits , and by demanding of our elected representatives a comprehensive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's enterprise to succeed , the country must come together in a unified understanding of the challenges we face , and a unified commitment to meet them . It will require painful sacrifice . It will not be easy . But it will be exciting .                     