@@734699

txt Garry . Trudeau , Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist and creator of the widely syndicated comic strip Doonesbury , is in Detroit this week to cover the GOP convention for The Tribune . His unique observations ; in words and drawings , will appear on the Perspective page throughout this week . By Garry Trudeau DETROIT  --  The latest word trickling down from the CBS glass-encased command post in Joe Louis Arena is that Williim Paley is in town and has asked for a clean , black limousine driven by a uniformed chauffeur with " some " college education . Quite apart front the CBS chairman 's curious preference for being shuttled about by a college dropout , its exactly this sort of extravagance that is giving , the media a bad . name . Not that his underlings are helping any . Out in Grosse Pointe , Dan Rather has been ensconced in a $7,000-a-week , six-bedroom Tudor mansion , complete with heated pool , tennis courts , a maid , a cook , and a gardener . And he 's only a floor reporter , mind you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Well , not too surprisingly , these are the kinds of facts that the reporters lodged in the Sleepy Bear , Inn in neighboring Windsor , Ont. , have been turning up , and they do n't begin to reflect the resentment directed toward journalism 's new star system . NEVER MIND the humiliation of being assigned to interview Rather 's gardener . It 's his access , his clout , his . . . it 's his press tags that really hurt . Press tags ? Well , of course . The CBS star is reported to be so good that he 's actually entitled to Secret Service protection . In Detroit this week , press credentials are everything ? they are the keys to a secret , plushly carpeted world , where handshakes are firm and dry and shirts are always freshly pressed . When one reporter encounters another , which in ? Detroit is about every 5 feet , greetings are withheld until each has had a second to stare at the string of laminated mug shots dangling near the ether 's navel . Only then will the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another and assume the appropriate posture of disdain or obsequiousness , as the case may be . Doonesbury 's GOP Convention The one way you do not place a colleague is by trying to recognize his face . It is one of those sad facts of our celebrity-saturated life that people very rarely end up looking like themselves , and you will find that the small 30-year-old newspaper photos of dashing young columnists are of no help whatsoever in identifying the 60-year-old winos they now best resemble . There 's another way to figure out who 's who , but it 's even less flattering to all involved : parties . Which parties you get invited to signifies much in " Miss Scott , this is Billy , our marketing director 's son 's roommate from Harvard . He needs press credentials . " this town , especially during a convention so lacking in genuine sound and fury . LET 'S TAKE a brief look at some of the more Loney fetes , on the off chance that they have n't already been covered by the lucky , but news-starved , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those repot , ters and media moguls who in the last year cleared S250,000 or more after taxes . The only exceptions were writers of great stature and enormous integrity who , in the estimation of their hosts , could be making a lot more money if they felt like it . Despite inflation , this is a relatively small group . and simply to fill the room , several journalists who were n't even covering the convention had to cut short their summer vacations in Martha 's Vineyard to be there . The guest list was understandably top  --  heavy with television stars , and anchormen aficionados were especially well rewarded . Walter Cronkite once again described the convention as a " civics lesson , " and John Chancellor re . gated guests with a recounting of his chance meeting with a LaGuardia Airport moonie , from whom he first learned that he had spent the first 50 years of his life mispronouncing his name ( now pronounced THE CIIMN GANG PARTY : To which all the representatives of America 's chain newspapers were invited . A sad affair , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ et al . glumly exchanged stories about the failure of the GOP Credentials Committee and the press establishment in general to take them seriously as newsgatherers . the " DETROIT LOVES A PRESS PARTY " PAR . TY : To which all 8,000 reporters were invited , and therefore to which absolutely no prestige was attached . Twelve reporters turned up , ? all of whom came because they 'd missed lunch . THE " TI1E PRESS LOVES THE GOP " PARTY : At which top GOP officials entertained Rowland Evans and the editor of a handgun newsletter . One could go on , but you get the picture . Why do the newsmongers party so ? As George Nathan once said , " I drink to make other neoole interestine. " b 1980 Universal Press Syndicate '                     