@@668146

Science almost lost Baruj Benacerraf , Harvard ' s latest Nobelist , to a career in business . In the 1960s , just after Benacerraf began making the fundamental discoveries in guinea pig cells that were to lead to science ' s highest honor , the Venezuelan-born researcher was heavily involved in running one of his wealthy family ' s interests , a New York bank called Colonial Trust . " For five years , I was a banker , " he said in an interview yesterday morning , a couple of hours after he heard the news from Stockholm . " I had to make a decision : Am I going to be a scientist or am I going to be a businessman ? I decided that the challenges were much greater in science . " In choosing science , Benacerraf was in a sense rejecting one of the two alternate meanings of his name . In Arabic , " benacerraf " means " son of a money- changer . " In Hebrew , however , it means " son of an angel . " The son @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spain to Venezuela at the age of 14 , Benacerraf prefers the latter derivation , if only on geneological grounds : " Since I am Jewish I think the Hebrew derivation is more appropriate . " Those who know him have no doubt the Harvard immunologist would have made a spectacularly successful entrepreneur . Not only does he possess a creative mind - he is " one of the quickest thinkers I have ever known , " as one long- time colleague put it - but also he is known among colleagues as a shrewd judge of the capacities and limitations of others , a superb administrator with a sure sense of his own abilities and , in his own characterization , both a " stubborn " and a " patient " man . Those qualities , in fact , have made Benacerraf one of the most sought- after scientist-administrators in the land . Earlier this year , he almost left Harvard to become president of New York ' s Sloan- Kettering Memorial Cancer Institute . Harvard kept him by giving him the president ' s chair at the Sidney Farber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered the directorship of the National Cancer Institute , which would have made him the top general in the war on cancer , according to reliable reports . Yesterday ' s early-morning news was not exactly a bolt from the blue . Not only have fellow scientists been speculating for years that Benacerraf would win the Nobel for his pioneering and ramifying discoveries about the workings of the immune system , but a year ago the pre-Nobel rumor mill had given the 1979 prize to him . Only at the last minute , according to some reports , did the Nobel Committee decide instead that it was time to give the prize in medicine or physiology for a " clinical " advance - the invention of a computerized X-ray device - rather than for fundamental " new knowledge " research . Since then , Annette Benacerraf had known it would be only a matter of time , even if her husband claims that he had " dismissed it from my mind . " Benacerraf ' s scientific work is the epitome of " basic " research . The work his laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and specialized that it is virtually incomprehensible in its details even to many physicians , academic or otherwise . But it also is the kind of fundamental " new knowledge " that seems certain ultimately to revolutionize the practice of medicine and touch the lives of patients with afflictions as varied as cancer , arthritis , multiple sclerosis , major organ failure and massive burns . Benacerraf is not shy about the medical potential of the exploding field of immunology . " I do foresee , " he predicted flatly , " that immunology will have immense impact on control of human diseases within the next decade . In fact , it will have an impact which will be equivalent to that which immunization had after Pasteur , which led to the use of immunity to protect against a variety of diseases . " The essence of Benacerraf ' s work , and the reason that it carries such sweeping potential for medicine , is the unraveling of the gordian knot of immunity : how the body recognizes its own cells and how it attacks and swiftly destroys " nonself " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stem from defects in this exquisitely balanced system , whose components sometimes mistakenly attack " self , " as in rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis . The system also often fails to recognize the internal rebellion called cancer , even though cancer cells frequently carry chemicals on their surfaces marking them as alien . In 1963 , Benacerraf and his colleagues showed that this system is directed by specific immune-response genes . " We demonstrated that the capacity to respond to an antigen ( matter that stimulates the immune system ) is not haphazard but is controlled by your genes , " he said , explaining the cornerstone discovery of immunogenetics . Later research located the genes responsible for the ability to recognize antigens and demonstrated how they perform this function . More recently , other investigators have confirmed that inherited defects in the immune system are indeed related to human diseases . In the last 10 years , researchers have built on Benacerraf ' s initial findings to elucidate many of the complexities of the immune system . That system is now known to be populated by an array of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells into immunologic battle , alert and regulate the cells that churn out antibodies to the foreign chemicals , and suppress immunity when appropriate . In the ongoing revolution of immunologic thinking , Benacerraf and his coworkers have been continually " at the forefront , " said Dr. Stephen Burakoff of the Sidney Farber Cancer Center , a Benacerraf trainee . Moreover , Benacerraf has trained many of the world ' s leaders in the field , a fact that the Nobelist singled out yesterday as the achievement in science that makes him " most proud . " The Harvard professor said he plans , in fact , to use his new stature as a Nobel laureate to fight for more secure government funding of the next generations of basic researchers . As a society , " we spend our money on so many sillier things , like cigarettes , " he said . Benacerraf is also proud of another fact : He is the second Nobel laureate in his family . His wife , Annette , is the sister-in-law of the late Jacques Monod , a French biologist who won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benacerraf ' s daughter , Dr. Beryl Libby , is a radiologist at the Brigham and Women ' s Hospital , and her husband , Dr. Peter Libby , is a cardiologist at Tufts New England Medical Center .                     