@@734631

txt HIS WEEK IN Chicago theater has seen the transfer of two long-run theater hits from their original nonprofit homes to different , corn ' mercial stages in search of longer runs and larger audiences , Both shows deal entertainingly with feminist themes , and both , as it happens , are musicals performed without intermission . " I 'm Getting My Act Together and Taking It On the Road , " which had been - doing sellout business since last March at Travel Light Theater , has moved triumphantly to the plush atmosphere and slightly higher ticket prices of Drury Lane Theater in Water Tower Place . ALL NINE 51E8113E11S of the cast  --  including coauthor and star Gretchen Cryer , as the spunky singer-actress trying to reshape her life with courage and a free spirit  --  have made the move without missing a beat . The show , directed by Word Baker " with creative associates , " also has been wisely and inventively restaged to suit the much different , larger Drury Lane space . One-fourth of farmer audience seating in the in-the-round house is now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the show 's action takes place . From this central area , a raised platform has been extended . onto the arena stage so that the actors can move out and make closer contact with the remaining three-fourths of the house clustered around them . Even the set has been painted red and gold to blend with the Drury Lane decor . THE SHOW itself remains a light . bright , and highly enjoyable musical with a message . Drawing on elements as new as the confessional life stories of " A Chorus Line " and as old as the " show must go on " routines of 1930s musicals  --  with a bit of illusion versus reality and theater versus life thrown in for good ' measure ? " Act " is a shrewd , sophisticated piece of entertainment that knows how to sell its honesty and bravery with a catchy song and a good laugh . " The Club , " now installed in the 195-seat first-floor theater of the Body Politic at 2261 N. Lincoln Av. , was a great success last spring as part of the subscription @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of having an all-female cast impersonate members and employes of a high-tone men 's club at the turn of the century is slight , but its execution is slick ; and like " Act , " it also has the benefit of some bright , immutable tunes , culled by author Eve Merriam from songs of the period 1894 to 1905 . " The Club 's " method of spoofing old-fashioned sexual attitudes is to show how ridiculous they are when performed by women acting as men , or , pushing it a bit farther , by women acting as men acting as women . Gretchen Cryer in " I 'm Getting My Act Together and Taking It on the Road . " Within this narrow range , the show moves adroitly , offering good humor and a touch of melodrama . THE PLAYERS , who include five of the seven members of the original North Light cast , are all accomplished in striking masculine poses and in skipping through choreographer Tracy Friedman 's fleet song-and-dance routines . Mary Cobb , as the club 's older , twice-divorced president , also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ character in her portrayal . Director Michael Maggio 's staging and the original . attractive set . costume , and lighting design remain as before . The space , however , is not the same . The customers are now seated right up to the edge of the stage , which N too close for comfort in separating the audience in time and apace from the antics of " The Club . " The show needs a little more esthetic distance .                     