@@668858

A federal judge cited a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling Friday when he threw out the mail fraud and racketeering convictions of a former Cook County Circuit Court judge and three lawyers found guilty in the Greylord investigation of court corruption here . Judge James Holderman of U.S. District Court said that a June 24 ruling by the supreme court limiting the use of the mail-fraud law in criminal cases meant that the four defendants , each tried before June 24 , had not been guilty of that offense . The ruling , however , does not clear all of the defendants of all of the charges against them . Holderman ordered new trials on racketeering charges for the defendants , former Circuit Judge James L. Oakey and lawyers Harlan Becker , Harry Jaffe and Robert Daniels . Holderman let stand the convictions of Oakey , Becker and Daniels on federal income-tax charges . Becker already is a serving six-year prison term for tax fraud , which Holderman let stand . He said he was prepared to consider sentencing Oakey and Daniels for the tax offenses Aug. 28 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not appeal Holderman ' s dismissal of the mail-fraud charges but will retry all four on racketeering charges . Holderman said he ordered new trials for racketeering because these charges had included mail-fraud counts . He said it was impossible to know whether the juries that convicted the four defendants of the racketeering charges had been influenced by these mail-fraud counts or separate bribery counts . " The mail-fraud counts in these cases were not valid breaches of the mail-fraud statute , " Holderman said . He based his finding on a Supreme Court decision in the case of U.S. versus McNally , in which it was found that the government can not use the mail- fraud law to prosecute defendants in cases where victims were deprived not of real property but of " intangible rights . " In the Greylord cases federal prosecutors charged that the defendants had used the mails to further schemes to deprive Cook County residents of their " intangible right " to an honest court system . Oakey , removed from the bench in 1975 as a result of misconduct charges unrelated to Greylord , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his trial indicated that he took payoffs as a judge and paid them to another judge as a lawyer and also failed to pay income taxes for four years . The charges against Oakey included mail fraud , racketeering and tax-law violations . He was to be sentenced by Holderman July 7 , but sentencing was postponed in view of the Supreme Court ' s McNally ruling 12 days earlier . Becker , Jaffe and Daniels were found guilty by a jury Feb. 17 of paying bribes to deputy bailiffs and court clerks in return for being allowed to solicit clients outside courtrooms , an unethical practice known as " hustling . " Jaffe , at 73 the oldest Greylord defendant , was sentenced by Holderman to a year and a day in prison on racketeering and mail-fraud charges but had not begun serving the sentence . Holderman ' s ruling dismissing the mail-fraud charge and ordering a new trial on the racketeering charges means the year- and-a-day sentence is void . " I expected such a ruling from the judge , " Valukas said of Holderman ' s actions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convictions would stand up in light of the Supreme Court ' s McNally decision . He said convictions in only two cases were endangered . John Ward and Jay Messinger , both lawyers , were convicted solely of mail fraud under the now discredited " intangible rights " theory . The goverment apparently decided against appealing Holderman ' s ruling in light of a U.S. Court of Appeals ruling a week ago that cited the McNally ruling to overturn the conviction of a Milwaukee man . The appeals court also extended the Supreme Court ' s interpretation of the mail-fraud law to the closely-related wire-fraud law . For the last 15 years prosecutors have used both laws to prosecute official misconduct cases.                     