@@668102

The Republican Platform Committee completed its work last night , carefully tailoring a staunchly conservative platform for Ronald Reagan . Little blood was shed in the writing of the platform , which calls for increased defense spending ; takes a tougher attitude toward the Soviet Union ; endorses the Kemp-Roth 30 percent tax-cut plan ; opposes mandatory busing to achieve integration ; supports nondenominational prayer in public schools ; and affirms a policy of decontrolling energy prices . Advocating a range of stands , from a reinstitution of the death penalty and a weakening of federal gun control laws to repeal of the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit , some of the planks went beyond what Reagan lieutenants felt they could accept , but the delegates proved hard to control . Richard Allen , Reagan ' s foreign-policy adviser , said however : " We are happy . . . . We will use it as a basic framework . " John Tower , platform committee chairman , said : " I think it reflects the unity of the party and the singlemindedness of our purpose . " Rep. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy plank yesterday , said the committee produced , on economic issues , " a radical platform . We ' re making fundamental changes not only for our party , but for the county . . . . We ' re now the party of change . " The platform strongly opposes abortion , calling for a constitutional amendment barring it , and in the meantime proposes legislation to eliminate federal funding of abortions for poor women . It pledges the party will appoint federal judges , including Supreme Court justices , who oppose abortion and believe in returning power from Washington to the states . And it strikes down the GOP ' s 40-year support for the equal rights amendment , which Reagan opposes . Rep. Margaret Heckler of Massachusetts , still upset over the rejection by the committee of the ERA , yesterday called for a meeting with Reagan " to clarify his feelings on the broad range of women ' s concerns . " Other ERA supporters , such as Mary Louise Smith of Iowa , said that a meeting would be helpful , but that she was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are many other important issues for Republicans to be concerned with , " she said . Most of the 106 platform writers were agreeable to fashioning a document geared to the wishes of Reagan , who blanketed the work sessions with political operatives . Last night , when the committee took up the foreign policy and defense plank , action was completed in a record 80 minutes . The entire platform was completed a day earlier than scheduled . " This platform does reflect the shared concerns of the Republican Party , " said adviser Allen . " The amount of time in which it ( defense and foreign policy plank ) was adopted is deeply reassuring . Its acceptance reflects widespread agreement . " Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina wanted to insert language recognizing Taiwan and deploring the Panama Canal treaties , but dropped his plans in a tradeoff to get strong language in the platform criticizing federal aid to Nicaragua - strongly supported by vice presidential possibile Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana - and a tougher trade policy designed to increase automobile sales and immprove US competition in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not estimate how high the increases in defense spending would be to pay for new weapons and systems , or where the money would come from . Among the items called for were accelerated development of all new US missile systems and construction of a new intercontinental bomber . Rushing to complete its work last night , the committee courted Hispanics , the fastest-growing voting bloc , with a special section acknowledging their plight in finding jobs and in learning to speak English . And they applauded a motion to add an exclamation mark to the sentence : " Jimmy Carter must go . " Calling the plank on inflation " the most important " in the platform , Kemp praised the committee for approving his proposal , coauthored with Sen. William Roth ( R-Del. ) , to cut taxes 30 percent over three years . " It is a contradiction in terms to call the Republican Party conservative , " said Kemp of the tax cuts that resemble old Democratic economics . " We are radical and I ' m proud of it . " An important part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wage , price and credit controls . " Whether they are teachers or blue-collar workers , it is immoral to freeze their paychecks at 8 percent while devaluating their dollars at 13 percent , " Kemp said . All afternoon , the candidate ' s aides negotiated with ultraconservatives like Helms to keep controversial planks , such as one recognizing Taiwan , from being proposed . At a press conference earlier in the day , Allen said current US policy toward China would " continue essentially unchanged " if Reagan were President . He said Reagan deplored the " speed and ease " with which Taiwan " was put over the side " by Carter when he established diplomatic relations with the mainland government of China . But Allen , president of a Washington-based international consulting firm , said it was " simply not accurate " to say Reagan was for " a two-Chinas policy " or was interested in " turning the clock back as far as rerecognition ( of Taiwan ) . " The tough language on appointing judges of firm ideological beliefs bothered even conservative senators Malcolm Wallop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was inconsistent to accuse Carter of making partisan judicial nominations while calling for judges who reflect traditional GOP values . " That leaves us looking rather more silly than we care to , " he said . " I think it ' s a bit much , " Dole said . " I think it ' s one of those situations where , if you don ' t agree with the platform , you don ' t worry about it . That ' s what Reagan says he ' s going to do . "                     