@@670060

REAGANITES FEAR political damage from the sluggish economy . Although they exhorted the Fed to cut the discount rate , yesterday ' s action may not pep up the economy much in the short run . Some analysts say the rate cut might just stimulate sectors of the economy that are healthy anyway , while failing to do much for stricken farm and oil states where Republican Senate fortunes are threatened . As a result , White House political aides study policy initiatives aimed specifically at shoring up sagging areas . Ideas under discussion include releasing already-appropriated federal dollars to buy domestic oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve , which might help races in Louisiana and elsewhere , and promoting food exports by giving free surplus commodities to nations that buy U.S. products . " We don ' t discuss much else , " says a political strategist close to the White House . " There are pockets of trouble that require immediate attention . " REAGAN TAKES a back seat on the final drive for tax overhaul . As the conference committee starts work next week , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 30% range tax writers contemplate for the top individual rate is well below the 35% that Reagan had insisted on . Whatever the panel decides , figures one administration official , " the only person who can ' t lose is the boss . " Even though Reagan lacks leverage , Treasury officials still hope to influence the outcome by acting as mediators . They hope to minimize depreciation cutbacks by crafting compromises on costly , politically sensitive issues like IRAs and sales taxes . But Chief of Staff Regan favors a more aggressive strategy that could undercut Treasury ' s maneuvers . CALENDAR CRUNCH : Congress faces a packed schedule before adjournment . Returning lawmakers face decisions on tax overhaul , what to do about the Gramm-Rudman law , raising the debt ceiling and the budget . House Appropriations Chairman Whitten considers packaging annual spending bills into one big measure . The Senate may be forced to do the same to save time ; among other things , it faces possibly lengthy impeachment proceedings against an imprisoned federal judge . With little appetite in either Congress or the White @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorization could be casualties . The Conrail sale and acid-rain bills are judged dead for the year . Superfund may still come up , but other environmental bills , including water legislation authorizing new projects , are endangered . The White House hopes time runs out on South Africa sanction legislation and the trade bill , but GOP senators still want to take up the issues . REAGAN ' S RESPONSE to Gorbachev ' s latest arms-control letter is delayed by administration differences . His return letter won ' t emerge until next week at the earliest . The Pentagon and State Department struggle to find a formula offering Gorbachev enough encouragement to get him to the December summit . DUE BILL : U.S. trade pressures on Japan are apt to increase after Nakasone ' s big parliamentary victory . The U.S. had deferred much of its agenda during the campaign for fear of harming Nakasone ' s prospects . Now , officials figure , he is obliged to cooperate . " We ' ll have a better chance now than we ' ve had in years , " one predicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plus for the Packwood bill , some administration officials believe . They figure the House leader needs to reclaim prominence in the tax debate ; if he can get it by being chairman he may be less insistent on changing the substance of the Senate measure . RELATIONS WORSEN between the Reagan administration and small business . Trade groups complain of slights during preparations for next month ' s White House Conference on Small Business , such as the appointment of a conference director with no experience in small-business issues . MILITARY REFORMERS aim next at the Pentagon ' s special forces . Defense Department officials , still smarting from their inability to block congressional bills restructuring the Joint Chiefs of Staff , gird for another struggle over the special-operations forces , which include Army Green Berets and Navy SEALS . " Wagons are being circled , " says a Senate aide . Reformers say the special warfare groups are too often ignored by a bureaucracy mainly geared to preparing for big conventional wars . GOP Sen. Cohen proposes putting the groups under a separate command structure within the Pentagon ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them from the Pentagon hierarchy altogether and create a new agency to handle counterterrorism and guerrilla wars . Hoping to forestall legislation , Weinberger offers to take steps internally to give the special forces more authority . MINOR MEMOS : Since Meese unveiled his pornography report in front of a bare-breasted Justice Department statue , one wag suggests : " Ed should be the one wearing the blindfold from now on . " . . . Former Navy Secretary William Middendorf , an inveterate composer , pens a " Competition March " to inspire more competitive weapons contracts . It premieres next week at a Navy contractor conference.                     