@@669878

TEL AVIV  --  Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir ' s Likud bloc is behind in the pre-election polls , and a fast-deteriorating economy is hurting him further . But Mr. Shamir defiantly predicts victory over the opposition Labor Party in the July 23 election . Battling for political survival as well as his country ' s leadership , Mr. Shamir accused Labor of being " ready to give up on the Camp David agreements " by making " concessions without negotiations " to the Arabs . In an interview , he said most Israelis reject Labor ' s socialist philosophy as a basis for managing the economy . If Mr. Shamir loses , as major opinion polls in Israel indicate , he isn ' t expected to retain control of the conservative Likud bloc . His inability to stir the electorate in the campaign has made it likely that Likud in opposition would choose someone younger and more crowd-pleasing than the quiet , 69-year-old prime minister . Favored as successors are Deputy Prime Minister David Levy or the minister without portfolio , Ariel Sharon . Mr. Sharon , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , has been perhaps the most popular figure in the campaign , drawing big , emotional crowds wherever he goes . And Mr. Levy , who is a Sephardic Jew , has wide appeal in that community , which is more than half of Israel ' s Jewish population . Mr. Shamir won ' t talk about a Labor victory , saying , " I don ' t think about such a possibility . " Although no public surveys have yet shown it , Mr. Shamir ' s aides say that Likud polls show the gap between Likud and Shimon Peres ' s Labor alignment to be narrowing . Who wins in Israel could make a difference in U.S. policy moves in the Mideast . U.S. diplomats and Israeli government sources say they expect a new American initiative to build on the Camp David peace treaty with Egypt after the Israeli elections . This initiative would be designed to bring Egypt and Jordan into talks about an autonomy plan for the 1. 4 million Palestinian Arabs in Israeli-occupied territories . Egypt broke off such talks two years ago , and Jordan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressure . Labor is thought to have better chances of drawing Jordan ' s King Hussein into such talks because it favors territorial concessions in exchange for peace . Labor also might move more quickly to get Israeli troops out of Lebanon . Israel ' s presence in Lebanon was a major reason for Egypt ' s withdrawal from the autonomy talks . Hoarse , and looking tired from an intensive campaign schedule , Mr. Shamir said Israel was making progress in its efforts to transfer security responsibilities to friendly local forces in South Lebanon . This , he said , could pave the way for an Israeli withdrawal in the " not very far future . " He declined , however , to say how long the occupation would continue . Israeli speculation has been intense , both inside and outside government circles , that Mr. Shamir ' s administration will stage at least a limited pullback from Lebanon before the election later this month . At the least , some government officials say , Israel could quickly withdraw from Tyre , on Lebanon ' s western coast , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Any reduction of Israel ' s role in Lebanon probably would redound to Mr. Shamir ' s political benefit . Mr. Peres , the Labor leader , has scored with voters by pledging to look for a way out of Israel ' s most unpopular military campaign , within six months . On other matters , Mr. Shamir said : Israel ' s economy : " The first problem is ( Israel ' s 400% ) inflation . We think the only means to keep it under control and to reduce it , with our conditions , is to get a social covenant , a social contract , with all the important factors in our economy  --  the trade unions , the industrialists , the big companies , and the government . " The future of the Palestinian Arabs in Israeli-held territories : " This problem has to be subject for negotiations in the framework of the Camp David agreement . As there are differences between the parties that are participating in Camp David , it was agreed there should be a transitional period for autonomy for the Palestinian Arabs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties will negotiate together with representatives of the Palestinian Arabs about the political future and stable status of these territories . " President Reagan ' s plan for confederation between Jordan and the Palestinian Arabs : " Confederation is a kind of solution which could be adopted by the parties to the negotiations after a transitional period of autonomy . But we can not accept ( it ) now before the phase of autonomy . " We don ' t think that we have to be ready to give up a part of our lands without trying to come to agreed solutions by process of negotiations . You know , ( progress ) depends on developments outside our country . The Palestinian Arabs have never decided anything for themselves . They have always preferred the Arab countries to decide for them . And I think the same situation exists now . " U.S.-Israeli relations : " I think the U.S. government understands the reason for our policies in Lebanon . It knows very well that the Israeli government is very interested in leaving . And if we don ' t leave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convincing reasons for it . About relations in general with the U.S. , we can say only , as the representatives of the American administration say , that they are better than they ever were before . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     