@@735014

txt WASHINGTON ( AP ) ? A Senate subcommittee took the first congressional step toward reversing eight years of legalized abortions Thursday by approving legislation defining human life as beginning at conception . The Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Separation of Powers voted 3 to 2 for legislation that would give full constitutional rights to fetuses under the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment . This is a first and partial step toward the protection of Innocent human beings , " said Sen. Jeremiah Denton ( R. , Ala. ) , a subcommittee member and a foe of legal abortions . However , a fundamental split among Senate conservatives on what kind of anti-abortion legislation should be approved will delay votes on the so-called human life bill in the full 18-member Senate Judiciary Committee until fall or winter . Many conservatives prefer a constitutional amendment , which would require more votes to pass Congress and have to be ratified by three-fourths of the 50 states . Sen. John East ( R. , N.C. ) , the subcommittee chairman , said the human life bill was designed to reverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he termed " the most flagrant misuse of judicial power in 20th Century America . " East said the legislation was designed to untangle a " riddle , " which the high court tailed to resolve : " Namely , when does life begin ? " OPPONENTS OF THE legislation , Including feminists and dozens of constitutional scholars , say it would make women who have abortions Vulnerable to prosecution for murder and would be an unconstitutional attack on the authority of the federal courts . Supporters say the bill will send the abortion issue back to state legislatures and courts where it belongs . Sen. Max Baucus ( Mont. ) , senior Democrat on the subcommittee , argued that the bill would violate , rather than expand , the rights of the states on issues like abortion . Further , Baucus said , the proposal " undermines the role of the judiciary as it has existed " since the Mar-bury versus Madison decision of the 1820s , which set out the role of Congress and the Supreme Court . Sen. Howell Heflin ( D. , Ala. ) , a former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " an exercise in futility , " predicting that the Supreme Court would strike down the legislation if it were passed . TI1E HUMAN LIFE bill also would eliminate lower federal court jurisdiction over abortion cases , restricting such cases to state courts . The victory for foes of legalized abortion was tempered by an agreement that will delay further consideration of the human life bill In the Senate until late this year , or perhaps 1982.                     