@@670247

ORANGE , Calif.  --  An offer by the founding family of Bergen Brunswig Corp. to sell the company their controlling stake was rejected as too high by a special evaluation committee . Bergen Brunswig said Emil and Robert Martini , who took the drug distributor public 25 years ago , proposed a stock recapitalization plan under which they would retain control of the board for the next five years . Under the plan , the Martinis would exchange their 388 , 426 Class B shares for 3 , 612 , 000 newly issued Class A shares . In addition , they would receive 388 , 426 new Class C shares . The control rights now contained in the Martinis ' Class B shares would be transferred to the new Class C shares for five years . At that time the Class C shares would convert to Class A stock on a one-for-one basis , thus making Bergen Brunswig a " one-share , one-vote " concern . The company has about 24 million shares outstanding on a fully diluted basis . In composite American Stock Exchange trading Friday , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cents . Based on the closing price , the 3 , 612 , 000 Class A shares the Martinis proposed receiving would be valued at $85. 3 million . This doesn ' t include the future value of the Class C stock the Martinis would receive under their proposal . Presented with the offer , the special committee , formed to evaluate such a proposal last spring , said " the premium now being requested should be further reduced , " Bergen Brunswig said . The committee also said the Martinis should agree to certain restrictions on their ability to resell their Class A stock . Ever since the two brothers took the company public , they have controlled it through the powerful Class B stock , which isn ' t traded . Before they retire , they have said that they want to democratize Bergen Brunswig . To do so , they advanced the unusual proposal of having Bergen Brunswig itself  --  rather than an outsider  --  buy their Class B shares for a premium over the price of the Class A shares . The Martinis hadn ' t stated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlling shares . While investment bankers view the Martinis ' Class B shares as worth more than ordinary stock because they confer control , some said the premium was obviously high . " It looks like the Martinis would get a huge premium for control , " said one investment banker close to the company . " I would be surprised if this thing didn ' t become a hot potato , " with shareholders , he said . The investment banker noted that earlier this year , the Martinis had been offered " something in the mid-30 million dollar range " for the shares . While they had rejected the offer , the investment banker noted that the proposal by the Martinis was much higher than the earlier offer . John A. McRae , an analyst with Bear , Stearns &; Co. , said the Martinis ' plan is " a more attractive proposal to the Class A shareholders because it ' s a paper transaction rather than straight cash out of the company . It ' s probably better than a straight cash redemption , " which was being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reinhardt , Jr. , vice president and chief financial officer for Bergen Brunswig and Alan Appelbaum , an attorney for the special committee , both said they expect the Martinis and the special committee to reach an agreement within the next two weeks . Mr. Reinhardt said the company expects to hold a special meeting for shareholders to vote on a proposal in two or three months . Any agreement is subject to approval by the board and shareholders and a fairness opinion from Lazard Freres &; Co. , the special committee ' s investment banking adviser . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     