@@668552

Eastern Airlines flight attendants began strike preparations as their union leaders and company managers continued contract talks , while striking Continental pilots asked a court today to dismiss the company ' s bankruptcy reorganization petition . The striking employees filed a motion asking that Continental ' s petition to reorganize under federal bankruptcy laws be dismissed because it bargained " in bad faith " and is more concerned with breaking labor contracts than repaying debts . In Florida , federal mediator Harry Bickford kept representatives of Eastern and its flight attendants talking for 10 hours yesterday , finally adjourning the negotiations at 11:30 p.m. so everyone could get some rest . Bickford presided over a 19-hour session over the weekend . The negotiations resumed at midmorning today , but union officials were not optimistic about the possibility of reaching agreement before the Wednesday midnight strike deadline . " We ' re going to walk , " said TWU ' s national coordinator , Sandra Morton . " I don ' t see how a strike can be avoided at this time . " The motion to dismiss Continental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houston by the Air Line Pilots Association , the Union of Flight Attendants and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers . The unions claimed Continental is " abusing the federal bankruptcy laws to abrogate existing contractual obligations , not to improve its ability to pay existing debts but rather to improve their competitive posture in the airline industry . " ALPA spokesman Gary Thomas said that the unions want the bankruptcy proceedings thrown out of court in order to get the company back to the bargaining table . Continental pilots and flight attendants walked off their jobs Oct. 1 , a week after the airline filed for reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws . It returned to business two days later , flying to only 25 of its previous 78 US cities and employing about one-third of its 12,000 workers . Under a contract instituted upon that return , salaries of pilots and flight attendants were cut by about 50 percent . A Continental spokesman said earlier that the striking pilots have yet to propose a contract in writing , while the carrier has suggested three . Without a written @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any reason to have further negotiations , " spokesman Bruce Hicks said . " The negotiation process can only happen when there ' s an exchange of meaningful contract proposals . " Talks between the groups broke off Friday after three days , and Continental Airlines began interviewing prospective replacement pilots yesterday . Interviews were planned in 11 cities , Hicks said . There was progress yesterday in the Eastern bargaining , Bickford said . " I continue to be very , very encouraged by both the attitudes of the participants and the progress , " he said . " We fully expect to reach an agreement before the deadline " of 12:01 a.m . Thursday set by Local 553 of the Transport Workers Union , which represents Eastern ' s 5800 domestic flight attendants . Nonetheless , union members began preparing for a walkout . Some members were given picketing schedules yesterday and a spokesman said the union had established strike headquarters in Miami , New York , Boston and Washington . Bickford said the flight attendants were considering a package of proposals to replace the contract that expired in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chairman Walter Wallace would comment on its contents . Transport Workers President Patricia Fink said there were three remaining major issues : wages , working conditions for junior flight attendants and the sticky issue of who will staff the Latin American flights Eastern bought from Braniff Airways last year . " We have successfully settled most of the peripheral issues , " she said . Eastern chairman Frank Borman addressed negotiators twice since the latest round of contract talks began last week , asking a speedy resolution to the 20- month labor dispute . The chairman had demanded that all of Eastern ' s 37,500 employees accept a 15 percent pay cut and give up as much as 25 percent of their vacations as of Nov. 1 . Last week , he withdrew threats of bankruptcy when Eastern ' s three unions - TWU , the Machinists and the Air Line Pilots Association - agreed to work together to pull Eastern out of its financial tailspin . Continental has lost more than $471 million since January 1979 and chairman Frank Lorenzo has said losses in the first nine months of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Air Line Pilots Association voted Sunday to urge their national leaders to impose a $10,000 fine on any union member who flies a Continental Airlines plane after midnight Tuesday . The measure was to be presented to the union ' s Master Executive Council in Houston .                     