@@735304

txt The way the President keeps dredging up his old promises and throwing them into the legislative hopper makes a compelling argument against campaign promises . I rest my case on the evidence of Mr. Reagan 's recent announcement that he will offer a tuition tax-credit plan for private-school children and thus fulfill one of his campaign pledges . As he explained it . the 5500-a-child credit makes sense on several grounds . It would encourage parents to shop around for the best possible education for their Viewpoint by Hodding Carter III children . This would reward schools that do a good job and force less productive schools to shape up . It would encourage diversity in education , diversity being a basic strength of this society . And it would , obviously , help relieve the double financial burden on those taxpayers who choose to avoid the public school system and purchase a different form of education for their children . Despite the President 's renewed support , proponents of the idea have dolefully concluded that this is n't a propitious time for such a tax raid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 5200 billion limit just around the calendar . It has been estimated that the tax credit could cost the government about $4.6 billion by 1987 . As for opponents , their position was summarized by South Carolina 's Sen. Ernest F. Hollings . who said : " The tuition tax-cut proposal would turn our nation 's educational policy on its head , benefit the few at the expense of the many . proliferate substandard segregationist academies , add a sea of red ink to the federal deficit , violate the clear meaning of the First Amendment of the Constitution . and destroy the genius and diversity of our system of public education . " To that considered , temperate outline of the proposal 's defects , a hearty amen . But perhaps others are not as convinced of the idea 's demerits as Sen. Hollings , me and a hundred million or so other adult Americans Perhaps , even in the face of the economic crisis , it can somehow carry the day in Congress , thereby rewarding the President 's fidelity . If that turns out to be the case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at that point but , with the courage of its convictions , follow the logic of the tuition tax credit to its ultimate conclusion . For those who do not readily discern where that logic leads , the following is offered . If . as the President and others profess , the public schools are inefficient guardians of their public trust , wasting money while failing in their primary task , what are we to make of the Defense Department ? Not even the most committed proponents of additional defense spending argue that billions of dollars are not wasted in the name of national security . But what is the taxpayer to do ? The defense establishment has a mortal lock on all monies spent for the military . Diversity is not only discouraged , it is all but impossible . Yet , with no competition for defense dollars siphoned off in a golden stream by the tax code , the most slothful , wasteful tendencies of the Defense Department are encouraged rather than penalized . The solution , which I have modestly dubbed the Carter Defense Tax Credit ( CDTC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overburdened taxpayer would be allowed a tax credit of up to a barely adequate 55,000 a year to spend in any way he felt appropriate to enhance the nation 's ( as well as his own ) defense . There would be some strings , such as a prohibition on spending the money for weapons or organizations that did not observe strict equal-opportunity guidelines . Otherwise , however , it would be bombs away as each person saw fit . Thanks to the CDTC. it is possible to envision the overnight creation of private armies that , lean , tough and responsive to market pressures , would at last give the hard-pressed taxpayer the maximum bang for his or ' her defense buck . Just as the President has claimed that tuition tax zredits would have a negligible effect on the health of the common schools ( as the public schools were once called ) , so , too , this plan should complement rather than threaten the existence of the common defense . The tightly efficient war-making enterprises that the CDTC would nurture should prove to be pioneers in creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ participation in the essential business of defending America 's shores . It would also stimulate those of us who would not or could not take advantage of its terms to demand better performance by the defense establishment . But if this is an idea whose time has come , it is also an idea that should not be restricted to education and defense . What we are really talking about is the opportunity to bring the free enterprise system to bear ( with a healthy assist from the tax code ) on the whole range of hitherto public services . Thus there could be the Carter Aeronautics and Space Tax Credit to provide an alternative to the now-faltering NASA ; the Carter Public Health Tax Credit to challenge the sickly public health system : and the Carter Parks and Conservation Tax Credit , which Jim Watt should love , to provide a workable substitute for what 's left of the Interior Department 's functions in those fields . Finally , just in case someone , somewhere might try to challenge these proposals on constitutional grounds , there would be the Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to provide funding for a full range of legal systems among which the individual could shop for the constitutional interpretation of his choice . Mr. Carter is chief correspondent for " Inside Story . " produced for PBS.                     