@@668473

In the midst of a bristling mayoral campaign which has arrayed black versus white , Chicago is undergoing the same sort ofoutside scrutiny that Boston faced after violence broke out during the first days of court- ordered busing in 1974 . An image is being developed here by many members of the national and international press that Chicago is the most racially polarized city in the country . Many Chicago residents resent the description , but the city ' s neighborhoods have some of the same patterns of segregation that are found in Boston . Boston ' s blacks and Hispanics tend to be concentrated in the geographic center of the city , in Roxbury , the South End and portions of Dorchester . They constitute less than 20 percent of the population . But in Chicago , a massive city six times the size of Boston , blacks make up 40 percent of the population , and a growing Hispanic community - primarily Mexican and Puerto Rican - accounts for roughly 10 percent more . Blacks control 16 of the city ' s 50 wards . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ land containing middle-class neighborhoods and poor ghettos that extends from the central business district to Chicago ' s southern boundary . The other black stronghold is the city ' s West Side , which also serves as home for many Hispanic voters . Often there has been rivalry between South Side and West Side blacks , but this spring they are united behind the candidacy of Harold Washington , the black Democratic nominee for mayor . Squeezed between the two black neighborhoods is Southwest Chicago , a predominantly Irish section that was a source of strength for the old political machine of the late Mayor Richard J. Daley . Daley ' s home ward , the virtually all-white Bridgeport neighborhood that produced an unbroken line of mayors for decades until Jane Byrne ' s election in 1979 , lies cheek-to-jowl against the black South Side . Another important " white ethnic " ward , the home of Cook County Democratic Party chairman Edward Vrdolyak , is on the southeast tip of Chicago , surrounded by black wards . Racial tensions have run high in the area for years . Northwest of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who are Polish or have other Eastern European backgrounds . It was in Northwest Chicago that Washington and former Vice President Walter F. Mondale were heckled at a church two weeks ago . In some of the wards , the power is shared with the Irish . The six Lakefront wards , which have become the decisive battleground going into tomorrow ' s election , run north of the Loop along Lake Michigan . Most of the Jewish population - 4 percent of the city ' s - as well as thousands of wealthy apartment dwellers live here . It is the most liberal section of the city , but it can not be pigeonholed because of its diverse characteristics . One of the wards , for example , is the home of the vast Cabrini Green housing project , where 10,000 blacks live . When Washington was asked on the NBC television program Meet the Press yesterday whether he thought that a decision to locate a housing project in a white ethnic area was good public policy , he was reluctant to answer directly . He said he supported " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are groundless . " Segregated housing is an issue that seldom is mentioned publicly , but which festers as an important issue in the campaign .                     