@@670311

BERKELEY , Calif.  --  It ' s business as usual at Jerome Morrison ' s sidewalk rock crystal stand on Telegraph Avenue here . He patiently listens to a customer ' s psychic and energy needs and suggests she would benefit from " the self-love transmitting properties " of a nice polished piece of rose quartz . " Take it into the bathtub with you , " says Mr. Morrison , who also proffers , without prompting , a lecture on the dark side of crystal energy . " Atlantis , you know , was destroyed " when power-hungry Atlanteans misused the energy of huge red-crystal " generators . " Just up the street at Shambhala Booksellers , the metaphysical lunch crowd shuffles in to peruse titles on Tibetan healing arts , soul travel and the sensual secrets of ancient Indian sex-breathing methods . One customer leafs through " The New Man , " a book whose thesis is that a race of mutant New Age Homo sapiens , emerging from genetic seeds planted by enlightened ancients 3 , 500 years ago , will soon flourish and save @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a man with long hair , yellowing teeth and a battered guitar is delivering stand-up comedy to an audience more interested in shopping for tie-dyed baby underwear . " If you have no money , they call you a bum . If you have money in a bank , they call you politically incorrect . I don ' t get it , " he says . Oh , Berkeley , Berkeley , Berkeley . If it ' s true that the eccentrics of earth moved to America and the eccentrics of America to California , then the eccentrics of California have a special place in their heart for this funkily scenic haven on the east shore of San Francisco Bay . Berkeley , population 105 , 000 , earned its reputation in the turbulent ' 60s as a crossroads of the counterculture and a kiln of the free-speech movement . While much of America has spent the decades since then growing conservative and homogeneous in front of television sets , Berkeley has continued to march , organize , protest , meditate and stir its yogurt ( organic , of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' t enjoy itself the while . These days , the town is a curious and seemingly contradictory blend of the radical and the chic . Its streets are full of speechifiers and New Age peddlers , and its politicians spend as much effort assailing U.S. foreign policy as mending streets ; yet revolutionaries of a different kind have added a decidedly upscale patina to Berkeley ' s fringe cast . So many first-class ( and expensive ) restaurants , bakeries , gourmet food shops and wine stores have opened here in recent years that some say the counterculture is being challenged by a counter culture . " This is a town in which half the people are seeking to overthrow the federal government while the other half are seeking the perfect croissant , " says R. Howard Bloch , head of the University of California-Berkeley French department , who after 15 years here has satirized the town in a novel called " Moses in the Promised Land . " His protagonist is an environmentally conscious termite eradicator specializing in " sensitive rehabilitation of unwanted insect species . " Mr. Bloch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tastes . Shopping at a chic French bakery not long ago , he found a $16 tart that bore , in elegant whipped-cream script , the slogan " Victory to the Sandinistas . " He ' s also fond of recalling the time an advocate of Berkeley ' s strict rent controls declared , in full earnestness , that it was the redistribution of cash freed up by rent control that permitted the epicurean enterprises to flourish . Skeptics like Mr. Bloch aside , Berkeley tends to see itself not as far-out or sold-out but as far ahead , an incubator of ideas that , though seemingly radical at first , often prove durable and even exportable . The mayor , Loni Hancock , ticks off a few : Berkeley gave birth to the disabled-rights movement , she says . It was the first American city to shun investments in companies with holdings in South Africa . It was in the vanguard of U.S. communities declaring themselves sanctuaries for Central Americans seeking political asylum . It pioneered the idea of phasing out styrofoam fast-food packaging for environmental reasons . All of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But other sparks spun off from the Berkeley maelstrom have produced effects beyond their goal : The town ' s embrace of civil rights for the homeless has attracted a large transient population , and now complaints of drug dealing and related crimes are growing . And Berkeley ' s once-proficient elementary-school system now is , by any objective measure , a mess . Parents of some 35% of eligible children send them to private schools , often complaining of a zealous busing system dedicated to pinpoint racial balance , and of budget cuts and mismanagement that have lopped off teachers and gutted enrichment programs . Mayor Hancock , who would be a radical in Cleveland but is a middle-of-the-roader here , is determined to fight Berkeley ' s flaky image without forsaking a larger role in the universe . She is determined not to turn the town  --  coveted by developers for its scenic hills and proximity to San Francisco  --  into an upper-class BMW ghetto . Her flamboyant predecessor , Gus Newport , made headlines by galloping off on official visits to Cuba and taking mortar fire while @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Ms. Hancock is known as a workaholic and conciliator who has kept an eye on the international political horizon but her feet firmly on Berkeley ' s sidewalks . One day , she spends the afternoon on the phone to U.S. Embassy officials in El Salvador helping arrange the release of the mayor of a Salvadoran village  --  a Berkeley " sister city "  --  apparently kidnapped by rightists . On another , she surveys one of the first fruits of a drive for " socially responsible " businesses : the redevelopment of a huge old spice-plant site . The project passes moral muster in Berkeley : It preserves historic buildings , and it includes low-income housing and subsidized space for craftsmen , and a biotechnology company for which it provides space promises to give locals first crack at any new jobs . This isn ' t to say , of course , that a nuclear-waste processor or munitions maker would have a place in Berkeley ' s happy eclecticism , or that Berkeley is in any way going mainstream . Even hard-core Berkeleytes winced last summer when  --  after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city offered free group pyschiatric counseling for residents traumatized by the crime . Then there ' s that whole array of uniquely Berkeleyian pursuits : classes in " non-violent jujitsu " ; the Church for the Transformation of Depression ; seminars for " recovering Catholics " ; vegetarian pot-luck dinners dedicated to the rights of performing animals . They help explain why the place is often ridiculed as " the People ' s Republic of Berkeley " or  --  the currently preferred term of derision  --  as " Berserkeley . " In the tradition of constant street theater that best describes Berkeley politics , some 400 residents clashed last March in a rancorous debate over whether to adopt a Palestinian refugee camp as a sister city . The measure failed 6-3 following a rally by a typically Berkeleyesque coalition : fervid supporters of Israel in league with homeless people carrying placards reading " Adopt Us ! " And last week Berkeley turned its attention to a new municipal cause . The Citizens Humane Commission was the setting for a spirited debate on whether to exempt Chinese potbelly pigs  --  miniatures sold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular barnyard pigs from town . The issue wasn ' t , as one might suppose , whether potbelly pigs are sufficiently domesticated , or whether they smell ; instead , explains a commission spokeswoman , it was " whether it is humane to impose domesticity on yet another animal , " given the onerous conditions under which many already live . The commission has just forwarded a lukewarm pro-pig recommendation to the zoning department . But one commissioner vows to fight on , contending that domestication of any animal " deprives that animal of living its own life . " " Be assured , " says the university ' s Prof. Bloch , " that Berkeley is crazier than ever . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     