@@668715

Tumbling gasoline costs helped to drive wholesale prices down sharply last month , the government said Friday , while two other reports indicated that the nation ' s economic activity was still far from robust . Producer prices of finished goods fell a seasonally adjusted 0. 7 percent in January for their biggest drop in three years , according to the Labor Department . The drop surprised many economists who had been looking for either a smaller decline or a slight increase . Moreover , the decline reversed a rising trend shown in the last few months . The government ' s index of producer prices rose 0. 5 percent in December and 0. 7 percent in November , mainly because of higher food costs . " The price news was really very good , " said economist Evelina Tainer , of First National Bank of Chicago . " In addition to energy , the numbers were weak for many other components of the index . It points to a continued moderate inflation rate in the months ahead . " " There was an across-the-board indication of no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , economist at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc . Energy costs dropped 4. 2 percent in January , reflecting a 5. 7 percent decline in gasoline prices and a 10. 8 percent retreat in heating oil costs . Wholesale costs for consumer foods fell 0. 4 percent after rising 0. 7 percent the preceding month . Prices of nonfood items dropped 0. 7 percent after a 0. 5 percent increase in December . Capital equipment costs fell 0. 1 percent after rising 0. 1 percent . Coffee was the only item in the price index to show a marked increase , soaring 17. 4 percent in response to a prolonged drought in Brazil . In two other economic reports , the Federal Reserve Board said the nation ' s industrial production rose 0. 3 percent in January , less than many economists had predicted . That followed gains of 0. 7 percent in December and 0. 8 percent in November . Inventories of U.S. businesses fell $569 million , or 0. 1 percent , in December for the first decline since August , 1985 , the Commerce Department said . It revised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the original report of 0. 2 percent . " The reports , in combination with Thursday ' s report on retail sales , show that the economy is still pretty weak , " Tainer said . " They tend to negate last week ' s report of a sharp increase in employment for January . " However , Richard S. Peterson , senior vice president and chief economist at Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Co. of Chicago , said the January reports " are coming off of high numbers in December and confirm our belief that the gross national product will be up about 4 percent in the first quarter , with continued low inflation . " Over the last year , producer prices have risen just 1. 4 percent , bolstering the view of economists who believe inflation will continue to be restrained this year . Prices for gasoline and other energy products probably will drop further in the next few months as the recent plunge in worldwide petroleum prices works through the industry , Tainer predicted . " That doesn ' t mean we ' ll see @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also means changes in the CPI will remain modest , " she said . Donald Ratajczak , director of the economic forecasting center at Georgia State University , said petroleum prices may fall by 15 percent through 1986 and not reach a low point until 1987 . Michael Evans , president of an economic forecasting service based in Washington , said the real impact of lower oil prices on gasoline and petroleum products will be more apparent when the figures for February are in . " The fireworks won ' t come until next month , " Evans said . The January decline in the overall producer price index was the first drop since September and the biggest since a 0. 9 percent decline in January , 1983 . Natural gas prices , one of the few to head upward , increased 0. 5 percent in January . Vegetable prices , which had climbed 15. 3 percent in December , largely because of cold weather in Texas , fell 9. 7 percent in January . Automobile prices fell 1. 3 percent , reflecting low-interest auto financing packages offered by automakers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices rose 0. 2 percent while soft-drink costs were up 0. 3 percent . Clothing prices fell generally , with children ' s and infants ' apparel showing the sharpest decline of 0. 8 percent . Prescription drug prices rose 2. 9 percent while over-the-counter preparations rose 0. 9 percent . If last month ' s 0. 7 percent decrease held steady for 12 consecutive months , the yearly rate would be a 7. 8 percent drop CAPTION : CHART : ( color ) Producer prices . Total finished goods . Chicago Tribune Chart ; Source : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . CHART : Industrial production . Chicago Tribune Chart ; Source : Federal Reserve Board . CHART : Business inventories . Chicago Tribune Graphic ; Source U.S. Department of Commerce . Illustration CHARTS 3 <>                     