@@668443

The law cited by Gov . Michael S. Dukakis last week as grounds for removal of two members of the Massachusetts Port Authority Board apparently wouldallow him to rescind dozens of other last-minute appointments made by former governor Edward J. King . The 1964 law , used by Dukakis on Friday to remove Joseph Laffey Jr . of Auburndale and Eric Jostrom of Townsend from the Massport Board , appears to give him the power to cancel many of the other appointments made by King to various boards and commissions in the final days of his term . One of King ' s appointments that would appear to be vulnerable under the law is that of Paul May to the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority . One of two men removed by Dukakis from the Massport board , however , challenged the governor ' s action in court yesterday , and the state Supreme Judicial Court has agreed to review the issue next week . King named between 300 and 400 individuals to judicial positions and state boards and commissions in his final days in office , according to public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-election campaign , donated money to his campaign , worked on his gubernatorial staff or held positions in his cabinet . King ' s appointment of May , a Chestnut Hill resident , to the part- time , $25,000-a-year associate turnpike commissioner ' s slot took place last Wednesday , the day before King ' s four-year term ended . May was the principal campaign fund-raiser for King in 1982 and his campaign manager in 1978 . S. Stephen Rosenfeld , the governor ' s legal counsel , and William Geary , a senior adviser to Dukakis , confirmed that they are reviewing the issue . Gerald FitzGerald , Dukakis ' press secretary , said no decisions have been made . " The first thing to do is to see who was appointed and then to see if there are any problems , " he said . " The governor has made it clear that there will be no wholesale purge . " Dukakis administration officials are reportedly reluctant to move hastily for fear of stirring enmities and appearing vindictive . Under the rarely used law cited by Dukakis last Friday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days any gubernatorial appointment if that appointment was once subject to confirmation by the Executive Council . Laffey , a Teamster named to the Massport Board last Wednesday , filed a complaint before the Supreme Judicial Court yesterday , arguing that the law is intended to grant that power of removal only to the governor who made the appointment . Until the voters approved the law in a referendum in the November 1964 , election , virtually all executive branch positions , salaries , land takings and contracts were subject to the " advice and consent " ( approval ) of the Executive Council . According minutes of the Executive Council meetings of 1963 and 1964 , dozens of the positions which King filled in his final days in office were once subject to the approval of the eight-member board . In addition to May , last-minute appointees who could be removed by Dukakis if his interpretation of the law is upheld include : - Theodore Herman , King ' s Worcester County campaign coordinator , who was named Worcester County sheriff . Herman , a former Worcester police detective who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political supporter of King . He replaced Francis J. Deignan , who died . Herman surrendered his pension to take the position as sheriff . - Gerald J. Morrissey , a former state representative from Dorchester , who was named chairman of the Boston Licensing Board . - James F. Carlin , former state secretary of transportation in King ' s Cabinet , who was named to the Board of Trustees for the University of Massachusetts . Carlin was named to the Massport Board last Wednesday but resigned on Thursday morning so that Jostrom could be named in his place when it became known that King ' s appointments had violated a law which says no more than four members of Massport may be members of the same political party . - Walter F. Timilty , brother of Sen. Joseph F. Timilty ( D- Canton ) and King campaign contributor , to the Board of Trustees for Medfield State Hospital . The list of positions which once fell under the jurisdiction of the Executive Council includes nearly all state hospital , college and professional boards . The list does not include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Massachusetts Corporation of Educational Telecommunications to which King named former secretary of administration and finance David M. Bartley and two of his press aides , or the Bay State Skills Corporation Board of Directors , to which King named former Economic Affairs Secretary George S. Kariotis . Other positions not covered by the 1964 law are judicial appointments and appointments to the Youth Service Board , the Industrial Accident Board , the Public Utilities Commission , the Parole Board and the Appellate Tax Board . King made many judicial appointments , four Industrial Accident Board appointments and one Appellate Tax Board appointment in his final week in office .                     