@@668726

Everyone knows about the tooth fairy , but few have heard of the tooth worm . Centuries ago , dental caries were blamed on a worm that lived inside the tooth , eating it away at the command of angry gods . Now the popular perception of tooth decay is closer to reality , but still oversimplified . Most people realize that the culprits are microorganisms , in particular streptococcus mutans and , to a lesser extent , lactobacillus acidophilus . These bacteria live on the outside of the teeth in a substance called plaque made by streptococcus mutans from breakdown products of polysaccharides . Their diet is sugars , especially sucrose , table sugar . In metabolizing the sugars , they produce acids , which eat through tooth enamel . The obvious , and to many people sufficient , remedy would be to brush regularly with fluoride toothpaste and avoid sweets . Certainly this is part of prevention . Dentists often cite the maxim , " A clean tooth never decays . " Experimental animals living in a bacteria-free environment do not have caries . The Greek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweet , produce damage . . . because small particles adhere between the teeth , where they easily become the cause of putrefaction . " The physician Hippocrates attributed tooth decay partly to food . Studies have confirmed these ancient observations . When experimental animals are given sugar by stomach tube , their teeth do not decay . When they eat sugary foods , caries result . Similarly , children with hereditary fructosuria have little tooth decay . They can not metabolize fructose , one of the simple sugars in sucrose , and are nauseated by it ; so they avoid sugary sweets . Their normal siblings who eat sweets have a regular amount of dental caries . In the early ' 50s , a classic example of dental research was conducted in a mental institution in Vipeholm , Sweden . Inmates were divided into nine groups and fed large amounts of sucrose in different substances , ranging from toffee to liquids , with or between meals . Sweet liquids given at meals produced little or no increase in caries . Sticky candies fed between meals caused a sharp rise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intermediate increases . This study showed that how tenaciously food sticks to the teeth , how long it remains there and how frequently it is eaten all contribute to cariogenicity , or decay-causing potential . Later studies uncovered other factors in causing tooth decay : Some foods have the ability to raise or lower the acidity of dental plaque . And some components of food appear to increase or inhibit their cariogenic potential . Knowing that the acid residue that bacteria leave on the teeth eat the enamel , one might expect acidity to predict tooth destruction . But studies by Dr. B.G. Bibby and his colleagues have found that some foods , such as wheat flakes , cookies and chocolate , may produce more acid than sucrose but cause less demineralization . On the other hand , foods such as eggs , crisp bread and peanuts caused a minimal rise in acidity and quickly returned the pH ( relative acidity ) back to its usual " resting " level . Until research exposes more about the production and prevention of tooth decay , we can attack the problem in several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with fluoridation of water supplies at optimal levels . This will help protect the teeth of all the nation ' s children . Individuals should brush with fluoride toothpaste after meals , floss night and morning , use a fluoride rinse and get regular checkups . If sugared cereals are eaten , they should be consumed at breakfast rather than between-meals . Dried fruits such as like raisins should be eaten as part of other foods , not alone as a snack . Sweet beverages are better taken with foods than sipped slowly over an afternoon or evening . The toothworm was a myth , but streptococcus mutans and its bacterial partners are real . Denying them their favorite food by watching ours will help safeguard our dental health.                     