@@670355

Moscow  --  In this sweltering summer , dazzled crowds of Soviet citizens have been packing the new Tretyakov Gallery here to see the U.S. Wild West as depicted by Albert Bierstadt , George Catlin , Frederic Remington , Charles Russell , John Sloan , Robert Henri , Jackson Pollock , Georgia O ' Keeffe and Fritz Scholder . At the opening , over a thousand Soviets , more than the turnout for the opening of a recent Kandinsky exhibition , crowded the museum ' s staircase and lobby while listening to the organizers ' self-congratulatory speeches followed by the down-home rhythms of the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band . The happiest man in the place was Phillip Anschutz , a Colorado oil and gas tycoon who had finally managed to exhibit his art collection here in the formerly Evil Empire . To hear him talk about it , arranging this show was harder than trying to piece together a transcontinental railway back home . ( His Anschutz Corp. owns several systems , including the Denver &; Rio Grande Western Railroad , and Southern Pacific Transportion Co . ) " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were literally on the verge of sending the collection here , but Russia was impolite enough to invade Afghanistan and the State Department asked us to cancel . " Now 65 of Mr. Anschutz ' s oils and watercolors will hang in the Tretyakov through Aug. 9 , before traveling on to Novosibirsk , Tbilisi and Leningrad . The spirit of " glasnost " had a lot to do with making this show possible , of course , but it wouldn ' t do at all to underestimate the part played by Elizabeth Cunningham . She has been Mr. Anschutz ' s curator for the last decade  --  a slender , energetic woman with a seemingly inexhaustible supply of quiet optimism in the face of a still-elephantine and obstructionist Soviet reality . Even with a firm commitment from the Soviets , her job was a form of nightmare . " From the signing of the protocol to the opening only one year has elapsed , " she explained . " That ' s a very , very short time to organize an international exhibition , especially here , considering the number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proved to be the biggest problem , as it ' s very difficult to keep things moving once you ' re not here . The exhibit couldn ' t have been accomplished without the very professional staff of the Tretyakov , the assistance of the American Embassy and certain key Soviets . " Ms. Cunningham got essential " magic " help from Rosa Kavenoki , a Soviet emigre who now works in the U.S. as a private arts consultant on Soviet projects , and Boris Mazya , deputy director of Leningrad ' s famed Bolshoi Dramaticheskii Theater . Looking back on their travail , Ms. Kavenoki noted that " the Soviet system isn ' t set up to receive so many foreign visitors and to deal with the current volume of exchanges . They simply don ' t have the apparatus in place . And now many of these institutions are gaining independence from the central ministries , which , in the short term , has made the situation more chaotic rather than less because it is not clear who has authority for what . " Also , the ministry of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organizations under them were given more independence but not the structure to carry through . Westerners arrive only to discover that the museums and theaters with which they intend to work are not aware of what the ministry has agreed to . " All this made the organizing of the Anschutz exhibition more complicated than it would have been previously , and it was always complicated . Since the sponsors ( Dresser Industries Inc . , United Brands Co . , Penn Central Corp. and Transcisco Industries Inc. ) wanted to arrange for the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band to present a series of concerts the week of the opening , we were compelled to deal with both the Ministry of Culture and Goskontsert . Then midway through , due to Soviet restructuring , the All Union Artistic Production Association appeared as yet another entity . " Future Soviet-American projects are sure to be further complicated since the government has lost interest in exchanges . Today their interest is business . I know that one of the things that interests them now is what they call a ' commercial exhibit . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrives wanting to take a particular exhibition that the Soviets have put together to their country and the Soviets want to charge a fee . Paying for transport , insurance and even packing fees is standard but to charge an outright rental fee , if you want to call it that , is not practiced by American or , for the most part , Western European museums . They are succeeding with the Japanese , I understand . I heard their precious icons were exhibited in a Tokyo department store . " At the moment demand is great . Everybody wants to see exhibits that have never been out of the country or even been exhibited in their own museums . Still , it ' s all totally inappropriate as American museums and performing arts organizations are suffering from cutbacks and to raise funding for this kind of thing is out of the question. . . . and , of course , such arrangements violate the spirit of cultural exchanges and of cross-cultural interests . " Ms. Kavenoki worries that when the dust settles from the current glasnost stampede , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and professional contacts to sustain them for the long haul . And that ' s a pity as Soviet audiences are among the most receptive in the world . " Surely that seemed true on Thursday last . Soviet correspondents at an early preview found the unifying theme of the exhibit to be that of patriotism and reacted positively . Patriotism , as a reaction against the concept of a Soviet motherland , exemplified by the present turmoil in Soviet republics , is quite fashionable now . The official view of the Anschutz show was somewhat different . Lidiya Ivanovna Iovleva , deputy director of the Tretyakov , explained the gallery ' s interest by saying that " the collection is very accurately chosen with a deep understanding of the subject . Our people are very well acquainted with the literature of the American WestBret Harte , Fenimore Cooper , Walt Whitman , Mark Twain  --  but not with the pictorial images of the West . It is our hope that our citizens will relive a bit of their childhood and that those memories will be enriched by the Anschutz collection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visitor , who recommends this show to other visiting Yanks looking for a vision of home on the range and an escape from tropical Moscow . The Anschutz paintings are mighty fine , pardner , and a more refreshing pause from the usual tourist routine here than the inevitably warm Moscow Pepsi.  --  - Ms. Williamson reports frequently on cultural events in the Soviet Union.                     