@@735280

txt The office decor might be called early postwar industrial . The view outside is of stucco apartment houses , their pastel colors faded and their small balconies serving as laundry rooms , gardens and storage . The smallish room has high ceilings . beige paneled walls and thin-legged furniture . Behind the brown wooden desk , between the commendations and diplomas. hangs the only art work  --  a requisite , undistinguished portrait of the company 's founder . It does n't have to be that way . The portrait could be joined by works by Picasso . Lichtenstein , Stella or Jasper Johns . There might be manuscripts from the Middle Ages , pre-Columbian stone carvings or any of the more than 2,000 other pieces in Peter Ludwig 's art collection . But the founder hangs alone . " I want to make a clear separation of business from art of profession from private life . " Mr. Ludwig says . " But I could n't do without either , I need both the corporate activities and the art collecting . " Peter Ludwig has been successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Leonard Monheim chocolate company ( Trumpf is its best-known brand ) , he controls a company with annual sales of $663 million . In art , he has become one of Europe 's premier collectors owning art pieces valued variously at between $83 million and $165 million . But the value of his collection is n't what sets the 56-year-old Mr. Ludwig apart . All but a few of the pieces that he and his wife . Irene , have bought since World War II , have been lent to 19 museums scattered across central Europe . And they have never sold a piece of art once they have purchased it . " Despite the enormous increases in art prices . I 've never gotten rich through them since I 've never sold any piece , " he says . " We believe that someone who is wealthy has an obligation , not only not to consume that wealth in casinos , but to give an important part of the wealth back to the public from which it came . " For the Ludwigs art was the answer and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rises a notch when he talks about it . " Art says something decisive about humanity , it reflects what a generation feels .... We noticed that we could achieve something important , namely let people see new things , things they would have undoubtedly seen without us but very much later and not in their entirety . " For both , the choice of art as a philanthropic tool came easily . Following his discharge from an American prisoner-of-war camp in 1945 . Mr. Ludwig went to college where both he and his wife studied art history . After writing his dissertation on Picasso , Mr. Ludwig worked in a bank in Munich before joining his father-m-law 's chocolate company . The background in business , Mr. Ludwig says , has served him well . He tries hard to spot a major trend before it translates into major prices , picking up for example . top Pop art pieces before the market took off , to create what he describes as " the best collection of 1960s American art anywhere in the world . " That is n't an overstatement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Like the French , who have to come to the U.S. to see great masses of Impressionist painting , Americans now have to go to Germany to see great works by , say . Johns , Rosenquist or Oldenburg . Ludwig 's got a real sweet tooth for contemporary art . He consumes it the way other people might gorge on chocolates  --  relentlessly , without much regard to cost . " His intake since the Pop years has n't slackened . On his frequent trips to New York . for instance , he usually drops in at the Holly Solomon Gallery , the haven of the Pattern and Decorative artists , and his assortment of their work is both colorful and expansive . " He buys intelligently and courageously. " says Holly Solomon . " He bought Kushner and MacConnel before anybody did . " And from Leo Castelli , a few blocks away , he recently purchased a smashed plate painting by the art world 's new wonder man , Julian Schnabel . But Mr. Ludwig 's biggest recent coup involved the Soviet Union . Last month , after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities a lump sum for 300 pieces he had chosen of Soviet art of the last two decades . It 's believed to have been the first time the Soviet Union had ever allowed such a purchase and export . " The Soviets would never have done it if they were n't receiving as a result increased recognition of their art in the West and hopefully an increase in value , " Mr. Ludwig notes . " But I do n't think there is anything wrong with that . " Not only the Soviets value the association with Mr. Ludwig . The city of Cologne is building Mr. Ludwig a museum for his artworks in the shadow of the famous gothic cathedral . This stiftung or foundation will be administered and financed by Cologne , government funds and Mr. Ludwig . The project has n't met with total enthusiasm , particularly among members of Germany 's highly bureaucratized museum establishment who seem grumpy about this mix of private philanthropy and public monies . " This particular setup will give him even more influence , " says Petra Kipphoff , art critic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same level as gov- ernment officials denotes equality which makes some people uncomfortable . I think there 's some fear he 'll set the tone for other museum directors . " Certainly the project will mean less money for other museum directors . German museums are dependent on the government for support and funds put into Ludwig 's dream will mean less money for . say , Dusseldorf . Here and there one also hears criticisms of the collection 's quality . Ewald Rathke , a former director of the municipal art center in Frankfurt , describes it as uneven and compares Mr. Ludwig to a thresher moving across a field . " I think the collection would have been better if he had bought less and more selectively . " But such caveats , given the vastness of the collection , are probably in the end attributable to taste differences , and Mr. Rathke also describes the collector as a man both moved and touched by art . " That someone should give large sums of money away for art is an honorable thing . " To the criticisms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make are n't necessarily the ones we want to make . " " I 'm sure we 've made some mistakes .... But with new art it is too early to say if I 've been right or wrong , the art is still too young . " Although unable to say how the future will judge his collection , he hopes the art books will note the goal that has propelled him and his wife . " I would like to see written that we were ardent collectors , that we attempted in the collection to reflect the times we lived in with all their highs and lows , " he says . " We do n't want 15 master works to show what excellent artistry we have had but rather we want more art works to represent the entire tenor of the times . " Mr. Geddes is the Journal 's Bonn correspondent .                     