@@669008

Controversy over a proposed 8-foot-wide bicycle path along the Fox River in Kane County has created the rare spectacle of an open , public disagreement between the county ' s two most powerful Republicans . The path would traverse portions of 26 residential lots on Ill . Hwy. 31 south of South Elgin , and the land could be taken by condemnation if necessary . The path is a project of Kane County Forest Preserve President Philip Elfstrom , a Batavia Republican who previously served as County Board chairman . However , public opposition to the path , generated by homeowners outraged at Elfstrom ' s plan to take their riverfronts for the path , has fueled a dispute between Elfstrom and Republican Party Chairman Jan Carlson . Carlson , who also serves as county Circuit Court clerk , has urged Gov . James Thompson to personally investigate Elfstrom ' s proposal . And Carlson is polling GOP precinct committeemen about Elfstrom ' s land condemnation practices . Carlson says that his survey of party activists and his contact with the governor were not designed to undermine Elfstrom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stays out of local issues but involved himself in the bike path issue because of the controversey it generated . " If any agency or an individual identified with the Republican Party behaves in a way that brings public opposition , it ' s my job to at least reflect that fact and discuss it , " Carlson said . Moreover , the bike path is not strictly a local issue , he said . Results of the poll , mailed to several hundred GOP precinct committeemen , assistant committeemen and GOP officeholders , are not yet tabulated , but GOP officials said early returns show that the party faithful disapprove of the way the bike path case has been handled . " It ' s been the policy of the forest preserve to ( acquire ) riverbank property from one end of the county to another , " Carlson said . " So over time , this is an issue that may affect other parts of the county as well . " Under the plan , Carlson said , tax money collected from all parts of the county would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned for the west bank of the Fox River , but the most controversial part would now be built several hundred feet farther west , on the right-of-way of Ill . Hwy. 31 . Owners of homes on the river were outraged by the plan to take their riverfronts for the path , and they are only slightly less outraged that their highway-side land on the opposite side of their property might be used . Thompson visited the area recently at the invitation of affected property owners , a group calling itself STOP , as well as at Carlson ' s urging . After a tour of the area , the governor , to Elfstrom ' s consternation , declared that the path was a bad idea . Carlson said he discussed the bike path last month with the governor ' s staff , with whom he regularly talks . " We did talk about the fact that the STOP group ( residents who would lose some of their property to the path ) had invited him to come and look , " Carlson said . " I did suggest it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what ' s going on . " He noted that the Republican organizations in Aurora Township and Elgin Township have approved resolutions opposing the path , as did the St. Charles Township Board . The proposed path would cross residential property in St. Charles Township . " I just passed that information on to the governor ' s staff and said the political organization is supportive of the STOP people , " Carlson said . " Based on that , I said . . . it wouldn ' t hurt him politically to come and visit the area . " Carlson said that as party chairman or as court clerk he does not have an official opinion on the bike path . But he said he personally opposes it . Elfstrom was clearly miffed at Thompson ' s recent visit . He said then that he spends all day thinking about Kane County ' s problems and prospects and suggested that the governor might think about Kane County once a day , or once a week . He said the Forest Preserve Commission voted to create the bike path and said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ When asked whether Carlson was seeking to undermine his influence , Elfstrom declined to criticize the party chairman . " He has a role to play and he ' ll play it . . . and I ' m not going to get into a fight with anybody about this , " Elfstrom said . CAPTION : PHOTO : Philip Elfstrom.                     