@@668747

The Federal Aviation Administration is ill prepared to assure airline compliance with safety regulations and may not be capable of monitoring air carriers adequately for years , a congressional study said Wednesday . The preliminary report by the General Accounting Office was presented to the House Aviation Subcommittee at a time when the FAA already is under fire from many members of Congress for not having enough experienced air traffic controllers and airline inspectors . The GAO findings are in the second installment of a lengthy examination of the FAA ' s inspection procedures that started in 1984 . " In short , the FAA at present can not say with assurance that airlines are complying with safety regulations , " the GAO ' s Herbert McClure told the House Aviation Subcommittee . The report had been requested by Rep. Norman Mineta ( D. , Calif. ) , chairman of the subcommittee . He said in opening remarks that though Congress never deregulated airline safety , the FAA ' s " failure to respond to the new environment may have resulted in de facto deregulation of aviation safety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  --  The FAA does not know how its inspector force is being used and how many inspectors are assigned to various sectors of the airline industry.  --  Training for inspectors is inadequate , with new training programs postponed because of the need to give new inspectors initial training.  --  FAA regulations and handbooks for inspectors continue to be " obsolete , incomplete or ambiguous " and have resulted in varying interpretations of safety regulations.  --  An FAA computer system that is supposed to improve inspector staffing and distribute safety information has encountered numerous problems and " is unlikely to provide useable nationwide data for the next several years . " Though the report noted FAA plans to hire additional inspectors through the next fiscal year , it concluded that the agency is " ill prepared " to absorb such an increase . " It will be years before all the needed internal management controls , inspector training and . . . supervisory mangerial oversight will be in place " to make full use of the added manpower , it said . " Meanwhile , the FAA does not have an effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compliance with safety regulations while it is putting its long-term strategy in place , " the GAO said . Last summer , the GAO released the results of a survey showing that though some airlines are closely inspected , others are hardly inspected at all . It suggested that the inspection work force is too small to deal with the large number of airlines that have emerged since deregulation of the industry . Since then , the FAA has said it will hire 500 more inspectors and clerical support personnel . The agency also has revamped part of its inspection program in an attempt to standardize inspection procedures and has begun a series of in-depth inspections in which teams of inspectors focus on a single airline . The FAA has acknowledged there have been serious problems with its inspection operation , but senior agency officials say there are efforts underway to correct the shortcomings through increased staffing and redistribution of the work force . Meanwhile , the National Transportation Safety Board released a report which said the FAA has failed to fully investigate near-collisions on airport runways . The NTSB report @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such incidents , which increased 35 percent in 1985 compared with the previous year . The NTSB said the number of reported incidents  --  in which planes landing or taking off nearly collided with other aircraft on runways or taxiways  --  rose to 420 last year.                     