@@668824

Court officials tried in vain Thursday to get former Lyon Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie to attend the fourth day of his trial for crimes against humanity . Barbie , 73 , went back to his cell Wednesday after saying he had been kidnaped from his home in Bolivia , he was being detained illegally in France and he would no longer appear in court . Presiding Judge Andre Cerdini held up proceedings for nearly an hour Thursday as a court clerk was dispatched to Barbie ' s cell in the St. Joseph Prison to make a formal request for his attendance . The clerk returned alone to read Barbie ' s reply : " I will not go . " The statement was signed " Klaus Altmann , " the alias under which Barbie obtained Bolivian citizenship in 1957 . Cerdini , speaking to a courtroom only three-quarters full since Barbie ' s decision to leave his seat behind a glass-protected dock , ordered the trial to continue without the defendant . The clerk will repeat the procedure each day during the six to eight weeks of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crippled from the war or old age , are to testify on Barbie ' s involvement in the death of 400 Jews and 300 anti-Nazi Resistance fighters . Under French law , the judge must convene the session , be told the defendant is not present and then appoint court officials to visit Barbie in prison and obtain formal confirmation of his refusal . A former Bolivian official testified Thursday that Barbie was expelled from the country in 1983 because he was a danger to democracy . Barbie lived in Bolivia from 1951 to 1983 under the name Klaus Altmann , making close ties with officials in a series of military governments . Gustavo Sanchez , who as deputy interior minister was in charge of arranging the expulsion , said Barbie was " a man who was protected by the military and the drug traffickers . " " I am being detained here illegally . I am the victim of a kidnaping , " Barbie , reading a written statement in German , had told the court before his walkout . Accused of cowardice by prosecutors for refusing to face up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lyon from 1942 to 1944 , Barbie said : " This has nothing to do with cowardice . This is a purely judicial decision . " Barbie , known as the " Butcher of Lyon , " told the courtroom , crowded with journalists , witnesses and his alleged victims , that he contested the circumstances of his expulsion from Bolivia on Feb. 4 , 1983 . He said Sanchez had bundled him aboard a plane apparently bound for Germany . Instead , he was flown to French Guiana , flanked by two French police officers who had been placed inside the plane in La Paz . Barbie ' s lawyer , Jacques Verges , said his client decided to challenge his deportation and stay away from the trial on the advice of lawyers in Bolivia , who last month petitioned the Bolivian Supreme Court to declare the expulsion invalid . Verges , who has said Barbie aims to turn the tables and put France on trial with disclosures of wartime collaboration with the German occupation forces , said he would have preferred that Barbie remain in the dock . Nazi-hunter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his Bolivian refuge , said : " The man who had the strength to torture people has no strength left when he is on his own . " Her husband , Serge , who is representing plaintiffs who have filed civil suits against Barbie in the case , said the former Nazi ' s absence " may make it easier for his victims to recount their sufferings at his hands . " CAPTION : PHOTO : Former Gestapo officer Klaus Barbie is taken back to his cell in Lyon , France , after refusing to remain in the courtroom to hear witnesses at his trial on charges of crimes against humanity . Reuters photo . Illustration PHOTO <>                     