@@669800

Citicorp is aggressively extending its operations across the nation , most recently with new savings and loan acquisitions in Illinois and Florida . But right now , the New York banking giant has a little mess to clean up back home . Federal law requires banks to send forms to their customers , checking the accuracy of Social Security numbers and other taxpayer information . Citibank , a unit of Citicorp , recently mailed the forms to its more than one million customers in metropolitan New York . But the information on about 10% of the forms was wrong . A Citicorp spokeswoman says a bank computer somehow " lopped off the last number and added a zero " in front of many Social Security numbers . Understandably , customers are upset : If the records are inaccurate , the law says that the customer is at fault , and that the bank can withhold part of the earned interest . But Citibank says not to worry . Corrected forms will be in the mail right away.  --  - Whose Newspaper ? To some Americans , USA Today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ "  --  may seem a bit presumptuous . To Canadians , it ' s downright offensive . " USA Today isn ' t this nation ' s newspaper , " snaps Jack Layton , a Toronto alderman . He and other Toronto residents are particularly annoyed that USA Today prominently displays its affront to Canadian nationalism on each of its eye-catching coin boxes . Some politicians have talked of banning the U.S.-made boxes . Now , to avert an international incident , USA Today ' s publisher , Gannett Co. , plans to put black tape over the slogan on all 200 of its boxes in Canada . Gannett hopes that will appease the politicians ; so far , nobody has suggested blotting out the slogan on the newspaper ' s front page . Gannett also hopes the cover-up will persuade Canadian patriots to stop defacing the coin boxes with anti-American graffiti . " It was all a mistake , " says Paul Flynn , USA Today ' s executive vice president . " It didn ' t occur to our circulation people that there would be a problem. "  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Twin Cities has become decidedly unfriendly . Midway Airlines recently introduced Metrolink  --  its first-class-type service priced well below usual first-class fares  --  on flights between Chicago and Minneapolis-St . Paul . Northwest Airlines , which is 20 times bigger than Midway , retaliated with fare cuts and radio ads snidely referring to its competitor as " that small airline . " Midway protested , saying the ads implied that Metrolink was unsafe . But the competition hurt business , prompting Midway to offer a refund on the $15 difference between a Northwest coach seat and Metrolink . Now it ' s Midway ' s turn . In its radio ads offering the refund , it says : " Have you ever had the opportunity to identify with a sardine ? " the Midway ad begins . " Sure you have . The last time you flew Northwest to Minneapolis , you sat in that tiny coach seat and had all the characteristics of a sardine , save that you weren ' t packed in oil . " So far , Northwest refuses to take the bait . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest ads only draw attention to their higher fares. "  --  - Stand-Up Lawyer Taking a deposition in a class-action suit , Chicago lawyer Myron M. Cherry sounded more like Don Rickles than Perry Mason . But no one was amused , least of all the judge . Mr. Cherry represents Continental Illinois Corp. shareholders in their suit against the bank holding company . He says he became " frustrated " while questioning a Los Angeles banker about dealings with James G. Harper , a Continental official . In the deposition transcript , Mr. Cherry is quoted describing the proceeding as " a circus . " Exasperated by the banker ' s responses , Mr. Cherry tells him , " You don ' t even know what ' s going on . " He accuses opposing lawyer Stephen Novack of trying to introduce hearsay evidence , and tells him that it " is not only not cricket , Mr. Novack , it ' s not even clever . And that makes it boring . " Later , when four opposing lawyers object to ending the session , saying they are available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a portrait on the wall if they , too , are available . Mr. Novack complained to Judge John F. Grady , who two weeks ago ordered Mr. Cherry to " refrain from interjections , sarcastic comments , undue familiarities and insults . " He also told the lawyer to stop smoking his cigar without the approval of everyone participating in the deposition . Mr. Cherry insists he had permission to smoke , and adds : " It was a Cuban cigar and I didn ' t want to put it out once I ' d lit it. "                     