@@670317

( In a centennial-year series , The Wall Street Journal is profiling entrepreneurs who have made noteworthy contributions to American business over the past 100 years . ) A DC-3 once sideswiped a mountain , sheared off 12 feet of wing , and landed safely at an airport . Sensing catastrophe , the entire crew of another damaged DC-3 bailed out and then turned red-faced when the pilotless plane landed itself in a field . The first plane to land at the North Pole was a DC-3 . Ditto the South Pole . In an industry noted for legends , this muscular , two-engine , propeller-driven transport built by the Douglas Aircraft Co. stands alone . When the first DC-3 took off from a Santa Monica , Calif. , airport in 1935 , Orville Wright was in his mid-60s . Fifty-four years later , as many as 2 , 000 DC-3s are still flying , many doing daily , heavy-duty commercial work . It ' s been called aviation ' s Model T , which makes Donald Wills Douglas a sort of aerospace Henry Ford . Like Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one that commanded a huge share of the market and then fell on hard times . Like Ford , Douglas was a consummate technician , but he was a far savvier businessman than the auto magnate . Oddly , Douglas wasn ' t especially fond of flying . His lifelong leisure passion was sailboats . From his youth , however , Douglas was fascinated with the theory of flight . At the U.S. Naval Academy , he experimented with model airplanes . One errant model crash-landed on an admiral ' s head and Midshipman Douglas , with the concurrence of the Navy , transferred to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . In 1916 , Douglas took his MIT diploma to aviation pioneer Glenn Martin ' s Los Angeles factory , a seat-of-the-pants operation where workers tested a plane ' s airworthiness by jumping up and down on the wings . Douglas introduced theories of stress ; in six months , he was chief engineer . Four years later , at age 28 , Douglas struck out on his own . In a one-room office behind a Santa Monica barbership , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a payload equal to its own weight . Military designs flowed from Douglas ' s drafting board for the next 10 years . A float plane commissioned by the Army made the first around-the-world flight . It took 175 days . In 1930 , the legendary Notre Dame football coach Knute Rockne was killed in the crash of a Fokker trimotor flown by Transcontinental &; Western Air , now Trans World Airlines . TWA , concerned about the use of wood in aircraft construction , asked for a new all-metal plane . Douglas Aircraft , by now a big manufacturer , won the bidding with the DC-1 , a radical design that impressed TWA ' s technical adviser , Charles Lindbergh , by performing many maneuvers with one of its two engines shut down . The production models of the DC-1 design were called DC-2s , and when American Airlines asked for a larger model with sleeping berths , the brilliant engineering team recruited by Douglas produced the DC-3 . Airlines pounced on the plane that could fly passengers cheaper than anything else in the sky . Douglas Aircraft delivered 360 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wartime manufacturing effort organized by Donald Douglas , his company produced 31 , 268 DC-3s and other aircraft between 1941 and 1945 . Douglas ' s postwar record was mixed . The company flopped with the DC-4 but scored big with the last of the piston-engine transports , the DC-6 and DC-7 . In the mid-1950s , roughly half the world ' s commercial aircraft were Douglas-made . But Boeing Aircraft Co. was quicker to turn to jets and the failure of the DC-8 to compete successfully with Boeing ' s 707 led to a 1967 merger with McDonnell Co . Donald Douglas , who resigned as his company ' s president in 1957 , was named honorary chairman of the aerospace combine . Few would quibble with one aviation writer ' s description : " A man with his head in the clouds , his feet on the ground , and his hand in his pocket counting the pennies. "                     