@@668211

Fierce street fighting broke out yesterday in the scarred slum district of Brixton after a night of rioting and looting by blacks and whites in 11 districts of the capital . Home Secretary William Whitelaw signed an order banning demonstrations in greater London for a month in a bid to halt the spreading violence . A Home Office spokesman said the order was to take effect at 6 a.m. today . Merchants across London began boarding up shops on the advice of police.From the city ' s fashionable Chelsea district to the working- class neighborhoods of Hammersmith in West London and Islington in the north , shopkeepers were hammering boards into place . Brixton , with a large West Indian population , was the scene of bloody racial violence three months ago - widely considered the worst violence until this week . Youths have waged nightly battles with police in four English cities , including Liverpool , where riots Sunday night were England ' s worst in 200 years . In the latest fighting yesterday , youths hurled bricks and bottles at officers in riot gear and set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Three police officers were reported injured . An Associated Press reporter saw about 100 youths run down a main shopping street in Brixton , smashing windows and looting stores as they went and scattering debris . He said police moved in quickly to disperse the youths , but only after the local subway station had been closed and several supermarkets - some with patrons still inside - had been locked up to keep the looters out . Police said they had the fighting under control in about an hour . Witnesses said the trouble started when a crowd gathered to help a local businessman arrested by police . Looting was also reported across the streetfrom Lambeth Town Hall in Brixton . Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher met with community leaders in Southall , the West London district where the violence started a week ago , and condemned " fascist organizations , because it is they who cause a lot of the trouble . " The fighting last Friday in Southall began when a large group of " skinheads " - white supremacist youths who shave their heads - attacked a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ banning public demonstrations and marches was designed to eliminate right-wing extremist attacks on nonwhites and Asians - primarily Indians and Pakistanis - as well as clamp down on the fighting between extremists of both left and right that has contributed to the week ' s disturbances . The order exempts gatherings for religious , educational , festive and ceremonial purposes from the ban , the Home Office spokesman said . The first gathering to fall under the ban was a march scheduled for tonight by the right-wing National Front in the Chelsea disrict of central London . National Front marches have frequently ended in fighting with Asian and nonwhite residents . Earlier , Whitelaw raised the possibility that troops might be used to quell the rioting that has reduced sections of Liverpool , Manchester and London to smoldering ruins . He said he hoped they would not have to be usedbecause experience in Northern Ireland had proven they created another problem : " How to get the army out . " " It is not impossible they would be used in certain circumstances , " he said in Warrington , Cheshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " But I hope ( these ) would never arise . " . After the Southall outbreak a week ago , Liverpool ' s Toxteth district erupted in flames , with youths looting stores and battling police ; violence broke out in the Moss Side district of Manchester ; and about 12 communities in and around London were hit by violence and vandalism . Between Thursday night and dawn yesterday , there was fighting in all three cities and the ancient city of Chester , where about 100 youths battled police and eight were arrested . Street fighting and looting were reported in 11 working-class districts of London . Scotland Yard reported 66 arrests in all , 27 of them in Woolwich , southeast of the city . The other districts were Fulham , Stoke Newington , Tooting , Balham , Notting Hill , Hammersmith , Catford , Deptford , Brockley and Lewisham . In Toxteth , Liverpool , there were 29 arrests overnight but no major incidents , police there said . In Manchester ' s Moss Side , police came under attack from gangs of stone- throwing youths for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrests and said the incidents were " less serious than previous but more widespread and numerous . " Four officers were reported injured , including one who was stabbed twice . After touring Manchester , Whitelaw was asked by reporters whether water cannon might soon be brought in by police in hopes of stopping the riots . " I would have no personal objection to this , " he said . Asked about the introduction of rubber bullets , he said , " I would deeply regret their introduction because they can be lethal , " but added , " I never say never . " After Thatcher ' s visit to Southall , she said that " we have had a friendly talk in a very good atmosphere . " Leaders of the area ' s Asian community said they were pleased . " We expressed our fears about extreme fascist organizations coming into the area and she listened very carefully to us , " said Tarsem Toor , secretary of the Indian Workers Assn . Madhav Sharma of the National Assn. for Asian Youth said he was delighted by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , said yesterday it had lodged a protest with British officials over attacks on their nationals . 