@@734846

txt Chrysler Corp . is asking Santa for a little Christmas gift : a few hundred mil . lion dollars more in federal loan guarantees just to tide it through until the bright new year . This time Santa had better be a Scrooge . , Chrysler just ca n't seem to compete in the tough auto market . The federal government  --  Santa , after all , is all of us  --  has already bailed the company out once . There were all sorts of encouraging words aboht how that was all the company would need to get back on its feet again . But it did not work . Chrysler is still dying  --  with the government 's helo . Meantime , the United Auto Workers union is playing it cagey about whether it will forgo pay and.benefit increases to help see the company through . The union has sacrificed in the past and may do so again if it is persuaded that the company will otherwise go out of business . Banks are being asked to convert some of their loans into equity positions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its suppliers to give it various breaks . But this is , all a prelude to putting the touch on Uncle Sam . Chrysler chairman Lee Iacocca is blaming high interest rates for his problem . Who can afford to buy a car on time these days ? Especially in view of the doubt that Chrysler would survive even through the duration of the auto loan . But this only demonstrates why the first federal bailout was a mistake . If a firm is weak to begin with , every economic shock is going to push it to the mortal brink . The ' optimism about Chrysler 's future was as foolish as the expectation that the country 's general economic fortunes would somehow right themselves without pain . Chrysler has no special claim on the federal treasury , except to the extent that the Carter administration and the Congress so imprudently granted it one . The automaker is a business like any other . It can fail . Its stockholders can lose money . Its employes may have to look for other work , relocate perhaps , even find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the holiday season . But it is nothing more than the meaning of competition , which includes the freedom to succeed  --  and the freedom to fail . The alternative is for the taxpayer to pick up the tab for a company that is making cars nobody seems to want to buy in order not to disrupt a series of economic relationships that , perhaps sadly , seem to have gone hopelessly out of date .                     