@@668960

The big event on television last weekend wasn ' t " War and Remembrance . " It was the return of coach Mike Ditka . Starting with an interview on CBS ' " The NFL Today " and ending with his " Bears Extra " appearance on WBBM-TV ( Channel 2 ) , Ditka was the primary focus of the pro football world , especially in Chicago . Fortunately , CBS didn ' t let the Ditka story overshadow his team ' s performance . Nor did it overshadow the work of Pat Summerall and John Madden , who covered the Bears ' game against the Redskins in Washington . While the CBS cameras caught Ditka on the sideline during the game , Summerall ' s play-by-play work and Madden ' s analysis concentrated on the field activities . Even when the contest turned into an unexpected rout . It was left to the local stations to show viewers as much as they could on the 10 o ' clock news about Ditka ' s day , from the coach ' s reaction to medication to someone taking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ top form . From the pregame show , when he said he talked to Dallas Cowboys coach Tom Landry about Ditka ( " Landry said you have to learn to be an observer. " ) to a late-game shot of Redskins defensive lineman Dave Butz , whose helmet was clogged with grass clumps ( " When you ' re Dave Butz and playing in the middle of the line , stuff grows right out of your helmet . " ) . In between , Madden had comments about a turkey stopping play in the Colts-Packers game in Green Bay ( " I think that turkey should get through this Thanksgiving for showing that much spirit. " ) and some questionable officiating ( " That official completely blew that . That ' s injustice . That ' s unconscionable. " ) . - Scoop of the weekend belonged to WBBM-TV ' s Johnny Morris , who reported on Sunday night ' s " Bears Extra " that Bears assistant coach Jim Dooley had figured a way to steal the Redskins ' signals on blitzes and had tipped off quarterback Mike Tomczak when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s Jim Gray , who reported on " NFL Live ! " that a group of Japanese businessmen were negotiating with Cowboys owner Bum Bright over the purchase of " America ' s Team. " - Lookalikes : Dr. Jay Alexander , Ditka ' s cardiologist , and actor Tim Matheson of " Animal House " fame. - Dick Vitale , basketball analyst for ESPN and ABC-TV , in town last weekend to plug his autobiography , " Vitale : Just your average bald , one-eyed basketball wacko who beat the Ziggy and became a PTP ' er , " picks Illinois as his preseason No. 2 team in the nation . Why ? Because of the arrival of sophomore Marcus Liberty . " I call him Marcus the Magnificent , " Vitale said . The idea of a book , which was co-authored by Sports Illustrated writer Curry Kirkpatrick , made Vitale nervous at first . " Kirkpatrick is such a creative writer , " Vitale said . " I was afraid it wouldn ' t sound like me . For better or worse , it does. " - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " football telecasts Saturday with a nice touch of showing the behind-the-scenes crew as the credits rolled. - Also Saturday , ABC analyst Dick Vermeil on Michigan State All-America tackle Tony Mandarich : " Mandarich eats seven meals a day . He eats around the clock. " - Best job of blowing smoke by a coach : Auburn ' s Pat Dye , after the Tigers beat Georgia Saturday , told CBS ' John Dockery about Alabama , the only team left on his schedule : " They ' re the best damn team we haven ' t played yet. " - Kudos to WMAQ-TV ( Channel 5 ) for switching from the Denver Broncos ' rout of the Cleveland Browns Sunday to the Houston-Seattle game just after halftime. - SportsChannel America will be televising 11 of the 14 games in the National Hockey League ' s " Super Series " against the Soviet Union , beginning at 8 p. m . Dec. 28 with Dynamo Riga playing the Edmonton Oilers . During the series , SportsChannel America will offer multigame coverage on three dates that will wrap around its existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : 30 p. m . Jan. 4. - Christmas shopping ? Videocassettes of ABC ' s " The American Sportsman " will soon be available to to the general public . " The American Sportsman , The Classic Series , " will be divided into seven one-hour programs , featuring everything from big-game hunting to salt-water fishing , and starring Curt Gowdy and other celebrities. - Beginning next year , ABC will televise the Peach Bowl . The 1989 game will be held on Dec. 30 and the 1990 contest on Dec. 29 . This year ' s Peach Bowl , scheduled for Dec. 31 , will be televised by Mizlou TV Sports . This concludes the three-year contract Mizlou had before the Peach Bowl management was taken over by the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce in 1986 . The ABC agreement is not the first major network deal for the Peach Bowl . CBS Sports carried the game from 1979 through 1985. 