@@669040

During his 16-month reign , Gen. Efrain Rios Montt brutally crushed a leftist insurgency , killing thousands of Guatemalans in the process , all the while extolling the virtues of his Christian God and anticommunism in televised weekly sermons . Now the 63-year-old Christian fundamentalist , whose dictatorship began and ended in military coups in the early 1980s , is running for president as a law-and-order candidate , promising nationalism , respect for family values , an end to government corruption and less crime . " Our country needs a national identity , " Rios Montt said in an interview recently . Guatemala ' s current leaders " look to Paris and London , but not Nebaj and Quiche , " he said , referring to two remote areas of Guatemala . He is one of myriad declared and unofficial candidates vying to succeed Vinicio Cerezo , the first elected president of Guatemala in more than 30 years . Cerezo ' s five-year term ends in 1991 . With more than a year to go before the election , the campaign consumes Guatemalan political life . Many diplomats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favor of political posturing . To outsiders , the Guatemalan electoral process might seem bizarre . The nation ' s constitution would bar about half the candidates from office , including Rios Montt and Cerezo ' s wife , Raquel Blandon , because of prohibitions against former dictators assuming the elected presidency and against relatives succeeding one another . Rumors abound that Cerezo ' s anointed successor , Foreign Minister Alfonso Cabrera , is a cocaine trafficker . Cabrera regularly issues denials . Though government business has stalled , the electoral fervor bodes well for Guatemala ' s nascent democracy because politicians and most military officers look to the election as the path to power . Guatemala still has a long way to go to institutionalize elected government , however . In the last 15 months , Cerezo has survived two coup attempts by right-wing military officers . The most recent attempt in May was put down without bloodshed . When Cerezo took office in 1986 there were hopes that Guatemala was entering a period of social reform and justice . But he has been unable to keep his promises , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as Guatemala ' s savior from what one diplomat called the " dark side of democracy , " rising crime and leftist guerrilla activity resulting from relaxation of the totalitarian controls exercised by former military rulers . But diplomats give Rios Montt little chance of winning the election . They say he has no organization and little money , but they acknowledge he appeals to a large sector of society . As president , Rios Montt ' s brand of Christian fervor spurred a strong evangelical movement in this predominantly Roman Catholic nation . Hundreds of thousands of Guatemalans converted to his fundamentalist beliefs . After he was ousted in 1983 , he became a preacher at a Guatemala City church associated with a small U.S. charismatic group . While short on specifics , Rios Montt has been campaigning on a platform of security , public well-being and justice . " The government has been a source of power against the people . We want the government to be for the people . When the government respects the law , we want ( the people ) to respect the law , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the truth , " he said of his scorched-earth campaigns against leftist insurgents that left thousands of civilians dead . " I didn ' t order anyone to be killed . Anyone we shot , it was done in compliance with the law . " He refused to give specifics as to how he would compel people to obey the law . " The law is the law . You have to demand that the law be obeyed , " he said . No one in Guatemala could say who would be the ultimate arbiter of the constitutionality question that plagues Rios Montt ' s candidacy and that of other top candidates . The constitutional provision barring anyone who took power through a coup from assuming the presidency seems to have been written specifically to exclude Rios Montt . But the former general claims another article says the constitution , written in 1986 , can not be applied retroactively . He says his evangelism plays no part in his campaign . " They know I love and fear God ; I am not afraid to admit it , " he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the campaign ) , but God , yes. "                     