@@668469

Here in the People ' s Democratic Republic of Massachusetts we like our controversies ideological ; and the fight over strengthening admissions standards in higher education is no exception . The Board of Regents proposes course requirements and minimum SAT scores and academic performance for applicants to the University of Masachusetts and state colleges . The Massachusetts Teachers Assn. opposes the idea . That the minimums are so low as to render eligible just about anybody not in need of remedial help illustrates the extent of the difficulty the Regents are trying to address . The Board will meet next month under enormous pressure from the MTA , bargaining agent for some 6000 faculty members in the public institutions , to recede from its modest proposals . With the higher education budget approaching a half-billion dollars and some 80,000 students involved in the system , there is probably no more important issue facing the state this year.The consequences of the board ' s decision will likely be felt well into the next century . How you feel about it depends upon your view of the function of college @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , available to anybody with the strength and motivation to climb it , affording young people a chance at political , economic and social mobility that once was regarded as indispensable to the Americandream ? Or is it an elevator to which adolescents are to be shuttled indiscriminatel y , furnishing automatic levitation to the upper floors ? The conservative position is that the experience of climbing is in itself educational in the truest sense of that word . Like it or not , society is competitive . People reluctant to try , to risk , to accept rejection must be ill prepared for participation . The opposition on the left sees higher education is an element in a statist , morally imperative leveling process . Possession of a college diploma , however meaningless , is viewed as an accelerant of desirable social change . But the admission of incompetents to college is no guarantee of academic progress . Such a policy promises institutional demoralization and misery for student , teacher and administrator alike . Overwhelming statistical evidence of dropouts argues against the practice . Perhaps more disturbing is the potential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a failure to adopt standards . The regents want to require four years of English , three of math , two of natural science , two of social science and two of a foreign language , with exceptions for the exceptionally gifted at , say , heaving a football or playing the cello . The idea is that such requirements , even flexibly applied , would put such pressures on the taxpayers and local boards of education as to generate a dramatic upgrading in course offerings at the high school level and in the diligence with which academic work is pursued . Now Massachusetts has an array of community colleges which are equipped , or can be , to provide remedial help to young people whose high school records and SAT scores indicate that they are not ready to run on the fast , four-year track . The community colleges feature open admissions and vocational options . Access to the four-year institutions is open to students who demonstrate ability . Under the circumstances , to argue against minimum standards at UMass and the state colleges is to argue for mediocrity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are the so-called " selective " private colleges selective ? It is because they know that the quality of the product depends on the quality of the raw material more than on any other factor . Indeed , the private institutions , scrambling against each other and the state system for a limited and declining pool of qualified applicants , struggling for survival against the heavily subsidized public schools , might be forgiven for welcoming open admissions throughout the public sector . That every alumnus , student and teacher in the state system has a lively interest in the upgrading of standards should be obvious . The MTA prefers an exercise in social therapeutics . That this preference may conflict with the true interests of its members illustrates the incompatibility of the organization ' s roles as professional association , bread-and-butter union and political movement .                     