@@669907

The Justice Department is investigating possible antitrust violations by American Airlines and Piedmont Airlines in the lucrative Dallas-Fort Worth market . Airline industry officials said the investigation includes allegations that American , which dominates the busy Dallas-Fort Worth Airport , gave or helped Piedmont obtain gate space there in exchange for promises that Piedmont wouldn ' t fly certain routes in the Southwest that could compete with service offered by American . Mark Sheehan , a spokesman for the department ' s Antitrust Division , said the department is looking at potentially anti-competitive " marketing agreements " between certain airlines using the busy Texas airport . The department wouldn ' t identify which companies were the focus of the investigation . But both American and Piedmont confirmed that they were being probed by the agency . A spokesman for American in Dallas said , " There is an investigation under way in which we ' ve fully cooperated with the Justice Department , " involving the use of gate space by Piedmont . He said , " American insists that there are absolutely no improprieties between it and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spokesman said , " There ' s been an investigation going on for some time . We ' re certain there were no improprieties on our part . " The Justice Department inquiry may also involve other airlines . Some industry officials said they believe the investigation may also be looking at People Express Airlines and Southwest Airlines , which leases gate space to People Express at Houston ' s Hobby Airport . A Southwest official said the airline hasn ' t been informed of any investigation by the Justice Department . Officials of People Express weren ' t available for comment . The American spokesman said that Piedmont acquired leases on gates in a terminal used mainly by American at the Dallas-Fort Worth Regional Airport in July 1982 . A spokesman for the airport said Piedmont ' s three gates there are being leased directly from the Dallas-Fort Worth Regional Airport Board . The investigation adds to antitrust problems confronting American . As previously reported , the Justice Department in February 1983 charged American and its president and chief operating officer , Robert L. Crandall , with attempting to monopolize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Corp. in 1982 . A federal judge dismissed the suit against American and Mr. Crandall in September 1983 , but the dismissal was overturned last October by a federal appeals court . American has appealed the decision by the federal appeals court and has contended that the government ' s case is " entirely unjustified . " The Justice Department asks in its suit that Mr. Crandall be removed as American ' s president for two years and seeks to prohibit the company from discussing prices with competitors . Mr. Crandall is expected to succeed Albert Casey , chairman of AMR Corp . , American ' s parent , when Mr. Casey retires in early March . Separately , 11 airlines filed a civil suit late last year alleging that American violated antitrust laws in the operation of its widely used computerized reservation system . The suit seeks modifications in the computer system , which some airlines say gives American an unfair advantage in ticket sales . American and Mr. Crandall deny the charges . Both suits are still pending . It is understood that Justice Department investigators have interviewed and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past year concerning marketing practices at the hotly contested Dallas-Fort Worth airport , where American is defending its 60% market share . Late last year , Continental Airlines asked the now-defunct Civil Aeronautics Board to enjoin American from some alleged practices related to its computerized reservation system that Continental said were hurting its attempts to attract passengers at Dallas-Fort Worth . The CAB , which disappeared at year-end as ordered by the 1978 airline deregulation law , rejected Continental ' s complaints . But Continental now says it wants Congress to force American to shed the reservation system . Continental wasn ' t part of the civil suit last year . Industry officials said that the Justice Department may be looking at Dallas-based Southwest Airlines and Newark , N.J.-based People Express Airlines in its investigation . Southwest leases gate space to People Express at Houston ' s Hobby Airport . The two airlines don ' t have a marketing agreement , but the officials said that Southwest may have leased the gates to People Express in return for an agreement from the Newark-based carrier that it won ' t fly from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Southwest . People Express serves Newark from Houston . The antitrust investigation is occurring at the same time Piedmont is waiting to see whether its home territory , the Carolinas , is invaded by American . Industry officials said recently that American is expected to announce soon a major expansion into the North Carolina cities of Raleigh-Durham , Fayetteville and the airport serving Winston-Salem , Greensboro and High Point . In South Carolina , American is expected to begin service to Charleston , Columbia and Greenville-Spartanburg . American recently has held " exploratory talks " with airport officials in Charlotte , N.C. , about acquiring two boarding gates , according to a spokesman for Charlotte-Douglas International Airport . American would be competing directly with Piedmont , which has its hub in Charlotte , on some routes.                     