@@735219

txt MIGRANTS . The word conjures up scenes from " The Grapes of Wrath , " images of bankrupt farmers fleeing west from dust-bowl Oklahoma in the 1930s . Population experts know , however , that Americans are always on the move , good times or bad . Nearly 18% of U.S residents change their homes every year . Migration is as American as baseball . But trends change . Notwithstanding the well-publicized flight to the Sun Belt , evidence is emerging that Americans are n't as mobile as before . Demographers want to see all the figures from the 1980 census before drawing conclusions . But Larry Long , a Census Bureau migration specialist , says early evidence " suggests to me that we 're slowing down a bit in our propensity to move . " W HAT ARE THE CLUES ? In Minneapolis , recent quarterly surveys of homeowners and renters by the city planning department show that people are living in their homes and apartments for longer periods than before . Blake Graham , a city planner , says a lot of families in rental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and interest rates . " We are getting a double whammy , " says Mr. Graham . " The baby boom continues to grow and they 're stuck in that rental market . " Audrey Freedman , labor economist at the Conference Board , is startled by the results of questions she sent to 5,000 households nationwide in November . Only 63% of jobholders who responded said their jobs are safe in the coming year . Mrs. Freedman says she expected that sobering news to be coupled with a desire by the onethird whose jobs are n't secure to look for work elsewhere . That was n't the universal response . Despite the hard times , the willingness to move followed traditional patterns  --  young people in their 20s said they might migrate to hotter job markets , but older folks seemed reluctant to move . " That 's surprising , " says Mrs. Freedman . " You have a 45-year-old guy in Detroit who says , ' It 's rotten , and I see that the future is n't any good . ' But even so , his propensity to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by his estimate of the economic future of his area . " The answers are even more unsettling if that worker is aware of the Reagan administration 's desire to choke off various unemployment and welfare programs . Mrs. Freedman says she plans to double-check her survey findings next month . p ERHAPS IT 'S A MYTH that recession spurs migration . Peter Morrison , director of the Rand Corp . ' s population research center , says regional movement is greater in times of prosperity , when lots of urban areas are booming . " That prosperity is pretty thin now . There are n't Houstons and Denvers all over the map , " he says . " Take metropolitan Seattle-Tacoma , Wash . ( headquarters of the Boeing Co. ) , " he says . " When the aerospace industry goes into a steep recession , people stay there , waiting to see what will happen next . " Mr. Morrison calls the Depression-era trek of the Okies " a desperation migration by people down to their last nickel . " Few are in that plight today , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Plant est Virginia , like every state , wants to strengthen its economy by enticing companies to set up shop there . " Try to find a state with better site location basics , " boasts an ad running in national magazines over Gov . Jay Rockefeller 's signature . Sorry Governor . After juggling " location basics " and a lot of other factors , the accounting firm of Alexander Grant &; Co. finds 47 states more hospitable to business than West Virginia . In its third ranking of business climates for manufacturers in 48 states ( Alaska and Hawaii were n't rated ) , West Virginia finished dead last . New York , which also has been running a splashy ad campaign aimed at recruiting companies , had the second worst score . At the top of the list : Florida , Texas , Colorado , Kansas , North Dakota and Mississippi . Alexander Grant 's 1981 ranking considered such factors as energy costs , taxes and the size of a state 's debt . States that scored highest tended to have relatively low manufacturing wage rates , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ welfare payouts . " We 've looked at it from the business point of view , " says Guy Harris , an Alexander Grant senior consultant . West Virginia wound up in the survey cellar largely because its unionized mine workers , 10% of the state 's labor force , struck for 110 days last year . " Exclusive of coal mining , we did n't do badly " in the ratings , says Miles Dean , the state 's director of economic and community development . Mr. Dean urges executives to ignore the overall survey results and to consider such West Virginia virtues as ample water and natural gas and the state 's AA-plus bond rating . He admits to one drawback . " If you 're looking for flat ground , " says Mr. Dean , " this ai n't the place . "                     