@@668059

COLORADO SPRINGS , Colo. - President Jimmy Carter , having issued his strongest statement to date concerning his proposed boycott of the Summer Olympics in Moscow , has dispatched his personal envoy , Vice President Walter Mondale , to Colorado Springs to address a meeting of the US Olympic Committee House of Delegates . Mondale , scheduled to arrive here tonight , will address the delegates at the regular business session tomorrow . Following the address , the delegates will conduct a closed-door session at which a vote is expected on participation in the Games . The delegates appear to be leaning toward supporting the boycott , but they could delay any final action for another month . ( The committee chief attorney predicted presidential power would overcome the athletes ' eagerness to compete , United Press International said . " It ' s my personal view that the die has been cast , " attorney Patrick Sullivan said . " I do not believe the USOC will send a team to Moscow . The power of the President is too great . " * Carter , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Washington yesterday , said he is prepared to take legal action if that is the only way to prevent American atheltes from participating in the Moscow Olympics . The President called for the boycott in February , after the Soviets invaded Afghanistan . " If legal actions are necessary to enforce the decision not to send a team to Moscow , I will take them , " Carter said . The President did not specify what legal actions he might take , but he could revoke the passports of American Olympians or stamp them invalid for travel to the Soviet Union . Carter compared the Moscow Olympics with the 1936 Games in Berlin , which he said " were used to inflate the prestige of the ambitious dictator Adolph Hitler . " The Soviets , Carter said , also would like to exploit the Games for propaganda . Carter also found an unlikely ally in his bid to enlist support for the boycott - Iran . Tehran Radio said today the Iranian government has decided not to send a team to the Moscow Games . The state radio said Iran ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was no elaboration of the reasons for the decision but Iran has been strongly critical of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan . And another voice was heard yesterday echoing Carter ' s views . Soviet dissident Alexander Ginzburg urged the United States to boycott the Games , saying " the idea of the Olympics is too important to allow the use of propaganda to advertise one of the most terrible regimes in the world . " Ginzburg , a poet-journalist who came to the United States a year ago in exchange for two Soviet spies , said a boycott by the American athletes would prove embarrassing for the Soviet government . Olympic commitee president Robert Kane , asked about the effect of sustained lobbying against participation in the Games during the past few weeks , said last night : " I would think there ' s been some backlash from all thepressure . " Kane said he expected the delegates to " resolve the boycott issue one way or the other this weekend , " but he added that one possible decision could be to postpone a decision . Committee officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the May 24 Olympic entry deadline , which would give the Soviet Union more time to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan or make other conciliatory gestures . The Administration has indicated it might seek to revoke the committee ' s tax-exempt status unless it goes along with the boycott .                     