@@668338

A rare find in Vermont Bruce Maki , an acccomplished master ' s division runner from Derry , has something others may only find in the Library of Congress or on the bookshelves of ageless Boston Marathon veteran Johnny Kelley . Maki possesses an original copy of " Marathon , " a book written by local running great Clarence DeMar . First published in 1937 , " Marathon " was turned out by Stephen Daye Press of Brattleboro , Vt . Maki obtained the treasure through his father , who bought it at a Vermont bookstore for 50 cents . The jacket may be worn , but the illustrated copy is in otherwise good condition. - Television ' s " Real People " recently traveled to North Conway to film the Kennett High marching band . The band , accustomed to striding across a football field , attracted the show ' s producers by simultaneously skiing Mount Cranmore and playing the " Real People " theme . The schussing musicians reportedly will appear on the show sometime next year . . . Should the Milford High Boys ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the first squad to see three New Hampshire titles , according to NHIAA records dating back to 1957 . Milford is led by the doubles combination of Jim Young and Rob Arends , who have also claimed two straight championships . A third doubles crown wouldput them in the select company of Bob Bower and Dunc Rainie of Concord , the only duo ever to rule state doubles three consecutive seasons - that in 1967-69 . Young , who in 1980 became the Milford Boys ' first state singles champ , could join five others who have taken more than one by winning again this year . Milford defeated Concord in finals in both 1980 and 1981. - The University of New Hampshire 100 Club will sponsor its 18th annual dinner for New Hampshire and New England sportswriters and sportscasters Tuesday night . Held at the UNH New England Center , the night revolves around a review of the 1981-82 athletic season . . . Star forward Skip Barry of Bishop Guertin High is the lone sophomore member of the recently named 1982 New Hampshire Class L All State Basketball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tim Nash are the only second-year players in the four classes . . . Defensive tackle Robert Dell Isola of Dover is the only Granite Stater among 33 lettermen returning to the Dartmouth College football roster next fall . He should help fill gaps left by graduating All-Ivy defensive line selections Rob Carroll , Lee Sedberry , and Kent Cooper . The Big Green began their 1982 schedule by hosting Pennsylvania Sept. 18 . . . The efficient Dartmouth sports information office is putting " Ma Bell " to full use in publicizing the school ' s athletic program . Interested parties may now dial a 24-hour recorded message - called the " DART LINE " - to apprise themselves of Dartmouth sports scores , receive athletic facility hours , and keep up with recreational activities . . . Last week was quite productive for New HampshireCollege basketball coaches - past and present . Former Penmen mentor P.J. Carlesimo moved from Wagner College to the Big East , when he was named to direct the Seton Hall program . Meanwhile , current NHC coach Tom Sullivan led the New England Division @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division 1 counterpart in Worcester last weekend . . . Saint Anselm basketball star Matt Burdick hauled away a cartload of hardware at the school ' s annual awards banquet Monday night . Burdick , a graduating 6-8 center , was recently a member of the winning team at the renowned Portsmouth , Va. , basketball tournament , which annually attracts some of the college game ' s best players . Burdick hopes to play in Europe next year. - This spring the Exeter High baseball team bids to become the first squad to repeat as state champion in 11 years . The 1970-71 Manchester Memorial Club , anchored by Baltimore Oriole lefthander Mike Flanagan , was the last to turn the trick . . . Former Trinity High and Sweeney Post standout Jack Meehan is off to a fast start in his second season with the University of Lowell . Coach Jim Stone reports that Meehan , a member of last year ' s NCAA tournament team is " completely relaxed " as the starting right fielder of the Chiefs . A lefthanded hitter , Meehan was 17-for-40 during a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lowell , 2-1 and ranked second in New England Division 2 . . . Three new opponents and six home games highlight next fall ' s UNH football schedule . The Wildcats face James Madison for the first time in their history in an away game that opens the season on Sept. 4 . All 10 games on the slate are with Division 1-AA Clubs .                     