@@669073

One of the pieces of a giant jigsaw puzzle may slide into place Wednesday night for De Paul coach Joey Meyer . It could happen when Meyer ' s youthful Blue Demons open their season against even younger Ohio State in an 8 : 30 p. m. first-round preseason National Invitation Tournament game at the Rosemont Horizon . " We ' ll find out how Deryl Cunningham reacts when he plays before all those fans , " said Meyer . " We ' ll see how B.J. Tyler and Terry Davis respond to tough outside opposition and when the TV lights go on . " ( The ESPN telecast will be blacked out within 50 miles of the Horizon . ) Cunningham , Tyler and Davis are freshmen who join six sophomores on Meyer ' s 14-man squad . Tyler is a flashy-at-times , penetrating point guard from Texas . Davis , a 6-foot-4-inch off guard from Georgia , could shoot three-pointers well enough to help offset the loss by injury of Brad Niemann . Cunningham , 6-7 and a fierce defensive standout from St. Joseph in Westchester @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Buckeyes ' highly touted 6-7 , 220-pound freshman , Jimmy Jackson . The performance of his rookies in prime-time pressure is just one of several questions facing Meyer as he opens his sixth season as head coach of the team his dad , Ray , coached the previous 42 years . As ESPN ' s effusive Dick Vitale might inform his national TV audience , Joey has not yet settled on a " set " starting lineup and may not do so all season . " I intend to use 10 players , maybe more , " said Meyer . " At times , we ' ll use a big lineup , a small lineup , a lineup that stresses defense or a scoring lineup . " Meyer coaches a squad deep in players who may excel in one particular phase but fall short in other areas . Thus , he must juggle his substitutions adroitly . Against the Buckeyes , Meyer will start a lineup of three sophomores-forward David Booth and guards Chuckie Murphy and Melvon Foster-junior forward Kevin Holland and 7-1 center James Hamby . Ohio State ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , five sophomores , three juniors and no seniors on his 11-man roster . Guard Jamaal Brown , who averaged 6. 4 points a game last year , is the only returning regular who will start . Perry Carter , 6-8 , 230-pounder who averaged 14 points a game , is sidelined by a kidney injury and will be replaced by 7-foot , 245-pound soph Bill Robinson . Jackson is the Buckeyes ' most ballyhooed recruit in a decade . He averaged 30 points , 11. 5 rebounds and 6. 5 assists a game at Toledo ' s Macomber High last year . Meyer might alternate two top-notch defensive players , 6-6 Curtis Price and Cunningham , on Jackson . The Ohio State-De Paul opener is the middle game of an ESPN triple-header . North Carolina State plays host to Richmond in a 6 : 30 p. m. opener . Loyola Marymount tips off at Nevada-Las Vegas at 11 : 30 p. m. in a game that could produce 250 points and set defense back 10 years . Three nontelevised NIT games also take place Wednesday : Air Force at California @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ De Paul officials hope that , if the Demons get past the Buckeyes , they will be assigned a second game at the Rosemont , because they included payment for NIT games in some 7 , 200 season tickets they have sold . CAPTION : PHOTOS ( color ) : Tribune photo by Charles Cherney . Tribune photo by Ed Wagner . De Paul to open NIT bid at Horizon Forward David Booth ( above ) and guard Melvon Foster ( right ) are two of the three De Paul sophomores coach Joey Meyer plans to start Wednesday night in the opening game of the preseason NIT at the Horizon . The Blue Demons take on Ohio State . ( Published on page 1 . ) Illustration PHOTOS 2 <>                     