@@734707

txt Some 450 U.S. infantrymen in spiked crampons are scrabbling about the slippery blue ice of the Gerstie and Johnson glaciers this week , rappelImg into the crevasses and generally sharpening up their arctic survival skills . No doubt the exercise , " Eagle Trek IV , " is important to the national defense . But the important thing is that the soldiers should n't leave so much as one niggling cigaret butt behind them . If they do , they are going to hear from Alaska . In fact , a three-man state team is inspecting the glaciers before , during and after the exercise to make sure Alaskan turf is n't sullied . Only after a bitter public hearing did the natives even agree to let the military use the glaciers . Fighting With the Feds The 49th state , it will be recalled , is furious at the " feds " and anyone connected with them . Most particularly , Alaskans are fuming at the government for setting aside 56 million acres of Alaskan land as ' ' national monuments " or putting it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunting , trapping and fishing . The federal government owns ** of Alaska , some 217.7 million acres , and 2.5 million acres already are reserved specifically for military use . So the locals were irked when nearby Fort Wainwright asked permission to venture into territory  --  the glaciers  --  still owned exclusively by Alaska . These feelings welled up at a public hearing one recent warm evening , called by the state 's Department of Natural Resources . It had been decided that the military men would have to get a permit . One Little Patch " Carter gave almost all our mountains to the Park Service and left Alaska with one little unregulated patch , " growled Douglas Buchanan , who calls himself " a climbing bum who works only enough to go climbing . " He added , " We should force the Army out of our patch so Carter could come to realize the error of his ways . " A hunter argued that the helicopters used in transporting the troops scare Dalt sheep , a prized trophy . Another climbing enthusiast complained that the military men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Charles Fannon , replied that the military is " fanatic " about cleanliness , requiring each soldier to tote a plastic bag for removal of all his debris , including body waste . Another supporter said staunchly , " The troops are here to defend Alaska  --  it 's ludicrous not to allow them to train on the terrain they may have to fight for . " The military got its permit , with a struggle , and with lingering hostility . " Next year promises to be a barn burner , " said Peter Buist , a member of the state inspection team and an official of the state 's Natural Resources Department .                     