@@668896

Gluck ' s " Orpheus and Eurydice " ( 1762 ) is one of the oldest operas to hold its place in the standard repertory . It survives not because of its historical significance as a reform opera , however , but because the composer was able to treat a universal subject with music of simple and deeply moving beauty . The only previous professional performances of " Orpheus " in Chicago were by the Lyric Opera , but there were two basic problems with those productions . They used baritone voices in the title role , contrary to Gluck ' s intention . Moreover , their sheer size and opulence worked against the intimacy and classical severity of Gluck ' s creation . Now we have Chicago Opera Theater to show us how " Orpheus " is supposed to sound , and in the proper musico-dramatic scale . Artistic director Alan Stone ' s decision to hold off tackling the work until he had the elusive components in hand proved a wise one , for the production that opened the company ' s expanded 14th season Saturday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the composer ' s original intentions while making ingenious use of the many resources known to modern musical theater . Gluck originally wrote his " Orfeo ed Euridice " for a castrato-a male alto-but he also prepared versions for tenor and soprano . Chicago heard Gluck ' s 1774 " Orphee et Euridice " ( recomposed for the Paris Opera ) at Grant Park in 1983 . The best-known version , however , was prepared by Hector Berlioz from the Italian and French versions for a contralto Orpheus . Stone adhered ( wisely , I think ) to the Barenreiter edition of Gluck ' s original Italian version , unadorned vocal lines and all . That edition assigns the title role to a contralto and fleshes out the score with several numbers Gluck later wrote for Paris-as who would possibly wish to omit the exquisite flute solo in the Dance of the Blessed Spirits , particularly as Marie Moulton plays it ? The opera theater ' s realization lends an abstract , ritualized quality to " Orfeo " that reminds us of the story ' s origins in ancient myth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dancing and choral ensembles into a fluid and stately design . Particularly striking are the handsome settings originally created for St. Louis Opera Theatre by the American sculptor Louise Nevelson , dominated by a large wall consisting of gold and black geometric shapes set in modular configuration . Any " Orfeo " stands or falls on the vocal and dramatic strength of the singer in the title role . Jennifer Jones has the rich , clearly projected contralto , the firm technical command , the smoothness of phrasing , the unaffected dignity required for the part . Joyce Guyer ' s Euridice , her soprano betraying a touch of edginess on top , was not quite in the same vocal league , although she floated some lovely , poised phrases and-in a production that includes dance as a central component- moved gracefully indeed . Rondi Charlston delivered a bright-sounding Amore , but I thought it a mistake on the director ' s part to make the god seem so smugly manipulative . The attentive chorus and chamber orchestra under Steven Larsen , the Martha-Grahamesque choreography of Lynda Martha ( nicely danced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s Stygian lighting added much to the success of the performance . " Orpheus and Eurydice " plays through Feb. 24 at 2936 N. Southport Ave . For tickets , call 663-0048. - Friday at Orchestra Hall , the Civic Orchestra of Chicago held its first reading session of the year involving three scores by young Illinois composers James Crowley , Stephen Ferre and Norman Weston . The session , directed by Chicago Symphony staff conductors Kenneth Jean and Michael Morgan , is part of an ongoing project by John Corigliano , the symphony ' s resident composer , to promote dialogue between the institution and young composers locally and nationally . Overall , I was most impressed with Weston ' s " Peripateia " : densely wrought , compelling and full of ideas in a post-Bergian idiom . CAPTION : PHOTO : Jennifer Jones ( left ) , Joyce Guyer . Illustration PHOTO <>                     