@@668971

I don ' t suppose Kareem Abdul-Jabbar can break his promise to quit basketball now . He was greased into the All-Star Game and pronounced a national treasure for , after all these years , refusing to become short . Abdul-Jabbar is stuck with leaving , which has been a threat for some years and probably past due . He has collected enough testimonial trinkets to break himself with postage if he had to send them back . Gifts can be given out of obligation or from sentiment , and in Abdul-Jabbar ' s case , it is probably a push . You can ' t just let someone who has been so much a part of basketball for so long wander off toward his pension without making a fuss . ( Actually , I don ' t recall Wilt Chamberlain-the greatest force ever in basketball-being overwhelmed by elaborate farewells when he was departing . Of course , Chamberlain always threatened to come back , and still does with minimal prompting . ) No , I think this it . We finally are going to have basketball without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was known as Lew Alcindor , a name no longer used and probably available if Akeem Olajuwon needs a new one . That ' s the distance in time and consciousness that Abdul-Jabbar has traveled . Back then , he had to change his name to touch his roots . Now , all he has to do is play Houston . Abdul-Jabbar seemed properly grateful for being remembered as living history at the All-Star Game , and even scored 11 unnecessary points for his geographical friends , residents of the NBA West . Abdul-Jabbar was not named the Star of Stars , keeping alive his record of being unhonored for 18 years . Manipulating the award for him would have been a little bit too obvious but was never a danger once Magic Johnson was not there to put the fix in . As it was , if Johnson were there as scheduled , Abdul-Jabbar would have been at home , labeling toasters or biting all those gold watches to see what they are really made of . Here ' s the point : There was not a lot of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not as there was for Julius Erving ' s and certainly not as there will be for Larry Bird ' s or Michael Jordan ' s or Johnson ' s , too , when the occasion inevitably arrives . There is no mystery to this . Erving and the others are immensely likable and publicly adroit , while Abdul-Jabbar has been , all of his public life , a distant enigma . This also is no crime . Ty Cobb was a similar case in baseball , a great player with few friends . Ben Hogan , the golfer , could not handle applause . Someone once said of Hogan , near the end and after Hogan had made a clumsy attempt at warmth : " He ' s trying to say hello when it is time to say goodbye . " Halls of fame are full of social ciphers , though if they put them all in one room , Abdul-Jabbar might have the place of honor . Abdul-Jabbar was an angry , guarded , suspicious young man , and he is an awkward , remote middle-aged man . Abdul-Jabbar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He can not be condemned for that . He is lucky he was not a couple of inches shorter , and he is lucky that he got to linger with a talented team that could humor his legend . But Abdul-Jabbar is no more lovable now than he ever was . His place in the game will forever be tied to the wonder of his genetics and neither to the clarity of his passion nor the infection of his personality . Abdul-Jabbar will take his money . He will have the rest of his life . The game will go on . I suppose when the last applause rings in Abdul-Jabbar ' s ears , there will be tears in Abdul-Jabbar ' s eyes . But I will not be surprised if his are only wet eyes in the house.                     