@@735723

txt American Airlines and Braniff Airways , longtime bitter rivals , said they agreed to drop existing legal and financial claims against each other . The agreement , filed late yesterday in federal bankruptcy court here , was unexpected in light of Braniff 's frequent accusations that American used " dirty tricks " to help drive it into Chapter 11 proceedings in May 1982 . But Braniff agreed in the filing not to bring any future civil antitrust proceedings charging American with such actions . Also as part of the agreement , American agreed to pay the Braniff estate $6.5 million , and to drop certain financial claims against the estate . Under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code , , a company continues to operate under court protection from creditors while it works out a repayment plan . The agreement must still be approved by the bankruptcy court ; a hearing has been scheduled for July 23 . The move by the two Dallas-Fort Worth area airlines appears to include provisions both companies strongly desire . For Braniff , which is in the final stages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the agreement with American removes several potential obstacles to the plan . Braniff officials and attorneys had expected American to be a staunch opponent of Braniff 's reorganization plan that calls for Braniff to resume competing with American as a Dallas-based unit of Hyatt Corp. , Chicago . American had strongly opposed an earlier Braniff flying agreement with PSA Inc. that subsequently fell apart . The agreement may also provide sufficient funds to Braniff to ease the fears of some Braniff creditors that the new flying operation lacks enough capital . In addition to making a direct cash payment to Braniff , American agreed to drop all its financial claims against the Braniff estate , which by some estimates totaled more than $10 million . Moreover , because of the nature of American 's claims , the possibility existed that they would have received priority payment over the claims of most other creditors . For American , the settlement precludes a potentially embarrassing antitrust trial . which at the least was certain to prove darnaging to American from a public-relations standpoint . American already has been heavily criticized in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the role they alleged American played in Braniff 's financial difficulties . " This wipes the whole slate clean , " one American spokesman said . The agreement between American and Braniff , if approved by the court , will result in American losing its status as a Braniff creditor . Also , American agreed to buy spare engines and parts from Braniff that wo n't be used in any new Braniff venture . American will sign a new five-year agreement for Braniff to participate in American 's computerized airline-reservations network . Last year , a Braniff official accused American of using the network to sabotage Braniff flight reservations . American denied the allegations . Finally , Braniff agreed it wo n't initiate any further litigation against American . At least some Braniff creditors expressed support for the settlement yesterday evening , although many creditors had n't yet received details of the agreement . A couple of Braniff 's unsecured creditors said they were particularly pleased because the settlement would result in Braniff receiving some badly needed cash . While an eventual victory against American on Braniff 's antitrust claims might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a suit would have involved huge legal fees and likely would have lasted years , the unsecured creditors said . In a related development , Braniff 's secured insurance-company and bank creditors met yesterday in various sessions with braniff officials and members of the public secured bondholders committee to try to iron out remaining disagreements between the two creditor groups . In bankruptcy court today . Judge John Flowers is expected to hear debate on a proposed Braniff disclosure statement giving details of the financial and other impact of its proposed reorganization . If the disclosure statement is approved by the court , it would be sent to all Braniff creditors , who in turn would vote on the reorganization plan . It is n't certain what effect , if any , the American-Braniff agreement would have on the Justice Department 's continuing civil antitrust investigation into American 's business practices . American said , however , that the settlement did n't have anything to do with the Justice Department proceedings . A Justice Department attorney , Elliott Seiden , agreed that there was n't any reason that the settlement would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Braniff 's enmity with American started when American moved its headquarters to Dallas in 1979 and started competing on routes once dominated by Braniff , and continued even after Braniff was in Chapter 11 proceedings . Several months before Braniff ceased flying , it accused American of engaging in what it called " dirty tricks " aimed at driving Braniff out of business . Braniff 's allegations included charges that American created cash-flow problems for Braniff by disrupting interairline payments billed through the industry clearing house , that American told travel agents to urge customers to switch Braniff tickets to American tickets , and that American otherwise attempted to dirupt Braniff 's flight operations . Then in February , Braniff 's former president , Howard Putnam , gave the Justice Department investigators tapes of telephone conversations in which , Braniff alleged , American 's president , Robert Crandall , sought to fix air fares on competing routes . The Justice Department filed a civil suit against American in connection with those allegations . American has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and has asked the Justice partrnent to drop its investigations .   @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @         