@@734892

txt Budget Director David Stockman , in an interview Sunday with the Tribune , promised to seek deep cuts in the budgets of consumer-oriented regulatory agencies like the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Product Safety Commission . These are reasonable , since every federal department except the Pentagon is being asked to make cutbacks . Mr. Stockman 's rationale , however , is even broader : " The more money they have , the more regulations and interference they 're going to generate . " He even suggested that the FTC ' might be abolished altogether . This may be going a bit too far , but Mr. Stockman is right in recommending a reevaluation of the agency 's role . It has gone well beyond its original mandate to combat deceptive advertising , particularly in its harebrained crusade against advertising on television shows aimed at children . Excesses like this lend some credence to Mr. Stockman 's charge that the FTC staff is simply " hostile to the business system . " If he wants to bring the agency to heel , however , merely cutting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop the FTC from using what remains of its funds to concentrate on precisely those projects that are least defensible . Certainly the administration should reduce the FTC budget , but it should n't assume that this will keep the agency out of mischief . To do that , Mr. Stockman should put his aides to work drafting legislation which would clearly delineate those matters that are a proper concern of the FTC ? and those that are not . One crucial question , for example , is whether there is any reason to give responsibility for antitrust prosecutions to two federal units ? the Justice Department and the FTC . Them are arguments for leaving antitrust to the Justice Department and arguments for leaving it with the FTC . But it 's hard to think of any reason it should be left with both . In any case , Mr. Stockman is right in saying that the agency has too often used its authority to harass business and to provide consumers with more " protection " than they need or want The President can help to prevent this by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may also discourage some of this . But if the administration wants to have a long-range influence on what the FTC does , it has an obligation to decide what it thinks the agency should do . and to recommend legislation to restrict it to these activities .. Anything less will last no longer than the next election .                     