@@735054

txt The instructor looked around the classroom yesterday , and all was quiet except for the comforting whir of an air conditioner . He had just finished lecturing on the importance of weather reports to flying . " Now my favorite report , " said the instructor , Richard Gosnell , " came from a pilot who described turbulence as ' rougher than a stucco bathtub . ' " Mr. Gosnell smiled , but his students managed only a nervous giggle . A young man in shirt sleeves gnawed at his fingernails . This was , after all , the opening day of class for 143 prospective air-traffic controllers here at the Federal Aviation Administration 's academy , the only civilian air-traffic controllers ' school in the country . Perhaps because of the tension added by a nationwide strike , everybody seemed to have the first-day jitters . The students followed Mr. Gosnell 's drone with steely eyes and bright yellow marking pens . After his lecture , there was still another hour of weather instruction , followed by sessions on basic navigation and flight services  --  and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next day 's material . Lingering Doubts The students are the first new arrivals at the FAA academy since 12,000 of the nation 's air-traffic controllers walked off the job more than two weeks ago . Some of the students have been on the FAA 's waiting list of applicants for four years , along with 7,500 others who passed aptitude and psychological tests . But the excitement of a new career has evaporated for many because they have qualms about replacing fired strikers . The past few days have been trying , even for those who do n't sympathize with the strikers . During the orientation last week . FAA instructors tacked to bulletin boards a temporary restraining order prohibiting any action by FAA employes in support of the strike . Because the new students had just become FAA employes , the order applies to them . But the students say they feel the edict is ambiguous , and they fear that any public comments might be construed as " aiding and abetting " the strike  --  and thus might cost them their hard-won positions . Very few who were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their first names to a reporter . Says a sunburned young woman : " I 've waited too long for this job to ruin it now . " The Real Stuff For the moment , most students are preoccupied with making it through the academy . Lawrence Bicknell , acting chief of the academy 's National Program Support Section , says the students attend classes from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. for about four months , culminating in a single pass-or-fail examination . About 25% are expected to fail , he says . Graduates get one to three years of on-the-job training in a control tower under strict supervision . Says Mr. Bicknell : " That 's where the real lessons are learned . " A feeling of having betrayed the striking controllers nags at a 30-year-old Southerner named John . He says he spent four years as a military flight controller and wanted this job " more than anything . " But he says he fears that he and his classmates " will carry a mark of being hired at this time for the rest of our careers . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A 29-year-old former business student from Ohio says he told his parents he did n't have time to think just now about how he felt about being hired . He had only two days to pack up and leave Ohio , he says . " I needed a job badly . " Another student , a former member of the Coast Guard , says he sees the issue as " cut and dried . " His conclusion : " Those other guys were government employes who knew the consequences when they went walking . It was their choice , not mine . " The academy is likely to become a much busier place soon . Because the Reagan administration is determined that the strikers wo n't be rehired , the FAA expects to expand the academy 's classes in October . Looking for Instructors Besides the normal new monthly class of about 140 students , Mr. Bicknell says the academy probably will enroll another class of equal size that would study from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m . If necessary , he says , the FAA also would start a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a second class , but more would have to be hired for a third . David , a 25-year-old history student in Pennsylvania until two weeks ago , says he was given " just enough time to find someone to take care of my cat and my wife and report for orientation . " Having spent four years as a Navy air-traffic controller , David says there 's a big difference between military and civilian training . He doubts that military controllers make good replacements because they must take intense retraining courses to attain the same proficiency as their civilian counterparts . Asks a classmate from California : " Would you trust a medical student to perform brain surgery ? " David says the high salaries that controllers are reputed to earn did n't bring him here . The job pays all right  --  free tuition at the academy , $31 a day for room and board , and a beginning salary of about $15,000 a year .                     