@@735516

txt A year ago , the AFLCIO began a big organizing drive here to test labor 's ability to attract new members in the union-resistant Sun Belt . So far , the effort has n't made much of a splash . The Houston Organizing Project has suffered from a soft economy that has increased layoffs and discouraged workers from risking their jobs to fight for a union . During the project 's first year , AFL-CIO unions lost 59 ' 7 of the 32 elections in which they participated , according to the Texas Association of Business . The business group adds that , based on its analysis of National Labor Relations Board figures , during the prior 15 years unions lost about 47% of such elections . " I 'm not saying it 's a failure , " says Scott Kneese , a labor relations lawyer for management here , but " in my view , this project just has n't gotten off the ground . " That view is n't shared by the AFL-CIO . Robert Comeaux , the Houston project 's 34-year-old director , says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inhospitable Sun Belt . " We did n't have any first-year targets ; we do n't have any second-year targets , " he says , " This is a long-term project . We intend to be here for a long time . " Ambitious Effort The drive , financed with a $1 million budget from 29 unions , is the most ambitious of its kind by the AFL-CIO in two decades . Individual unions conduct most organizing campaigns . But the AFL-CIO , faced with a steady erosion of membership and bleak prospects in the hard-hit industrial Midwest where it is heavily concentrated , is coordinating this effort with 20 of its own organizers . Using modern organizing methods and computer technology , the federation has gathered information on 300 companies and helped pick nearly 100 organizing targets . The project says it has organized 5,000 workers , but the figure is somewhat misleading . About half of the employees are public-sector workers , including teachers . Under Texas law , these workers ' unions are weak because they are n't allowed to bargain collectively for wages or to strike . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the National Education Association , a rival labor group that is n't affiliated with the AFL-CIO . In addition to suffering from the economy , the drive has been hampered by the frontier individualism that causes many Texans to view unions suspiciously . Jack Howton , a 24-year-old carpenter here , used to have a union card . But " the union hiring halls just do n't have the work , " he says . Besides , he adds , " most people around hereprefer to find work on their own . " Texas is a " right to work " state , which means that it 's illegal to make union membership a condition of employment . The AFL-CIO 's Mr. Comeaux. a 10-year veteran of organizing campaigns , says he is pleased with the project 's first-year results . The organizing drive is spending about lOrq of its budget on public relations and advertising to bring labor 's message to Houston . In August , the federation spent $28,000 to produce and air six radio commercials dealing with such topics as job safety and sexual harassment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? Your union  --  if you have one . " The ads generated about 70 telephone calls and produced 40 leads , Mr. Comeaux says . A worker from Community Ambulance Co. called to ask how the company could be ORGANIZING PROJECT AFL-CIO " We did n't have any first-year targets ; we do n't have any secondyear targets , " says the Houston project 's director . " This is a longterm project . We intend to be here for a long time . " unionized . Carl Herwarth , an AFL-CIO organizer , has met several times with workers from the company . About 85 ' ' 6 of the company 's nearly 40 workers recently signed cards authorizing an election , which will be held later this month . The project also shares with affiliated unions computer technology and information on Houston employers that the unions could n't afford individually . Recently , the Houston school board determined that relatively few school district employees were entitled to longevity pay raises . Within hours , Mr. Comeaux says . the AFL-CIO computer found that more than 400 of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A spokeswoman for the board does n't dispute the federation 's figures . Such research also helps unions choose their targets more carefully . Mr. Comeaux says the project this year discouraged the carpenters ' union from attempting to organize a certain company because research showed it would be difficult . The AFL-CIO , based on its research , suggested instead that the union try to organize another company . Canadian Millworks Inc . In May . the union won an election at the plant in a vote of 62-26 . Mr. Comeaux says his goal is to alter the way many unions try to gain new members . " There are some folks who think that all you have to do is go outside a plant , hand out leaflets and the people will flock to you . " he says . But he believes such moves only give an early warning to the target company . He prefers to work quietly from within , slowly forming a " committee , " or core , of workers interested in unionizing . Recently . Mr. Comeaux and an AFL-CIO organizer met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a nonunion manufacturing facility here The women will form the nucleus of a committee at the plant , and this session was part educational , part pep talk and part group therapy . Complacent Managers ? The women were worried about a scheduled company meeting with employees and rumors that " troublemakers " would be laid off . Mr. Comeaux promised them that if they were laid off , the union would initiate legal action . But , he added . " unfortunately , while the law is on your side , time is on the company 's side . You have rights ; they have lawyers . " Later , the women began compiling lists of workers who might be interested in the union . They made plans to telephone those workers or visit them at home The women also complained about sexual harassment in the plant and favoritism toward certain workers . Several days later , three of the women were laid off . Mr Comeaux says they were laid off without respect to the company 's seniority system . and that the federation plans to file an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Some management attorneys worry that the AFL-CIO 's low-key . long-range approach may make their clients complacent . Mr Kneese notes that when the AFL-CIO drive was announced , he helped form a monthly luncheon group for employeis so they could exchange ideas and information . He says the group has n't met in three months . Others say Houston is the kind of city where labor could succeed " This is a freemarket town , " says Richard Lewis , executive director of the Houston Associated General Contractors of America . " Anybody with a good product at the right price and the ability to market it is going to succeed in Houston . If the unions can meet those criteria , they 'll succeed . "                     