@@668187

The general lack of enthusiasm being shown by many political leaders in Massachusetts for the findings in the final report of the state corruptioncommission explains why voters tend to distrust politicians . Eleven days ago the Special Commission on State and County Buildings , chaired by John William Ward , filed its conclusions , charging massive thievery and waste ( hundreds of millions of dollars ) of taxpayers ' money here during the past two decades . The Ward Commssion found that many public buildings constructed since 1968 had " severe " defects that will require many hundreds of millions more to repair . Instead of denouncing these outrages , many politicians have spent their time bad-mouthing the commission ' s efforts to restore some semblance of integrity to our public service . They are studying the report , not with an eye toward flushing out the rascals and correcting the weaknesses in the system , but rather with the hope they can find errors that will allow them to undermine the fine work of Ward and his associates . One would think and hope that Gov . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign to crack down on the grand larceny discovered and the pernicious system that has enabled it to flourish . But King chose to remain silent until he was cornered at his press conference five days after the report was issued . Even then , he had little to offer the beleaguered and confused public . No , he couldn ' t and wouldn ' t comment on some of the Ward panel ' s recommendations , he said , because he hasn ' t had time to read the 2500-page report . But he has found time for his annual Christmas- New Year ' s trek to Florida where he and his longtime friend , David R. Thissen , attend the races . To their credit , former Gov . Michael S. Dukakis , Lt. Gov . Thomas P. O ' Neill 3d and US Atty . Edward F. Harrington Jr . have led the charge in support of the commission ' s final report and the legislation it has proposed for correcting the abuses it found and for deterring such chicanery in the future . O ' Neill chastized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition , to the commission since it began its investigations two years ago . The lieutenant governor ' s criticism brought the usual , self- serving denialfrom King ' s press aide , Gerald Morris , who said he ' d eat his hat if O ' Neill ' s charges of footdragging by the governor were true . For the record , Morris wasn ' t on the scene at the start of the King administration in 1979 when the governor and his Secretary of Administration and Finance Edward Hanley were delaying the funding of the commission to such an extent that only the infusion of a federal LEAA grant , acquired through the joint efforts of Atty . Gen. Francis X. Bellotti and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy , enabled it to get off the ground . Morris was part of the King administration last year when the governor and House Speaker Thomas W. McGee were secretly trying to kill the six-month extension of the commission and the bill to establish an Office of Inspector General . If Morris is going to maintain a public posture - - as he does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is privy to all that goes on behind the closed doors of King ' s executive suite , then he must know of the clandestine efforts by King and McGee to torpedo the extension and the IG bill last spring . More likely , he was in the dark on these behind-the-scenes efforts , thanks to the governor ' s propensity for confiding in and trusting very few people , particulary hired hands of Morris ' s relatively brief tenure . The fact that Gov . King eventually bowed to public pressure and signed the six-month extension and the emasculated Inspector General bill doesn ' t alter the fact that he and certain legislative leaders initially conspired to scuttle these measures . As it now stands , the IG legislation finally signed by King is only a shell of what the Ward Commission proposed a year ago . The powers of the new Inspector General , who has yet to be named , have been diluted to the point where the office will be a rather weak watchdog agency , unless the Legislature restores some of the muscle provided in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prorogation drive last summer . US Atty . Harrington was right on target when he called a press conference the other day and described the new IG statute as a " sham " on the people of Massachusetts . What bothers the federal prosecutor most is the requirement in the statute that mandates that the inspector general obtain the permission of at least six members of the eight-member IG Council , established by the new law , before he can issue a subpoena . By law , Harrington observed , the members of the council are politicalappointees and therefore susceptible to the same pressures and temptations unearthed in such widespread fashion by the Ward Commission . " If the inspector general has to go to these individuals and divulge the details of a given investigation he is conducting in order to get a subpoena , that will be the end of the investigation , " Harrington says . " There will be leaks , tipoffs and the transmission of information which will alert potential defendants and enable them to frame their collusive defenses well in advance of the ability of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If you ' re going to have a strong inspector general and expect him to do a good job , then you have to give him all the tools and make him independent of political interference . " As things now stand , the IG statute is a sham , and the incredible shackles on the inspector general ' s subpoena powers defeat the purpose of the act and the intent of the Ward Commission . " I feel very strongly about this , and feel that it is time to arouse the public so that people will demand an end to this charade that has left us with a crippled inspector general . " The private reaction to Harrington ' s remarks by some of the wheelers on Beacon Hill is what you would expect from the pack at the State House which wants to maintain the status quo . They contend he should mind his own business and tend to his federal duties . State political corruption is part of the domain of Harrington ' s political corruption unit , headed by Asst . US Atty . Michael @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ learn this the hard way as the special unit delves into the referrals dispatched to it late last year by the Ward Commission . David Farrell is a Globe political columnist .                     