@@734557

txt While asserting that the consumer price index is the best measure of inflation yet developed , the head of the Bureau of Libor Statistics announced plans to explore alternative methods of measuring price changes . Commissioner of Labor Statistics Janet Noruood defended the present price index against claims made by Carter administration inflation-fighter Alfred Kahn. among others , that it exaggerates the inflation rate . Hut she said her bureau would begin publishing five alternative " experimental " measures of the index 's most controversial component , the cost of home ownership . Eventually , the experimental measures might lead to a revision in the index , but the commissioner made it clear that would be a long time coming . " CPI Is the Best Measure " ' We have one official consumer price index . and we will continue to have one official consumer price index . " Mrs. Norwood said ' The CPI is the best measure of pure basing power we have ' Aside from its obvious political importance as a measure of the success of the government s anti-inflation policies , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ onomj . The government estimates that 9 5 milhnn workers hate wage contracts with cost-of-lit mg clauses tied to the index In addition . 3-1 million Social Security recipients receixe benefits based on changes in the in-dex ' The CPI can not be changed quickly ibecausei it forms the basis for many , many legal agreements . " Mrs. Norwood said . ? We would want to do a lot more work before making a decision " about revising it . The consumer price index showed prices rising 12.6 over the 12-month period ended in November Mr Kahn and others have argued that the actual increase in the cost of living was substantially less than that , how ever Critics ' Objections The critics mainly object to the homeownership component of the index . They say that the index exaggerates the erosion of consumers ' purchasing power because it fails to recognize that part of the increase in housing prices represents an increase in their value . The index should only measure changes in the cost of shelter , rather than mixing up those costs with investment gains , the cntics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ component overstates inflation because it only measures the current price of houses and current mortgage interest rates , even though relatively few people actually buy houses each year . While an index measuring increases in prices and interest rates may accurately reflect the increased cost of living for people buying houses . it overstates the Increase for those who bought houses earlier at lower prices and lower interest rates . the critics suggest . The five alternative measures developed by the bureau would try to separate the cost of shelter from the investment aspects of housing prices . Two would also measure changes In the overall cost of housing , as op- posed to the change in current housing prices . For the 12 months ended in November , the alternative measunngs of housing inflation would have resulted in overall price index increases ranging from ** to ** compared with the ** price rise shown by the CPI , according to Mrs. Norwood . Based on a Fixed Mix The present index has also been criticized because it is based on a fixed mix of goods and services . Some critics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to recognize that people can substitute some goods and services for others as prices change . But Mrs. Norwood said the government should stick with the " fixed basket " in order to " isolate price changes from other changes which may occur in living standards " " The purpose of CPI cost-of-living adjustment has been to permit people to purchase in today 's prices the bundle of goods and services they purchased in the base period , thereby leaving them at least as well off as they were then , " she said . Mrs. Norwood discussed the controversy over the price index in a speech to the National Association of Government Labor Officials .                     