@@670036

The threat of terrorism has quickly become the No. 1 concern of the U.S. airline industry , affecting decisions on everything from which routes carriers fly to how they advertise . Events of the past month  --  culminating in the bombing last week of a Trans World Airlines jetliner over Greece  --  are prompting changes that go beyond increased security . TWA is sharply reducing service to the Mediterranean area and starting flights to Alaska and Hawaii . Eastern Airlines yesterday postponed plans to begin flights to Madrid , Spain , another troubled destination . And Eastern is planning an advertising campaign , called " Faces of Home , " to encourage domestic travel and capitalize on fears of flying abroad . Even though terrorism isn ' t the industry ' s only problem  --  and despite the fact that , statistically , passengers are very safe  --  the high emotions surrounding the crisis and the industry ' s apparent vulnerability have made terrorism a top priority  --  even among airlines that fly mostly in the U.S. " It ' s a total concern , " says William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point is immune . Atlanta , Ga. , is just as susceptible to terrorism as Athens or Frankfurt . " The industry ' s obsession with terrorism and security was reflected in an incident on American Airlines Flight 360 on March 7 , nearly one month before the TWA bombing . As the plane began its descent into Detroit , a flight attendant spotted a suspicious object in one of the jetliner ' s bathrooms . The pilot called the Detroit control tower . " There ' s something on the shelf over the sink I ' m worried about , " he said . A few minutes later , the plane was surrounded on the ground by fire trucks and a bomb squad . As it turned out , the worrisome package was only a pocket camera encased in a black plastic container that had been left behind by an 11-year-old girl . But the passengers didn ' t criticize American , even though they were delayed about two hours . " Nobody complained , " says Stephen Wade , an Episcopal priest from Boston who was aboard the flight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reasons , but I was grateful for the care and caution . " Such caution is understandable . According to the International Civil Aviation Organization , 20 hijackings and 14 other cases of sabotage took place aboard commercial airliners around the world last year . One of the most serious episodes occurred last June , when Lebanese-Shiite gunmen hijacked a TWA jet with 104 Americans aboard and forced it to fly to Beirut , Lebanon . An American Navy diver was killed , and the remaining hostages were held for 17 days . Earlier this week , Mexicana Airlines pilots said they believed the Mexicana jet that crashed last week , killing all 166 people aboard , was bombed as part of an insurance scam . Despite those tragedies , the industry contains some bright spots . U.S. airlines generally receive high marks for their security . Unlike other areas of the highly competitive industry , security matters generally earn cooperation , through committees of the Air Transport Association and through an informal network of airline security directors , many of whom were agents in the Federal Bureau of Investigation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latest security techniques . In addition , new technology may soon be able to detect plastic guns and explosives that don ' t always show up on existing scanners . Still , airline executives and security experts acknowledge privately that terrorists can penetrate existing systems and that airlines remain a prime target . " Terrorists have identified the air-transport system as a pressure point of the capitalist system , " says Mike Ackerman , a former agent of the Central Intelligence Agency who now advises corporate executives on travel risks . U.S. airlines began detailed security programs in the early 1970s , following a rash of hijackings . Last year , the industry  --  which now spends about $220 million annually on security  --  significantly increased security following the TWA hijacking . Among other measures , carriers eliminated curbside check-in on international flights , began X-raying checked baggage on certain international routes , increased searches of some cargo shipments and increased surveillance of aircraft on the ground . And pilots who fly overseas received detailed training in how to handle potential terrorist situations . In interviews in the past week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and adding others  --  which they declined to identify  --  in the aftermath of the TWA bombing . Ernest Dunham , Eastern ' s security director , says the carrier is doing " a few extra things " at London ' s Gatwick Airport . Delta says it is increasing efforts to ensure that its security people remain " at a top state of alert , " especially by trying to reduce boredom on the job . On Monday , TWA evacuated a 727 jetliner at Dallas and delayed the flight for more than an hour after a passenger told a flight attendant that an " Iranian-looking man " had boarded the plane , changed seats and then deplaned without reboarding . The plane was searched , but no explosives were found . A TWA official in Dallas says the reason for the man ' s behavior hasn ' t been determined . Such delays will probably become more commonplace as airlines pay greater attention to security concerns . But U.S. carriers aren ' t likely to institute the extreme security measures used by El Al , the Israeli airline whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . El Al passengers , for example , must arrive at the airport hours early for all flights . To make similar demands for domestic U.S. flights " would really create havoc for mass transit , " says Delta ' s Mr. Berry . Even with increased vigilance by U.S. carriers , however , problems remain . TWA , for example , says that the Italian government doesn ' t allow carriers themselves to search carry-on baggage at the Rome airport ; instead local people do the job . The airline plans to send an executive to Rome next week to seek permission to perform its own searches . " We feel we would have better control , " a spokesman says . Even before the most recent incident , TWA had decided to reduce flights to the Mediterranean this summer . Beginning June 1 , planes are being reallocated to new service to Hawaii and Alaska . Morton Ehrlich , TWA ' s executive vice president , says : " It was very obvious even back in December that the summer wouldn ' t be what people hoped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , partly because of a series of terrorist incidents last year . And after last week ' s bombing , TWA canceled its Cairo-Athens-Rome flight , though it is continuing to fly nonstop to each of those destinations from the U.S. Analysts and airline executives say that travel to Europe would have fallen off this summer even without the terrorist threat because the dollar has declined against European currencies . The current crisis has worsened that trend ; analysts say that advance bookings to Europe are down 20% to 30% overall ; in southern Europe and the Middle East , the decline is sharper . So far , most of the decrease has come from vacation and other discretionary travelers . For the most part , business travelers are still going to Europe , though some have postponed trips recently . Others are increasingly using corporate jets for overseas trips , both for security and convenience . " We ' ve started to see an increase in the last 12 to 24 months , " says James Christiansen , president of Teterboro , N.J.-based Executive Air Fleet Inc. , which manages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general concern ( that ) security and safety aren ' t what they used to be . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     