@@668770

Securities regulators on Thursday accused a Canadian firm controlled by the wealthy Belzberg family of withholding vital information about its substantial stake in Ashland Oil Inc. and plans to buy the company in March . The Securities and Exchange Commission accused First City Financial Corp . Ltd. and Marc Belzberg , a company officer , with violating U.S. securities laws that require them to report within 10 days any stake greater than 5 percent held in a company . The SEC ' s complaint , filed in U.S. District Court , also charged the Belzbergs , of Vancouver , with using the reporting delay to save an undisclosed amount of money on hundreds of thousands of Ashland common shares they bought before the stock market could react to news of their interest . Immediately after the Ashland , Ky. - based oil company announced March 25 that the Belzbergs had taken a substantial stake in it , the price of its stock shot up more than 10 percent . The Belzbergs are known on Wall Street as corporate raiders , having launched several corporate forays over the years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Far West Financial Corp . Ltd. of Newport Beach , Calif . The SEC asked the court to order First City and Marc Belzberg to pay back the money they allegedly saved on stock they bought after the agency says they should have made their first public report . The agency declined to estimate the Belzbergs ' avoided costs . But Harry Weiss , SEC assistant director of enforcement , said the SEC would be prepared to issue an estimate when the case comes to trial . The SEC also asked for a court order barring First City and Marc Belzberg from further securities law violations . Despite the claims that the Belzbergs profited by withholding information from the public , the SEC did not charge the defendants with violating laws against insider trading . On March 26 , the Belzberg family , acting through First City , announced it was offering to buy the company for $60 a share and reported that it held 9. 2 percent of Ashland ' s total common stock outstanding . On April 1 , the Belzbergs dropped their takeover bid after Ashland agreed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The SEC charged that Marc Belzberg called Alan Greenberg , chief executive officer of Bear , Stearns and Co . Inc. , on March 3 , when First City already had a 4. 9 percent stake in Ashland , to authorize the firm to begin buying Ashland stock for First City under an option agreement that Belzberg and Greenberg agreed would be put in writing later . Under the option agreement , which allowed Bear Stearns to force First City to buy the stock even if it did not exercise its purchase rights , Bear Stearn bought 29 , 000 Ashland shares by March 4 , making First City the beneficial owner of 5. 04 percent of Ashland ' s stock , the SEC said . First City should have reported the stake to the SEC by March 14 , but made no filing until March 26 , the agency said . Bear Stearns spent another $14. 5 million buying 330 , 700 Ashland shares for First City between March 3 , when First City ' s Ashland stake topped 5 percent , and March 17 , when Bear Stearns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agency said . The option price of the stock for First City was $44 a share , 14 cents higher than Bear Stearns ' cost , but $1. 37 below the closing price of the stock on March 17 , the SEC said . By March 25 , when Ashland announced it had been advised that the Belzbergs had accummulated between 8 and 9 percent of the its total common stock , Bear Stearns had bought 1. 22 million Ashland shares for First City , the SEC said . The SEC said the stock First City bought between March 17 and 27 did not reflect the true market value because of the late reporting of the stock holdings and First City ' s determination by March 16 to try to take over Ashland , the SEC said.                     