@@668452

President Ronald Reagan , promising farmers that " help is on the way , " today announced the government will give them free , surplus grain for idling up to half their fields . The program , which Reagan called a " crop swap , " is designed to pump up sagging farm prices by whittling massive government commodity stockpiles . Agriculture Secretary John Block predicted the program will have little impact on grocery prices , increasing the cost of bread less than a penny a loaf . Reagan , speaking to the 64th annual convention of the American Farm Bureau Federation , said , " Because these are unusual and critical times on American farms , we don ' t have time to stand around chewing our cud . " He had asked the lame-duck session of Congress to authorize the payment- in-kind , or PIK , program , but put it in place on his own today because the measure did not pass the Senate . The Administration has now concluded it does not need congressional approval to go ahead , but is inviting Congress to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on top of existing production control programs , under which eligible farmers will receive cash and continued price support protection for idling 20 percent of their land this year . Under the program announced today , farmers will be eligible to take an additional 30 percent of their fields out of production . In exchange , they will receive surplus wheat , corn , sorghum , cotton and rice , which they could sell or use for livestock feed . The government hopes 23 million acres of land will be idled by the PIK program . That would reduce wheat , corn and sorghum production by 10 percent , cut cotton production by 20 percent and reduce rice production by 15 percent , the Agriculture Department estimates . Reagan said the program is designed to reduce this year ' s harvest so that price-depressing government stockpiles can be depleted . Farmers ' buying power now is the lowest ever recorded . " Let ' s face it ; let ' s not fool anybody , " he told the farmers . " Until farm prices go up , you will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at bringing supply more in line with demand and strengthening farm income in future years . It makes our problem the solution . " Reagan said the surplus commodities " are sitting useless in bins and are overflowing in warehouses . " The President also noted dairy farmers ' unhappiness with the 50- cents-per- hu ndredweight fee recently imposed on milk they sell . Block imposed the fee , which is to double in April , after being authorized to do so by Congress as a means of reducing the nation ' s enormous milk surplus and to shift approximately half of the cost of the $2.2 billion dairy price-support program to farmers . A federal judge in South Carolina yesterday barred the Agriculture Department from collecting the new fees until a lawsuit filed by a former state agriculture commissioner is heard . Former commissioner Bryan Patrick says Midwestern farmers have brought about the surplus and only they should have to pay the new assessment . The open-ended crops-swap program Reagan announced stands in contrast to his advocacy of free-market policies . Block , in an earlier briefing for reporters in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a situation right now where the free-market system is not functioning quite like it should . " Reagan said that under the program a farmer who takes land out of production " would be able to swap what he didn ' t grow for a certain amount of the commodity already in surplus . He can then do with it as he wishes . " He said farmers who take part in the program will have " the same or greater net returns since they will avoid production costs and their risks will be lower . "                     