@@668927

Drug companies are increasingly pitching prescription medicines on television , and analysts say the trend will grow as firms try to reach Americans who may not have thought to see a doctor for certain problems . Pharmaceutical firms , which previously restricted their advertising to doctors and pharmacists , now seek to take their message directly to consumers . " There are a number of pharmaceutical products that cross the line into being consumer products , " said Morgan Stanley &; Co. analyst Paul Brooke . One such product is Upjohn Co. ' s Rogaine , an antibaldness drug . Upjohn is advertising Rogaine on Canadian television and has said it also may advertise the drug in the United States once it receives approval to market the drug from the Food and Drug Administration . The Merrell Dow division of Dow Chemical Co. spearheaded television advertising of prescription drugs three years ago . Market research on its Nicorette chewing gum , a drug containing nicotine that is designed to help smokers give up cigarettes , showed that few people knew a prescription drug existed to help smokers quit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smokers suffer a physical addiction and suggested that they ask their doctors for help . Like most ads aired by pharmaceutical companies , the Nicorette commercials did not mention the drug by name because of FDA regulations . The FDA requires that companies disclose a drug ' s possible side effects and risks in any ad mentioning the drug by name-something not easily done in a 30-second TV spot , said Kirk Schueler , director of marketing for Merrell Dow USA . Advertising without using a brand name limits what drug companies choose to promote on television . " You ' d either have to have some element of exclusiveness which is attractive to consumers . . . or have a marketplace that is very underdeveloped where , by increasing the markets , you could increase your own share , " Schueler said . Two products pitched by Merrell Dow , Nicorette and Seldane , a nonsedating antihistamine , lack direct competitors . Even though the drugs are not mentioned by name , companies are starting to see results . For instance , the number of prescriptions written for Seldane rose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where it was advertised in newspapers and magazines and on radio and television , Schueler said . National TV advertising of Seldane is also leading to a higher share of the antihistamine market , he said . Other companies are experimenting with ads that do not mention their brands even though they could send the consumer to a competitor . SmithKline Beckman Corp. is betting that it can boost sales of its ulcer drug , Tagamet , by expanding the market for ulcer drugs . The company launched its ad campaign in the early spring . " It ' s our belief that there are a lot of people out there with ulcers who don ' t go to the doctor , " said Alan Wachter , manager of scientific information for SmithKline . A survey commissioned by the company showed that 20 million Americans who have had recurring stomach pain for years had not seen a doctor for the problem . Although SmithKline realizes its ads may fuel sales of competing antiulcer drugs , it believes the ads will pay off . " We expect to get a fair share @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the meantime , companies are priming their products for sale over the counter . " There is a move to take a lot of prescription products over the counter , " said Morgan Stanley ' s Brooke . The awareness created by television advertising helps increase sales once drugs are made available over the counter , he said . Merrell Dow ' s Schueler agreed that advertising a prescription drug can later boost sales once the drug is available without prescription . " We look at it as a side benefit , " he said . SmithKline and Glaxo Holdings PLC , which both produce ulcer drugs , are seeking permission to sell them over the counter , according to Sanford Bernstein analyst Karl Habermas.                     