@@734570

txt THE SOUTHERN regitin of Africa is the most serious area of conflict in the continent Five of the seven ongoing wars in sub-Sahara Africa are being fought in the region . The con-filets are all interrelated and are an explosive mixture of nationalism , super-power rivalry , and ethnic and racial factionalism . The white regime of the Republic of South Africa and its allies in Rhodesia suffered a major defeat in 1975 when counterguerrilla campaigns in the former Portugese colonies of Angola and Mozambique collapsed . Leftist black liberation groups took power in Angola and Mozambique and thereby opened a number of new fronts from which black guerrilla groups could operate . But Angola , potentially one of the richest states in Africa because of oil and mineral resources , was plunged into civil war among the three black liberation movements divided ideologically and along tribal lines . The different factions received military aid from foreign powers including South Africa , communist China , the Soviet Union , Cuba , and the United States . One group , however , the ** Popular Movement for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to ? establish itself as the . government of Angola with the aid of the Soviets and Cuba . ' THE ANGOLAN Civil War was Important because for the first time in an African war , regular elements of the Cuban armed forces were sent into combat . Cuban military advisers and civilian technicians had served in . other African states before , but the deployment of regular combat forces marked a new and radical departure . At present there are an estimated 38,000 military and 7,000 civilian personnel from Cuba in 11 African states . The vast majority are stationed in Angola ( 20,000 ) and Ethiopia ( 17,000 ) . In addition to Cubans , Prendh and Belgian combat : forces are stationed in Africa . The 8,000 French soldiers and airmen . are positioned in Djibouti , Senegal , Ivory Coast , Gabon , and Chad . Two hundred and fifty Belgian paratroopers are reported to be deployed ' in the Shaba province of Zaire . IN MARCH , 1977 , and May , 1978 , rebel sepa ? ratists infiltz ; ated the southern Zairean province of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Angola with the help of Belgian , French , and Moroccan troops . The U.S. Air Force provided a military airlift for ; the foreign troops . Shaba , formerly Katanga , is a mineral rich land with a history of separatist feeling since the former Belgium Congo gained its independence in 1960 . The area is now quiet but ? the threat of further violence remains .                     