@@670179

WASHINGTON  --  James Burnley , President Reagan ' s nominee for transportation secretary , is scrambling to assuage critics in an effort to avert a contentious and lengthy confirmation fight . There is widespread unhappiness on Capitol Hill and among aviation-industry officials over the aviation policies of the Transportation Department , where Mr. Burnley is currently deputy secretary . In addition , considerable resentment persists over Mr. Burnley ' s sometimes abrasive style . President Reagan , in nominating the 39-year-old Mr. Burnley , a North Carolina native who was pushed strongly by former Secretary Elizabeth Dole , nominated Mary Ann ( Mimi ) Dawson , a member of the Federal Communications Commission , to succeed him as deputy secretary . The 43-year-old Mrs. Dawson is politically well connected . She is a former chief of staff to Sen. Robert Packwood , ( R. , Ore. ) , an influential member of the Commerce Committee , which must vote to confirm her as well as Mr. Burnley . She is also married to White House aide Rhett Dawson , who is assistant to the president for operations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the aviation subcommittee of the Commerce Committee , which has jurisdiction over the nomination , said that Mr. Burnley has " burned so many bridges behind him that it would take a Corps of Engineers 100-year project to rebuild them . " He added that the " process would be very slow , if I had my way . " But some others who will be influential in the confirmation process either endorsed Mr. Burnley or said they were neutral for now . Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings ( D. , S.C. ) said he wasn ' t " that familiar " with Mr. Burnley and was undecided , but that he was determined to move swiftly through the confirmation process . Sen. Nancy Kassebaum ( R. , Kan. ) , who has warned that Mr. Burnley ' s confirmation could be difficult and protracted , said yesterday , " I hope these problems are behind us now and that Jim can be confirmed quickly . " Sen. Frank Lautenberg ( D. , N.J. ) , chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Transportation , announced that he had dropped his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transportation official ' s verbal attacks during a joint television appearance by the two last spring . Mr. Burnley , who met at least twice with the senator in recent days , also promised not to push the sale of Amtrak , which Sen. Lautenberg opposes . Although the transportation secretary ' s responsibilities include such diverse areas as mass-transit policies and the commercialization of space , the cutting issue for Mr. Burnley will be the condition of the nation ' s beleaguered aviation system . Many lawmakers believe that the department during Mr. Burnley ' s tenure has been slow to rebuild the air-traffic-controller work force , ineffective at encouraging the building of new airports and lax on safety . " The Transportation Department has done a poor job in overseeing the U.S. air travel system , " said Sen. Donald W. Riegle Jr . ( D. , Mich . ) . " Mr. Burnley appears to be part of that problem . " Some on Capitol Hill believe that senators who have long been privately critical of administration aviation policies will have an easier time criticizing Mr. Burnley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department Oct. 1 to work full time for the presidential campaign of her husband , Senate Republican Leader Robert Dole of Kansas . A number of aviation-industry officials privately expressed dismay over the White House ' s selection of Mr. Burnley , contending that he had unduly interfered with the operations of the Federal Aviation Administration . But they declined to criticize him publicly , saying they were afraid that he would retaliate if he were confirmed by the Senate . But Mr. Burnley may have defused an expected blast from private pilots , who have chafed under new safety restrictions . Mr. Burnley met yesterday with John Baker , president of the politically powerful Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association , the private-pilots group . Afterward , Mr. Baker said he would " keep an open mind " about the nomination , adding that Mr. Burnley had promised better relations with private pilots . Henry Duffy , president of the Air Line Pilots Association , the union that represents 40 , 000 commercial airline pilots , said that although Mr. Burnley appeared to have " appeased certain legislators and industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past , " the union was unable to support Mr. Burnley " at this time . " The union and the department have disagreed bitterly over whether airlines should be required to protect employees , including pilots , who are hurt by airline mergers . Mrs. Dawson was passed over this spring for the post of FCC chairman and had been expected since then to leave that agency . Her departure would reduce the FCC to three members ; its full allotment is five . Bradley Holmes , an FCC broadcasting official , is widely expected to get one of those slots , but he hasn ' t yet been named by the White House . Any FCC nominee would have a tough time winning confirmation because of congressional anger at the agency ' s elimination of the fairness doctrine , which requires broadcasters airing controversial material to give opponents free air time to respond . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     