@@668546

Has it occurred to you that Americans may be witnessing , without consciously recognizing , the Lebanization of their country ? Reference is not to the customs , costumes and cuisine of the Levant . But persuasive and steadily more frequent evidence suggests that the United States is beginning to resemble Lebanon in its political and social structure , formal and informal , a phenomenon which , given Lebanon ' s current , past and probable future troubles , ought not to be neglected . Is the United States a nation ? Perhaps not , in the sense of its Latin derivative , meaning a tribe , a group of people born of the same stock , often remembering a common ancestor . Like Lebanon , the United States is an amalgam or conglomerate of tribes , a deliberate political construct designed to accommodate all to their mutual benefit . In order to endure , such a precarious experiment requires an individual or group consciousness of belonging , an assumption of membership and primacy of loyalty , not to tribe or sect but to a common larger tradition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different sects . Every Lebanese must register as a member of one of them . Each sect has large measures of autonomy in the educational , legal and political fields . The six most prominent are the Maronites , the Sunni Moslems , the Shi ' ite Moslems , Greek Orthodox and Greek Catholic Christians and the Druze . These confessions are divided within themselves , acquire and discard allies and in compete for power , wealth and precedence . Primary loyalty is to clan and then to sect , with allegiance to Lebanon a poor third in influence . The grisly consquence for the last eight years and for the foreseeable future is internecine warfare with each element armed against all the others and the strong preying on the weak . There seems no immediate danger of such a development here . But what Prof. Alexander J. Cella of Suffolk Law School once defined as " ethnic syndicalism " has taken hold of the imaginations and institutions of America to a greater degree than is generally realized . Subjective self-consciousness of ethnic identity is not subject to persuasion or coercion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the least sensitive example , regards himself as more Anglo than American , little can be done about it . But a lot more than the bumperstickery of " Polish Power " and " Greeks Do It Better " or the exploitation of cultural difference by the advertising industry is involved . American sectarianism , always present at the level of voluntary association and personal and group choice , has in the years since the civil rights revolution become fixed in the law of the land . And , as the recent Boston redistricting case irrefutably argues , the equation of sectarian identity with political right is becoming not only acceptable but even in some cases mandatory under federal courtinterpretations of the Constitution . Back in the ' 60s , with no doubt of good intentions , the Massachusetts Legislature created a " black " Senate seat in Boston . Now that the minority population of the city is approaching one third , there is still just one black senator , Democrat Royal L. Bolling Sr. , and there would be one black senator and possibly two today had the lawmakers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs , calling quotas " goals , " attempt to parcel out jobs , educational opportunities and housing on what amounts to a sectarian basis . Any variation from the census nose- count in the distribution of these among groups is denounced as injustice . The entire American population is divided by law and administrative fiat into categories of the legally advantaged and disadvantaged . The potential consequences for disintegration of the sense of national community - Lebanization - are daily more apparent . The warning cries out for attention from the rubble of Beirut and the bloody ruins of refugee camps . A free and orderly society will not endure the dispossession of general community consciousness by factional feeling . Before the trend overwhelms , Congress and the courts should re- examine and restore the principle that the government should regard each individual citizen with indifferent respect and affection .                     