@@668945

Wall Streeters see more and more signs that the nation is at or near the peak of the textbook economic cycle . If their analysis is right , strong growth in the recent stages of an economic expansion that dates to 1982 has set in motion forces that will lead to a slowdown before long . Whether that slowdown has to turn into a recession is a subject of much debate . Many observers hope a mild setback , or a " soft landing , " would be enough to set the stage for the next period of sustained growth . But others say the circumstances may make a more pronounced dropoff in business activity hard to avoid in the next year or two . " Growth should remain solid during the second half of 1988 , " said Donald Straszheim , chief economist at Merrill Lynch . " But higher interest rates and a loss of export momentum will take a toll by next year . Growth could stall out by mid-1989 . " A major risk for next year is a synchronized slowdown in the industrialized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discount rate last week to 6. 5 from 6 percent , Chairman Alan Greenspan had made his concerns clear about an economy testing the limits of its capacity and the accompanying potential for increased inflation . By raising the discount rate , the Fed seemed to signal that it was taking a more aggressive approach to restraining growth before it gets dangerously unsustainable . Allen Sinai , economist at the Boston Co. and Economic Advisers Inc. , says the economy is in a " full-employment zone , where growth in demands begins to outstrip available supplies as labor and product markets reach nearly full utilization . " In the full-employment zone , the supplies of labor , productive capacity and finance tighten , leading to accelerating wage and price inflation and rising costs of finance . " Depending on the source of the economy ' s strength , the full-employment zone can beget behavior that intensifies demands , ultimately leading to inflationary and other excesses that only a major slowdown or recession can arrest . " In the full-employment zone , " Sinai adds , " interest rates often rise higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Of course , the peak-of-the-cycle view is by no means unanimous . Some analysts say that with industrial America having just emerged from a prolonged slump , strong production activity and demand for new production facilities can help keep the economy on track for the near future . But should the economy start slowing , it would most likely bring some benefits and opportunities with the obvious problems . For one thing , it would take the pressure off inflation and interest rates . The newsletter Blue Chip Financial Forecasts , in its August survey of the forecasts of dozens of economists around the country , says : " Interest rates are still expected to move somewhat higher as the Federal Reserve leans against inflationary pressures . " However , the consensus forecast shows rates beginning to top out by the third quarter of 1989 as economic growth slows , abating inflationary pressures . " As analysts at Wright Investors ' Service , a Bridgeport , Conn. , money management firm , put it : " The Federal Reserve , through its high-interest rate policy , has effectively taken away the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rest of this year and the first half of 1989 . " However , the firm adds : " If that is the case , interest rates are likely to be a good bit lower one year from now. "                     