@@668567

Thousands of mourners rallied yesterday to denounce the bombing in Burma that killed 16 members of a South Korean presidential delegation . President Chun Doo Hwan said the blast was aimed at him and accused North Korea of instigating it . Chun , who escaped the Sunday explosion by minutes because his motorcade was delayed in traffic , announced nationwide mourning when he returned home early yesterday . He decried the attack that killed many of his senior advisers , including four key Cabinet ministers , and many of his closest friends . " We will not be the only ones who point to the North Korean Communists , the most inhumane group of people on earth , as the perpetrators of the brutal crime to harm me as head of state of the republic , " Chun said . " Few will doubt that the crime was their doing in view of their universally known character and in view of the fact that they , as our enemy , have tenaciously mounted provocations with the intent of destroying our peace and security and that they are killers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the bombing , which wrecked a ceremonial site in Rangoon , Burma ' s capital , killing 19 persons and wounding 48 on the first day of a scheduled 18-day Asian goodwill tour by Chun . He canceled the tour immediately and flew home . The government declared a state of alert for the armed forces immediately after the attack . Most of the dead were high-ranking South Koreans , including four senior Cabinet members , the ambassador to Burma and Chun ' s press secretary . North Korea ' s state-run press has reported the bombing briefly without comment . ( In Rangoon , police detained a dozen people yesterday for questioning in the bombing and the government appointed a board of inquiry to investigate the attack , United Press International reported . ( A team of South Korean investigators flew in to assist with the probe of the explosion , arriving after the departure for home of the last of the 15 Koreans injured by the blast . ( Two of the most seriously injured - Gen. Lee Kee Baek , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - were flown to the Clark Air Base in the Philippines . ( The Burmese government announced the formation of a high-level commission of inquiry headed by Home Affairs Minister Min Gaung . The committee also included an army deputy chief of staff , the chief of military intelligence and the national police chief . ( Burmese sources said detectives of a special section of Burma ' s national police detained caretakers at the mausoleum where the explosion occurred and individuals with suspected connections to the outlawed Communist Party. * In South Korea , public indignation built during the day and more than 7000 people held rallies in Seoul and seven other cities to accuse the North Korean government of engineering the attack . Flags flew at half staff for the dead ; television and radio played dirges . Divided at the end of World War II and bitter foes in the fighting of the 1950-53 Korean war , South and North Korea historically have accused each other of terrorism . Since 1953 , an uneasy truce has been maintained with large military forces separated by a demilitarized zone . South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ North Korea to incite South Korean fears of communism and maintain rigid control over political dissent . But most dissident groups share a strong feeling of distrust for the government of North Korea . More rallies and public denunciations of North Korea are planned before a " national funeral service " Thursday for victims of the bombing .                     