@@734692

txt ADAPTING RECIPES for the microwave does take a little experimenting . It may not work exactly the way you 'd like the first time , but you will have an edible product if you 're careful , and you always can experiment again . As a case in point , we recently adapted a favorite ratatouille recipe for microcooking , following the concepts we have learned and those recommended by microwave experts . The first results were tasty , but not quite what We wanted . The recipe did n't save enough cooking time to make it worthwhile to use a microwave , for one thing . And some of the vegetables were still too Microwave cooking By Joanne Will crunchy , while others were just right . So we made some other adjustments and tried again . The second time around , we came up with a recipe good enough to pass along to Tribune readers . HERE 'S HOW TILE process worked with the ratatouille : First , one of the ingredients had to be altered slightly . The olive oil was reduced , since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , we Concluded , would cut the calorie count without much flavor loss . The oil also was n't heated for the initial " sauteing " process in the microwave . Obviously , the skillet the recipe called for Is not microwave safe . ' So a glass casserole ( 3-quart size ) was substitlited for the large skillet . Plastic wrap was used to cover the casserole , when required , or a glass casserole lid'also can be used . A time-saving step was to " saute " the eggplant and zucchini in one step rather than two . They were then removed from the casserole with a slotted spoon , so they would keep their shape and not be overcooked . Then we proceeded to cook the remaining onions , peppers , garlic , and tomatoes . Onions and peppers were added first , just as they were in the original , since they take longer to cook than the tomatoes and garlic . While the original recipe called for simmering the tomato andgarlic until the tomatoes released their juices , we con ' tinued to use high power @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of the dish . At the end of cooking , a standing time also was added , since the vegetables continue to cook after removal from the oven . ALTHOUGH A CLASSIC ratatouille recipe also calls for concentrating the cooking juices to create a thicker sauce , we omitted the step since it is not practical in the microwave . Liquids evaporate slowly , if at all , In this type of cooking . Also , the tomatoes available now do not yield much liquid . Later in the season when the juicy , vine-ripened tomatoes are available , you may wish to thicken the juices . If so , do it on top of the stove in an uncovered saucepan over medium high heat . Here is our converted ratatouille . It 's a delightful dish that can be served hot , at room temperature , or chilled . It 's a delicious vegetable dish or appetizer , or it can be turned intcra flavorful filling for Sunday 's brunch omelet . Ratatouille Eight salving . ' Is pound eggplant , pared , cut Into 1/1-inch cubes oh pound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tablespoons olive oil 1/2 pound sliced yellow onions 2 green peppers , thinly sliced 2 cloves garlic , crushed ' 2 pounds firm , ripe tomatoes , peeled , seeded , sliced 3 tablespoons minced parsley Salt , pepper , to taste Sprinkle eggplant and zucchini with 1 teaspoon salt . Drain on paper towel 30 minutes ; pat dry . Microcook eggplant and zucchini in oil on high in 3-quart glass casserole 2 minutes , or until light brown . Remove from pan with slotted spoon . Add onions and peppers to casserole ; microcook on high 6 minutes , or until tender . Stir in garlic and tomatoes . Microcook on high , covered with plastic wrap , 6 minutes , or until tomatoes release their juices . Stir in eggplant , zucchini , and parsley . Microcook , covered , on high 5 to 7 minutes . Let stand , covered , 5 minutes . Season to taste with salt and pepper .                     