@@735043

txt Ch  --  cogo Tnbuno Pros , Sorv.co OKLAHOMA CITY  --  Potential students are keeping constant pressure on the telephones at the " campus " of a suddenly popular school here . " We 've been getting more than 60 calls a day for the past week from people wanting to know how to apply and wanting to know more about our courses , " said Mark Weaver , public affairs officer for the Federal Aviation Administration Academy southwest of downtown . There are only 100 students on campus now . They have been unsettled in recent days by the presence of newspaper and television reporters , who have shown a sudden interest in the few low-rise brick buildings amid sparse and not-very-shady trees on this sun-baked campus . For more than two decades , the FAA academy has been " the school " where every air traffic controller in America begins his or her career . THE SCHOOL took on new importance as a result of the strike by the Professional Air Traffic Controllers organization ( PATCO ) and subsequent order of President Reagan that the 12,000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17-and 20-week courses from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. on weekdays , is about to become a round-the-clock school , sources here say . " We have been told to expect to have , within a period of 2 ' /o months , a training ability of three shifts per day with a potential turnout of 5,100 graduates a year , " one source said . " We have the potential to go up to three shifts a day if asked , " Weaver said . " We also could go to six days ' training each week instead of five , add classrooms , and add laboratories to train a considerable number above the three-shift run . " THE ACADEMY now limits classes to 144 students-72 in the 17-week course to be a controller at a midflight center such as Aurora and 72 in the 20-week course for controllers at a terminal center such as O'flare control tower  --  and operates courses on a staggered schedule , beginning a new one every four weeks . Instructors are air traffic controllers on temporary teaching duty of two to six years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ratio of less than three students per teacher even at peak periods . There were only a hundred students on campus last week because the academy 's fiscal year is ending and a new cycle will begin next month , Weaver said . " Before the strike and firings , we were in a lull period , " Weaver said . " The attrition rate among controllers has not been high traditionally . " THE 100 STUDENTS are survivors of a class In which 42 failed . " Our washout rate here is 25 per cent , " Weaver said . Larry Bicknell is in charge of testing and class material . He insisted he has not been told to change programs to turn out more controllers . " We 're not going to scalpel our program and try to speed it up to get warm bodies into chairs , " said the red-haired former controller and instructor . He described the curriculam ; ? Initially students learn principles of weather , flight , federal air regulations , how to talk with pilots on the radio , and characteristics of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory and rules of air traffic control . They are put into laboratories and asked to apply rules such as how far apart different types of planes must fly , or when conditions are proper for giving take off and landing instructions . They are graded , and students below 70 are washed out before the ? final weeks . . ? In the final phase , students are as-darted to radar screens and perform exercises simulating air traffic conditions . The computerized programs " include situations such as bad weather , disabled crafts , hijackings , and planes on a collision course , " Bicknell said . ' ' They can be run forward , stopped , and backed up , to show students where they erred . " Ile emphasized there is no one set solution to such practical exercises . " It 's trite to say , but in 1 ? 0010 ways , theseresemble video games , and there are different ways to succeed . " Lest any pinball wizards think they are a cinch to become controllers , Weaver noted there is a waiting list of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FAA academy . Various regions , such as Great Lakes , which includes Chicago , select individuals from . the list to go to Oklahoma City . APTITUDE SCORES of 70 . qualify for the list but those with higher scores are chosen first . It is not uncommon for names to remain on the list for many months . If chosen , the student begins at a salary of $15,000 a year . Bicknell. and Weaver conceded that graduating from the academy is only the first step in a process that takes from one to four or more years to produce a controller who can handle air traffic totally by himself . When a person reaches that status is an arbitrary decision made by ' supervisors at the control towers where graduates continue their training and one which FAA academy personnel admit privately could be speeded up now that controllers are needed . Even if that occurs , Bicknell said , it will take years longer for a controller to reach the status qualifying him for a facility such as O'llare than at a smaller airport ; and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferring controllers from smaller facilities lured by the chance to earn more at a large airport . INSTRUCTORS AT the FAA academy are in an awkward position . They are controllers and after their two- to six-year teaching stints will return to air controller jobs . Once back , it appears they will find their former mates gone . Thirty-one FAA instructors held an " informational picket ' outside the academy after classes Friday , saying they agreed with PATCO that flying conditions are unsafe with the reduced controller staffs note working . They did . not , however , threaten any job actions . STRESS HAS been a major issue in the strike , with PATCO contending reducton to a 32-hour work week is necessary to cope with job pressure . The academy is part of a federal aeronautical complex that includes a physiology laboratory . Its chief , Dr. Carlton Melton , has tested controllers ' stress in facilities across the country . While admitting controllers exhibited high blood pressure and adrenalin counts , Melton said they were not at the top of the stressful profession list . His @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ students and pilots , he said . " It was clear to us that air traffic controllers were not under unusual stress when compared to other people . " ASK ED IF Chleagwarea controllers had higher stress than those at smaller airports , he said yes . Chicago is the most stressful of all facilities he studied , including Miami , Atlanta , and Los Angeles . The Chicago study was done its 1960 , and PATCO did not permit the FAA to do another , he said . The stress of dealing with dozens of reporters arriving here has fallen to Mark Weaver . Chatting with a reporter in his third-floor office , fielding phone calls from media sources in Los Angeles , New York City , and Beaumont , Tex. , and preparing to face a local television crew outside his door , Weaver maintained an even tone , punctuated regularly with a laugh . Ills DEMEANOR belied the situation ; one of his assistants was on vacation , and the other in bed with flu , " I 'm used to talking like this , " he explained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back in 1910 . " Ile was later a field director for the Edward It . Marrow program , " See It Now , " then returned to Oklahoma City as a 10 p.m . TV news anchorman for five years . " It 's been pretty hectic this past week , " he said , " hut not nearly as bad : IS back in the ' Sus when tee were the only place in the country testing sonic boons . People called to say their windows were shattered or ceilings dropped We paid a lot of damages , but we also got a lot ? A nuisance calls , It was even worse than this . "                     