@@734522

txt NN ARBOR , Mich . ? As I plodded down Liberty Street the other day , I could barely hear a man in a three-piece suit utter four succoring words . " Your glasses are loggea , - no salt as I walked past . I ignored him . My glasses were scientifically fogged , just as my ears were scientifically blocked and my fingers scientifically numbed . What I knew , and ho did n't , was that I was simulating old age . My sight , hearing , and sense of touch had been altered to resemble those of the average 75-year-old man . These sense-altering devices had been loaned to me by Dr. Leon Pasta-Ian of the University of Michigan 's Institute of Gerontology . Pastalan had collaborated with various experts , devising this scheme to make the young feel old , with what he calls " an empathic model . " SPECIALLY TREATED lenses create the effect of cataracts for the eyes . The ear plugs muted sound to a muffle . The fingers were dulled by two ap ? plicatlons of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stairs of the institute , thanks to these foggy glasses that made one step melt into another . I began to understand the boogeyman fear older people seem to have of stairways . But they have an advantage . They get old gradually . I added 50 years in five minutes . I walked past the good samaritan in polyester , reached State ' Street , turned left , and began to feel helpless . To my left was the campus , to my right , a row of shops . Dead ahead , sunshine blasted my vision and bleached away the faces of the oncom ? leg people . They looked as shadowy as the shadows themselves . The ice on the sidewalk had vanished , though my slipping feet reminded me it was still there : My depth perception had shriveled . ? I crossed the street and entered a store where fluorescent lights glared on shiny floors . My plugged ears picked up only the traces of background music and garbled nonsense I supReporter Rick Ratliff wears an " emphatic model , " which simulates the vision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sewing department , where for some reason I found myself , I had to hold packages of needles right up to my eyes , just to see the darn things . IT OCCURRED TO one that all the bright packaging and subtle musical manipulation used In stores often are lost on the elderly . Trying to pick a paperback from a rack set against a sun-struck window was about as appealing as the idea of reading the wettage number on a lit light bulb . I headed back down Liberty Street , occasionally glancing in store windows . At a jewelry store , I had trouble distinguishing silver from gold . Through the window of a menswear shop , I could n't tell whether two shirts were fuzzy , smooth , or coarse . I could n't tell whether ' they were brightly colored . I entered a restaurant , sat down , and searched the menu for desserts . I wanted dessert . None was listed . I asked the waiter . Ile pointed to a little menu wedged with the salt and pepper shakers in front of my nose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ate , I went into an adjacent natural foods grocery , where the glare of the lights against the steel lids of spice jars blinded me again . Back on the street I walked to the post office to buy stamps , but almost missed the sign for the post office , hidden as it was in the shadow of the building . I walked back to the institute where I surrendered the gear , relieved suddenly to catch the shadings of color and sound that add richness to perception . A sense of isolation that had built during the experience disappeared , but another feeling replaced it . I did n't want to grow old . KNgrt Rklder Newspapers                     