@@668974

Rebel leader Jonas Savimbi may have been left out of a regional peace settlement and cut off by South Africa , his main supplier , but he has lost none of his swagger . In his first public appearance since South Africa , Cuba and Angola signed a formal peace treaty Dec. 22 , Savimbi said Tuesday that his National Union for the Total Liberation of Angola ( UNITA ) has stockpiled enough supplies to fight on until the last Cubans leave Angola . At that point , he said , the government will be forced to make peace or lose the 13-year-old civil war . " We are firmly on the scene , not only in Angola but in southern Africa , " he said . " Now it is UNITA that holds the key to peace . " We want to be among the passengers in the boat . In the end they will call us to repair the boat so we can move together . " His troops have scored heavily against government forces in a wet-season offensive that began last Wednesday , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks at the request of Ivory Coast President Felix Houphouet-Boigny , who has been trying to mediate an internal settlement . Two Cuban prisoners were being flown to the Ivory Coast as a good will gesture , Savimbi said . " When he made an appeal on us , we could not turn our backs , " Savimbi said in an interview . But he said UNITA can not afford let the entire wet season pass while Houphouet-Boigny tries to make peace . UNITA troops must go back on the offensive before the rains end in April , he said . Savimbi also charged that Cuban troops were violating the accord by backing government forces in a drive along Angola ' s southern border . He said his forces had turned back the advance , prompting Angolan charges that the guerrillas were supported by South African artillery in defiance of the terms of the peace treaty . Savimbi ' s appearance was accompanied by the kind of fanfare that has given rise to accusations that his movement is built on a personality cult . As usual , drummers pounded out his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aides rolled up to a mud-walled conference center in his bush headquarters just north of Angola ' s border with Namibia . Savimbi , 54 , was resplendent as ever , a barrel-chested man in camouflage suit and star-studded red beret . Heavy gold rings adorned his fingers , and his trademark pearl-handled pistol was on his hip . By signing the Dec. 22 agreement , South Africa agreed to end military support for UNITA , which it had provided since 1975 , the year Angola gained independence from Portugal and rival guerrilla movements began to fight for control . In return for Cuba ' s gradual withdrawal of some 55 , 000 troops from Angola , Namibia is to become independent of South Africa after elections next November . South Africa pushed a year ' s supply of fuel and two years ' supply of other goods over the border before signing the treaty , Savimbi claimed , adding that his movement now has a three-year stockpile . Other nations have promised to pick up the slack , Savimbi said without identifying them . And he said five U.S. Republican @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ visited him Monday in Jamba during a tour of the region , assured him that U.S. support would continue under the Bush administration . The Reagan administration pledged $15 million in covert aid beginning in 1985 . The new relationship with South Africa meant at first that a few visits had to be canceled , Savimbi said . But South Africa is again offering " transit facilities , " as long as all arrangements are handled privately . " We are happy , " said Gen. Altino Sapalalo , an operations specialist who lost his left arm in combat . " You do not see anybody in UNITA frowning . We must remain happy , because that is the only way we can see clearly . " Propaganda aside , it is UNITA ' s time to ride high . The current wet season favors the guerrillas , a force estimated at 40 , 000 fighters that claims to control the barren southeastern third of the country , which is twice the size of Texas . The movement claims to operate in every Angolan province . And UNITA units have carried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offensive this month , said Gen. Wambu Chindondo , the movement ' s chief of military intelligence . In one attack on Sunday , he said , guerrillas destroyed six locomotives that were being used to reopen the Benguela Railway , once the country ' s main link between the Atlantic and the fertile central highlands that are Savimbi ' s ethnic power base . The attack , the intelligence chief said , was " our answer " to a pledge this month by other southern African countries to contribute $522 million to rebuild the line . Outside the Angolan capital , Luanda , guerrillas blew up six power pylons , cutting off the city ' s electricity , he said . Illustration PHOTO ; Caption : PHOTO : Jonas Savimbi : " In the end they will call us to repair the boat so we can move together. " <>                     