@@669970

THE SPARK HAS GONE OUT of Britain ' s electronics industry , and the problems don ' t look easy to fix . Companies such as Racal Electronics PLC , Plessey Co. and STC PLC all have reported earnings disappointments or layoffs in recent weeks . Share prices in the electronics sector skidded more than 10% last week on the London Stock Exchange , and are now barely half their peak 1984 levels . As Sir Graham Wilkins , chairman of Thorn EMI PLC says , it ' s " a difficult year . " Analysts see two main culprits in Britain ' s electronics slump . The Ministry of Defense , traditionally a source of high-profit contracts , has tightened up its procurement policies , thus putting pressure on profit margins . Meanwhile , electronics companies are having a hard time developing the digital telecommunications systems that British Telecommunications PLC wants , without overshooting their cost estimates . Both the Defense Ministry and British Telecom " used to be quite an easy touch , " says analyst Bill Dixon of Scott Goff Layton &; Co . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a lot more hardheaded , and they are tending to squeeze their suppliers . " As if the defense and telecommunications troubles aren ' t enough , British electronics companies are being hit in other directions as well . British General Electric Co. , which isn ' t related to the U.S. company , says it ' s feeling the world-wide slump in semiconductors , as well as the recent weakening of the U.S. computer market . And Thorn EMI is beset with additional problems at its television and microchip units . PORTUGAL IS CHIPPING AWAY at a constitutional ban on the denationalization of companies seized in the aftermath of the 1974 revolution . The Portuguese constitution says that the government ' s takeover of 869 companies is " irreversible . " But then , nothing is eternal  --  certainly not the Portuguese constitution . It ' s already been amended , in 1982 , and some people think it is overdue for another revision . The left concocted the ban on denationalization in 1975 to perpetuate the takeovers it had engineered a year earlier . But since then , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , Portugal ' s Socialist-led coalition authorized the establishment of private banks , insurance companies , cement producers and shipping concerns , in effect denationalizing entire sectors . To carry this trend a step further , officials are considering a plan to increase the capital of companies that were never seized in their entirety and to sell some of the new shares to private interests . In this way , the state could sharply reduce its original stake in a company . " The Communists speak about nationalization as if it were the Holy Ghost , " comments Nuno Brederode Santos , director of the state-run Institute of State Participation . " I don ' t think it ' s even a holy cow . " FRATERNITY VS . EQUALITY : France gets its first woman stockbroker . The nomination of 43-year-old Sylvie Girardet to the small but fast-growing Lyons stock exchange marks another step in the modernization of the tight stockbroker fraternity . The profession has long been a family business in France , protected by strict job rules . But following the boom on the Paris Bourse in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s increasing complexity , brokers have opened their doors to new professionals , including women . Still , women remain a tiny minority , with only three female assistant brokers in France ' s seven stock exchanges . And Sylvie Girardet ' s approval isn ' t a total break with tradition : She is the daughter and granddaughter of stockbrokers . " In the old days , " she recalls , " I had to wait for my father outside " the bourse . Women were banned from even entering the buildings until 1967 . THE VOICE OF AMERICA plans direct broadcasts to Western Europe . In a letter sent to potential free-lance contributors , the U.S. government radio broadcaster cites its growing efforts to reach the " successor generation " abroad , described as postwar Europeans who " don ' t have the ties to the U.S. that their parents have . " VOA programs beamed elsewhere can be heard in Western Europe , but VOA hasn ' t aired special programs for the area since 1955 , when they were cut for budget reasons . " We would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " a VOA spokesman says . THE FRENCH COME CLEAN about less-than-hygienic personal habits . The public polling institution Sofres pronounces the French " dirtier " than other Europeans . While 85% of French households now boast a bathtub or shower , compared with 97% in West Germany and Britain , only 26% of French respondents take a daily bath or shower and 18% wash less than once a week . Furthermore , 30% find it " pleasant " not to wash for a few days . Moscow asks Soviet embassies world-wide to drop the traditional vodka toast at official receptions as part of its campaign against heavy drinking . . . . British Labor MP Brian Sedgemore , confessing that he and other bored members of Parliament are sneaking pocket television sets into the chamber to watch cricket matches , recommends engineering changes " so that reception can be improved. "                     