@@668905

Soviet soldiers are poised to begin withdrawing from Afghanistan Sunday , leaving behind an uncertain future for Moscow ' s southern neighbor , a tarnished image for the Kremlin ' s military machine and some hard questions for the leadership of Mikhail Gorbachev . No one expects a quick end to the 8 1/2-year-old stalemated war . The bitter fighting already has cost tens of thousands of lives and sent millions of Afghans-perhaps up to a third of the country ' s population-fleeing into impoverished exile in Pakistan and Iran . In coming months the death toll is certain to rise as the Soviet-backed Kabul regime scrambles to survive on its own against an army of anticommunist rebels , known as Mujahedeen , who are armed and supported by the United States , China and Saudi Arabia . On Saturday , the commander of Soviet military forces in Afghanistan said that a quarter of Soviet troops would be pulled out of the country by the end of this month , and he vowed that their withdrawal would not be greatly impeded by attacks from insurgents . At a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Soviet troop pullout , Lt. Gen. Boris Gromov said the withdrawal of perhaps 25 , 000 to 30 , 000 troops would occur in time for the beginning of the Moscow summit conference between President Reagan and Gorbachev on May 29 . In a rare discussion of Soviet logistics , Gromov said the Soviet army had been organized in 18 garrisons occupying more than 170 bases throughout Afghanistan , and that these bases would be left to the Afghan army once the Soviet troops left . He estimated the value of the equipment and installations at 600 million rubles , or about $1 billion . In Peshawar , Pakistan , Gulbuddin Hekmatyar , spokesman for the loose coalition of Afghan resistance forces , said the Mujahadeen will forgive Afghan army soldiers and others allied with the pro-Moscow regime in Kabul who come over quickly to the insurgent side . In each area abandoned by the Soviets as they withdraw , he said , those wishing to defect to the rebels will be granted a four-week amnesty period in which to do so . " Those who are captured by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he said . Hekmatyar also announced that the insurgents will now stop their informal prisoner swaps with the Soviets . He said the remaining Soviet prisoners will later be offered in trade for key members of the current Kabul regime who flee to the Soviet Union . He declined to say how many Soviet prisoners the rebels currently hold . The atmosphere in Kabul Saturday was rife with rumors and questions about the future of the Soviet-backed government of President Najib , as well as uncertainties about the prospect of more fighting throughout the country . Tensions were reinforced throughout the day as the city was rocked by a truck bomb explosion in the morning that killed 11 people and by sporadic rocket attacks in the afternoon from guerrilla positions in the surrounding hills . The muffled thunder of these attacks , plus the returning rocket and artillery fire from Soviet and Afghan forces inside Kabul , could be heard during an evening news conference held by Najib . Speaking at an ornate hall in the city ' s old royal palace complex , the Afghan president predicted his government would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan , with its echoes of the American defeat in Vietnam , represents a precarious moment for Gorbachev . The Soviet army , like its U.S. counterpart prior to Saigon ' s fall in 1975 , has never before been forced to abandon a war . As America found out , the repercussions can go on for years . Gorbachev hosts Reagan here in two weeks , knowing the disengagement is contributing significantly to the recent warming of East-West relations . For the Soviet leadership , that is a plus . Another benefit will be the expected end of international condemnation , especially from the Kremlin ' s valued Third World client states . Public criticism at home , unprecedented in seven decades of Soviet history , is likely to abate . But Western diplomats predicted that conservatives in the Soviet hierarchy made uncomfortable by Gorbachev ' s economic and political reforms now will be watching to see if he becomes vulnerable to charges of selling out a communist ally ; this could contribute to weakening his campaign of glasnost , or openness , and perestroika , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Moscow is to remove its forces , estimated at 115 , 000 , over the next nine months-half by Aug. 15 . Already in recent weeks , Soviet units have begun falling back in a hopscotch pattern to the major cities of Afghanistan , according to Western military experts . From Kabul , long columns of armor and personnel carriers are expected to make their way 200 miles north along the Kabul-Salang highway to Soviet territory . For the Mujahedeen , the war for control of their country now takes on a realistic hope of victory . But the unity the insurgents achieved fighting the Soviets may give way to intertribal rivalries , which have pitted the rebels against each other in the past . Soviet troops parachuted into Afghanistan in December , 1979 , by order of then-President Leonid Brezhnev , to bolster a failing Marxist regime along the Soviet Union ' s strategic southern border , often called its " soft underbelly . " The invasion derailed detente with the U.S. , dooming Senate ratification of the second strategic arms limitation treaty and aborting a host of bi- lateral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of Afghanistan , Pakistan , the Soviet Union and the U.S. includes the troop withdrawal and guarantees that Afghanistan will be neutral and nonaligned . It leaves unanswered the questions of the refugees and a future government in Kabul . Military analysts believe the orderly , nine-month withdrawal stipulated by the Geneva accords may be accelerated by events . If Moscow pulls out half its troops out by Aug. 15 , the remaining soldiers could become highly vulnerable . Said one Western analyst : " Nobody wants to be the last guy killed in Afghanistan. "                     