@@734741

txt WASHINGTON ? A federal commission , ordered by Congress four years ago to conduct a thorough study of the state of American government , has concluded that Congress itself is chiefly to blame for what it found to be an unmanageable , wasteful , and unaccountable system of domestic aid programs . The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations , created in the Eisenhower administration to make seemingly innocuous studies in federal-state relations , has concluded that the federal system is simply out of control . The panel has begun to publish its findings in a series of provocative reports and background papers that Congress commissioned in 1976 in response to rising public discontent with government at all levels . " NEITHER PUBLIC officials nor the general public comprehend fully the new complexities of domestic pub . tic policy , or adequately control  --  oreven check  --  the myriad forces that have generated it , " the commission said in its first printed volume , titled " A Crisis of Confidence and Competence . " Yet the language and conclusions in that volume are mild compared with some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the commission depicts the federal government as so overloaded with programs and issues that it can not cope with needs for reforms . The programs are so intertwined among the state , local , and federal governments that no government can control them , according to the commission . WHILE ALL levels of government and the courts were found to have played roles in the failures of the last two decades , the commission singled out Congress as having had more to do with bringing about " the crisis of confidence " than any other entity . " Our findings belie the notion that Congress acts as a great rubber stamp for presidential , bureaucratic , or interest group initiatives , " the commission said . Congress was deptcted as quick to take on minor new issues , but timid in drawing up such needed reforms as overhauling the welfare system . Members of Congress were found to he so preoccupied with such narrow concerns as potholes , libraries , rat control , and policemen 's pensions that they had little time to deal with such major responsibilities as foreign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnoticed had not the group 's findings and recommendations led to an incipient revolt by the states against the federoi government . The National Governors Association , with the support of the National Conference of State Legislatures , has formally called on the President and Congress to appoint a high-level commission next year to recommend reforms in the federal system .                     