@@668555

Betty Friedan , 62 , whose book " The Feminine Mystique " helped spawn the women ' s movement two decades ago , said the other day that it was " absolutely awesome " to see how far the movement she mothered has come . " We are on the verge of a basic transformation of political power , " said the founder of the National Organization for Women during NOW ' s recent annual conference . " With women ' s new independence , the women ' s movement has entered the political mainstream for the very first time , " said Friedan , noting the appearance of six of seven Democratic presidential candidates at the NOW convention . As if to underscore Friedan ' s assessment and explain candidate interest , a life-size doll dubbed " Genny Gendergap " sat among 2000 delegates on the convention floor . NOW claims 300,000 members nationally in 800 chapters . In Massachusetts , there are 9000 members in 17 chapters . NOW is the largest feminist organization in the country . Barbara Dreyfus-Briggs and Wendy Lozano of El Toro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of our Orange County chapter ' s oldest member , who ' s 72 . " The so-called gender gap - referring to the pollster-perceived gulf in voting patterns between American males and females - was the clear focus of NOW ' s gathering , outdistancing a renewed commitment to win passage of the Equal Rights Amendment , which has been re- introduced in Congress . In a multitude of workshops , issue hearings , speeches , and resolutions , NOW committed itself to making the gender gap count in the next presidential election . Among 15 resolutions adopted in the conference ' s final hours , delegates established a " truth squad " to publicize " women ' s rights , Reagan ' s wrongs ; " demanded that the Republican Party select a candidate whose platform supports the ERA ; and pledged to actively recruit minority women candidates , especially at state and federal levels to give " increased visibility " to issues affecting them . " Not since 1968 and the Vietnam War have I felt such acute and urgent interest in politics , " said Friedan . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally mark NOW conferences was absent . Apparel worn or carried by a generally dressed-down crowd - T- shirts , buttons , aprons and canvas bags - underscored the unanimity in projections toward the ' 84 election year : Slogans in evidence included : " The Gender Gap Is Going to Get You , " " Jane Wyman Was Right , " " Ms. ? For President in 1984 , " and " Don ' t Call Me Baby , Call Me Vice President . " Said Boston NOW president Janet Ferone : " This conference was a lot different from those in the past . In other years , the movement has struggled to come into its own . This time around , there was more agreement than ever before , " especially on adoption of a resolution opposing deployment of the MX , Cruise and Pershing II missiles and supporting a " mutual , verifiable nuclear freeze . " " There ' s a new purity within the movement , " commented Friedan . " There ' s not the demand for feminist rhetoric . Reagan has declared war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his administration . " Since Friedan , a former housewife , started the National Organization for Women in 1966 with a handful of members meeting in her kitchen , systemic politicization has come slowly to women . NOW ' s 17-year history has been riddled by infighting that has pitted housewives against women who work outside the home , white , middle-class women against women of color , heterosexual women against lesbians , and vice versa . At times , the very foundations of the movement have threatened to crack on the emotional shoals of racism and sexual preference , with single-issue groups stubbornly refusing to put aside personal agendas to focus on more general goals . Now , with presidential candidates actively wooing women in NOW , " there is a new sense of self-confidence , a new sense that the women ' s movement has come into its own , " said Ann Lewis , political director of the Democratic National Committee . Said Ferone : " There ' s a very positive change taking place within NOW that stems from the organization being taken more seriously by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ voiced surprise at the ease with which resolutions viewed as really progressive and radical were approved by women of all ages and races . " But then , she added , " When a group feels the political power it has , it ' s easier to agree on the issues at hand . My mother , who was with me the whole weekend , commented about the interest we showed in working with men interested in equal rights . There was none of the past anti-men spirit . " " We ' ve gone way beyond sexual politics , " said Friedan . Over the last year , NOW officials have contributed to efforts of women ' s organizations to launch a bipartisan voter registration drive , working with leaders of more than 50 other national organizations , such as the League of Women Voters , the Junior League , and the National Federation of Business and Professional Women . These groups have a combined membership of about 15 million . A new NOW project , " Lesbian and Gay Rights ' 84 , " was endorsed at the convention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of sexual preference and to work for " gender-neutral " provisions in credit and insurance policies . The kick-off event will take place next January , when NOW convenes a lesbian rights conference in Milwaukee . In other action , NOW delegates : - Urged Congress to vote on the now re-introduced Equal Rights Amendment ( " a central domestic issue for the 1984 elections " ) before the primaries . - Opposed legislation or actions to limit " civil and human rights of lesbians , gay men , bisexuals and others " based on the current Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome ( AIDS ) scare . - Urged enforcement of state legislation making marital rape a crime and implementation of state laws governing spouse abuse , child abuse and incest . - Opposed antiabortion constitutional amendments and , at the same time , pledged support for bills that would have abortion funded " as any other government supported health service . " - Set Nov. 16 as a National Day of Protest against Allstate Insurance Co. to support women plaintiffs who have filed a discrimination suit against that company . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1984 election , but instead to stick with mainstream politics . " We did not have to resort to any written ballots , " noted Ferone . " There was a clear majority on these issues . " Then she added this postscript : " This was the first year I did not return home to Boston totally drained from a NOW conference . "                     