@@668011

The sometimes poor functioning of the MBTA illustrated so dramatically by the recent Globe Spotlight series has in fact surprisingly little to do with the qualities and capabilities of the MBTA employees or managers . If we weresomehow to bring about a wholesale exchange of personnel with those in a well- functionin g system-say , Toronto ' s-we would inevitably have the same problems within a very short time . That statement goes against popular wisdom . However , the fact is that there are , intrinsic within the system , strong disincentives for good performance . The disincentives were written into the 1964 legislation that set up the MBTA and that was passed , with much expression of good intention , by the Legislature . These disincentives are not the fault of management , the Advisory Board , the unions or the individual workers . It is easy to blame all these groups for the results , but we might as well blame water for flowing downhill . The improvements needed can come about only through revised legislation which would to give incentives to every employee in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ towns if they improved the running and the usage of MBTA services within their communities . Nine years ago , a special legislative commission on the MBTA chaired by then Sen. James R. McIntyre ( now Senate counsel ) devised such incentive legislation . It was ahead of its time . It was not introduced then because of an obscure political problem . But it could be updated and introduced now . The results would be , without any doubt , the most dramatic improvement ever in any transit system ' s performance , outlook and morale . The major incentive proposed by the McIntyre Commission was an employee bonus . The rules for paying the bonus would necessarily be complex , in order to avoid inequities . I shall give a highly simplified illustration . Fault can be found with this example . The full version can be made water-tight . Suppose that the net cost ( operating cost less fare-box and otherrevenues ) of supplying transportation for 1979 turns out to be $225 million . The current inflation rate is about 13 percent . The Advisory Board would set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the end of the year , the actual net cost would be calculated . If it turned out to be even higher than $255 million , the cities and towns , the state and the federal government would share the cost the same way they do at present . If , however , the cost turned out to be lower , say $235 million , the $20 million difference would be divided in two . One half would be taken off the assessments on the cities and towns , and the state and federal governments , in proportion to their normal shares . The other half would be shared among the employees of the MBTA in proportion to their regular earnings . The average bonus at the end of the year would be about $1650 per employee in this simple example . There would be a sudden and totally beneficial change in the approach of every employee , from management to floor sweeper . Dirty stations , uncaught muggers , broken-down buses , and go-slow tactics would all threaten the bonuses , and employees , unions and management would work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ find the improved service an inducement to leave their cars at home . The roads would be freer , and the buses would roll faster . The second set of incentives in the McIntyre Commission ' s proposals would reward cities and towns for encouraging greater use of the MBTA , and for allowing faster service of buses within their communities . At present , the more people use T services within a community , the more it is charged . This is grossly unfair , expecially for cities like Boston and Cambridge where many , perhaps most , users are non-residents . These incentives , with updating and fine tuning , would make the MBTA the jewel among transit systems . Toronto and London would look to us for leadership . There is no reason whatsoever why we can not bring this happy state of affairs into reality . David Gordon Wilson is professor of mechanical engineering at MIT and was on the staff of the McIntyre Commission . B08049830                     