@@734781

txt Alexander 's Inc. , the troubled discount merchant , intends to remain in the retailing business , but hinted that it might seek to sell some store property . At ceremonies here for the opening of its 16th discount store Benjamin Bartel , Alexander 's chairman , pledged to open more stores in the New York area . But in an interview he added that there is " no question " the company is considering making new use of some of its valuable store real estate . Speculation has run high that Alexander 's , like several other retailers . might sell some stores to bolster its sagging profits . Alexander 's officials declined to comment about their plans , but none dismissed the possibility of taking advantage of the hot New York real estate market . " We have been looking into the development of our real estate , " Mr. Bartel said in the interview . " But it is premature to comment at this time . " Investor Interest Investors in Alexander 's stock already have commented on the subject , however , using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of September , two apparently unrelated buyers each disclosed the purchase of more than 7% stakes in Alexander 's common stock . One of them . Interstate Properties Inc .. a New Jersey-based real estate developer , said it bought its stake believing that Alexander 's was undervalued by the stock market , based on its real estate and other assets . The second investor , Sol Goldman , a New York real estate developer , also reportedly is interested in Alexander 's substantial real estate worth . He could n't be reached for comment . Attention has been focused on Alexander 's giant store on 59th Street on mid-Manhattan 's fashionable East Side . Responding to a question about that store 's future , Robin Farkas , chairman of the executive committee and a son of the company 's founder . said : " It would be very very doubtful we would ever close that store or not have a retail presence there . " Although Mr. Farkas declined to elaborate , observers have suggested that Alexander 's could keep a " retail presence " and still sell its property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Bonwit , a unit of Allied Stores Corp. , soon plans to return to nearby Fifth Avenue . not as the free-standing store it once was , but as one of several stores in the base of a skyscraper built on its former 57th Street site . The former 11-story Bonwit store on Fifth Avenue was sold at a substantial profit to a real estate concern by Genesco Inc. , the company from which Allied bought the remaining Bonwit stores last year . The original Bonwit building was demolished to make room for the high-rise structure in which the new Bonwit anchor will reside . New Chain 's Losses Any financial gain for Alexander 's would be welcome . The company 's newly acquired chain of 70 clothing stores in the Southwest , Margo 's La Mode Inc. , has proved to be more of a problem to turn around than initially expected . The chain 's losses primarily were responsible for Alexander 's decline in net income of about 75% for the fiscal year ended July 26 from the year before . The company , which reported an 11% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , widened its fourth period net loss to S2 million from $47,000 the year before . Vornado Inc. , another struggling merchant closely connected to Alexander 's , has disposed of many of its Two Guys discount stores over the past year . Vornado is controlled by Interstate Properties , the new Alexander 's shareholder , which guided Vornado along its current path of partial liquidation . Vornado has said it plans to shed stores outside its core New Jersey area . Korvettes Inc. , another discounter trying to sell its stores , also might soon have dealings with Alexander 's . Mr. Bartel said Alexander 's is thinking of buying three or four Korvettes stores as a way to expand the number of Alexander 's stores in the New York region .                     