@@669906

WASHINGTON  --  The Pentagon has selected a " pool " of 11 journalists who would accompany American armed forces into battles , but the list doesn ' t include any reporters from daily newspapers . Defense Department officials said that newspaper reporters were excluded because the pool would include a reporter from the Associated Press and one from United Press International , the wire services that serve most daily newspapers . Each of the four major television networks  --  ABC , CBS , NBC and CNN  --  would have a reporter , though . Col. Robert O ' Brien , deputy assistant secretary of defense , said the Pentagon structured the pool to get a " core " of reporters that could serve the maximum number of news outlets . These reporters would cover the battle for the first " 24 to 36 hours , " after which more reporters would be sent . " We hope to get more seats " for reporters , Col. O ' Brien said . " If so , it ' ll be daily newspapers . " He argued that " the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also send their reports to the television networks and the weekly news magazines , which also will have a representative in the pool . The decision to form a standing pool of reporters grew out of the uproar that followed the Pentagon ' s exclusion of journalists from last year ' s invasion of Grenada . Gen. John Vessey , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , appointed a commission of military officials and retired journalists to devise a plan for allowing reporters to observe future American military operations , even if the operations are launched on short notice . The panel recommended that the Pentagon form a pool of reporters who could accompany American troops and file reports to be distributed to news organizations if military leaders deemed it impossible to allow broader coverage of battles . Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger announced last month that he generally accepted , the panel ' s recommendations . Pentagon officials made it clear , though , that they still had the right to pick the news organizations participating in the pool and to make the final decision about whether even a small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Newspaper editors already were dissatisified with the conditions the Pentagon attached to its acceptance of the special panel ' s report . The Pentagon ' s decision to exclude representatives of daily newspapers is sure to increase the editors ' unhappiness . The American Society of Newspapers Editors board is scheduled to meet today in Tennessee , and is expected to discuss and denounce the Pentagon ' s decision on the pool ' s structure . Edward R. Cony , chairman of the society ' s Freedom of Information Committee , said , " The decision to exclude newspaper reporters from the pool strikes me as strange , unfair and downright outrageous . " Mr. Cony , who is vice president for news for Dow Jones &; Co. , publisher of The Wall Street Journal , said he was speaking for himself rather than for the editors ' society . In addition to the network and wire service reporters , the pool also would contain one television camera operator , a television sound technician , a radio reporter , a reporter picked from the staffs of the large weekly news magazines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ met about a week ago with officials from some news organizations that are included in the pool , Col. O ' Brien said . But the Pentagon didn ' t disclose to others its plans for the composition of the pool until yesterday . The Pentagon has said that news organizations included in the pool will be instructed to always have a reporter prepared to leave on short notice if called to accompany troops into battle . The pool reporters couldn ' t disclose that they were leaving to accompany troops until military leaders gave them approval to file dispatches after the operation was under way . Col. O ' Brien said the Pentagon would have difficulty picking which daily newspapers to include in a pool . A newspaper whose reporter was included would have a competitive advantage over others whose reporters weren ' t included , he said . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     