@@669974

British pound futures prices hit 13-month peaks , leading other major foreign-currency contracts higher amid continued expectations of a sluggish U.S. economy . Futures traders and analysts also cited recent U.S. interest rate declines . Britain and some other nations offer higher interest rates on investments , encouraging purchases of instruments denominated in those currencies . Contracts tied to the Swiss franc , the West German mark and the Japanese yen rose to their highest levels in eight months , as futures-market participation continued to rise . " More and more people are becoming convinced that the turn in the dollar is real and are willing to make a bet on its continued weakness , " said Anne Mills , currency analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc . , New York . British pound futures for September delivery rose 1. 9 cents , to $1. 375 . Traders said Britain ' s relatively strong interest rates continue to attract investors . Stronger-than-expected energy prices on cash and futures markets this week also continued to support the pound , they said . Britain is a major oil producer , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they bolster British revenue . Traders said an increasing number of individual investors had entered the market in the past two days . " People like strong currency markets , " one professional trader said . " This week , they just don ' t want to miss the move . " Also , some European corporations are selling dollar-denominated investments and buying currency futures or options , analysts said . The U.S. " still can ' t resolve our budget and deficit problems , and there ' s a lot of negative ( economic ) news , " said Jack Barbanel , director of futures trading at Gruntal &; Co . , New York . " Holding dollar-denominated investments just isn ' t the best thing . " Mr. Barbanel said he expects the dollar to lose about 15% to 25% of its current value against major foreign currencies by the end of the year . He said that if currency futures continue their rise for the next two weeks , " it ' s an indication that they ' re here to stay . " In other commodity markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ daily permissible limit of four cents a pound in active trading . Analysts cited forecasts of cold weather this weekend in coffee-growing regions of Brazil , possibly damaging the crop set for harvest next spring . A cold front in Argentina is moving toward Brazilian coffee regions , said Peter Leavitt , executive vice president of Weather Services Corp . , Bedford , Mass . " There are reports of temperatures as low as six degrees below zero Centigrade in northern Argentina , " he said . The front could depress temperatures in the heart of Parana , a prime Brazil coffee-producing state , to as little as one degree above zero by Friday or Saturday , he said . Sao Paulo , the nation ' s leading coffee-growing region , also could be affected . The abrupt change in the weather outlook led many futures traders to cover short positions , that is , to buy contracts to offset those sold earlier . Cash-market coffee dealings were at a standstill because traders and dealers were caught by surprise , said Guillermo Sarmiento , a broker in Miami for Stotler &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ morning , ( the coffee price in ) London was down and we were expecting warm weather through the weekend . Then the reports came in and the market turned around suddenly , " he said . LIVESTOCK AND MEAT : Cattle futures prices fell , while hog and pork belly contracts rose . Many traders sold cattle futures for August delivery , bringing futures prices closer to beef prices on the cash market . " The futures outran the cash market " in recent days , said Jerry Abbenhaus , analyst with A.G. Edwards &; Sons Inc . , St. Louis . Yesterday ' s futures price declines brought futures " closer in line with the prices they ' re paying for cattle in the country , " he added . Gains in hog and pork belly futures reflected rising prices for fresh pork on cash markets . Many traders expect higher cash-market hog prices today as well . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     