@@668602

There are many things to tape with your video camera in the winter . Skiing , ice skating , hockey and other winter sports make exciting tapes . Point-of-view shots from toboggans , snowmobiles , ice boats , chair lifts , dog sleds , even a moving car make engaging video to be set to music . For contemplative tunes , the ice floes drifting down a river provide good images . Video can also be used as an aid in developing sporting skills . A tape of a figure skater or skier will show strengths and weakness in their technique . A VCR with clean slow motion and still-frame reproduction can be valuable to athletes ; a picture of what is right or wrong with their performance is like a good coach . There are a few considerations to taping in freezing temperatures . VCRs are not designed to operate below 32 degrees . Home video is a fair-weather pastime , and you must compensate in the cold . The foremost problem is to conserve battery power . All batteries lose efficiency in the cold , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour during the summer may last only a few minutes in winter . The best solution is to use a battery pack that you can keep under your coat , heated by your body and attached to the VCR with a cable . The lead-acid and Nickel-Cadmium rechargeable batteries used with home video equipment should never be allowed to freeze . This will crack the cases and let the caustic liquids ( or gels ) inside the normally sealed batteries seep out . In very cold conditions , the rubber capstan and the rubber pulleys within a VCR may become too hard to function and the tape will not move . Sometimes the tape itself will become brittle and break , though that is not likely with the polyester-based tapes used today . These problems can be remedied by carrying the VCR under your coat . This necessitates wearing a voluminous coat that can envelop the VCR and still allow freedom of movement . I like to keep the VCR on my chest so that I can quickly unzip , reach in , turn it on and rezip before losing all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sleeve to the camera . Television cameras used to cover winter sports events are equipped with heaters to keep the prism optics from expanding and contracting in the cold , and to keep the oscillator circuits stable . As crystal oscillators get cold , their frequency increases and they drift off the FCC standard . Consumer cameras have a single tube or chip , so their optics are not as susceptible to thermal stress as those in broadcast cameras . Their electronic tolerances are also greater , since a home camera does not have to synchronize with a network . The camera does have to be protected from water . A dish towel wrapped around the camera will keep snow from getting inside it , or in the lens barrel . Cloth stays on better than plastic . If snow accumulates , just shake out the cloth . The cloth will make it harder to work the zoom and focus . But for heavy action such as snowball fights or other perilous winter conditions such as drifting snow , I don ' t want anything but prefocused wide-angle coverage . Children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . To make sense of a battle I must be close . This kind of camera mobility requires the wide- angle end of the zoom where focus is less critical and shaky camera moves are less noticeable . " Condensation " is water forming on a cold surface when it comes in contact with warm moist air . The lens will quickly become cold , and if you breathe on it , it will frost up and you will be unable to get a picture . Condensation is also troubling when you bring a chilled camera or VCR into a warm house . As with a cold drink on a summer ' s day , drops of water may form on all the metal surfaces , inside and out . You may even get fog inside the lens . The VCR and camera should not be operated while this condition persists . ( The dew warning on the VCR will prevent operation . ) Avoid going in and out  --  that will cause the water drops to freeze , which may crack circuit boards . Rather than bring cold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a room with a swimming pool ) , put the equipment in a tightly closed plastic bag until it warms up to room temperature . Video cameras are not hard to operate with gloves if you limit yourself to the zoom , focus and pause controls . Zoom can be manipulated either manually ( by turning a lever on the lens ) or electrically ( if the switch is big enough to press with a gloved hand ) . Focus requires rotating the end of the lens , and the pause trigger is usually large and conspicuous enough to feel through a mitten . On the esthetic side , the challenge of winter video is in controlling contrast against the brilliance of white snow . A person skiing on a white snow-covered slope will be dark because the camera has lowered its overall sensitivity so as not to be overdriven by the white . Many cameras have a backlight button or knob that lets more light into the camera . The result is a washed-out white  --  but with more readable color and detail in the principal subject . You can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and opening it one-half to one f-stop more than the auto setting . Be careful not to open too far or you will wash out the main subject . Because white contains all colors , even moderately bright whites modulate the video signal to its extreme limit . Bright snow or a light-gray sky are worst for video . An equally bright sky , however , will only affect the blue part and not overdrive the whole signal . Snow has some real pluses because it reflects so much light back at the subject . The effect is slightly unnatural , despite being entirely from environmental causes . The light pumps people up as if they were illuminated from within . If you shoot from a low angle so that the blue sky is behind , or with evergreen trees in the background , the subject will radiate all that diffuse reflected light . It creates a bigger-than-life quality that makes people look healthy and robust . Reprinted with permission of Video magazine . All rights reserved Illustration by Tony Griff SHOOT BOX To get results . . . Do Keep @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your jacket to keep it warm . Protect the camera and VCR from snowballs , falling snow and water . Preset the zoom and focus if you can ' t use them with gloved hands . Compensate with backlight control or by opening the iris one f-stop when shooting against snow or a very bright sky . Don ' t Ever let the batteries freeze . Continue operating the VCR if it freezes . Operate the camera or VCR when condensation has formed on the cold surfaces . Breathe on lens . Take equipment from the frozen outdoors directly into a warm moist environment . CAPTION : DRAWING : Illustration by Tony Griff Illustration DRAWING <>                     