@@734735

txt ANEMIC THOUGH It Is , the silver market is still breathing and may yet be restored to some semblance of robust health . " There really have n't been any small investors in the futures market since , December or January , and they are needed to provide liquidity and depth , said one precious-metals analyst . A glance at trading statistics amply certifies that view . Since January , silver futures volume has declined 88.7 per cent on the Chicano Board of Trade , 78 per cent on the Commodity Exchange , Inc . Comex , and 72.4 per cent on the MIdAmerica Commodity Exchange from the first seven months of 1979 . Figures for July show the ' Board of Trade volume slumped 95.8 per cent , Comei 88.1 per cent , and MidAmerica 80.5 per cent . REASONS FOR the exodus or participants are well known . Volume surged late last year as prices bounded higher under the impetus of heavyweight buying led by the Hunt brothers of Dallas , Then the exchanges put on stiff moral ' ' ' . or credit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which made silver trading impossible for small speculators . Comex and the Board df Trade have ' since reduced margins , but the moves have failed to entice public traders back . In the last few months , meanwhile , the price of silver has meandered in a narrow range , reluctantly following gold on the upside , and more vigorously on the downside . NOW TILE BIG 2 of silver trading have followed the example of the smaller MidAmerica and opted for smaller contracts , and therefore less margin , in ' hopes of luring the small speculator back . In June , the Board of Trade asked the federal Commodity Futures ' Trading Commission CFTC to allow the exchange to trade in futures contracts which call for delivery of 1,000 ounces of silver  --  the same size as traded on the MidAmerica  --  as well as the current contract for 5,000 ounces . Last week , Comex said it would ask CFTC permission to reduce the size of its contract to 1,000 ounces from 5,000. - Certainly smaller contracts and lower margin requirements could spur small- Tribune Clart investor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year is more likely to brake speculation for some time to come . ALL IS NOT Is not hopeless for the market , however . Much of the silver produced in this country is gained as a byproduct of copper mining , and copper workers have been on strike since July 1 . Simmons Refining Co. , in a recent report , noted that 47 per cent of new silver production is being lost because of the copper strike and that additional production is being lost from a Sunshine Mine strike .                     