@@669813

The Reagan administration is pursuing a virtuous goal in Lebanon : trying to help a small , weak country regain its sovereignty . But the vulnerable U.S. Marines , pinned down in their bunkers , are no longer helping that process , and the case is growing stronger that they should be withdrawn soon . In the frantic mood that has developed in Washington in recent weeks , the Marines themselves have become the issue , rather than the future of Lebanon . News coverage of their predicament these days is a kind of feeding frenzy  --  a new version of " America Held Hostage "  --  that makes reasonable policy debate almost impossible . The Marines have also become a distraction for many Lebanese . They provide a convenient target for local terrorists , allowing those groups to appear more powerful and representative of Lebanese sentiment than they really are . And they offer a " security blanket " for the Christian-dominated Lebanese government , allowing it to postpone the political reforms that are necessary for Lebanon ' s survival . There is a pragmatic solution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commitment to a free and independent Lebanon . But it should focus its military assistance where it matters  --  in training and equipping the Lebanese army  --  rather than in the symbolic and largely useless Marine presence at the Beirut Airport . Pentagon officials have argued privately for months that the Marines ' mission doesn ' t make military sense . The Marines ' main job , these days , is to avoid geting killed . The 1 , 600 U.S. troops don ' t even provide much of a deterrent against local militias : The Marines , for example , weren ' t what stopped the advance of Syrian-backed forces at Souk el-Gharb last September ; naval gunfire from U.S. ships offshore did that . The Reagan administration clearly wants to get the Marines out soon  --  so long as it doesn ' t look like a surrender to Syrian pressure . The U.S. is trying to create the conditions for an orderly withdrawal through a new Lebanese security plan that would expand the area under control of the Lebanese army . To get Syrian cooperation in this security pact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sticks  --  bombing Syrian troops one month and making diplomatic overtures the next . If all goes well , administration officials hope , the Marines could be out of Lebanon in four to six months . But if the new security plan collapses , President Reagan may be tempted to withdraw the Marines anyway , perhaps to ships off the Lebanese coast . From there , the U.S. could use its sea and air power effectively without risking high American casualties . Withdrawing the Marines will force the Lebanese to face reality : There is no magical solution to their problems . The U.S. can not shield them from the necessity of reaching understandings with their powerful neighbors , Syria and Israel , which have vital interests in Lebanon that the U.S. doesn ' t share . In the long run , Lebanon ' s only salvation is a strong government and army that have the support of all the major religious factions . Here is where the U.S. can continue to play a crucial role . The Lebanese army now has about 34 , 000 men , and it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The U.S. should step up its training of the army to ensure that it can control the Beirut area after the Marines have left . The Lebanese military won ' t function effectively unless it represents a broad-based government , and the U.S. should press the ruling Lebanese Christians to make political concessions immediately . No one can predict for sure whether the Lebanese army will hold together on its own under fire , but it is time to find out . It is hard to explain to Americans who have never been to Lebanon why that messy little country is worth saving at all . From what people see on their television sets , it must seem like a vision of hell . Lebanon certainly has severe problems . It is a clannish place , where people in one village often have an accent , religion and set of political loyalties different from those in the next village over the ridge . It is thoroughly corrupt , and it maintains an archaic political system that allows the Christian minority to control most top political jobs . Finally , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal restraints against violence . Yet , for all these faults , there is something lovable about Lebanon . It is an open society  --  perhaps the most open in the Middle East , including Israel . It has a tradition of freedom : a free market , a free press , a free exchange of ideas . It is , with few exceptions , passionately pro-American . Above all , it is still a country  --  in which nearly all Lebanese retain a sense of national identity despite the torments of recent years . When the U.S. became deeply involved in Lebanon 18 months ago , it was in a characteristically American way . Our commitment to Lebanon was impulsive , idealistic and naive . The U.S. was going to rebuild Lebanon ' s army , reform its political system and reconstruct its economy after the Israeli invasion of June 1982 . The rationale for U.S. aid was largely humanitarian . For despite President Reagan ' s recent statements , the U.S. doesn ' t have vital economic or strategic interests in Lebanon . American policy also grew out of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into Lebanon in August 1982 to pick up the pieces after the Israeli invasion by evacuating the Palestine Liberation Organization . They returned in September after the Sabra-Chatilla massacre in Palestinian refugee camps in West Beirut ; that massacre deeply embarrassed the U.S. because it violated a specific American promise that Palestinians and Lebanese Moslems would be safe after the PLO departure . The greatest irony of U.S. policy on Lebanon is that a commitment that began as a show of independence from Israel has ended in a new U.S.-Israeli strategic alliance . The reason for this change is largely an American realization that it is difficult and dangerous for a superpower to fight a regional power like Syria . That is a job better left to the Israelis . President Reagan deserves more credit than he has received for trying to stand firm in Lebanon . But his policy has been undercut by two important mistakes . The first mistake was a failure to push through quick political reforms that would give Lebanese Moslems more power . Moslems make up roughly 60% of Lebanon ' s population , yet they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue to dominate politics under a 1943 power-sharing accord , the U.S. came to be seen as pro-Christian . Moreover , by backing President Amin Gemayel , the U.S. tied its policy to a chronically weak leader . The second mistake was the belief that the U.S. could provide Lebanon with an effective alternative to Syria or Israel as protector . It is clear , in hindsight , that Congress and the American public don ' t have the patience to stay for long in the Lebanese quagmire . People who favored direct American military commitments may have ignored political reality . President Reagan ' s key allies on Lebanon  --  including Sen. Charles Percy and House Speaker Thomas O ' Neill  --  are now urging a quick withdrawal of the Marines . And it seems almost certain that the Marines will be gone by Election Day . Israel , Syria and the various Lebanese factions are already jockeying for position in anticipation of the Marines ' inevitable withdrawal . The Israelis , in particular , are reminding Lebanese that they are still around , by bombing the bases of pro-Syrian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administration , is facing pressure from its top military officers to pull vulnerable ground troops out of Lebanon . What the Reagan administration needs to do now is frame a Lebanon policy it can sustain . This needn ' t mean casting the Lebanese government adrift . It simply means getting the Marines out of the way and proceeding with efforts to create a stable government and strong army that can reclaim Lebanon ' s sovereignty.  --  - Mr. Ignatius is the Journal ' s diplomatic correspondent in Washington . He recently finished three years of covering the Middle East.                     