@@668640

Democrats on the House Budget Committee are near agreement on a plan to cut federal spending by $54 billion next year while keeping Social Security cost-of-living increases intact , sources said Tuesday . The sources , who asked not to be identified , said the Democrats are hoping to complete work on the budget blueprint later in the day , then use their majority muscle to force committee approval Wednesday or Thursday . Details of the Democratic blueprint came as the entire House Democratic Party caucus met privately to consider a request backed by liberals and some party leaders to formally direct the Budget Committee to exempt Social Security from the budget scalpel . But no caucus vote was expected , according to Rep. Leon Panetta ( D. , Calif. ) , in part to avoid undermining the independence of the Budget Committee as it completes its work . A Democratic decision to exempt the politically popular Social Security increases from the budget scalpel would present a marked contrast to the budget passed by the Republican-controlled Senate , which would freeze benefits for one year . Many Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major gain for their party in the 1986 congressional campaign . The sources said the Democratic budget plan is likely to hold defense spending authority at 1985 levels and claim additional savings of $4 billion or so from slower-than-expected spending of money approved in previous years . Spending on several domestic programs would be frozen under the plan . Early drafts called for deeper cuts in other programs , such as Amtrak and revenue sharing , which would be phased out . On Social Security , sources said a heavy majority of Budget Committee Democrats indicated in a series of votes they wanted no change in benefit increases . " I ' d have to say Democrats are opposed to cutting " cost of living adjustments , House Speaker Thomas P. O ' Neill Jr . ( D. , Mass. ) said . " I don ' t think there ' s any need to put it to a vote , " he said , adding that of 20 Democrats on the budget committee , only 4 or 5 " have a feeling the other way . " Rep. William Gray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated there would be no change in Social Security proposed . Besides freezing Social Security cost-of-living benefits next year , the budget approved by the Senate last week allows the defense budget to rise with inflation and cancels 13 domestic programs as part of a $56 billion deficit- reduction package for 1986 . President Reagan has endorsed that plan and vowed to fight any attempt by Democrats to cut the defense build-up further , as the House Democratic plan would . House Republicans , meanwhile , arranged a session with budget director David Stockman to begin framing their strategy for responding to the Democratic budget . Democrats have long tried to portray themselves as the champions of Social Security , and many party officials believe they made gains in the 1982 elections by calling attention to earlier Republican attempts to cut benefits . Several Democrats have said privately that any endorsement of a freeze or delay in Social Security benefits this year could deprive the party of a potentially important issue in the 1986 congressional campaign . But sources , who asked not to be identified by name , said other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a one-year freeze on Social Security is the only way to forge agreement on an overall deficit reduction package . Among domestic programs scheduled for reductions by House Democrats , revenue sharing would be cut most severely  --  25 percent next year and eliminated in the future . Amtrak would be cut by roughly 10 percent , and Medicare payments would be frozen to most doctors and hospitals under the tentative plan being discussed . Exempt from the freeze under the emerging Democratic plan would be programs targeted to help low-income persons , such as welfare , food stamps and Supplemental Security Income.                     