@@668696

Congress and President Reagan agreed Thursday on a temporary extension of the national debt limit , saving the government from being in an unprecedented default as the President departs for the summit meeting in Geneva Friday . The Senate then approved 93-6 legislation putting into effect major deficit reductions called for in the budget resolution for fiscal year 1986 . The package of spending cuts and revenue increases cuts the deficit by $85. 7 billion over three years and includes a provision permanently extending the 16-cents-a-pack federal tax on cigarettes . The bill also includes subsidies to tobacco growers but makes the price supports less generous than they are now . Reagan is opposed to several provisions of the legislation , including extension of the cigarette levy and a value-added tax on manufacturers that would be used for the Superfund toxic-waste clean-up program . The House has approved a $78 billion , three-year deficit-reduction package that also permanently sets the cigarette tax at 16 cents . Differences in the two measures , such as the tobacco-subsidy provision , will be worked out in a House-Senate conference . Earlier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt- limit extension lasting until Dec. 6 , and the President signed the legislation . The administration had opposed a short-term debt increase because officials wanted to pressure Congress into agreeing on a plan to balance the budget that is tied to a long-term extension . A White House spokesman said the President accepted the short extension , " but he will continue to urge Congress to deal with our federal deficit once and for all . " The measure approved by Congress and the President gives the government $80 billion in new borrowing power , temporarily raising the debt limit to $1. 9 trillion . The long-term legislation would increse the ceiling to more than $2 trillion . The President also was expected to sign stopgap legislation extending the government ' s spending authority until the middle of December . The measure is needed because Congress has completed only four 1986 appropriations bills . With the danger of default out of the way for the time being , negotiators continued to work on a compromise between House and Senate versions of the plan to balance the budget by fiscal 1991 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automatic across-the-board spending cuts if Congress and the President were not able to meet the goals . Conferees and staff aides who attended the closed-door negotiations expressed optimism that an agreement could be reached by the time the temporary extension of the debt limit expired . A House leadership aide said " a lot of mistrust " between the two sides had " sort of evaporated after sitting down and talking . " " Before , we thought they ( the senators ) were the President ' s flacks , " he said . " They thought we were out to destroy the plan . " The idea of the budget-balancing proposal still has great support in Congress , but questions persist about what it would mean for defense and domestic spending . " Any bill that emerges will impact very powerfully on defense , " said House Majority Whip Thomas Foley ( D. , Wash. ) before the conference . At an earlier hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee , Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger reiterated his opposition to the budget-balancing plan . Asked by Sen. Alan Dixon ( D. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the measure if the administration ' s defense build-up were endangered by it , Weinberger replied , " It doesn ' t take a great deal of cryptographic work to figure out what I might advise . " Sen. Warren Rudman ( R. , N.H. ) , a co-author of the plan , said he was " pained " by Weinberger ' s statements opposing the plan . " The Secretary of Defense ought to read some history , " Rudman said . " If the economy were to collapse ( because of the deficit ) , the Defense Department would face cuts , not just through the fat , but through the bone . " The question of defense spending also was raised this week at a White House meeting when Rep. Les Aspin ( D. , Wis. ) , chairman of the House Armed Services Committee , told the President that he could not have both his defense build-up and the budget-balancing plan . There were reports that Reagan reacted with anger , and Aspin said the President repeated his support for the budget-balancing proposal without conceding the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reagan might not sign a compromise that gutted defense spending . But Sen. Phil Gramm ( D. , Tex. ) , the plan ' s co-author , appeared confident that the President would continue supporting the proposal . Gramm said delaying a final decision on the plan until after the summit could help because the President would then " focus on it and come out strongly for it . " " The American public ' s attention is on Geneva , " Gramm told reporters . " We need the focal point to be on the deficit , with the President leading the charge . " CAPTION : CHART : Public debt ceiling ; as set by Congress ; in trillions of dollars for fiscal year ; 1970-1986 . Illustration CHART <>                     