@@668509

After a summer of town meeting-style personal appearances throughout the state , Gov . Michael S. Dukakis will switch his focus to the national scene in early fall and go public with his choice of a Democrat to oppose the GOP in next year ' s presidential elections . Sources close to the governor indicate that it will be either former Vice President Walter Mondale or Sen. John Glenn of Ohio . At the moment Dukakis leans towards Mondale , but not as much as he did six months ago , and there is reason to conclude Glenn may win over Dukakis . Many of the governor ' s veteran fund raisers and campaign strategists , including Bob Farmer , Paul Rosenberg and Vann Snyder , occupy top slots in the blossoming Glenn effort . Glenn , the former astronaut whose appeal lies in the widely accepted notion he would be the strongest Democrat against President Reagan , has been making slow , but steady progress in his campaign here . Senate President William M. Bulger , Sen. Paul Tsongas and former State Sen. Sam Rotondi have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s latest acquisition , another Dukakis campaign veteran whose political connections in the Boston area make her one of the most valuable additions to the senator ' s campaign to capture a majority of the Bay State ' s 116 delegates to the national convention next summer . Andrea W. Gargiulo , a lawyer who is chairman of the Boston Licensing Board , will be co-chairman ( with Rotondi ) of the state campaign for Glenn . Gargiulo ' s nomination to the top post will highlight a list of important Massachusetts appointments Glenn will announce this week . She joins the Glenn campaign at no little sacrifice to her own career . After meeting with Glenn in Washington last month and agreeing to accept the new assignment , she withdrew her name from consideration by Dukakis ' Judicial Nominating Council for a Superior Court judgeship , clearing the way for Katherine Liacos Izzo of Peabody to become one of the three trial court judges Gov . Dukakis soon will appoint . Gargiulo ' s excellent political credentials in various Dukakis and Kennedy campaigns are well known to the governor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ task of lining up effective candidates who can win delegate seats comes from her contacts with liberal , conservative and minority groups during her 11-year public service career . A graduate of Smith and Suffolk Law , she chaired the Boston FinanceCommission for Gov . Dukakis for two years ( 1975-1977 ) before he put her in charge of the sensitive liquor board where she has been a tough , but compassionate leader mediating the squabbles between license holders and neighborhoods . She can be a firm negotiator as she recently demonstrated to developers of the Boscom computer center on Commonwealth Pier . In its recent application for liquor and food licenses to her board , Boscom neglected to list the identities of more than 50 investors who are in on the ground floor of the multi-million- dollar project negotiated with Massport . When asked for the stockholders , counsel for Boscom balked . When the board insisted , the attorney threatened to withdraw the application , a ploy that apparently was intended to frighten the board into approval without the required list of stockholders . A similar pullout threat was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s Pier Four over the size of the Massport- aided development next to the restaurant . After several exchanges in June with Gargiulo and Dick Arrington , another member of the licensing board , the Boscom attorney finally agreed to file the list , but only on the condition that it not be made public . Gargiulo and Arrington stood firm , saying they couldn ' t make such a guarantee under the Freedom of Information Act . Finally Boscom complied and its permits for liquor and food were approved last week by Arrington and Gargiulo . Gargiulo ' s effective diplomacy and record of working full time at every challenge with which she has been entrusted are certain to help Glenn in the delegate competition ahead . She ' s already at work , touting the former Marine pilot as a moderate with traditional values , as an American who has shown enormous capacity to look at both sides of issues and to make reasoned judgments for workable solutions .                     