@@668170

John Bagley ' s desperation turnaround 30-footer after the buzzer was disallowed , enabling Georgetown to pick up its first Big East Conference victory of the season , a 57-55 decision over Boston College last night at McDonough Arena . Georgetown ' s Ed Spriggs , a 70 percent shooter from the foul linbe on the season , missed a one-and-one with five seconds to go . The Eagles ' Martin Clark grabbed the rebound and threw a pass to Bagley at halfcourt . The 6-foot guard spun out of a Hoya double team and crossed midcourt with two seconds to play . With 6-5 guard Fred Brown harassing him , Bagley launched his 30- footerfrom the left wing just after the buzzer , creating an immediate conflict between BC coach Tom Davis and the referees as to whether the basket counted . The loss ended an otherwise successful seven-game road trip for the Eagles , who fell to 8-2 . Georgetown is 8-6 . Georgetown led at the half , 31-29 , primarily on the shooting of Eric ( Sleepy ) Floyd . The Hoya guard hit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shooting slump . With Georgetown trailing by five and seven minutes to go , Floyd connected on two 25-foot jumpers to close the gap to one . Two free throws by Brown a minute later put the Hoyas on top , 21-20 , for the first time since 13:40 . Bagley , whom BC seems to rely on just as much as Georgetown relies on Floyd , then hit a jumper and followed up his own miss to put the Eagles up by three . Bagley , who finished the first half with 14 points , scored the Eagles ' first six points on two long jumpers and a fast-break slam dunk . But it was turnovers more than anything else that dominated play . At one point , Georgetown and the Eagles traded three turnovers each . During that same stretch , both teams went scoreless for two minutes . But following a double technical call on the Eagles ' Chris Foy and the Hoyas ' Brown , Bagley began to dominate play . The six foot guard stole the ball and hit a jumper to put the Eagles up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first half . Floyd , however , put the Hoyas right back in the game with two long jumpers . Then forward Jeff Bullis hit a lay-in to put the Hoyas up by one with three minutes to go . Floyd followed that with another outside jumper , and Brown slammed home a rebound to put the Hoyas up four . Two turnovers later , Jay Murphy closed out the half with two free throws to bring the Eagles within two . - After losing to Villanova , BC had won four straight , including the championship of the Music City Tournament . . . Last night ' s game also featured the Big East ' s two leading scorers , Bagley and Floyd . Bagley , last week ' s Big East player of the week , was leading the league in scoring with a 21.1-point average , and was hitting for more than 24 a game in conference play . . . Floyd , meanwhile , was scoring at an 18.3 clip . But the 6-3 All-America candidate had been having his problems of late , hitting only 14 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . Davis had to be pleased with the way Clark had been playing . The 6-8 freshman forward was the Eagles ' No. 2 scorer with a 12.2 average . Last week he was named Big East rookie of the week . Clark also was the league leader in free throws and rebounds . . . After Georgetown ' s loss to St. John ' s Wednesday night , coach John Thompson said the Hoyas needed more rebounding help . That seemed to be a strength of the Eagles , who had outrebounded their opponents an average of 11 per game .                     