@@668390

Few words are as likely to send red flags fluttering like storm signals in the minds of urban residents as the words " massage parlor . " And such was the case last week in Cambridge , when some residents and businessmen in the Central Square area came forward to express their apprehension on learning that someone is planning to open a massage parlor in their area . Their concerns surfaced at the weekly City Council meeting . It was there that Janet Rose , a resident of the area and active in the neighborhood association , said that she was surprised when she learned two days earlier that the Olde English Health Club was about to open at 905 Main st. , an office-apartment building at the eastern end of the square . She asked the councilors what city laws applied and who issued the necessary permits . She was told , in effect , that the proposed club had met all the necessary requirements and there appeared to be nothing in the law to prevent the opening . The councilors , after some discussion , gave @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zoning ordinance that would restrict massage parlors to districts zoned industrial , but would apparently not affect Olde English . After the meeting , interviews with Rose , the club proprietor , with Carl F. Barron , president of the Central Square Businessmen ' s Assn. , police officials and others gave a picture of how the community deals with such enterprises and some of the concerns it has . Some used the words " sleazy " and " Combat Zone " in talking about massage parlors , and many had vivid recollections of police raids in 1979 , where a number of women were arrested and charged with prostitution in two of the city ' s establishments . ( One of the places raided in 1979 has since been closed ; the second has generated no complaints to police since then , officials said ) . There are three establishments in Cambridge that offer massage for men by women . A fourth , which operates within a block of the police station and of city hall , offers massages , but says its primary business is the rental of hot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are located in primarily commercial or industrial areas of the city , and the proposed opening of the Olde English has sparked such controversy because it is on the fringe of a residential area . Rose said : " I can ' t say definitely I ' m opposed to it because I don ' t know what they ' ll be like . If it ' s a regular health club , then that ' s OK , but if it ' s going to be a sleazy place , then it ' s not . " She added , " I ' m concerned about my daughter walking by there " if it turns out to be a " sleazy " place . The proprietor of Olde English , who did not want his name used , said in a telephone interview that the last of the individual licenses for masseuses were being processed and he expected to be open within a few days . He also said that neighborhood fears about misconduct at the club are unfounded . " There will be absolutely no prostitution there , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to come down anytime and look the place over , " he said . " I ' ve made a substantial investment there , " he said , " and we want to be there a long , long time . " He said he did not operate any other massage parlors in the area , and he did not know exactly how many employees he would have when the club was in full operation . He pointed out , though , that the club plans exercise devices , showers , lockers and other facilities normally found in a health club , as well as massages . The city has an eight-page ordinance regulating massage parlors , and the wording of the law covers dozens of details , including provisions for clean linen , hours of operation and posting of prices . ( The going rate appears to be , from a limited sampling , $30 for a half-hour ) . The law also says that anyone who gives massages must wear clean " nontransparent " clothing , and touching in a sexual manner is strictly forbidden . A spokesman for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makes periodic checks on the city ' s four parlors " just as we do for many other establishments in the city , " and a spokesman for the city ' s Health Department said he makes spot checks for cleanliness . Barron , speaking for the Central Square businessmen , said in an interview : " Anything associated with a Combat Zone atmosphere is not conducive to the people or businesses in our area . Justifiably or not , we feel these places create a Combat Zone atmosphere . " He said he is concerned that there was not sufficient public notice that such a place was proposed , offering the opinion that " they sneaked it in . " A hearing is tentatively schduled for Nov. 4 on the " massage parlor " amendment , and some residents see this as a possible forum to reinforce their desire to keep massage parlors out of their neighborhoods.                     