@@734600

txt IF YOU have a business office or shop located at your residence , you are entitled to deduct household expenses allocable to that " business area . " In the past , some taxpayers abused this deduction , so the 1976 Tax Reform Act set strict qualification guidelines for this tax break . If you meet the tests , whether you own or rent your residence , there is no reason not to use this tax saving opportunity . Qualifications . Any taxpayer who uses part of his residence for an office or shop , or for rental to tenants , such as college students , may qualify . Taxpayers who rent their residence may be eligible to deduct part of their rent and other expenses . The first qualification test requires a " business area " of your residence which is used exclusively for business . An example is a separate room or specifically designated area which is not also used for personal use , such as TV viewing or family activity . In other words , part-time personal , non-business use of the same area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ test requires the exclusive business area to also be either ( a ) your principal business location or ( b ) used to meet clients , customers , or patients . If you are an employee , in addition , residence business use must be " for the convenience of the employer . " That means your employer must require you to work at home , usually evidenced by lack of suitable work space at the employer 's business location . What is deductible ? If you meet these tests . then part of the operating expenses of your residence become tax deductible as business expenses . Examples of such partly-deductible expenses are utilities , insurance , repairs , and upkeep costs . Even if you do n't itemize your personal income tax deductions , these items can be deducted as business expenses . Costs applicable to just the business area , such as painting your office at home , are fully deductible as a business expense . Another example is your business telephone line . But expenses which apply only partially to the business area , such as heating , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ business costs . For example , if your home business area occupies one-fifth of your residence , then one-fifth of applicable household expenses can qualify . Depreciation deductions . If you own your personal residence , it normally does n't qualify for depreciation deductions . But if part qualifies for business use , then that portion can be depreciated . Depreciation is a non-cash bookkeeping tax deduction for wear , tear , and obsolescence of real and personal property used in a trade or business . The depreciation deduction for residence business use depends on the residence 's basis . This is the lower of its purchase price ( minus land value which can not be depreciated ) , plus capital improvements added during ownership , or market value of the residence on the day business use began . After determining basis , Hie next step is to estimate the residence 's remaining useful life , usually between 20 and 40 years . The last step is to depreciate the residence 's business area , such as one-fifth of the total floor area . Depreciation calculations can become complicated so consultation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the depreciation schedule . The extra expense of doing so should pay off in maximum tax dollar savings if your situation qualifies for the business at home tax deduction . Robert Bross                     