@@735041

txt NEW ORLEANS  --  Without the blessing at the American Bar Association , graduates of evangelist Oral Roberts ' Law School can not go forth and prosper as part of the brotherhood of lawyers . That 's because the school 's 75 students will be blocked from becoming licensed ? attorneys in any state unless the ABA grants provisional accreditation to the two-yea ? - old facility built in Tulsa , Okla. , by the fundamentalist television preacher . " Accreditation is a life and death issue for us. " said Robert Skolrood , general counsel to the university . But an ABA committee recommended against accreditation on grounds the school violates the association 's Standard 211 , which prohibits discrimination by any law school on the basis of race , national origin , sex , or religion . THE COMMITTEE objected to the school 's requirement that students and faculty must sign a " Code of Honor " that says they accept Jesus Christ as their Savior , will attempt to follow in his footsteps and " exemplify Christlike character , " and will " endeavor to seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ code also calls for daily prayers and outlaws smoking and drinking . On Sunday , an ABA council that oversees accreditation voted during the ABA convention here to endorse provisional accreditation for the school , but only if the ABA 's policy-making House of Delegates agrees this week to amend Standard 21I 's ban on religions discrimination . The revision would allow law schools to adopt admission and employment policies that directly relate to the school 's " religious affiliation and purpose , " as lung as advance notice of the policies are pro vided . ALSO , THE schools could not use admission policies to preclude " a diverse student body in terms of race , color , religion , national origin , or sex . " Members of the accreditation council said they believe the Oral Roberts school already is in " substantial compliance " with these proposed changes , and they attempted to elicit  --  with uncertain success  --  a promise from school officials that they world strive for " fun compliance " within three years . The ABA 's action comes under pressure from Federal District Judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawsuit in which the school sued to obtain accreditation from the Chicago-based ABA . MORAN IIAS already issued an order prohibiting the ABA from denying accreditation to the Oral Roberts Law School based on the current Standard 211 , but Moran held his order in abeyance to see whet the ABA would do during this week 's convention . The controversy over the nchool 's admission and hiring policies has generated heated debate during the , ABA 's weeklong meeting here , although on Sunday the general attitude was that the House of Delegates will clear the way for accreditation by altering the rule against religious discrimination on Wednesday . " I do n't think any religious institution has the right to practice invidious discrimination under the umbrella of exercising religious freedom , " said Damon Keith , a federal appeals judge from De . trail and member the council overseeing accreditation . - " 1 DON " I ' LIKE the word " Skolrood said . ' Wilder the constitution 's free exercise of religion clause , we should be entitled to study law in a Christian atmosphere at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education . " H. Blair White , a Chicago lawyer rep resenting the ABA , said the accreditation problem does not stein from the school 's religious orientation . the pointed to examples of several accredited law schools having Catholic . Lutheran , Jewish , and other religious traditions : But the current Standard 211 says you ca n't totally exclude all students who do n't meet your religious requirements . " he said . " And in the hiring of faculty , you should not pick and choose and decide to retain them on grounds of their religious belief . " BUT RICHARD C , Godfrey , lawyer for the university , said the Private school has a constitutional right to enforce its religious standards as it sees fit . " People come to Oral Roberts to express their religious beliefs , " he ' said . " They do n't have . to go there . No one forces them , " If a law professor or student changes his mind and rejects his earlier Christian commitment while at the school , the school has the right to dismiss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the school have religious overtones , prayers precede some lessons , and the school ? publishes a periodical called " The Journal of Christian Jurisprudence. " lIE SAID THE accreditation train that visited the school " spoke In superlatives " about the institution except for the concern over the honor code . " Oral Roberts Dow school ) is n't for everybody , " Skolrood said . " hut that does n't mean It should n't exist . You would n't want every school to be like this , but if somebody wanted a Catholic law school of Jewish late school , I 'd hack them to the hilt . "                     