@@734979

txt Q -- My letter is in reference . to the false information that Montgomery Ward 's credit office is putting on my . credit records : " Delinquent and slow-paying . " I had an account with them , along with six other department stores . There was a period of 4 , / : months that I did not , receive , a statement from Wards . When . I finally investigated and received my statement , I paid the full amount due . But I think it is so unfair for them to blemish my credit record because of a mixup in their computer system and the mail service . I would appreciate it if they would resolve this and adjust their report to the credit reporting agency . B. Baker , South Dorchester Avenue A ? S.D. Montvilas , WarcVs adjustment supervisor in Lombard , said , " We have now corrected your credit rating to the rating on your account previous to the address problem . " Q ? I know you handle requests for information and , since my request is one which slips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think of to write to . I was one of those fortunate enough to see the astronauts at the Daley Center . I would like to know how to contact them . I happen to be a 24-year-old kid at heart and felt the same sort of excitement as I did when Apollo 11 landed on the moon . Would it also be possible to print some trivia on the Coluinbia , such as the amount of thrust in the reusable boosteri and how many times the ships and boosters can be reused ? Robin Mulrheid .. Hodgkins A ? To contact the shuttle astronauts , John Young and Robert Crippen , we suggest that you write them in care of the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center , Houston , Tex . 77058 . The letter would be forwarded to them . The Columbia , which is the world 's first true spaceship , measures 122 feet long and weighs around 75 tons . The National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) expects to get at least 100 flights from the space shuttle . The two solid-fuel booster rockets used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a thrust of almost 3 million pounds . The boosters provide their punch in the , first two minutes of flight , then are jettisoned . After recovery and refurbishing , they can be reused about 20 more times . The big liquid-fuel tank feeding the shuttle 's three main engines also is jettisoned after emptying but is not reusable. husband and I have always enjoyed reading Action Line but , as you can see from the enclosed column ( May 18 ) , it was almost impossible to try to figure out what was written . I am well aware that not everyone is perfect and is entitled to a few mistakes , but there were 40 in this particular column . Is n't there someone to proofread the column before it is put into print ? D. Young , Great Lakes A ? You were among an avalanche of readers concerned enough to ask what went wrong . The error-filled Action Line column appeared in approximately 286,000 issues of the May 18 Tribune . According to The Tribune 's production department , the errors were caused by malfunctions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The equipment involved , . called a Cor-Rec-Term , produces a corrected version of a story on a paper tape that is perforated in various patterns to ? represent letters and numbers . These perforations are then " read " by a phototypesetter to produce type that ? can be pasted on a page . In the case of the Action Line column , the component of the Cor-Rec-Term that punches perforations in the tape was punching holes that could not be read correctly . That component was replaced , and the replacement also malfunctioned , punching holes in the wrong places . By that time the Monday Tribune was due to go to press . A decision was                     