@@668305

Now that former Gov . Michael S. Dukakis has formally announced his candidacy for governor , it will be interesting to watch whether his high ratings in the polls decline sharply , as his principal adversaries , Gov . Edward J. King and Lt. Gov . Thomas P. O ' Neill 3d , believe . When Dukakis began raising funds 13 months ago , his critics , Lt. Gov . O ' Neill in particular , thought he would have difficulty and be unable to wage an effective attack on King . O ' Neill believed he himself could move into the void and take on King more effectively . But during calendar 1981 , Dukakis astounded politicians , himself included , with his capacity to attract funds . He raised $887,000 from 9500 individual contributions , or an average of $93 per contributor . Even Gov . King , who dislikes Dukakis intensely , is amazed by his opponent ' s ability to raise money . King himself is an excellent fund raiser , but a substantial part of his money comes from special interests , like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the maximum $1000 allowable under law . The success Dukakis has had attracting contributions from " the little guy " across the state mirrors the strong popularity he currently enjoys . Public-opinion surveys also reveal one of the key reasons why Dukakis has been able to mount such a viable comeback effort : his personal integrity , which is the hallmark of all of his public and private actions . Dukakis ' low-profile lifestyle is one big factor why people hold him in such high esteem . According to some political observers , this one included , that ' s the reason he is not likely to take a big tumble in the polls , as the King and O ' Neill camps hope . There ' s a strange euphoria of sorts currently running through the King high command , whose members are trying to convince themselves that the governor has " turned the corner " and is now making rapid strides toward renomination and re-election . The catalyst for the enthisiasm was King ' s persuasion of former Massachusetts House Speaker David M. Bartley to join the administration as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an excellent one . Few on Beacon Hill , where he exercised much power for several years , would doubt that the ex-speaker had the potential to become a major asset in this election year , if King would listen to him . But Bartley soon learned that his initiation into the disorganized King organization would not be smooth . Secretary Edward Hanley , whom Bartley is succeeding as deputy governor , clashed with him at their first business meeting when Bartley wanted to involve himself in the Fiscal 1983 budget . Hanley reminded him he was still in charge . Bartley also expected Hanley to leave this week , but the latter plans to stay not only through the state of the State message but also through the actually filing of the budget late this month . Thus has the somewhat-frustrated Bartley quickly learned that life in the King administration will be anything but smooth and efficient . The former Holyoke lawmaker also was surprised by King ' s decision to file libel action against The Globe . What all this adds up to is the realization that swapping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ man continues to play it close and pay only token attention to the advice of the few pros around him . The tenseness of the atmosphere in the governor ' s office as it braces for the Dukakis assault came through dramatically the other day when Hanley and Atty . James Reardon of Worcester and Boston clashed . The two men ran into each other by accident at the State House . Following the usual pleasantries , Hanley jabbed Reardon for running a small fund raiser for Dukakis in 1978 . Reardon hit the roof when Hanley castigated him for having supported Dukakis , " the abortionist . " Dukakis , who supports medicaid funding of abortions , personally opposes abortion . The incident reveals the bitterness certain to surface against Dukakis as the campaign develops . King strategists obviously plan to use the abortion controversy to blunt the forthcoming Dukakis criticism of the governor for his coolness to the Ward Corruption Commission and its reform proposals .                     