@@668381

By Gladys Fish Last August my brother , now living in New Zealand , and I from Boston met at our cousin ' s home in Essex , England , from where our parents had emigrated to the US some 50 years ago . Since then London , ever spreading in a manner not unknown in New England , has advanced upon my cousin ' s farm at the gateway to East Anglia and caused it to become one of the last rural strongholds on the London Road to Romford . Behind the house are vegetable gardens , beehives , fields and stables and an old apple tree planted by my father when he was young . In front of the house is the rose garden , separated from the London Road by a ten-foot hedge over which frequently can be seen the tops of passing double-decker buses . " I ' d really like to see Hadrian ' s Wall , " I had written during the hasty three-way correspondence which had preceded our trip . My brother was agreeable as a northern route offered an opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majors happily engaged upon a Beaker dig somewhere in the Midlands where eventually we found them on a farm shadowed by the giant stacks of a nuclear plant . Reasoning that car rental for a month would be greater than the cost of our own transportation we bought an old car for 150 pounds from someone in urgent temporary need who offered to buy it back at the end of our trip . ( The rate of exchange was in the neighborhood of $2 to the English pound . ) On a map the outline of our tour looks something like a terrier , its little pointy tail twitching over to Attleborough ; its inquisitive nose sniffing up at Haltwhistle near the wall ; its forelegs stretching out towards Holywell and Chester , and its belly following a line through Market Harborough and Cambridge back to its hind legs at Romford and Brightlingsea where we began and ended our journey . Our cousins , interested in saving us money , had advised us to keep awayfrom hotels wherever possible and assured us that by taking advantage of " bed and breakfast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accommodation costs to about five pounds each per night . We found this to be true in the north , though charges were higher closer to London . None of the homes we stayed at provided individual bathrooms but as we hardly ever saw any other travelers except at breakfasttime there were no problems . Hot baths were available in most places though I must admit that where they were not I took cold showers , not knowing how to cope with the overhead hot water heaters , all of which seemed to present an amazing number of faucets , handles and knobs which defeated me . We spent our first night at Ely , where a small boy encountered on the street guided us to a beautiful home in a large flower garden where our bill next morning came to 16 pounds . Breakfasts everywhere were similar : juice and cereal , bacon , sausages and eggs with trimmings which might include mushrooms , tomatoes , fried potatoes or fried bread , or even baked beans , with plenty of toast and tea or coffee . After such enormous breakfasts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at loaves of crusty bread with a choice of the delicious pates and cheeses available in most of the small towns through which we passed . Nevertheless , we found it wise to stay flexible and keep on hand a stock of emergency rations such as cookies and fruit . In one small town our host recommended a nearby restaurant which , upon investigation , we learned did not open until seven that evening . Hungry and unwilling to wait , we discovered a butcher shop which advertised meat pies . That , too , was closed but hunger sharpened my wits and upon exploring the premises , I located a rear door where the butcher ' s wife , though somewhat startled , ceased her scrubbing activities long enough to provide our modest meal . Oh , the pork pies of Old England ! Simple Simon knew a good thing when he saw one ! At Attleborough , after I had unsuccessfully tried two hotels ( one was full and the other smelled of fresh paint ) , two ladies out shopping answered my inquiry by telling me about a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stile was undoubtedly the most unusual and charming of our many hostels . Downstairs were two rooms - a tiny restaurant and , across the entryway , a miniscule bar where , after ordering , we waited until our dinner was ready ; gourmet meals of lemon sole and Kentish pigeon . The walls of the inn were over a foot thick and , although we were on a busy narrow street , no sound of traffic disturbed us . Our complete bill next morning came to 25 pounds and weeks later , at home among my souvenirs , I found a note on the back which said , " Thank you for joining us for dinner . Do hope you enjoyed your meal . Tony , Marilyn and staff . " Just beyond York we stayed at an old stone house where the kindly hostess listed places of interest for us , offered travel and history books and , most touchingly , had written out all the directions on scraps of paper which she lent us , only asking that we be sure to leave them behind for the use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Friday before Bank Holiday weekend which in England corresponds to our Labor Day . We already had a booking for Saturday night , and when we expressed concern about the possibility of crowded conditions on Sunday our hostess immediately suggested that we telephone ahead to a hostel she knew of at Haltwhistle . This we did ( the cost of the telephone call from a street booth at an off hour being about 12 cents for some 80 miles ) and , having made sure of advance room reservations we also prudently accepted the suggestion of dinner arrangements . We were now on the edge of the Yorkshire moors and our vistas were of rolling green hills capped with purple heather . Sheep grazed everywhere and , by way of welcome , one friendly old ewe came up and nuzzled the palm of my hand . That night we stayed in Herriot country at an old stone farmhouse from the upper windows of which we could look out at one of England ' s famous white horses etched in the chalk of a nearby green hillside . Bed and breakfast for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Skirting the Pennines , a mountainous chain known as the backbone of England , we continued north . Barnard Castle , a roofless shell dating back nearly a thousand years , thrust its towers high on a cliff overhanging a rushing stream . We began to see hikers burdened with backpacks striding off into the craggy scenery . It was in the Pennine region that we became wary of signs saying " Bank " that introduced abruptly steep , short hills which dropped at terrifying angles on the narrow , corkscrew lanes . A few experiences with Banks sent us cowering off on any side road which offered a detour . Another sign which caused apprehension was simply an exclamation point . This caution never failed to prepare us for the worst , which presumably is what it was intended to do . It was late afternoon when we reached Hadrian ' s Wall and , as I clambered half a mile up a steep hillside to the Roman fort at Housesteads I found myself thinking with pity not of the conquered Britons but of the Roman legionnaires who had spent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slopes carrying limestone rocks with which to build the wall designed to fortify the Roman border . Beyond the wall the ground dropped away to meet the Cheviot Hills and in the face of the peaceful landscape it was difficult to imagine the scene some 1800 years ago and to envision hordes of barbarians rushing uphill to engage the Romans in battle . At Haltwhistle , so-called because , before they took the train away , it was the last railroad stop one the line , our advance reservations were at a residential hotel which also catered to overnight guests . Turkey dinner was both cooked and served by the landlady , a marvel of efficiency who expertly waited on three tables , catching the door with a dexterous foot as she pushed through balancing trays laden with dinners for four . There was no choice ofmenu but who would complain when the bill for overnight and two ample meals each totalled only 14 pounds . Leaving Haltwhistle , we dropped down through the Banks to the Lake District and came to Grasmere , a charming tourist trap devoted to memories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was packed with holiday makers we made no attempt to look for rooms hereabouts . In fact , we found B and B ' s much less plentiful on the west side of England than we had on the east and north . Perhaps because of the crowds we did not linger long in the Lake District , and at nightfall we passed through Giggleswick and came to Settle , back in Yorkshire . More than any other , Settle is a town which grew on us , from the market next morning in front of the Naked Man pub and the ancient stone houses behind the marketplace to the mansion with the look of an old Guildhall which displayed a plaintive request : " This is a private house . Please do not climb up on the window sills . " We delighted in the antique shop where my brother browsed contentedly among boxes of Roman coins and I in a roomful of Copeland china . Then there was the tiny sweetshop where I saw bags of candy called Coltsfoot rock and exclaimed , " I haven ' t seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shopkeeper roared with laughter , sharing the pleasure of the rich American ( as I suppose he thought of me ) returned to the scenes of her childhood . Bed and breakfast in Settle cost us ten pounds . Time was running out and our quick excursion into Wales , taking us past the industrial area of the south Deeside , failed to do justice to that lovely land . We found a complete lack of overnight amenities in this area and were thankful at last to be directed to the local pub at Holywell which put us up for the night . This place obviously did not cater to tourists and did notserve breakfast but the host was pleasant and told us not to miss the sacred well at the bottom of the hill . " You can get down there in five minutes , " he said , and added drily , " It will take you a bit longer to come up . " The way down was steep and led past a crumbling , terraced cemetery through a shrine to the green-encrusted waters of the well where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way back did indeed take much longer , and as I toiled past the dreadful cemetery , trying not to look at the broken , half-open tombs , some wrapped around with villainous-looking tree roots , I had time to hope I would get past before it all collapsed on me . At Market Harborough I suffered my only setback with a B and B hostess , which came about because of my admiration of a horse I saw through herwindows . " What a lovely animal . May I go out and see it ? " I asked . " Oh , no , " she exclaimed in horror . " That ' s our private garden . " Yes , an Englishman ' s home is his castle and it is best not to presume beyond that which is , in most cases , so freely offered . Gladys Fish is a freelance writer living in Newburyport . B07809517                     