@@735011

txt Illinois Insurance Director Philip O'Connor has long tampaigned for a change in the system for setting insurance rates for workmen 's compensation . A Circuit Court judge , paradoxically , has now proVed him right by saying he acted wrongly : Judge James Murray Tuesday overturned a 23 per cent increase in premiums that Mr. O'Connor , acting under the present confusing system , approved in 1979 . That confronts insurance companies with the prospect of refunding up to $750 million in premiums paid since then . It will also , we hope , revive efforts in the legislature to change the present system of setting workmen 's comp rates ? in which a mathematical average is computed and a rigid statewide rate is fixed ? into a free-market system in which insurance carriers would be able to set their own rates competitively . Judge Murray 's ruling is good news for Illinois ' business community , which along with the Illinois Federation of Labor brought the suit against the 23 per cent increase . Illinois employers have had to cope with punishingly high rates for workmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This ruling is particularly welcome in view of the higher unemployment-insurance tax that business recently agreed to ; its effect will be to make Illinois more attractive to employers consideringmoving into the state ? or out of it . It is not such good news for those insurance carriers who appear to have made hefty gains through the high rates and the investments they made possible . The result , we hope , will be to make a normal , competitive system of rate-making look more attractive to them . The point of Judge Murray 's ruling is that the rate increases granted in 1979 were based on insufficient data . Former Chief Justice Walter Schaefer of the Illinois Supreme Court , acting as hearing officer , made this very point in denying the insurance companies ' request for a 36 per cent increase in 1978 . Yet the following year , on the same type of skimpy data , the companies were granted the increase which Judge Murray has now overturned . But the question remains what kind of data could prove sufficient . Ratemaking by nature is an inexact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be open to challenge . Far better simply to rely on the free market and on our anti-trust laws . There are a great many insurance companies that operate in Illinois . As long as there is no collusion among them , the mechanism of the free market should be able to do far better than judges , state officials , and formulas in fixing rates that are fair to the insurance companies , the employers who must pay the premiums , and the public .                     