@@670059

This week ' s Supreme Court decision striking down a key section of the Gramm-Rudman legislation does not mean the bill ' s impact is finished . Its target of a deficit not exceeding $144 billion ( with an additional $10 billion thrown in as a tip ) will continue to govern decisions for fiscal 1987 . But Gramm-Rudman would probably not have survived beyond fiscal 1987 no matter what the Supreme Court had done . After the initial glamour of Gramm-Rudman faded and the 1986 election passed , Congress would become more restive under the restraints on the deficit and would seek ways to get free of it . They would not be hard to find . A Congress that could enact a resolution declaring that $22 billion of revenue collected in 1987 would not be counted in 1987 could also enact a resolution saying that $22 billion of expenditures in 1988 does not count  --  possibly because there was a drought , or possibly because there wasn ' t . But the disappearance of Gramm-Rudman will not  --  or at least should not  --  return fiscal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Gramm-Rudman reflected two real facts : The size of the deficit is important and should not be the accidental residual outcome of other decisions . Some of the effects of the size of the deficit are cumulative . That is , they depend on the size of the deficits in prior and future years . Therefore decisions about the size of the deficit should not be made for one year at a time but should be made over a considerable period of time . Gramm-Rudman deals with these facts by setting explicit deficit targets for a five-year period . The trouble with Gramm-Rudman , as economics , is that there is no rationale for the particular target path chosen . The two facts just mentioned could be equally addressed by a path that fixed the deficit at $200 billion for each year 1987-91 or by a path that reduced the deficit to $100 billion in 1991 . The Gramm-Rudman decision to reduce the deficit by equal steps to zero in 1991 was not the result of any consideration of the merits of that path as compared to others . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to have a rule of some kind and that the only rule that attracts public support is the rule of balancing the budget . That is , however , a mistake . The public does not care much about balancing the budget . The great popularity of President Reagan is only the latest evidence of that . At some point if we are still in the Gramm-Rudman era someone will ask why we should go to so much trouble to balance the budget in 1991 , and no one will have an answer . The disappearance of Gramm-Rudman will reveal the vacuum in U.S. fiscal policy  --  the absence of any agreed-upon principles for deciding how big the budget deficit or surplus should be . In the first 25 years or so after World War II a consensus did develop about fiscal policy . I have described this as " domesticated Keynesianism . " It called for cyclical variation in the size of deficits and surpluses , to be achieved mainly but not exclusively by automatic cyclical variation in revenues and expenditures . The consensus aimed at budget balancing as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The deficits , however , were not so large as to reverse a long-run trend to reducing the ratio of debt to gross national product . This consensus had a number of intellectual and political weaknesses . It rested heavily on a Keynesian analysis that held that deficits were stimulating and surpluses repressive , an idea that became less convincing as it was further analyzed . It had no guidance for adjusting the budget to inflationary conditions , which turned out to be the usual conditions . It was too deeply rooted in the problem of short-run economic stabilization and had no answer for the question of the long-run size of the deficit and its possible effects on long-run economic growth . But in the end the basic reason for the collapse of the consensus policy was political . The consensus was too " intellectual . " There was not enough popular understanding of it to resist the temptations of the politicians . Ironically , the chief contributors to the collapse of this policy were self-styled conservatives . They derided the notion of the cyclically variable deficit , preferring to wrap @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At the same time they could not withstand the attractions of an enormous tax cut that yielded deficits larger than the Keynesians ever dreamed of . Discrediting the postwar consensus did not restore the aura or compelling power of old-fashioned budget balancing . People had learned that they could abide large deficits for a long time without any visible adverse consequences , and that fact could not be unlearned . In a recent speech Mr. Reagan illustrated the spread of conservative thinking by noting the conversion of Democrats to the idea of balancing the budget . But I believe it would be more realistic to say that Democrats have learned that they can gain advantage by attacking " Mr. Reagan ' s deficit " while themselves doing nothing to cut it . If balancing the budget is going to be our rule of fiscal policy , somebody will have to explain why it should be , and not rely on the obviously specious idea that it actually is . In my opinion , we need a " functional " policy about deficits in the sense that the policy is derived from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my opinion , the main relevant effect is the effect on private investment and the rate of economic growth . The decision about the size of the deficit should result from balancing the benefits of a smaller deficit  --  in terms of faster growth  --  against the costs of achieving the smaller deficit by cutting expenditures or raising taxes . The decision on the deficit would be a budget decision like the size of the defense program . The deficit decision could not be made once and for all time . It would have to adapt to competing claims on the budget , which would not change continuously . That is , the deficit decision could be made for considerable periods but not for eternity . My purpose here , however , is not to promote a particular answer to the question of the proper size of the deficit . My purpose is to urge the need for trying to arrive at an agreed-upon and rationally supportable answer . Possibly such an effort would conclude that the balanced-budget rule is the best of all possible answers . I doubt it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of pretense and practice . We can not safely go on for long with the pretense of a balanced-budget policy and a practice of sheer neglect . The problem is how to get serious attention to this matter . Perhaps I am romanticizing my middle age , but I believe that in the first decade after World War II the national discussion of fiscal policy was more constructive . There were important hearings held by the Joint Economic Committee and by one of its subcommittees chaired by the late Sen. Paul Douglas ( D. , Ill . ) . Contributions were made by members of the Council of Economic Advisers under several presidents . Some private organizations played a useful part ; I think especially of the Committee for Economic Development . The consensus that emerged from this discussion was not a permanently satisfactory solution . But it was probably the best that the experience and analysis of the time could support . A concerted effort should be made to revive serious consideration of fiscal policy , incorporating what has been learned from the experience and analysis of the past 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for joint attention of the House and Senate budget committees , if they could spare time from their endless game of wrapping budget packages . A presidential commission could be helpful , though that would require recognition that the balanced-budget amendment is not necessarily the solution . Perhaps a more feasible approach would be a private commission , like the Commission on Money and Credit of 30 years ago , or a consortium of think tanks . The postwar discussion that I admire was triggered by the Depression and the war . Possibly discussions of that kind , which temporarily suspend partisanship and posturing , can not happen without another crisis . But the effort would be worth making.  --  - Mr. Stein , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents Nixon and Ford , is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.                     