@@734583

txt Names of the dead  --  people killed In recent Uptown fires  --  embolden black signs carried at Truman College by some of the neighborhood residents attending a City Council committee hearing about arson . Accusing authorities of laxity , J. Terrence Brunner , executive director of the Better Government Association , says , " Arson is thriving in Chicago . " By Eileen Oglntz ANGRY UPTOWN residents say they are skeptical that city officials are pre pared to tackle the arson problem that is destroying their neighborhood . " We 're concerned about a superficial response . Some of the people who say they want to deal with this problem were telling us three weeks ago It did n't exist , " said Slim Coleman , an Uptown community activist . Coleman was among more than 125 residents who attended a long city council committee hearing Wednesday on the problem . It was held at Truman College in Uptown . " City officials do n't realize how critical a problem arson is ... they have done nothing to stop it , " James Washer , an Uptown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the hearing , the situation will be remedied . Ald. Bruce Young 144th annuounced that he will introduce before the council on Thursday an ordinance to create an Arson Strike Task Force within the Chicago Fire Department . Ald. Edward Burka 14th , who chaired the hearing , said he would introduce an ordinance Thursday to require owners of all buildings with more than six dwelling units to register with the city  --  to enable officials to monitor whether buildings owned by the same people are being burned in possible arson-for-profit schemes . " Arson . . is a horrible crime , " Young declared . Uptown residents reminded the aldermen that argon is not a new crime . Police statistics show that 400 fires occurred in Uptown and adjoining Edgewater In 1979 , making the area one of the most fire-ridden in the city . They said they had tried , unsuccesssfully , to bring the situation to official attention for more than a year . CITY OFFICIALS only are interested now , these residents believe , because of a six-month joint investigation by the Better Government Association and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " scheme among certain Uptown landlords who are alleged to have collected more than $500,000 in insurance after suspicious fires in their buildings . " Does the city really have the will to deal with this question ? " Coleman asked . Some of those attending the bearing carried black placards with the names of several persons who have died in recent Uptown fires . Community activist Slim Coleman speaks his mind . lie , like others , expressed skepticism about the genuineness of the city 's concern .                     