@@735158

txt THE HARD ECONOMIC times are contributing to an Increase in child abuse in Illinois , Gov . James Thomm son said Tuesday . State officials project that 90,000 child abuse and neglect cases will be reported to the state this year  --  a 20,000 Increase from last year , Thompson said . " I 'm sure the stress of economic times is playing its part in this , " Thompson said . " Certainly when the unemployment rate goes up , we can expect there to he more child abuse and neglect , " agreed Gregory Coler , director of the state Department of Children and Family Services . Commenting on the effect of the two-year-old state system for reporting child abuse and neglect , Thompson said " We 're seeing the iceberg rise to the surface . We 're getting a much better look at what has always been there . " THOMPSON . SPEAKING in the Americana Congress Hotel at the Illinois Conference on Children 's Priorities of the ' 00s , told delegates that children are his " number one priority .... They are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is committed also to getting youngsters out of foster homes and into adoptive families ; and to broadening and improving programs for troubled youths . He lauded Coler and his agency for the programs already underway in these areas , noting that adoptions are up 32 per cent so far this fiscal year . " But see ca n't afford to rest , " Thompson cautioned : Earlier , Thoinpson look a reading test twice  --  to better his score  --  and bantered with young patients daring a tour of the Henry Horner Children 's Center , part of the Chicago-Read Mental Health Center at 4201 N. Oak Park Ave . At one point , he noted that sleeping quarters were still without drapes ordered three years ago from state prisms industries , and he said he will make sure they 're installed . " DO YOU still love me ? " one adolescent boy asked him as others crowded around , hugging him and asking for autographs . " I still love you , " Thompson assured the boy . He told reporters he would take a suggestion from a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substitute a dollar limit that each institution can spend in place of the hiring freeze . That way , he explained , " You set your own priorities as they arise in the Institution . " This Was Thompson 's third visit to an institution for the mentally ill or developmentally disabled in recent months .                     