@@735785

txt Some airlines have banned your portable computer . Worried that the small , battery-operated machines might interfere with airplane electronic systems , five major airlines and several smaller ones have in the past few weeks banned use of the computers in-flight . Computer makers and the Federal Aviation Administration doubt that a danger exists , but the airlines are wary because FAA regulations leave the matter to the carriers . " The technology is so new that all we know is that we do n't know about the computers , " an airline spokesman says . " And we are n't going to take a chance on something we do n't know about . " The bans are confusing passengers and worrying computer makers , who wonder if sales will be hurt . American Airlines , United Airlines , Eastern Airlines . Western Air Lines and Texas Air Corp . ' s Continental Airlines have prohibited the computers . But American says its pilots can make exceptions when passengers complain . And United reservations agents in six cities told this reporter last week that the machines could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic Airlines and Trans World Airlines , a unit of Trans World Corp .. still permit use of the computers . " We have n't had any problems , and certainly none serious enough to warrant consideration of restricting them , " says TWA spokeswoman Sally . Faulty Navigational Readings Only United reports any problem with the computers . Joe Hopkins , a United spokesman , says that in one instance a portable computer seemed to cause faulty readings on a plane 's navigational equipment . Although the incident was minor , United 's policy is to prohibit " anything that could even possibly interfere . " says Chuck Novak , another United spokesman . The airlines worry that the low-level radio frequency emitted by portable computers might be picked up by an airplane 's receiving antenna , disrupting navigation and communication systems . And since flight crews control some equipment by entering numerical codes , some people wonder whether a passenger typing on a computer keyboard could , for instance , accidentally lower the landing gear . But the FAA has n't detected any danger from the computers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of no instances where a computer has caused a problem , " he says . " We 've run tests on the computers ourselves , held one right up against a plane 's Instruments , and there was no effect . None . " FAA regulations prohibit the use of any portable electronic device on an aircraft except hearing aids , tape recorders , heart pacemakers , electric razors and any other device an airline determines is n't hazardous . Most airlines have decided that handheld calculators may be used . But most ban portable television sets and AM-FM radios . Negligible Evidence Based on their own tests , computer makers and others in the industry say there is n't any evidence that the devices interfere . " Technically , the possibility is there , but It 's so remote it 's almost negligible . " says Ron Ward , vice president of technology for Future Computing , a market research and consulting firm in Richardson , Texas . The computer makers say the airlines just fear the unknown . " What they 're saying is , ' We have n't @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , so we 'll ban them . ' " says Ron Ockander , director of sales for Epson America Inc. , which makes the Epson HX-20 portable computer . The ban seemed to surprise some computer makers . Tandy Corp. , which makes the Radio Shack Model 100 , the most popular small portable computer , still had television commercials this past weekend showing an airline passenger with a Model 100 . The computer companies do n't agree about whether the bans will hurt sales . " Sure it could affect sales , " says Bernie Appel , Radio Shack 's executive vice president for marketing . " Anytime you have someone saying something negative about your product , it hurts . " But Epson 's Mr. Ockander says that even if all the airlines ban portable computers , " I ca n't see that as an overriding factor for reduced sales . What 's the difference if they said you could n't use a hand calculator on board ? Certainly , that 's not going to stop people from buying one . " The worried airlines have asked the Radio @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set standards for inflight use of portable computers . It is expected to decide this week whether to study the portable computers , says Bill Fuchs. the commission 's director of technical services . Setting standards would be time consuming and expensive , Mr. Fuchs says . The commission would have to test each model separately and in combinations inside each type of airliner , he says . " It 's a big order . " And the computer makers are cautious , even though they defend their machines . " I 'm not going to say to the airlines ours is safe or is n't safe , " says Mr. Appel of Radio Shack . " We 're going to let the airlines make their own calls . All we 're saying is we 've tested ours and have n't any indication that the computer is a danger . "                     