@@735366

txt Economists in recent years have been writing prolifically about a new phenomenon  --  sudden . unanticipated shifts in the public 's " demand for money , " shifts which have not been explained by the traditional determinants of the rate of growth of the nominal GNP and changes in interest rates . This much greater instability in money demand coincided with the increased pace of financial innovation . Has the public 's demand for money really become much more unstable . or does it just seem more unstable because of our inability to measure money accurately in a world of rapid financial innovation ? The pace of innovation has led us to the point u here any definition of the money supply must be arbitrary and unsatisfactory . Any definition will include assets that some people view as short-term Investments ( not transactions balances ) and will exclude other assets that sonic people view as transactions balances . For example , a percentage ( probably small ) of money-market funds is used as transactions balances and ought to be included in the money supply , but the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by their owners . Perhaps a survey could determine what percentage of money-market funds should be included in the money supply , but there is no reason to believe that the percentage revealed by a survey would be stable . Furthermore , money-market funds are only one of an array of new financial instruments . and some unknown part of these new instruments ought to be included in the money supply . Things Were Much Simpler I have therefore concluded , most reluctantly , that we can no longer measure the money supply with any kind of precision . The consequences of such a conclusion are far-reaching . For now , let me reassure the reader that my position is not widely shared by my colleagues in the Federal Reserve System . In the simple financial world of my graduate school days ( circa 1950 ) we had no problems distinguishing money from other liquid assets . Money consisted of currency and demand deposits . These were the only vehicles by which payments could be made . Of course , we recognized there were " near-monies , " but " near-monies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be made . Moreover , costswere incurred in converting " nearmoney ' into money , if only the cost of taking your passbook down to the bank and arranging to transfer funds from a savings account to a checking account . The costs were , of course , more formidable in transforming other " near-monies. " such as Treasury bills , into money Four factors combined to change this simple world : ( 11 The sharp rise in interest rates . which dramatically raised the opportunity costs of leaving funds in noninterest-bearing deposits . ( 21 The development of the computer . which reduced to minimal levels the cost of transferring liquid assets into money . It is difficult , for example , to imagine such a complex system as the cash-management account developing in the pre-computer era . The cost of operating the system would have been prohibitive . ( 3 ) The prohibition against the payment of interest on demand deposits , which creates a great incentive to transform the demand deposit into an income-earning asset whenever feasible . GI ) The structure of reserve requirements , which puts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This gives an incentive to institutions not subject to reserve requirements to offer a similar financial service on a more advantageous basis . This wave of financial innovation might have little enduring significance if it could be argued that it was largely concluded and that future innovations would have little effect on the growth rates of the monetary aggregates . Unfortunately , both seem highly improbable . Interest rates are likely to decline in the years ahead Certainly , the Fed 's longterm policy is designed to produce this result . However , there is no reason to believe that interest rates will fall so low as to eliminate the incentive to shift demand balances to some form of earning asset . Conceivably , Congress could reduce the Incentives for innovation by removing the prohibition against the payment of interest on demand deposits and permitting thepayment of interest on reserve balances held at Federal Reserve Banks . However , such legislation seems highly improbable . Congress has a long list of banking reform issues on its agenda , but it does n't include either of these proposals . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be substantially reduced , and the cost of computer transfers is likely to continue to decline . Moreover , the intensified competition among banks , thrift institutions and nonbanking institutions offering financial services is likely to stimulate innovation . The particular innovation likely to have the most impact on the monetary aggregates in the next few years is depositsweeping  --  an attractive service under which deposit balances over a specified amount are shifted automatically into an income-earning asset on a daily or weekly basis . At present , deposit-sweeping is largely confined to the accounts of large corporations , although this is a prominent feature of cash-management accounts available to individuals . To calculate the demand balances of large corporations accurately today , they should be measured between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m .. before the deposit-sweeping occurs . Since we calculate the money supply on the basis of balances at the close of business , we miss a large part of corporate demand balances , funds that will automatically reappear in the corporate account the next morning or a few days hence . Clearly , these swept balances are considered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's money supply , but it is only the unswept balance that enters the national Ml statistics . Here again , if the movement to depositsweeping were to be limited to large corporations , the impact on the monetary aggregates in the years ahead might not distort the aggregates unduly . Unfortunately , deposit-sweeping appears to be in its Infancy . There is ample evidence that It is being offered to medium and small businesses and will soon be offered to consumer accounts as well . If the cash management accountsthat brokerage firms offer provide depositsweeping to their clients , progressive banking institutions can do no less . Given the continued decline in the cost of computer terminals , it seems probable that before long the middle-class consumer may have the capability at home of sweeping his account as often as he chooses by activating his bank 's computer . The Companion Problem Unless this vision of the future is without merit , it seems that the problems of measuring the money supply , however defined . will be formidable , as will the problems of interpreting the significance for monetary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's computer . Thus far . we have confined our remarks only to the problem of differentiating money and liquid assets . There is also a companion problem to be considered  --  the problem of differentiating money from debt . In 1950 I was taught that money could be differentiated from debt ( at least private debt ) in that money was a generally accepted medium for payment and that debt had to be converted into money before it could De accepted in making payments . That relationship is being stood on its head . In the case of overdraft accounts . creditcard systems where card-holders may activate credits by writing a check , and cash management accounts at brokerage houses , the payment is made by check before the debt is created . Certainly , the widespread development of such systems of automated credit programs must substantially reduce the need for precautionary deposit balances , a function that we used to talk about as one of the principal roles of money . The financial world has been revolutionized since 1950. but the measurement of the money supply is little changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to retain a statistical concept of transaction balances , even though we understand Intellectually that innovation and the computerization of the financial system have made it impossible to draw a clear line between money and other liquid assets . Mr. Morris is president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston . This article is excerpted from a speech he delivered nt an economics conference in Atlanta in March .                     