@@670067

For almost 15 years physicist Thomas Grissom was so engrossed in developing neutron generators that he could almost forget their purpose  --  triggering nuclear weapons . But then the worm of doubt began to gnaw at him , and the past began to speak to him . He recalls this lesson jumping out from the pages of Arnold Toynbee ' s " A Study of History " : When people prepared for war , there was war . His misgivings grew . Finally , one day last September he told the colleagues he supervised at Sandia National Laboratory in Albuquerque that he was quitting . Today he teaches at Evergreen State College in Olympia , Wash. , making about half his $75 , 000 Sandia salary . He has no regrets . " Each individual has moral responsibility for his actions , " he says . Alarmed by the quickening pace of the arms race , and particularly by President Reagan ' s Strategic Defense Initiative , scientists , engineers and others in defense-related work are wrestling as perhaps never before with the ethical implications of what they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The number of people who leave defense work out of a crisis of conscience , as Mr. Grissom did , appears to be growing , but it still amounts to just a drop in the bucket of available brainpower . Indeed , many patriotic Americans work on such projects out of a sense of civic duty . While the loss of a key person can be inconvenient , not even the most zealous antiwar advocates can claim that defections have stalled a single defense project . But for every anguished scientist who quits and speaks out , there are many who remain inside the defense complex . They now form a sizable shadow group of the doubting and the disaffected . Some agitate within their companies or government labs , trying to change minds and policies . Others quietly seek transfers to nondefense projects of their employers . The rest simply live with their conflicts and carry on  --  for now , at least . In the modern age , such doubts have assailed scientists and engineers since the so-called Manhattan Project opened the atomic era in the 1940s  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an agony of conscience . The present wave of doubt may start to affect defense work if it keeps gaining strength . And it seems to be doing just that with every failed effort to slow the arms race and every buildup in the military budget . In recent years a dozen or more professional groups addressing ethical concerns in defense work have started up , including the Center for Economic Conversion , Peacework Alternatives , High Technology Professionals for Peace , and Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility . Though they are still small , many have been gaining membership rapidly . Unease is apparent even among scientists and engineers who may not belong to any such special-interest organizations . Polling its 10 , 000 members last year , the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers , a mainstream professional group , found that a third of them considered assignment to nonmilitary work an important factor when changing jobs . And a survey of 85 nuclear scientists at Sandia and Los Alamos National Laboratories found that a majority of them were deeply ambivalent about their work . Deborah Rosenthal , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says : " Anyone who says his work force is at a consensus about working on weapons is misreading his employees . " For most scientists , the struggle with conscience is a private one , unrevealed until a decision point is reached . Alfred Beebe , who worked four years at Hughes Aircraft Co. developing software for small tactical missiles , says that at first he could ignore the " human implications " of his work . But they intruded more and more often , and gradually the joy went out of his job . When colleagues celebrated new Hughes contracts , " I just couldn ' t identify with the euphoria , " the 41-year-old mathematician and computer scientist recalls . " I often found I had a lot of trouble just getting through each day . " He quit in 1983 for a university communications-research post . Some employers report that more job applicants don ' t want to do defense work to begin with . Larry Geisel , the president of Carnegie Group Inc. , a Pittsburgh company working on artificial intelligence , says that five years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific challenge . " Now , " he says , " they place more value on the nature of the work . " He has interviewed a growing number of people who tell him , " I ' d really like to work for you , but I don ' t want to work on weapons . " This doesn ' t greatly affect Carnegie Group , which gets only 10% of its business from the federal government . But it could become important to contractors who rely heavily on defense business . Their needs are great ; some studies estimate that up to 30% of the nation ' s 600 , 000 scientists and engineers are involved in defense work in some way . In the past the defense complex has been able to attract many of the best scientists and engineers available , but antiwar sentiment may be changing that . Owen Chamberlain , a Nobelist in physics at the University of California ' s Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory , says : " Some of the best people used to go into military projects because of the technical challenges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people recognize that we don ' t necessarily become more secure by further building up the military . " The Strategic Defense Initiative , popularly known as Star Wars , has aroused the most concern . Many scientists think that the program ' s goal  --  to destroy incoming missiles in space  --  is unreachable , that spending for it will drain enormous sums away from other research , and that it actually increases the likelihood of nuclear war by introducing a new factor into the arms equation . More than 1 , 600 scientists and engineers from almost 100 government and industrial laboratories have petitioned Congress to curb Star Wars financing , and 3 , 700 science and engineering professors and senior researchers have pledged not to accept research funds for it . More than half the faculty members at the nation ' s top 20 physics departments have signed pledges , according to a group of professors gathering the signatures . The Union of Concerned Scientists , one of the biggest activist groups , says its list of members willing to speak publicly about ethical issues climbed from 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 000 dues-paying membership in the past year , largely because of Star Wars . The disaffected include scientists at Lawrence Livermore Laboratory of the University of California , an important center for Star Wars research . In the spring of last year , physicist Edward Teller , a former lab director and a consultant on Star Wars , gave Congress an optimistic progress report on a main element of the anti-missile system  --  only to have his opinions publicly challenged by senior physicist Ray Kidder , a 30-year lab veteran and an open advocate of arms control . Mr. Kidder says that part of his job is keeping the lab intellectually honest . But there is a streak of fatalism in some scientists who speak out from within the defense complex . Computer programmer John Honigsfeld still does defense work at Hughes Aircraft , although he participates in weapons protests and has formed a small group called Aerospace Engineers/Workers for Social Responsibility . " I ' m just a part of the arms race , " he reasons . " My quitting wouldn ' t stop it . Many people would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right . Though defense contractors express private concern over the changing attitudes of some of their workers and admit that the loss of team leaders and other important figures can hamper projects temporarily , they don ' t have serious trouble replacing them . A spokesman for Lockheed Corp. says the company has no shortage of people who " take great pride in contributing to the nation ' s security and defense . " But Lockheed , along with other employers , has had to adjust to changing attitudes . When systems engineer William Cutler grew disenchanted with weapons work , Lockheed reluctantly transferred him from a defense project to a space-station job he wanted . He was lucky , however . Often , nonmilitary work isn ' t immediately available in the same company . When engineer Gary Flomenhoft completed a nondefense project at TRW Inc. last year , the company had no civilian work available for him , even though it wanted to keep him . " People with his talent are not expendable , " says his former supervisor . Spurning several military-related offers within the company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before landing a communications-satellite job . Some disaffected workers with narrow specialties can ' t get anything in the civilian sector . One 48-year-old computer scientist from the Boston area who had spent most of his career on military satellite trajectories left his job out of ethical concerns , only to find there was no other market for what he knew how to do . He now is back in military work , fearful that he might lose his present post if his feelings were known . There are many like him , and their sentiments are revealed indirectly , if at all . When Cambridge , Mass. , residents protested plans by Arthur D. Little Inc. to conduct lab tests of chemical-warfare agents , Little workers weren ' t openly sympathetic to the opponents . But Edward Cyr , who headed the protest , says he got several anonymous phone calls from Little personnel encouraging the protest , identifying the lab sites , and even suggesting confrontation strategy . Little ultimately scrapped the plan . For some people , anonymous phone calls , intracompany transfers or new jobs at new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science and engineering altogether , as Joseph Roehrig did . He was an engineer and a director of a small Louisville company working on nuclear-weapons contracts . Disturbed by what he was doing , he shifted to nondefense work but was still ambivalent . As an official , a shareholder and an employee of the company , he says , " I had responsibilities for the overall financial health of the company  --  and nuclear projects were a sizable hunk of profits . " Now he runs the spousal-abuse center at the Louisville YWCA . On his wall is a plaque quoting Albert Einstein : " Try not to become a man of success , but rather a man of value . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     