@@668201

A public relations spokesman for the New England branch of the Mafia emphatically denies that his organization has established a black market to deal counterfeit numbers for the Boston Marathon . In fact , he says , the allegation of tampering with The Marathon has hurt Cosa Nostra feelings from Providence to Bar Harbor . " Sure , " the spokesman says , " we handle drugs , bookmaking , loan sharking , extortion , an occasional hit - the conventional family enterprises allotted us by the Better Business Bureau . But anybody who claims we ' d muscle in on a grand tradition like The Marathon must think we got no heart or class . " Nevertheless , one of my sources , Jimmy Weaselini , who is apprenticing to become an FBI informant , insists that such a black market is in operation . " It ' s the new numbers racket , a once-a-year scam that grew up because one of the toughest things to get is an official Marathon number . Hell , " says Weaselini , " it ' s easier to get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that says you ' re one of the Patriots Day Mob . As you know , the Mafia cashes in on the vices of humanity , and the latest , hottest vice is doing Boston on the 20th . " Anybody can jump into the pack at Hopkinton and run unofficial , but the big status score is that official number on your chest . Only 6845 runners havequalified to wear one , but there are people who would kill for the chance . But they should leave the killing to us . To get a number all they got ta do is pay the right price . " But what about the local Mafia spokesman ' s denial ? " Definitely on the level , " reports Weaselini , " but it ' s the Chicago family that ' s counterfeiting the Marathon numbers . They got no shame when it comes to cutting in on somebody else ' s tradition . " They ' re in touch with people in Hong Kong that can knock off anything - Gucci stuff , any kind of currency , passports . Phonying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that mean somebody besides Bill Rodgers will appear girded in No. 1 ? " Nah , " snorts Weaselini . " You think those guys is stupid ? These will be four-digit jobs , to avoid suspicion . All a guy - or a broad - wants to do is be able to brag they was number-so-and-so and done Boston . That ' s enough to make ' em big in their crowd , right ? " He says the numbers pushers are operating throughout the Midwest , dealing a product " more profitable than cocaine - and it ain ' t no federal offense . " But it ' s just the suckers that want a number so they can say they run the race legit , " Weaselini says . " For the slick operators , the Mafia ' s got a deluxe 10-grand package plan . They fly you into Boston first class , stash you at the Ritz , take you near the finish in a limo . Then they escort you to the curb where you step onto the course and trot maybe the last 100 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - a high class mug shot - as you cross the finish line . No sweat . That ' s the way to do it . You got the evidence , the souvenirs . It ain ' t no Ruiz job , though . The fix ain ' t in for anybody to win the race . The people on this plan can sleep in and make their appearance when the race is about four hours along . " Sounds almost like a public service . However , Jimmy Weaselini is pleased that he and his associates have nothing to do with it . " It would give us a bad name to be accessories to the Marathon , " he says . " Gun-running is one thing , but road-running without a horse don ' t make sense . Our business is breaking legs , not promoting them . When we furnish shoes for a very long run , they ' re made of concrete . "                     