@@668411

Except for rescuing the US economy , there just don ' t seem to be enough good reasons for US consumers to stop hoarding their money and start spending it . Since last spring , Reagan Administration officials havepromised July ' s 10 percent income tax cut would spark consumer spending , which would , in turn , require greater production and eventually ignite an economic recovery . But US citizens are not yet convinced that it ' s time to buy , even in light of lower inflation , falling interest rates and a build-up in consumer savings - all of which the White House has been hailing . Most people simply are afraid to begin doling out their precious savings . " Consumers have been bombarded daily with gloomy economic news and are concerned about their own job situation , " said David Jones , economist with Aubrey G. Lanston and Co. , a New York brokerage firm . Consumer confidence in the job situation is the lowest it has been in at least 15 years according to the latest consumer confidence survey conducted by New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioned last month , 58.3 percent feared that jobs were " hard to get . " The rate was the highest rate in that category since the survey began 15 years ago . Retail sales fell a seasonally adjusted 0.9 percent in August , traditionally a strong sales month because of the heavy back-to- school purchases . The drop followed a 1.2 percent sales rise in July . Excluding the volatile auto business , sales rose an anemic 0.1 percent last month . Donald Straszheim , chief economist at Wharton Econometric Associates , contends most individuals are taking a " show-me " attitude toward the Administration ' s predictions of a brighter economic future . He noted that consumer spending has been " picking up gradually " in recent weeks , but it will not grow significantly until about the middle of 1983 . Consumer spending rose at a rate of 1 percent in the third quarter . The Administration is generally more optimistic than many private economists . Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige told the White House press corps last week that despite a drop in August ' s leading economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarter of this year , which started Oct. 1 . To many economists , such as Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston and Co. , it is difficult to see why consumer confidence would grow when even the most optimistic White House forecasters do not expect the 10.1 jobless rate to improve before next year . " No matter how much liquidity they ( consumers ) get , it ' s still not enough to convince them to spend and lead us out " of the recession , Jones said . He believes the recession will " hit bottom " early next year and linger there for several months before showing signs of recovery . Aside from a lack of confidence , there are several less obvious reasons consumers did not respond to the tax cut by running to retailers with their pocketbooks chock full of cash . As opposed to the inflationary decade of ' 70s , some consumers now believe they can pay less for an item if they wait . Americans are becoming conditioned to anticipate future price declines as the Administration and the Federal Reserve Board continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rates add to the wait-and-save philosophy . These two factors are a significant influence in purchases of big ticket consumer items such as automobiles . Homeowners are spending less because they feel poorer while the housing market remains weak , Jones said . " In the past , homeowners felt like millionaires " because of the ever-climbing resale value of homes , he said . But now prices are leveling off as demand for new and existing homes declines . Despite the immediate need for increased consumer spending the White House is not totally opposed to savings . Martin Feldstein , President Reagan ' s choice for chief economic adviser , recently urged Congress to revise government policy to further encourage long-term personal savings . Feldstein argues that greater savings incentives are essential to the accumulation of capital in US credit markets , which is key to future corporate growth . Barry Bosworth , a senior economist at the Brookings Institution here , claims that domestic savings is hardly an obstacle to corporate investment . If a project appears to be profitable and thus a good investment , it can always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overseas , he said . Regardless of the long-term outlook , any near-term economic recovery hinges on a surge in consumer activity . But economists agree they have trouble predicting anything beyond those facts because predicting the behavior of the mysterious consumer is their most difficult task .                     