@@668351

By Natasha Bourso-Leland IRKUTSK , Siberia - With a great whoosh of steam , our Trans- Siberian train heaved into the station at Irkutsk in the fresh blue morning of September . It reminded me of the delightful , wooden gingerbread railroad station in North Conway , N.H. , whose architect had surely been inspired by the same frontier fancy . Irkutsk is the heart of Siberia - the central crossroads of a huge land . We had been traveling for 2 days from Novosibirsk , and before that , by planefrom Moscow where we stopped just long enough to pick up visas to Mongolia and spin around for a quick tour of Red Square and Lenin ' s Tomb . Our group of 16 Americans was a blend of young and old , from various backgrounds and professions but bound together by a common love of nature and wildlife . Now we were on our way to explore the wilderness of Siberia near Irkutsk and Khabarovsk . I had traveled on this train a few years before with a group from the Massachusetts Audubon Society and knew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permafrost . In summer , it was a place where red peonies ran along the tracks for miles , where orange trollius grew knee-high among birch forests , and where delphinium and hollyhocks were taller than my head in meadows . It was all Texas- size , with hardy peoples that brought a wide , historic nostalgia for days when things were simple and our own wild west was still there to be conquered . It was a place of wooden villages scattered like dollhouses over the lush countryside ; with sweating horses pulling carts laden with hay over roads thick with mud from recent rains ; and babushkas peeling potatoes and gossiping on creaking door stoops . Now , at the break of day in September , the birches were turning gold and peasants carried summer ' s bounty of fruits and vegetables to market in baskets and bags slung over hard-working shoulders . With a crack of sun peering over the horizon , from our train window I watched country women dressed in warm jackets , with flowered headscarves and thick , black boots plodding toward town , carrying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , little has changed in the villages since the time of the tsars except political realities . As before , I had enjoyed the train ride immensely although some of my American compatriots remained in cultural shock for a good portion of the trip . The Trans-Siberian Railway is , without doubt , in a class of adventure unto itself . Although amenities are simple , diet heavy and toilets unmentionable , the romance of traveling toward the east , toward the sun , was not to be denied for some of us incurable Seekers . There is a Slavic mystique about railroads in Russia . Trains have captured the imagination of writers like Dostoevsky , Turgenev and Tolstoy , whose heroine , Anna Karenina , threw herself under the wheels of a train.Trains had been part of numerous secret missions during the civil war ; Trostsky had done business on a train equipped with a printing press and today , the train on which Lenin arrived to proclaim victory over the burgeoisie is enshrined in glass at Leningrad ' s Finland Station . If one had sampled the velvet and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or the elegant crystal and linen comforts of the Orient Express , then the Trans-Siberian would seem distinctly proletarian . ( If one is used to Amtrak , however , this will not be a problem . ) On the Trans-Siberian , first-class compartments have four berths , two up , two down , with warm bedding , pillow , one small table and a mirror on the door . Luggage is stored under the lower berths and over the door and is virtually inacessible - so Russian train travelers are often seen in comfortable jogging suits for the entire trip . When the number of group members does not always evenly fill four persons to a compartment , other travelers , including Russians , will use the remaining berths . This always guaranteed an interesting trip . Some of our bunkmates included a Soviet Army general , a beautiful actressfrom Moscow , a Finnish diplomat and a Soviet ideologist heading for some remote Siberian villages to make sure the agricultural plan was being fulfilled . Again , due to uneven numbers , the sexes would occasionally be mixed in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately go into force . Smoking is allowed only in hallways and gentlemen would tend to stay out of the compartments in order to let the ladies be comfortable . As bedtime approached , ladies would close the doors and get ready for bed . Whenlights were out , the gentlemen would quietly climb into their bunks and half- undress . In the morning , men were first up and out and ladies could once again dress and makeup at a leisurely pace until morning tea was served . Only once had I traveled with three drunken German businessmen who did not follow protocol and were sentenced to spend the night on the hall floor by my protective attendant . " Foreign heathen ! " she had mumbled . Each of our interesting bunk-mates had enough stories to tell about themselves and their lives to fill another Thousand and One Arabian nights . Every train car has an attendant who is in charge of serving tea , waking passengers when they reach their destination and generally keeping an eye on things . Radios were impossible to turn off completely and Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the fall harvest in Kazakhstan all tied together with Kremlin bells which would announce Moscow time no matter where you were . Meals were taken in the dining car , located some eight cars and hundreds of heavy doors away where our chef , who turned out mountains of sausages and mashed potatoes sang Russian love ballads to us at every meal . We occasionally responded with " Home on the Range " and beat a retreat . But some of our intrepid group members would stay , and , as Soviet diners filtered in , the evening would turn into a raucous vodka party with guitars and toasts to peace and goodwill and beautiful women . Over the course of some 16-17 trips to the USSR as an interpreter for American groups , I had never felt that these displays of friendship had ever been less than genuine and sensed that many Soviets held a real admiration and liking for Americans whom they regarded as " kindred ' in their openness and generosity and breadth of spirit . Now , as we arrived at Irkutsk station , the cool air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guide from Intourist ( the Soviet travel agency ) who accompanied us throughout the USSR portion of our trip , shepherded us to our version of the Hilton-on-the-Angara . The Hotel Intourist is new and handsome and affords magnificent views of the Angara River , the only river which flows out of Lake Baikal although the lake is fed by over 300 streams . In Tsarist days , Irkutsk prided itself on being the " Paris of the East , " but in fact it was a tough frontier town peopled by settlers with a fierce independence and a desire to strike it rich . Those rough , tough early settlers , a motley crew of fur trappers , gold prospectors , military men , government functionaries , political prisoners , adventurers and merchants who later went off to establish trading posts in Alaska and California , developed a lively European citadel in the Siberian wilderness among the local Asian tribes . The city still wears a pioneer look with wooden houses decorated with elaborate gingerbread trim ( many unfortunately scheduled for demolition ) - now intermingled with fanciful , colorful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with modern shops and apartment buildings . It is hard to imagine that even before the construction of the Trans-Siberian less than 100 years ago , Irkutsk , thousands of miles from nowhere , was already a thriving city with a history of some 200 years . Today , this major crossroads is busier than ever . To augment the Trans- Siberian , the entire region is now involved in the construction of the 2000-mile Baikal-Amur Main Line ( BAM ) which will run roughly parallel some 100-300 miles north of the Trans-Siberian and end at Sovetskaya Gavan on the Sea of Japan . Scheduled for completion next year , BAM will have five tunnels , one 15 kilometers long , and 142 major bridges . The population of Irkutsk has now grown to well over a half million and numerous industries , institutes , schools of technology and the first university in eastern Siberia ( 1918 ) have been built . For leisure , there are theaters , a circus , philharmonic orchestra , several museums and a planetarium . The 18th century Church of the Holy Cross has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church of the Holy Savior , is worth a visit as well . In its graveyard is the tomb of Grigori Shelikhov , a roving Siberian merchant who founded Russia ' s first permanent colony in Alaska in 1784 . The Folklore Museum housed the town ' s geographic society in pre-revolutionary days and now contains colorful artifacts of indigenous Siberian tribes and curiosfrom the early lives of the settlers . We also visited the Mineralogical Museum with its comprehensive display of Siberia ' s wealth of gems and stones . A new , milky-purple semi-precious stone called charaide had recently been discovered and is presumed not to be found elsewhere in the world . Set and unset Siberian stones such as lapis lazuli , malachite and many others are reasonable and available in the hotel shops and specialty stores . Although Irkutsk is famed for its furs , little is to be found since most go to export . Available throughout the USSR , however , are amber , lacquer-ware , samovars , delightful tea-cozy dolls and a huge variety of wooden folk curios . Vodka comes in dozens of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fiery Pertsovka with a hot , red pepper floating in the bottle , to the cool , lemony Limonnaya . Our hotel rooms were comfortable , twin-bedded with a writing desk , armchairs , small refrigerator , television and huge private bath . Meals were ample as were the waitresses in their uniforms of short-sleeved dresses with a huge brown flower print , and bright red espadrilles laced up a substantial calf . Lunches would typically include four courses : an appetizer of smoked herring or Salat Olivier , homemade soup , fish or meat with the ever-present peas and cucumbers , excellent dark bread and butter , mineral waters , and dessert of ice cream , pastry and coffee . Dinner was a mere three courses but often included such delicacies as caviar or Siberian dumplings . Anyone foolish enough to consume all three meals daily would go home resembling one of the waitresses , for sure . During the course of our stay , our group was to experience the special kindness and professional help of Prof. Boris Sokilov . On a previous trip , I had made friends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their 12-year-old son Anton , who later became my son ' s pen pal . Since I was working for the group as an interpreter , it seemed like a good opportunity to bring my son , Sasha , to meet his Russian counterpart although Sasha knew no Russian at all . He was , by now , an experienced traveler who had accompanied me to Russia once before and for whom neither language barrier , nor unusual foods , nor 3 a.m. flights held any problems and had never prevented him from having a good time . I found Prof. Sokolov and we arranged a meeting for the same evening . Although the children were shy at first and refused to speak withoutinterpretation , we soon ignored them and they quickly invented their own Esperanto . The children enjoyed each other ' s company enormously , much to our pleasure as parents , and found much in common through records , books , toys and stamp collections . After comparing notes with Anton ' s mother , and from my own observations on previous trips , it was evident that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to be overprotected , less spontaneous , and develop social skills far more slowly by American standards . Tired of adults , Sasha was happy to spend several days with Anton , who , along with his father , accompanied our group on a day trip to Lake Baikal . En route to Baikal , our bus paused on a high bluff overlooking the Angara River while Prof. Sokolov described the ecosystems of the great lake . A small tree nearby was completely covered with strips of cloth tied to it . " " A Buryat custom - for luck in travel , " he explained . Sasha and Anton tied yellow ribbons to the tree for our group and ran off to play with a frisbee which Sasha had brought . The first sight of the lake was breathtaking . Lake Baikal is the deepest freshwater lake in the world . Surrounded by hills and forest , it stretches to the horizon in a sea of glittering blue- green . We explored the nearby Limnology Museum which houses exhibits relating the geological and ecological makeup of the lake , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ water as Prof. Sokolov described how groups of concerned citizens and conservationists were striving to keep the lake from becoming polluted . Environmentalists in our group asked whether local citizen groups could possibly have a say on policies emanating from Moscow . Prof. Sokolov smiled slowly . " Yes , " he said , " to some degree . We have learned from the examples of the West and have convinced Moscow of the danger of possible pollution unless strict measures to protect the lake were taken . We are our own worst critics , you know . " Toward sunset , Anton flung the frisbee to Sasha one last time . Its orange fluorescence sank slowly in Lake Baikal , well out of reach . " It ' s not biodegradable " observed Sasha and Anton shrugged in disappointment at the loss of his favorite American toy . Our hydrofoil ( $4.50 one way ) provided an exhilarating one-hour ride from Listvyanka on the lake up the Angara River toward Irkutsk . The Angara flows north to Bratsk and provides an awesome force for turning turbines . A dam on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environs all its electrical needs but the river is destined to become a chain of dammed-up lakes in the future , with a series of power stations scheduled to produce some 70 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity a year . That evening our good professor joined us for dinner and later showed slides of his expeditions to the Arctic , through the northern Transbaikal and into Yakutia . The show provided a quick textbook excursion into the exotic flora and fauna we were likely never to see and was accompanied by Russian anecdotes , tall tales of Siberian yeti and a gripping personal account of survival in the wilderness for a week without food when an expedition failed to connect with a prescheduled helicopter . Fortunately , the small group was expert at outdoor survival and we were provided a mini-course on Siberian edibles of the forest . During a later excursion to the taiga , as the swampy coniferous forests of Siberia are called , we had a chance to sample some of the forest bounty : berries , mushrooms , pine nuts and a delicious wild garlic . A gaily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was the site of our picnic lunch which featured smoked omul , an eel- like fish found only in Lake Baikal and tea from an ancient brass samovar which fragantly emitted curls of wood smoke . We inhaled the damp , earthy beauty of the forest as a couple of woodsmen sang us home with balalaikas and an accordion . Dinner ; farewells and exchanges of little gifts with friends and local guides ; rush to pack ; rush to the bus ; rush to the railway station . Our guide , Tanya , will not accompany us to Mongolia ; we are on our own and I suspect she needs a rest . Rush to platform . Which platform ? No one knows . Our luggage is missing . Tanya dashes off to find the luggage . I dash to find the platform . One minute to go . We board pell-mell as the train eases out of the station without our luggage . Pulling together all the authority of a born general , Tanya shouts to a conductor and stops the train . Our suitcases are thrown on board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delighted with the furor . Tanya wipes her brow and blows farewell kisses to Sasha as we pull away once again . Several elegantly dressed Russians joke with us about the late luggage and offer vodka and chocolates in exchange for our American " visky " and a jar of peanut butter . It promised to be another pleasant train ride with interesting company until I discover that we had been booked onto a local train to Ulan Bator instead of the express from Moscow ( which had never arrived anyway ) . We had two days and a night of travel before us - and no dining car ! I searched out the train administrator who clucked in sympathy and with his approval , and to the grumbling of other passengers , purchased nearly half of all the provisions in the small buffet . We were to dine on sausage , Bulgarian pickles , bread , soft cheese and kefir , a refreshing yogurt-like drink . We made quite a sight hauling all this through 43 doors and seven cars since most Russians generally bring their own food and supplement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the exception of our first-class car , was entirely hard-class . Peasants and soldiers in muddy boots slept on bare , cold benches in fly-ridden compartments without seeming to mind or notice . Watching a withered grandmother feeding dry bread to a small child , we felt the pain of want but sensed also a resolute acceptance of hardship as a way of life . Late at night , our train curved around the souther most tip of Lake Baikal and gave us our final glimpse . The moon was full and huge - an oriental gong of polished brass reflected in glittering ribbons on the water . We turned east , past Ulan Ude , capital of the Buryat Republic and turned due south toward Mongolia . The Buryats were distant ancestors of the Mongols and were a distinctly oriental people with a traditionally buddhist culture . After Ulan Ude , the Siberian countryside of log villages and cabbage patches changed . Vegetation became sparse ; the land became dry and rocky and the earth was cracked from the hot , dry summer . We arrived at the border @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perfunctory : passports collected and customs declarations handed out . No worry about smuggling here . We got off the train for an unspecified stay and were greeted by Valya , the head of the local Intourist office , who was very excited because we were the third English-speaking group that year and she had a chance to practice her English . My gift of a paperback dictionary quickly produced a delicious hot lunch for us , then a long wait . An exact departure time is apparently not given to prevent curious foreigners from wandering beyond the train station . Here rubles must be changed back to dollars since they are not allowed into Mongolia . Our next stop was for Mongolian customs which was efficient and pleasant although customs officials did not speak a word of English and I had to earn my keep by interpreting for them . They only wanted to know whether our group had been photographing from the train . Why , no , everyone smiled . After the border , the landscape changed - distant mountains , the first yurts , but still the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - even women carrying rifles . The moon rose yellow and enormous once again over thebleak moonscape around us . It felt cold and forbidding . We had entered another world . B07831300                     