@@668634

Soft-drink company executives in Chicago are quietly cheering on Coca Cola Bottling Co. of Chicago , which has instigated precedent-breaking moves that they hope will spell relief from one of the highest labor tabs in the country . On Monday , Teamsters Local 744 struck Coke after the union and the company were unable to come to terms in negotiating a new contract . The drivers ' two-year contract expired May 1 . They object to a proposed a two-tier wage system and a plan to eliminate drivers ' helpers on most routes . Chicago ' s soft-drink firms count themselves as having among the highest labor costs in the country , with some Teamster drivers earning between $30 , 000 and $50 , 000 a year . This year ' s situation was foreshadowed two years ago . The then-new management of Coke in Chicago , led by President Marvin Herb , made loud noises that it was unhappy with the terms of the industry ' s contract with the Teamsters . " They put their backs up and said they wanted a better deal , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were too new in the business . Now , they know exactly where they are going , and they are executing their plan . " Precedent-breaking Step No. 1 was to break away from the pack . Historically , Chicago ' s soft-drink companies  --  also including Pepsi Cola , 7-Up , Royal Crown and Canfield ' s  --  have negotiated one blanket contract with the Teamsters . " What they want in this contract is what they wanted last time but couldn ' t get in association with the other companies , " said Local 744 President Roy Chamberlin . " So we expected them to break away this time around . " That concerns the union . " We ' ve worked very well in concert with employers to gain what we have in the contract in Chicago , " Chamberlin said . " We ' ve worked in concert and kept everyone on an even keel so that one ( bottler ) wouldn ' t be able to cut the others ' throats . We ' re concerned because we want them all solvent and healthy and competitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the union and the other companies . In fact , nothing is being pushed in hopes that Coke will wring some concessions from the union that the others would insist be figured into their contracts . " We ' re just laying low , " one executive said . " We ' re all sitting on the edge of our chairs to see what ' s going to happen . Once Coke does hammer out an agreement , you can bet there are going to be similarities in the others ' proposals . " While other companies have proposed a three-year contract , as did Coke , no one else had the nerve to go so far as to propose a lower wage scale for new hires and elimination of drivers ' helpers . Successful negotiation of either point would not only break long-standing precedents but would go a long way , managements argue , toward bringing down labor costs . While some executives are hopeful that Coke will win on either or both points , others are skeptical . One former soft-drink company executive said : " The last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when we all banded together for the first time . " Coke ' s current management has to go for a long-term win and must be prepared to sit it out . And if a group ( of companies ) was willing to go out on this , the chances would be a little different . " The difficulty , he said , will be in persuading the union to sign a contract with Coke that is separate from the others . " The union has never done that before , " the former executive said . Meanwhile , Coke Tuesday reportedly began running delivery trucks staffed by management and bringing nonunion employees to work in the plants . A total of 630 Teamsters are employed by Coke in driving , production and warehouse jobs . The union was preparing to respond in kind . " In the next day or so , we are going to attempt to start consumer picketing , based on where they are delivering , " Chamberlin said . " And we are also considering a boycott against Coke in Chicago . " TAKEOVER REGULATION LOOMS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Illinois General Assembly , which is mulling legislation to outlaw " greenmail " and two-tier takeovers . State Sen. Prescott Bloom ( R. , Peoria ) says he ' s managed to arouse the " lions of LaSalle Street " with his bill , called the Illinois Shareholder Protection Law . State Sen. Sam Vadalabene ( D. , Edwardsville ) is the bill ' s cosponsor . The bill , at the passage stage in the Senate , effectively would bar companies incorporated in Illinois from buying out corporate raiders at share prices unavailable to all shareholders . It also would force raiders getting partial control of a target company to offer a cash buyout to remaining shareholders . Perhaps of greater significance is a provision that alters the so-called business-judgment rule , which governs the behavior of corporate officers and directors . Generally , corporate law requires officers and directors to act in the best interests of shareholders . The Bloom-Vadalabene bill would add that officers and directors " may consider the effects of any action upon employees , suppliers and customers of the corporation , communities in which offices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other pertinent factors . " Bloom , whose district has been hard hit by economic downturns , says he is concerned about companies ' selling out to larger corporations and losing the local commitment . Evan Kjellenberg , the Chicago lawyer who spearheaded last year ' s redrafting of the Illinois business corporation act , has raised objections to the bill . Bloom says he may consider changes before sending the bill to the Illinois House . NOTES Gordon Teach , vice chairman of Illinois Co. , has found himself the butt of unending , if sympathetic , jokes along LaSalle Street as a result of injuries recently suffered when he fell out of a tree . Teach suffered the mishap while trimming foliage and ended up in a hospital with a broken hip . Among the many cards sent to his hospital room was one addressed to " Tarzan Teach "  --  which , surprisingly , was actually forwarded to the hospital room and not to Africa.                     