@@734739

txt WASHINGTON  --  Much of the controversy over the military services ' increasingly critical manpower problems has focused on Clifford Alexander Jr. , secretary of the Army . For one thing , the Army has the most severe problems . It is increasingly poor , black , and under-educated . For another , Alexander , who is black and was appointed by President Carter , has turned into the staunchest defender of the " All Volunteer Force , " which growing numbers of Pentagon civilian officials and military officers believe has failed to meet the nation 's needs . BASICALLY , ALEXANDER appears to take the position that the Army does n't have any serious manpower problems . Challenged at a recent House Armed Services Committee hearing about a drastic decline in Army intelligence levels as evidenced by the fact that about 45 per cent of current recruits score in Category IV very low on the Armed Forces Qualification Test AFQTI , Alexander replied that the test was generally meaningless . The armed services have been giving the test for 40 years . But Alexander said it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamentally irrelevant . " UNTIL IT CAN develop a new test , however , the Army continues to use the AFQT because , Alexander says , it can be helpful not in measuring intelligence but , in conjunction with other tests , in deciding on job placement of recruits . Just this month Alexander ordered Army personnel officers to remove AFQT scores from the field records of all soldiers , saying the test is unfair and unscientific . That is a move sure to bring on new attacks from Alexander 's critics . Pressed about failure rates as high as 90 per cent on the Army 's Skills Qualification Test SQT I , which supposedly measures a soldier 's ability to do his job , Alexander again shrugged off the evidence as outdated or largely irrelevant . The SQT , he said , was not intended as a pass-or-fail measure of a soldier'sability to perform but only as a guide to what kind of training needed to be strengthened or emphasized . He also disputes the idea that having a high school diploma has any bearing on whether a person makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army recruits have high school diplomas ; only 276 out of the 340,000 soldiers in their first enlistment have college degrees . THE ONLY REASON the Army wants to get more high school graduates , according to Alexander , is that experience shows that more of them at least finish their first enlistment . IOne-third of all recruits are discharged before they finish their first enlistment . Raymond t of fry                     