@@670124

WASHINGTON  --  The independent counsel investigating the Iran-Contra scandal also is likely to look into longstanding allegations of narcotics smuggling by anti-communist insurgents battling the Nicaraguan government , according to law-enforcement officials and congressional sources . The Justice Department has agreed to turn over jurisdiction to pursue such drug-related inquiries to Lawrence Walsh , the independent counsel , officials said . The department also has agreed to hand over its investigative files . The files include statements by one witness who officials say recently passed a government-administered lie detector test while claiming to have seen bags of cocaine loaded aboard a Southern Air Transport cargo plane parked at an airstrip in Barranquilla , Colombia , in 1985 . The witness already has received limited immunity from prosecution and also is seeking to be placed in the federal witness-protection program . The witness claims that the aircraft was the same C-123 cargo plane that was shot down in Nicaragua last Oct. 5 while ferrying supplies to anti-communist rebels , according to federal law-enforcement officials and others familiar with the testimony . Mr. Walsh and his investigators are reviewing material @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicated which drug-related investigations they want to take over , according to officials familiar with discussions between the independent counsel and the department . In view of his broad mandate and limited resources , these officials said , it ' s too early to tell how much emphasis Mr. Walsh intends to put on this aspect of his inquiry . But by beginning at least a preliminary investigation and assessing information about suspected drug smuggling that has been gathered so far , Mr. Walsh is likely to please congressional critics of the Reagan administration , who have pushed for months for a full-fledged federal investigation of alleged Contra involvement in illegal drugs . The Senate Foreign Relations Committee , after months of delays and partisan bickering , is stepping up investigation of alleged links between some Nicaragua Contras and illict drug trafficking . Sen. Claiborne Pell , ( D. , R.I. ) , the new chairman of the committee , has decided to pursue the matter , hire a full-time investigator and coordinate the investigation with efforts by the Senate select committee trying to unravel the Iran-Contra affair . Justice Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for months to launch a full-scale investigation of drug-related allegations involving some Contra supporters . Leon Kellner , the U.S. attorney in Miami , asserted last month that he had received " no substantive allegations " of drug smuggling by the Contras or their backers . But senior department officials now acknowledge that they have information indicating that some individuals involved in the Contra movement also may have participated in drug trafficking . " We ' re providing everything we have found " to Mr. Walsh , said one senior Justice Department official . " He can pick and choose , and has complete freedom to take over whatever " inquiries or pending criminal cases he wants , this official said . Mr. Walsh and department spokesmen have declined to provide details about the special prosecutor ' s plans . Separately , Michael Shaheen , the Justice Department ' s internal ethics watchdog , has formally referred to Mr. Walsh an inquiry into the circumstances that prompted an approximately month-long delay late last year of a probe by the Federal Bureau of Investigation into Southern Air ' s operations . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nicaragua insurgents . It delayed the investigation at the request of Attorney General Edwin Meese , who warned that the probe threatened the safety of American hostages in Lebanon . Southern Air , which has declined to comment on the matter , was used to ship weapons to both Iran and the Contras . Earlier this week , the FBI interviewed Eugene Hasenfus , the American crewman who was captured after last October ' s crash and later released by the Nicaraguan government . Sen. John Kerry ( D. , Mass. ) has accused Mr. Meese and the Justice Department of " foot-dragging for more than a year " in drug-related investigations involving the Contras or their U.S. backers . Meanwhile , a Washington attorney with experience in the Koreagate influence-peddling investigations of the late 1970s was named counsel to the newly formed House committee on the Iran-Contra affair . John Nields , who was chief counsel to the House Committee on Standards and Official Conduct during the Koreagate inquiry , was the choice of Rep. Lee Hamilton ( D. , Ind . ) . Rep. Hamilton participated in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran-Contra scandal . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal 