@@735634

txt Avco Corp . and Combustion Engineering Inc. , in separate proposals , recommended measures for their shareholders to approve at annual meetings that are aimed at protecting the companies against a hostile takeover . A growing number of companies are taking similar steps and intensifying such provisions already in effect in the face of an increasing number of successful unwanted tender offers in recent years . Avco officials were n't available to comment on the company 's proposed measures . According to the proxy statement for the meeting , Avco would require that any " major corporate reorganization " proposed by a holder or group controlling 20% or more of Avco 's shares may be completed only at a pershare price higher than what the investor paid for the original interest . The only exceptions to this rule would be if holders of at least SO ' of the company 's voting shalt es approved the transaction , or if a majority of director 's who are n't affiliated with the group approved it . Avco also proposed that any future holder action can be taken only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amendments to its certificate of incorporation can be made only with the approval of 80% of Avco 's voting shares outstanding . According to the proxy statement . Avco 's directors and officers as a group hold only 1.7% of the total voting power of its common and preferred shares outstanding . A number of banks , including Morgan Guaranty Trust Co of New York , First National Bank of Boston , the Dallas bank unit of RepublicBank Corp and Rhode Island Hospital Trust National Bank of Providence , hold interests of more than 5 " ; in the financial-sei vices and aerospace company . In its statement , Avco said it was proposing the amendments because it has become Reproduced with permission of the copyright owner . common practice for takeover entities to pay high prices for a controlling interest in a company , then pay remaining holders considerably less for their shares in a forced merger . Such two-tier pricing " is inequitable and tends to give arbitragers , who often accept the more lucrative first-step offer , an unfair advantage over the bulk of a corporation 's long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it does n't intend the amendment to prevent tender offers , but to limit the use of the two-tier pricing technique . The 20% ownership threshold was used . Avco said , because that degree of ownership often is sufficient to allow effective operating control . Avco also said the amendment is n't being proposed because of any efforts known to management by a group to accumulate Avco shares . The annual meeting is scheduled for April 14 . In Combustion Engineering 's proxy statement . the company proposed changing its articles of incorporation to give its directors three-year staggered terms . If approved , such a measure would prevent a buyer from gaining control of the board in a short time , since it would take as many as two annual stockholders meetings to elect a majority , the company said . Combustion Engineering also proposed an amendment that would require stockholders to give notice of any action and to hold a meeting in order to take action . Such a measure , the company said , would prevent a majority shareholder from keeping other shareholders from being heard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Under Delaware law , where the company is incorporated , a majority stockholder can take written action without a meeting . without a vote and without prior notice . Combustion Engineering , an energyequipment and engineering concern , said it does n't know of any group currently trying to gain control of the company . According to the proxy statement , its directors and officers together own about 1.2 ' ; of the common outstanding . There are n't any groups listed as owning 5% or more of the company . Combustion Engineering 's annual meeting is scheduled for April 26.                     