@@735071

txt The secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO charged that the Reagan administration is " scornful of organized labor " and refuses to consult with labor leaders on major decisions . " Within my span of knowledge . " relations between any administration and organized labor have never been worse , Thomas Donahue said at a breakfast interview with reporters . The Reagan administration 's dealings with the federation are " restricted and highly selective , " he said . He estimated that the AFL-CIO is contacted on substantive issues less than 10% as often as it was during the previous Republican administration , under President Ford . Mr. Donahue said " a greater openness " and " a broader range of relations " with organized labor might have given President Reagan other options besides firing the air traffic controllers who struck illegally Aug. 3 . Instead , he said , the administration appears to think it can protect workers ' interests and thus believes " no other forces are necessary . " As evidence , the AFL-CIO leader cited the White House 's apparent intent to ignore " solidarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sept. 19 to protest Reagan budget cuts . Mr. Donahue called the attitude " astonishing . " The White House sees the situation differently . Robert Bonitati , White House labor liaison , said the administration believes that " any group has the right to present its grievances . " but the demonstration 's effect " remains to be seen . " The administration " has tried very much to maintain an open door , to listen carefully and to try to take into consideration the views of the leaders and members of organized labor . " Mr Bonitati said . Aides said the President plans to visit New York City on Labor Day to present a facsimile of an $85 million check , representing the first federal payment toward construction of Westway , a major highway project . A Labor Department spokeswoman said building-trades union officials probably will attend the ceremony , which marks the fulfillment of a Reagan campaign pledge to support the project . Mr Reagan 's presence probably will take media attention away from a Labor Day parade in New York led by Mr. Kirkland , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Labor Day ceremony will he Mr Reagan 's second appearance before union officials in a week He addresses the carpenter union 's convention in Chicago next Thursday . Relations between union leaders and the Reagan administration have been less than cordial from the outset . The Labor Department has delayed , cancelled or altered a number of regulations that unions consider crucial to protecting workers ' health and safety . The strained relations have been exacerbated by the President 's tough handling of the controllers ' strike and an increasingly frosty relationship between Mr. Kirkland and Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan . The two have n't met since February . Mr. Donahue said . And Mr. Kirkland has been to the White House just twice since Mr. Reagan 's inauguration ; once was for a social occasion , according to Mr. Donahue.                     