@@668811

Aravaipa Canyon , Ariz.  --  An oasis of exceptional beauty lies hidden away in southeastern Arizona ' s Sonora Desert . Recently included in the National Wilderness System , little-known Aravaipa Canyon offers attractive hiking and bird watching near a crystal- clear , perennially flowing stream . The joyous effects of sweet , dependable water in a thirsty land are everywhere . Sheltered by dramatic rock forms , lush plant life and numerous wildlife species keep their fragile beauty in a " riparian , " or riverside , habitat . Although minuscule at 6 , 700 acres , compared with its giant neighbor , the Gila Wilderness at more than 430 , 000 acres , Aravaipa contains an amazing variety of scenery . Some 60 miles northeast of Tucson and only 7. 5 miles long as the crow flies , the main canyon is carved from four contrasting rock types of widely ranging ages . Each type , with its own color and texture , has eroded in a distinctive manner . Ten small but hikeable side canyons add even more variety . Walking is quite pleasant along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The upper or east entrance , at 3 , 000 feet , passes through relatively young conglomerate rock . Deposited under water a mere five million years ago , the beds are shaped into surreal smooth domes and freestanding pinnacles . Two and a half miles in , the rock abruptly and drastically changes character . Canyon walls become volcanic , showing massive , layered lava flows and ash 65 million years old . Sharp-edged ridges and spires are clothed in desert vegetation . Six miles farther , limestone outcroppings appear . The highly fossiliferous beds were formed 200 million years ago when the region was covered by a shallow sea . Finally , near the 2 , 600-foot lower , or west , entrance , extremely ancient Pre-Cambrian bedrock is exposed . Thus , tiny Aravaipa Canyon cuts through a 2. 6-billion-year cross-section of Earth ' s history . Shady glens hug the river and are nestled in narrow side canyons . Thick groves of sycamore , ash , cottonwood and willows cover treasure troves of wildflowers and other delicate riparian vegatation . In autumn the trees form a palette @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , virgin green seems impossible in such harsh surroundings . Aravaipa ' s water , food and shelter attract all sorts of wildlife . Mule deer , javelina , coati-mundis , various desert rodents and reptiles inhabit the canyon itself . Desert bighorn sheep and mountain lions roam the rimrock country above . The stream nurtures rare fish and an unusual variety of amphibians . The canyon is nationally known as a bird watcher ' s paradise . More than 200 species call it home , including the endangered bald eagle and peregrine falcon , a number of interesting owl types and song birds normally found much farther south in Mexico . An early morning walk up misnamed Hell Hole Canyon , largest of Aravaipa ' s branches , typifies the area ' s charm . The newly risen sun stirs a soft breeze and dispels chill remnants of dawn . Moist air , spiced with perfume of growing plants , glows in muted , silvery light . One penetrating sunbeam highlights the perfectly arranged flower clusters on a sand bar . Bird songs echo off protecting rock walls . Nowhere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with Aravaipa ' s fragility , only 50 people a day are allowed to enter the canyon and group sizes are regulated . Camping is held to three days and two nights  --  short but still time enough for the canyon to cast its spell . Fortunately , the wilderness area is not well-known , and reservations can be made six months in advance . Anyone who experiences Aravaipa ' s isolated , delicate balance will wholeheartedly agree with the protection afforded it.                     