@@734921

txt Having methodically dropped the ball on each of its earlier opyiortunities , the Illinois legislature is getting another chance to pass a merit selection bill . If it manages to score this time , voters next year will be able at last to choose a judicial system that rewards judges ' abilities rather than their political connections . The merit selection bill introduced this week is virtually the same as the one that passed the Senate last year , only to be blocked In the House by some fast footwork on the part of Democratic leaders . ( Since then the House leadership has passed to Republicans , so the chances may be better . ) It would put on the November , 1982 , ballot a constitutional amendment under which justices of Illinois ' Supreme and Appellate Courts , instead of running for election as Republicans or Democrats , would be appointed after a screening by commissions made up of laymen and lawyers . It would be up to the voters in each of the state 's 21 judicial circuits to decide whether the same system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an opt-out provision is included so that a circuit that adopted merit selection , then decided it was n't satisfactory , could go back to the old . system after 10 years . Nominating commissions , one for each district or circuit , would he set up to interview and evaluate aspirants to the bench . ( Nonlawyers would have to be inthe majority on each commission . ) . When a vacancy occurred , the appropriate panel would pick the three best-qualified candidates for it , and the governor would appoint one of the three . The process would not necessarily keep loyal Republicans or Democrats off the bench ; it would filter out those whose only claim to appointment was party loyalty ( a claim that often , has been quite sufficient in the past ) . The result would be a judiciary whose members owed nothing to their committeemen or local party organizations , and could concentrate solely on being good judges . Why are we talking about a merit-selection referendum 19 months before it could take place ? Because the illusion of having plenty of time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a merit selection bill is not approved by at least one house in 1981 , there will he very little time for it next year . Primary elections will be held in April ; the deadline for legislative action on constitutional changes is May 2 . In effect , the General Assembly next year will have only a month to deal with the question . The point is not lest on those who oppose merit selection . If they can stall it through the current session , their chances for sidetracking it will he excellent in the next one  --  and if they succeed , there will be no more chances until the presidential election of 1094 . So discussions of merit selection right now are far from premature . They 're just foresighted.                     