@@734996

txt A woman pregnant with twin fetuses , one normal and one defective , successfully gave birth only to the normal twin after doctors " terminated " the defective fetus midway through the pregnancy . It was the first time such " selective birth " has been reported in the U.S. and believed to be only the third time it 's been attempted in the world . Swedish doctors reported that they achieved such a selective birth in 1978 . The American doctors said they had heard of a second such attempt in Denmark recently that failed : both twins were miscarried . Selective birth was the way both the parents and doctors decided to resolve a dilemma that doctors had feared ever since scientists developed a means of diagnosing genetic defects during pregnancy . The technique , called amniocentesis , involves taking a sample of the amniotic fluid that surrounds a fetus and examining it for defective chromosomes . Located in the nucleus of a cell , chromosomes contain the genes , allowing doctors to spot genetic defects early in pregnancy and allowing parents to decide whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when researchers performed the first successful amniocentesis and chromosome analysis of twins , scientists wondered what would happen if it was discovered that one twin was defective . This was the dilemma faced last year by a 40-year-old woman and her doctors at New York 's Mount Sinai Hospital and Medical School . Chromosome analysis discovered that one twin would have Down 's syndrome , once called mongolism . The woman and her husband " were confronted with the difficult task of making one of two decisions : to induce abortion and lose both fetuses or to continue the pregnancy , " Drs . Thomas D. Kerenyi and Usha Chitkara of Mount Sinai reported in the current issue of the New England Journal of Medicine . " The mother desperately wanted to have the normal child but could not face the burden of caring for an abnormal child for the rest of her life , " they wrote . The woman decided to have an abortion but was told of the 1978 report from Sweden in which doctors , at 24 weeks ' pregnancy , had punctured the heart of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal fetus unharmed . The only effect was that the normal infant was born three weeks prematurely . The woman was then referred to Mount Sinai , where doctors explained the risks involved , including the possibility that both fetuses might be miscarried . In addition , because the procedure had n't been performed in the U.S. , the doctors " decided , out of an abundance of caution , to obtain confirmation from a court of law of the parents ' right to consent on behalf of the normal fetus . " Using an ultrasound machine to locate he two fetuses , the doctors carefully in ; erted a needle into the heart of the defecive fetus and removed 25 milliliters of good . The fetus 's heart beat ceases while hat of the normal fetus was unaffected . The woman was 20 weeks pregnant . Four and a half months later , at 40 weeks ' pregnancy , the woman gave birth to a normal , eight-pound boy after nine hours 9f labor . Soon after a dead fetus weighing four ounces was delivered . " After the parents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainly concerned about performing it without inadvertently bringing harm to the normal fetus , " the two doctors wrote . " We realized that this was more important than the fate of the affected twin , and that acceptance of this procedure in the future would hinge on the outcome for the normal unaffected twin . " Seven months after the birth both the mother and the baby " continue to do well , " they said .                     