@@668098

WASHINGTON-The message has come down from the White House as the battle with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy enters its last phase , and it is the political equivalent of the war cry : " Take no prisoners . " Holding a solid majority of delegates after the primary contests and aggravated over Kennedy ' s refusal to quit , the campaign of President Jimmy Carter is in no mood for compromise these days . And after absorbing a series of drubbings from Carter this week in the Democratic Rules Committee , Kennedy ' s tattered troops seem even more embittered and recalcitrant and eager to push their fight in New York next month . The chemistry seems set for a rowdy convention . During the two-day session of the Rules Committee , the Carter forces methodically defeated virtually every move made by the Kennedy opposition . It was an exercise , one Carter source said , dictated from the top of the campaign to show no mercy until Kennedy gives up . Carter , who has never been a benevolent winner or a gracious loser in his political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that was particularly apparent Wednesday , when his strategists refused to accept a minor defeat on an inconsequential rule . After two days of repeated setbacks , the Kennedy supporters managed to win - by1 votes-a motion to prevent members of the Democratic National Committee from also serving on something called the party ' s " judicial council . " When the outcome of the standing vote was announced , the Kennedy minority broke into cheers of disbelief-not over the importance of the amendment , but over the mere fact that they had won . Before the clapping had subsided , a Carter lieuteanant asked for a formal rollcall . Stray votes , seeking fresh air from the low- ceilinged room overheated with television klieg lights , were rounded up from the hallways of the Mayflower Hotel and hustled back to defeat the proposal When some Carter delegates questioned the wisdom of the overkill , they were told that the orders came from Rick Hutcheson , the President ' s staff secretary , who took time off from the White House this week to spend two days marching about the room @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , on the meeting . By the time the Carter supporters were finished , they had also passed several measure designed to repress further the minority at the New York convention . Under the rules approved by the Carter-dominated committee , only two pro- Kennedy speakers will be allowed to speak for a total of 10 minutes on any minority report . To minimize the drama of a dissenting chorus of more than 3300 delegates , they eliminated the traditional rollcalls . Instead , the votesfrom each state will be reported by telephone and the final total will announced later , while business continues on the floor . Carter aides say the measures are necessary to ensure prime-time display for the President and to avoid the night-long parliamentary struggles that characterized the 1972 convention . Kennedy aides say they will challenge these rules changes , too . The Carter majority also pushed through an amendment requiring the support of at least 10 percent of the delegates in order to place a name in nomination for the President . The measure would deprive California Gov . Edmund G. ( Jerry ) Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if he wanted it . Kennedy adviser Richard Stearns noted that it would have prevented such legitimate candidates as George C. Wallace and Sen. Henry M. Jackson from being formally nominated in 1972 . It was that year that a little-known governor named Jimmy Carter got national TV exposure by making the nominating speech for Jackson . Stearns said the new rule was apparently designed to make more difficult a rump movement on the floor for someone other than either Carter or Kennedy . Although the floor leaders of the two sides were able to meet privately during the Rules Committee meetings to try to work out accommodations , they had little success . They were forced to fight out almost every issue on the floor , and Carter enjoyed the upper hand . Once , on another relatively insignificatn vote , a delegate appealed to the Carter supporters plaintively : " Please , just this once ? " But the Carter majority rolled ahead . And the Kennedy supporters , obstinate in their own refusal to yield to the results of the primaries , became more obstinate themselves . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like a frayed electrical cord , and there were loud curses when a pro-Carter temporary chairman made a ruling against the Kennedy side . At the end , Sen. Kaniel Inouye of Hawaii , the permanent chairman who was praised by both sides for presiding over the meeing with fairness , chose to make an optimisitc assessment of the Rules Committee session : " I think we leave here united with one purpose in mind , the defeat of Ronald Reagan . " But Harold Ickes , a New York attorney and Kennedy floor leader , told him in the closing line of the meeting : " I ' m not sure we are quite as unified as you indicated , but we ' ll see you in New York . " B08005084                     