@@668270

Last week , this space noted WITS sports boss Richard Chmura ' s innovative plan to recoup advertising revenue lost during the baseball strike by expanding the advertising time between innings . This week , there is a bold proposal from Joe Dimino , the leader of Ch. 38 , the Red Sox TV station which also is suffering because of the strike . If play resumes in early August , not coincidentally when the owners ' strike insurance payments end , Dimino suggests that the schedule be rearranged , with concentration placed upon divisional play . This would require a major shift in the schedule because from Aug. 1 through Sept. 7 , 26 of the 29 Red Sox games are supposed to be played against West Division teams . Only during the final three weeks of the season would there be games against divisional opponents . Dimino notes advantages in juggling the schedule . By playing exclusively against divisional rivals , the division winners will seem more credible despite a season shortened by 50 games or so . Games more important to the pennant races also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lethargic in the wake of the long strike , Dimino points out . And if the games are played primarily between teams located in the same part of the country , it will be easier to make up telecasts lost during the strike . Less traveling also would save money for the owners and might even conserve the energy of the athletes . " The schedule could be made out in advance by passing it through a computer , " Dimino says . In fact , he insists , a different contingency schedule could be established in advance based on the actual date that the strike ends . While streamlining the emergency schedule , baseball would be wise to establish a uniformity in the number of games to be played during the shortened season . That would prevent a repeat of the 1972 situation , a bone in the throat of Red Sox fans ever since . Because of the brief strike for the first 13 days of that season , the Sox played one fewer game than the champion Tigers - and as a result , they lost the American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of games each team plays varies , it is possible that more than one of the four divisional races would be settled by that imbalance in the schedule . One can imagine the howl from George Steinbrenner if the Yankees were to lose the AL East title in that fashion . Chuck Adams of baseball Comr . Bowie Kuhn ' s office is vague about what the schedule will be when - and if - play resumes . If the strike ends fairly soon , games will be picked up from the original schedule , Adams says without defining the time span . Alternative schedules are being considered if the strike continues for a lengthy period , he adds . Adams says he knows of nothing in the works similar to Dimino ' s plan , however . Meanwhile , a certain gloom is settling over television and radio as the strike drags on . Innovations such as minor league telecasts ( being introduced this weekend by Ch. 38 ) , replays on radio of memorable games and even Strat-O- Matic baseball on WITS do not hold a grip on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their sales during the summer , such as oil and beer companies , must take their advertising message somewhere , and this contains an inherent danger . If the strike presses on , some sponsors may discover that they can convey their messages at a much cheaper price than that offered on baseball broadcasts . Some advertisers that stray this season because of the strike may decide to stay away next season , weakening the marketplace that is based to a surprising degree on intangibles . It is interesting that many baseball-broadcasting TV stations , including Ch. 38 , apparently have agreed to carry a five-day-old tape of a Japanese game on Thursday night . These are desperate times , and they are becoming more so . The Strat-O-Matic games on WITS are a tribute to the ability of announcers Ken Coleman and Jon Miller to simulate real action . But the make-believe element is really asking too much of fans who are angry at both management and players over the strike . Still , WITS ' Chmura insists he is getting positive responses to the innovative games . The All-Star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reactionfrom NBC this past week was curious . The network reported that it could notput on the telecast without a five-day advance notice . It is strange that after 30 years of covering baseball , mostly with excellence , and being familiar with the Cleveland ballpark , NBC still required so much lead time . Without television , the All-Star game has little reason to exist . It is a showcase of the best players in the game offered for the benefit of a TV audience of 60 million , not for the comparative pittance at the ballpark . Also , much of the TV revenue from the All- Star game goes into the players ' pension fund , giving television ' s participation added significance . Part of NBC ' s adamant attitude toward advance notice undoubtedly was based on consideration for its 200 affiliates , but the television audience would be understanding if the limited production time resulted in cameras missing a play or two .                     