@@668016

Towering in the background of news photos from China during Defense Secretary Harold Brown ' s historic visit is a tall , ramrod figure of a man with a shock of gray hair and the hint of a perpetual smile . Gen. George Seignious is in Brown ' s party not because he is a retired Army general but because he is the outgoing director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency . When the trip was being planned , Carter Administration strategists thought it might assuage Soviet fears if the American disarmament chief was present . The notion was that he would be seen as trying to overcome caustic Chinese criticism of the SALT II treaty and other arms control efforts . Repeatedly , the Chinese have warned that the United States was being lulled and bamboozled by the Russians on arms control . But the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan occurred shortly before Brown landed in Peking . And Seignious ' presence instantly became less important symbolically , if not positively counterproductive . Because post-Afghanistan , Administration planners want the Russians to fret about closer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Until recently there were only two specific areas where Peking and Washington coordinated their policies : on Pakistan and Vietnam . For example , after extensive discussions the Chinese said they would provide arms to the guerrilla forces opposing the Vietnamese invasion of Cambodia , while the United States said it would do its best to provide food so the Vietnamese couldn ' t starve the opposition into submission . And both agreed that if Vietnamese forces spilled significantly over the border of Thailand chasing guerrillas , they would coordinate their military responses . Vietnam was expected to be the principal subject on the agenda during the Brown visit . But with the Soviet foray into Afghanistan , that quickly rose to the top of the list . American planners see forays in which the two nations can coordinate their reactions to the dangerous new situation : 1 . Both countries will make determined efforts to reassure the government of Pakistan , with which China has very close relations , that they will not stand by and allow a Soviet military attack in retaliation for Pakistan providing sanctuary and aid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decide which new weapons each will supply Pakistan to shore up its defensive capability . 3 . They will coordinate the covert supply of lightweight antiaircraft , antitank and other weapons to the insurgent tribes in Afghanistan . 4 . If the new Indian government reacts menacingly to the provision of major weapons to Pakistan and China counters by moving forces to the Indian border , the United States could assure New Delhi that Peking was not contemplating a cross-border incursion . China ' s dramatic opening to the West is motivated by two main objectives : to acquire a massive input of modern technology to enable Peking to build up its strength , industrial and military ; and to try to persuade the United States , West Europe and Japan that they must awaken to the danger of Soviet expansionism and cooperate in containing it . Until Afghanistan , the Chinese privately complained that the United States did not seem to perceive fully the imminency of the danger and of the need for concrete steps to counter it . But after Russian divisions rolled over the rugged Afghan border , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequent , high-level discussions between not only their diplomats and industrial planners and the Americans , but between their military strategists and their counterparts . Washington is willing . The Chinese want computers , transport aircraft , communications systems and other high technology items that will be useful to their civilian economy and also to their military modernization . On many so-called dual technology equipment , Washington is willing to provide some things it won ' t sell the Russians . The Chinese would like fighter-bombers , antitank missiles and other advanced weapons from the American arsenal , but won ' t ask . They don ' t want to risk goading the hardliners in the Kremlin into overreacting , nor worrying the weaker nations of Asia about a new regional threat . And , of course , Washington shares these concerns .                     