@@670313

NEW YORK  --  In a stunning rebuke to government prosecutors , a federal judge declared a mistrial in the stock-manipulation case against GAF Corp. and a senior executive , ruling that prosecutors improperly withheld an expert report on the validity of a key piece of evidence . Judge Mary Johnson Lowe , however , signaled her intention to promptly begin a new trial , scheduling jury selection for tomorrow morning . Attorneys for GAF and its vice chairman , James T. Sherwin , immediately filed a notice to appeal the ruling in an effort to block a second trial . The appeal will be based on grounds of double jeopardy , the theory that a defendant can ' t be retried for the same offense . " You can ' t wear the same bathing suit twice , " groused GAF ' s lead counsel , Arthur Liman . Judge Lowe refused a request from prosecutor Carl Loewenson Jr.  --  who earlier had admitted making " a grave error " in his handling of the expert report  --  that she state on the record that double jeopardy wasn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judge did emphasize her belief that Mr. Loewenson ' s actions were " unintentional , " which could sharply limit the chances of a successful appeal . GAF ' s appeal is likely to include a request to a higher court that any new trial be delayed until the appeal process plays out . Derailing of the GAF proceedings , the first criminal trial arising from Wall Street ' s insider-trading scandals , is the biggest setback in the U.S. investigation since indictments were dropped two years ago against three Wall Street executives accused of insider trading . It also represents a major embarrassment for departing Manhattan U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani , who yesterday announced his resignation effective at the end of this month . Still , few defense attorneys were willing to suggest that the GAF setback would affect coming prosecutions of Wall Street figures , including stock speculator Salim B. Lewis and corporate raider Paul Bilzerian . " I don ' t think this will have any effect on our case at all , " said Stanley Arkin , Mr. Lewis ' s lawyer . The focus of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggested a $40 , 000 invoice sent by Jefferies &; Co. and found in GAF ' s files was authentic , but had been tampered with by " whiting out " a key phrase . The invoice , which prosecutors dubbed their most important piece of evidence , allegedly represented GAF ' s bill from the Los Angeles-based brokerage for manipulating Union Carbide Corp. stock upward in advance of GAF ' s sale of its Carbide stock in 1986 . Unaware of the expert ' s report , GAF ' s Mr. Liman had suggested in open court last week that a copy of the invoice found in GAF ' s files might have been totally fabricated by Jefferies . Prosecutors acknowledged knowing since at least Dec. 24 of the expert report . The GAF copy of the invoice was altered when someone  --  no one knows who  --  apparently deleted mention of Davy Corp. , an English company whose stock GAF was buying at the time . Testifying for the prosecution , the former chairman of Jefferies , Boyd L. Jefferies , said Davy ' s mention was false and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ GAF has maintained that the invoice was for legitimate Jefferies ' services in the Davy purchases . Whatever the case , attorneys for GAF and Mr. Sherwin argued that the prosecution ' s failure to promptly produce the expert report , as required by law , unfairly hurt their case by allowing them to unwittingly make the fabrication suggestions . Judge Lowe agreed , saying Mr. Loewenson ' s actions created an " incurable prejudice " against Mr. Sherwin and GAF , even though she found the prosecutor ' s behavior unintentional . At a news conference announcing his long-awaited resignation , Mr. Giuliani said , " the government didn ' t do anything wrong and acted in good faith . " He defended Mr. Loewenson , saying that the prosecutor " didn ' t anticipate Mr. Liman would make false accusations of tampering " with the evidence . " Mr. Liman created the issue . " For his part , Mr. Loewenson has said he was " stunned " by Mr. Liman ' s suggestion of fabrication and hadn ' t intentionally withheld the report . Yesterday , the prosecutor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' re ready to start the trial Thursday . " GAF issued a statement saying it was " disappointed , with the case going so well for the defense , that the government conduct has necessitated a mistrial . " A spokesman said its appeal would seek dismissal of the government ' s indictments of both the company and Mr. Sherwin . Mr. Sherwin declined to comment . Defense attorneys not involved in the case were divided about GAF ' s chances for success on the double jeopardy-based appeal . Some said an appeals court would have to find Mr. Loewenson ' s behavior intentional to support throwing out the case . " If it ' s found he did this intentionally , that ' s the end of the case , " said Mr. Arkin . But after Judge Lowe ' s courtroom statements that she considered such a suggestion frivolous , Mr. Arkin added , " I ' d say the likelihood of that is remote . " GAF ' s contention that it was doing well gained some support from the jury foreman , Leo Lozada , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jefferies persuasive . Mr. Jefferies has pleaded guilty to two felonies in return for his cooperation with the government , including his testimony against GAF . " Jefferies is not an objective witness , " Mr. Lozada said in an interview outside the courthouse . " He had an interest in the case , and I would not accept his statements as the truth . " He added : " Every juror I spoke to felt the government had not proven its case . " Mr. Lozada added that he might have given Mr. Jefferies added credibility had his statements been corroborated by others later in the trial.  --  - Betty Wong contributed to this article . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     