@@670047

WASHINGTON  --  The former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said the insurance fund could handle three times the expected record rate of bank failures this year without the relief measures recently embraced by regulators . William Isaac , who left the FDIC last October and now heads a financial consulting firm here , told a House oversight subcommittee that the accounting standard now being advocated by the FDIC , Federal Reserve Board and Comptroller of the Currency to aid troubled banks was " so liberal that it doesn ' t reflect economic reality . " Mr. Isaac said use of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ' s Rule 15 would encourage banks to make imprudent decisions to restructure bad loans . Under the rule , a bank may forgive part of a loan and extend the repayment terms at a lower interest rate without taking a loss . The total principal and interest payments must add up to at least the original loan amount , however , and must be repaid over a reasonable period , according to a banking circular issued March 28 by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FDIC had long opposed the use of FASB 15 until the recent , coordinated initiative by the three agencies . The comptroller and Fed had supported the rule , although neither had aggressively urged banks to use it . " In many cases it makes sense to try to work with a borrower to restructure a loan rather than foreclose , " Mr. Isaac said . " ( But ) the accounting system ought to be as neutral as possible . . . it ought not to encourage people to make noneconomic decisions . " Mr. Isaac ' s view was supported by Frederick Wolf , director of the accounting and financial management division of the General Accounting Office . Loans restructured using the controversial accounting rule " can result in a financial institution being substantially worse off under the new loan arrangement than under the original , " he said . As it is , banks and thrifts are too slow to recognize losses from bad loans and too willing to mask problems by restructuring , Mr. Wolf told lawmakers . " Too often , an institution ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ debt restructuring is akin to a religious experience  --  the lame begin to walk and the blind to see , " Mr. Wolf said . " In reality , however , troubled debtors continue to limp along . " A spokesman for the FDIC declined to comment on the testimony from Mr. Isaac and the GAO . The hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee ' s oversight panel was the first of three that will focus on the use of liberal accounting practices in the thrift and banking industries . The savings industry has long been criticized for its reliance on regulatory accounting rules that tend to make thrifts , and their deposit insurance fund , appear more financially sound than under generally accepted accounting principles . The accounting rule now being pushed by bank regulators is sanctioned by the Financial Accounting Standards Board , which approves generally accepted principles . But subcommittee Chairman Rep. John Dingell ( D. , Mich. ) contended that banks ' use of the rule will weaken them , the way regulatory accounting has hurt thrifts . " We do not want these agencies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have caused so many problems in the savings and loan industry , " Mr. Dingell said in a prepared statement . Peter Stearns , the former director of the Federal Savings &; Loan Insurance Corp. , who also testified yesterday , told lawmakers that certain promissory notes carried as assets on the books of the FSLIC are essentially worthless and that the fund ' s strength is overstated . Mr. Stearns has estimated that the FSLIC is holding some $2. 5 billion in these " income capital certificates " as well as " net worth certificates . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     