@@668657

A chemical leak at the Union Carbide Corp . South Charleston plant Tuesday , the second incident at a company facility this week , has left this community with " high anxiety levels , " Charleston Mayor Mike Roark said . The situation is straining the patience even of a community that depends on about 20 chemical companies for economic survival in the so-called " Chemical Valley " of the Kanawha River . " The community certainly has a heightened sensitivity to strange smells , " said the mayor , who spent much of Tuesday night and early Wednesday in a city emergency command post . " Were it not for Sunday ' s incident , I ' m not sure that what occurred Tuesday evening would have had much significance , " the mayor said early Wednesday . On Sunday , a leak of the chemical aldicarb oxime from Union Carbide ' s plant in Institute , W.Va. , left 134 people sick . The South Charleston plant , five miles from Institute , released an undisclosed amount of chemicals that overheated in a mixing tank and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intense odor . Mike Lipscomb , spokesman for the South Charleston plant , identified the chemical mixture as Ucon fluid and isopropenol . " It ' s non-toxic and non-threatening , " Lipscomb said . " The product does have an offensive odor . " After deciding that the chemicals were obnoxious but not dangerous , city officials in Charleston and neighboring communities decided against evacuating residents from their homes . But the Charleston Emergency Services Department reported that four people were treated for eye irritations and released . Lipscomb said the malfuntioning unit was flushed with water to dampen fumes and that some of the tainted water flowed into the Kanawha River . Part of the South Charleston plant is on an island in the river . The frustration growing here stems from not knowing what to do in an emergency . Gatha McCroskey , who lives in a house a few hundred feet from the South Charleston plant ' s main gate , said she called South Charleston police " to see how dangerous it was . They said ' We don ' t know a thing . Call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a grandson to a daughter ' s home 10 miles away , returning three hours later . " I had a cloth over my mouth when we left the house , " she said . " I was getting nauseated and my eyes started to burn . It smelled like burning rubber . " McCroskey said she saw a white cloud of fumes hanging over the South Charleston plant as she fled . Roark was angry with Union Carbide for failing to notify city officials of the Sunday accident . But he praised Union Carbide actions Tuesday as cooperative . " The chemical stinks , but was non-toxic and posed no threat to health and safety , " he concluded . " We are concerned , but we are not ready to throw in the towel on Carbide or engage in Carbide-bashing . " The morning dawned Wednesday in Charleston with the usual chemical smells in the air , made worse by a week-long temperature inversion and hot summer weather that left the chemical valley covered in blue haze . On Wednesday , it smelled like the inside of a rubber @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If only the wind picked up , it would blow all this away and we could start all over again , " said Dick Henderson , a Carbide spokesman . Henderson acknowledged that the double-whammy chemical leaks at Union Carbide plants have damaged the company ' s credibility . " The eyes of the nation are on the valley , " Henderson said . " We are the major chemical producer in the valley , and we ' ve got to set the standards . We ' ve had some untimely situations , and we will do better . It increases our obligation to perform well . " In another development , Carbide officials said they were misled by a computer into believing the Institute chemical cloud Sunday would not leave plant property , but it did . The system is known as SAFER , Systemized Approach for Emergency Response . " The system is an emergency tool that gives you some guidance , but it will not replace human judgment , " said Edward Kivett , Carbide ' s safety director at the Institute plant . The computeer considers the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wind direction and predicts how far and how fast a cloud of leaking chemicals is likely to travel . The computer said the cloud of leaking aldicarb oxime gas would dissipate before passing the chemical plant fences . " We have not fully explained why it did drift into the community ; we ' re still trying to determine that , " Kivett said . Manufacturers of SAFER said early Wednesday that the system was not programmed for aldicarb oxime , and Kivett agreed that might have been part of the problem . Carbide officials admitted Tuesday that the chemical that escaped Sunday is considered highly dangerous , but they insisted that people exposed to it need not fear long-term health problems . The company announced that it will temporarily halt production of aldicarb oxime until it can learn how the accident occurred.                     