@@668447

The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court is scheduled to hold a special session at 9.30 a.m . Monday to hear arguments on whether Gov . Michael S. Dukakis can use a 1964 amendment to the state constitution to oust Gov . Edward J. King ' s last-minute appointments to the Massachusetts Port Authority board of directors . Justice Ruth I. Abrams announced the unusual session of all the justices to hear arguments in suits involving appointments of Joseph Laffey Jr . of Newton , an official of Teamsters Local 25 , and businessman Eric H. Jostrom of Townsend . The justices could issue an immediate brief ruling deciding the case followed by a full written decision giving the legal reasons for the ruling . Laffey and Jostrom , a military aide to King , were sworn in little more than an hour before King left office last Thursday . In the background also is the question of whether Dukakis ' office or King will influence and possibly control the extensive Massport operations and patronage at Logan Airport , the Mystic-Tobin Bridge and Boston Harbor facilities . Laffey , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dispute a step further early yesterday when his lawyer , James T. Grady , filed a suit in the Supreme Court challenging the legality of Dukakis ' order removing Laffey as a director . Grady said Laffey received that order last Saturday at his home . Jostrom , a Republican named to keep the political balance on the board as required by the state law establishing Massport , received a similar ouster order , according to his lawyer , George Sprague . Sprague said Jostrom was out of the city , but intends to file the necessary papers with the court to join in the case . To avoid delay in hearing the case , Justice Abrams permitted Sprague to join immediately in the case and provide the paper work later . She ordered Grady and Sprague to file briefs with the court by Friday . Justice Abrams declined requests of Grady and Sprague for an immediate , temporary injunction to prevent Dukakis from appointing new Massport directors pending the high court ' s decision . " There will be no injunction against the governor , " she said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usurping " Laffey ' s duties , and could result in votes of the directors being " of dubious legality . " Assistant Attorneys General Carl Valvo and Stephen Ostrach , on behalf of Dukakis and State Secretary Michael Joseph Connolly , were directed to file their briefs and papers by 9 a.m . Monday . Valvo said he intends to question whether the suit filed by Laffey is the proper way of challeging the governor ' s removal order . Valvo said he is considering filing a direct challenge to the right of Laffey and Jostrom to continue to hold office as Massport directors . This would come under the old writ of quo warranto - by what right do the two directors claim their office . According to the suit brought by Laffey , Dukakis acted under Chapter 740 which resulted from a ballot referendum question approved by the voters Nov. 3 , 1964 . The measure originally was sponsored by the League of Women Voters and was aimed at curbing the powers of the nine member Executive Council over appointments to jobs , fixing of salaries and compensation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transferred to the governor the power to make all such appointments without consent of the council . It also provided that " at any time within 15 days after the making of any such appointment which heretofore required the advice and consent of the council , the governor may , without cause , remove the person so appointed . " That law does not apply to Laffey ' s appointment because the " statute applies , if at all , , to the appointing governor and not to his successor , " Grady said in the suit . The suit alleged that the 1964 law also conflicts with the 1956 law that established the Port Authority and gave directors tenure in office and the right to a hearing before being removed . The suit noted that the 1964 law was captioned " An act repealing statutory powers of the governor ' s council which interfere with the efficient operation of the executive department of the commonwealth . " Grady alleged that this law " has the purpose of limiting the authority of the Governor ' s Council and is in no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ annul any or all of the lawful appointments made by his predecessor in the last 15 days of his administration . " Grady said " the interpretation and application " of that law by Dukakis would " promote chaos and confusion rather than the efficient operation of the executive department . " The appointments of Laffey and Jostrom were part of a two-day musical- chairs shifting of Massport directors . On Wednesday , directors David Peresksy and James Leyden resigned and King appointed Laffey and outgoing transportation secretary James R. Carlin . When it was discovered the following day that the appointments put too many Democrats on the board , Carlin and Laffey resigned . The law requires that there not be more than four members of any one political party on the board . But also early on Thursday , E. Paul Robsham of Wayland changed his party registration from Democrat to Republican . So Laffey was reappointed by King . Needing one more Republican , King then named Jostrom who had arrived at the State House at 10.30 a.m. to serve as uniformed military aide to King on his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms .                     