@@668498

If " Frontline " keeps it up , Ronald Reagan may try to cut PBS off from all federal money . The image of the Reagan Administration that comes through on both " Frontline ' s " recent report on Social Security cutbacks and on tonight ' s documentary on US immigration policy is one of a bureaucracy so bogged down in conservative ideology that it ' s indifferent to human misery . " Sanctuary , " tonight ' s " Frontline " ( 8 p.m. , Ch. 2 ) , is an often powerful indictment of the federal government ' s policy on granting asylum . If you ' re fleeing from a communist government such as Poland ' s , Reagan ' s arms are wide open . If you ' re fleeing from a US- supported fascist government , such as El Salvador ' s , you have as much chance of getting into the country as Joe Garagiola has of becoming the next host of " Masterpiece Theater . " Unfortunately , there ' s little to be learned in this documentary that Ch. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cover in its shorter and tighter report on the same subject . " Frontline , " for example , interweaves examples of the hypocrisy of US policy on granting asylum with clips of a modern underground railroad network smuggling Salvadorans and Guatamalans across the US border . The latter report would be an interesting spot on the nightly news , but it only serves to distract from , rather than humanize , the issue of US policy . It seems as if " Frontline " didn ' t have enough on either issue and stuck the two of them together to pad out the hour . The best part of " Sanctuary " is a feature on two dissidents who fled to the United States , one Polish the other Salvadoran . The Pole was granted asylum a week after applying for it ; the Salvadoran was turned down two years after filing . The Pole ' s verbal statement of harassment was taken as proof that he would be in danger if deported ; the Salvadoran ' s more extensive documentation was rejected . Robert White , former US ambassador @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Salvadoran is clearly in danger of being killed if returned and that " by any kind of humane criteria . . . he certainly deserves political asylum . " " Frontline " also tells the story of a Salvadoran who was deported by the United States and was tortured and beheaded upon his return to his country . Further , his sister applied for asylum after her brother ' s murder , and it was denied . There are problems with this " Frontline " beyond the lack of focus . The program does not provide sufficient statistical documentation that its examples aren ' t just isolated cases that fell through the bureaucratic cracks . And , although the contrast between Poland and El Salvador is effective , it could have been even more telling to contrast two Central American countries . But , while " Sanctuary " can be faulted for its lapses , the overall product bears important witness to US policy toward Central America . After " Frontline , " PBS and Ch. 2 begin an 11-week repeat showing of " Brideshead Revisited " at 9 p.m . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " why haven ' t we seen American TV follow suit with high-quality dramatizations of Faulkner , Hemingway or Mailer that would dramatize the American experience as " Brideshead " dramatized the British ? Despite the greater quantity of TV outlets in the United States , we still seem to be light years away from the quality of such British productions . The commercial networks don ' t have the inclination ( i.e. profit incentive ) , public TV doesn ' t have the money and cable doesn ' t have the audience . Until there ' s a dramatic , if not revolutionary , shift in programming andfinancial policies in the United States , we ' ll have to be content with Anglovision.                     