@@669947

WASHINGTON  --  The head of the Internal Revenue Service said the agency hopes to have all its tax-refund checks sent out by June 1 , despite continued delays in processing tax returns . But IRS figures indicate that task will be formidable . As a result of computer glitches , the agency has processed 20% fewer returns this year than it had at this time last year . And in certain regions , particularly those served by IRS service centers in Philadelphia , Kansas City , Mo. , and Brookhaven , N.Y. , the delays are even more pronounced . The IRS must pay 13% annual interest on refunds that aren ' t mailed by June 1 . Unless the IRS catches up substantially on its backlog , failure to meet the deadline could cost the Treasury hundreds of millions of dollars . As a result of the computer problems , taxpayers must wait for their refunds an average of eight to 10 weeks after filing their returns , IRS Commissioner Roscoe Egger said . And IRS officials say taxpayers whose returns were mailed to the problem-plagued Philadelphia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . That ' s angering many taxpayers , who expected to receive refunds in the customary four to six weeks . And it ' s causing considerable concern in Congress , where members must field complaints from irate constituents . Mr. Egger , who has been the nation ' s top tax collector since 1981 , would like to be remembered as the man who brought the IRS into the computer age . But this tax season , he has become a victim of his computers . The transition to a new Sperry Univac computer system earlier this year caused numerous delays in processing returns . Those delays couldn ' t have come at a worse time for the IRS  --  just as the tax filing season was getting under way . Mr. Egger said most of the computer problems have been ironed out , but they have left a large backlog of unprocessed returns . During the past three weeks , the IRS has managed to speed its processing of returns considerably , and Mr. Egger said he expects to work off the backlog " over the next 45 days @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it isn ' t clear the IRS can make up for the lost time . " The way the IRS works , God help you if you get a little behind because the backlog picks up quickly " as April 15 approaches , says an auditor at the General Accounting Office , an arm of Congress that attempts to keep an eye on the service ' s activities . The IRS also has been plagued by several allegations that employees at its Philadelphia service center have shredded tax returns , abandoned them in the restroom , or disposed of them in other ways . Those allegations first were reported in the Philadelphia Inquirer , and also have been made in anonymous telephone calls to the office of Sen. John Heinz ( R. , Pa . ) . They have added to taxpayer concerns about the fate of their tax returns . The IRS has been investigating difficulties at the Philadelphia center , largely as a result of a problem late last year when the center failed to record tax payments made by thousands of corporations . A new director was named @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday that " all this talk about returns being shredded is a lot of nonsense . " He said that if anyone would come forward and make those allegations to the IRS investigators , " we would pursue it so fast it would make your head swim . " But so far , the specific allegations have been made only to the press and to Sen. Heinz , not to the IRS , he said . " That ' s about as constructive as yelling fire in a theater , " Mr. Egger said . " There ' s no evidence other than unsupported evidence by people who won ' t show their faces on television . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     