@@668042

Harvard University President Derek C. Bok today warned that allowing political judgments to influence faculty appointments is a threat to the fundamental principles of academic freedom . Bok , in an open letter to the Harvard community , said his concerns were based on recent student and faculty protests over his decision to offer economist Arnold Harberger the directorship of the Harvard Institute for International Development . Bok was referring to the campus furor roused by his offer to Harberger , a University of Chicago economist who , at one time , had been a consultant to the Pinochet government in Chile . Students and faculty demonstrated against the Bok choice - which was based on the recommendations of a search committee - opposing Harberger ' s political orientation and , particularly , his work in Chile . Harberger , professor of economics at the University of Chicago , notified Bok last week that he had decided to remain at Chicago . In his letter , Bok criticized the ideological basis for objections to the appointment as an ultimate threat to the university . On the general principle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three " grave dangers " in using " ideological or doctrinal " tests for selecting faculty . He expanded on those three points , saying that : - Time could prove current judgments unwise . - Condemning candidates for views or behavior could rule out able teachers . - Attempts to make decisions based on political , economic or moral judgments could eventually " weaken the university . " Bok , named Harvard ' s 25th president in 1971 , drew a parallel between the protests lodged against Harberger and the climate created in the early 1950s by Joseph McCarthy , when the Wisconsin senator called for the ouster of communist sympathizers from university campuses . In the fifth position paper he has issued in 13 months on sensitive and controversial ideological issues facing Harvard , Bok expressed regret that Harberger had rejected his offer to run the $4- million institute . Called " Reflections on Academic Freedom , " Bok ' s paper stated , " . . . academic institutions are dedicated to the discovery and transmission of knowledge and are committed to the view that such efforts will @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and scholars need not fear that their careers will be endangered by embracing controversial opinions or ideas . " More specifically , the belief in academic freedom proceeds from a conviction that universities will expose themselves to three grave dangers ( listed above ) if they resort to ideological or doctrinal tests in making appointment decisions . " Harberger earlier told The Globe he would not accept the offer if there were objections to his appointment . Bok acknowledged that most of the anti-Harberger arguments were based on his activities in Chile , on Harberger ' s " willingness to consult with former students holding high positions in that military government , his advocacy of economic policies that many associate with political repression , and his alleged failure to speak out forcefully against the wrongs and injustices perpetrated by the ruling junta . " The Harvard president reminded the academic community of previous attempts to " exclude professors who advocate controverisal political , moral or economic views . " At the turn of the century , he said , some Harvard professors were fired or rejected for supporting union boycotts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were attacks on one professor for defending conscientious objectors and on another for sympathizing with his native Germany . In both cases , Bok continued , the university backed those faculty members . Bok ' s first open letter , in March 1979 , addressed the university ' s ethical responsibilities as an answer to protests on the morality of Harvard ' s use of certain products , ownership of stock in certain countries and acceptance of gifts from some donors . Since that time he has issued four others detailing the university ' s interpretation of the morality of its behavior on controversial issues .                     