@@735165

txt Cisme Tribune Press Service WASHINGTON ? A high Treasury Department official accused White House economists Monday of rigging deficit numbers In an effort to persuade President Reagan to propose a new tax increase . The accusation by Paul Craig Roberts , assistant secretary of the Treasury for economic policy , came after Reagan 's chief economic adviser , Murray Weidenbaum , said the administration is considering a new excise tax on natural gas . In an interview , Roberts said that the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and the Council of Economic Advisers . ( CEA ) prepared an unrealistic economic forecast for the best three years to show larger deficits than will actually be the case , He said the forecasts have been " rigged to produce the worst deficit possible " with the aim of persuading the President to go along with a tax increase . IN THAT FORECAST , widely leaked a week ago , the administration predicted that the federal deficits will exceed $100 billion during each of the pest three years unless Congress acts to reduce them . Asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on natural gas , Roberts said : " It 's not the Treasury trying to push the President to raise taxes . It 's OMB , CEA , and the White House staff . " He said lie forecast of huge deficits contains assumptionS for the growth in the money supply that are unrealistically tight for the next three years . He said the forecast for real economic growth is too low and not in line with previous experince . Also , he said , the assumptions include " tremendous markdowils " in inflation forecasts made earlier . THE LEAKED forecast of extremely large deficits , he said , provides the impetus for officials to find a way to reduce them through a combination of tax increases and spending cuts . The administration is known to be consist . ering a variety of tax Increases , along with billions more in spending cuts . Roberts , an ardent supply-side economist who believes that recent cuts in high tax interest rates will fuel strong economic growth , called the deficit numbers " worst-case projections based on on an unrealistic assumption about ever-tightening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " likely to play as it major policy defeat " for Reagan , who it is believed does not favor such a hike . In addition , he said , a tax increase would send the wrong signal to the private sector . It would tell investors the government wants to remain big , he said , and to keep spending a large percentage of gross national product . WEIDENBAUM TOLD reporters that an excise tax ao natural gas would bring in from Ste billion to S20 billion annually and would be accompanied by a phaseout of price controls on natural gas . Weidenbaum implied that an excise tax is preferable to a windfall profits tax , which he called a " tax on capital " that would reduce the money available to invest in producing energy . Asked if Reagan were amenable to an excise tax on natural gas , he responded : " Amenable is n't a term that comes to mind . I have n't noticed any encouragement from him one way or another . " Explaining Weidenbaum 's remarks , officials said an " excise-type " tax @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has n't advanced very far . " An excise tax works like a sales tax . For example , the federal gasoline and cigarette taxes are excise taxes which are included in the retail price . Officials said that such a tax could be levied at ally level in the production and distribution Chain and that Weidenbaum did n't mean to indicate that it would be an add-on to consumer bills . has it major effect by encouraging conservation . That means , In effect , it would raise the cost to users , who would have to find ways to reduce consumption to save money . GOING To AN excise tax would be one way around a // Deficits rigged , official charges // promise made by Reagan during last year 's tax debate . He wrote a letter to Rep. Glenn English ( D. , Okla. ) that he would not sign a windfall profits tax on natural gas should controls on that fuel be ended . A week ago , Treasury Secretary Donald Regan said that promise was written on paper , not in cement , and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tries to find a way to cut massive deficits facing the nation . Price controls on natural gas are due to expire in 1585 . Many key officials within the administration want to accelerate the pace of decontrol , but Reagan himself has made no final decision . Some within the administra ? tion fear the political fallout from speedier decontrol . An administration official said decontrol Itself is not necessarily inflationary . If there is no increase in the money supply to satisfy new inflationary pressures caused by higher natural gas prices , consumers would be forced to conserve energy or cut back spending in other areas , it is felt within the administration . ON CAPITOL HILL , Rep. Daniel Rostenkowski Chicago ) , chairman of the House Ways and Means ' Committee , refused to say how an energy tax would fare In Congress . He said Democrats want to see Reagan 's program in writing before commenting .                     