@@668001

Massachusetts residents will pay an additional $20 million this yearbecause of yesterday ' s price increases in heating oil and gasoline by four major oil companies , according to an analyst at the state Office of Energy Resources . Chevron USA , Texaco Inc. and Phillips Petroleum Co. raised their gasoline prices by 3 cents a gallon yesterday and Exxon USA raised its price by 2 cents in the second round of wholesale price increases in less than a month . Exxon and Phillips also boosted home-heating oil prices by 3 cents a gallon . Shell Oil Co . Wednesday lifted its wholesale gasoline prices by 5 cents a gallon nationwide and increased home-heating oil prices by between 5 and 6 cents a gallon , depending on region . Shell also raised its aviation turbine fuel by 5 cents a gallon . The latest gasoline price increases should appear at the pump almost immediately , since the Energy Department permits dealers to pass their wholesale buying costs directly along to the motorist . Consumers ' heating oil bills soon will reflect the newest hikes because home-heating oil no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Exxon , the nation ' s largest oil supplier and the third largest heating oil dealer in Massachusetts , specifically cited oil price increases by Venezuela and Mexico earlier this year as the cause for Exxon ' s latest hike . Last week Fred Nemergut , an analyst for the state energy office , said that increases by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) , passed along by the major oil companies , will cost New Englanders 7 cents more a gallon by the end of January - and perhaps as much as 18 cents a gallon by the end of the year . This month ' s increases alone are expected to raise the fuel costs of theaverage Massachusetts family from $1679 on Jan. 1 , 1979 , to $2685 by Jan. 31 of this year . Overall , the state analysis predicted that this year ' s OPEC increases will raise the total expenditures of Massachusetts fuel consumers by $3.5 billion . Yesterday , Nemergut said that the latest increases would cost Bay State residents $20 million more in 1980 . But Massachusetts drivers are continuing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase . In November 1979 , drivers in the commonwealth used 7.5 percent less gasoline than in November 1978 , decreasing consumption from 205,000,000 gallons two years ago to 189,648,669 gallons in 1979 . The November numbers are down 1.5 percent from October 1979 . The November figures are the lowest this year , according to the state energy office . This latest round of increases comes at the same time that prices on the spot market have dropped drastically due to weak demand , inflated prices and warmer weather . But that doesn ' t mean consumers will be paying less . Spot market prices have been well above normal contract prices that oil companies pay to producing nations . Although the spot market accounts for less than 15 percent of the oil sold , it is considered a barometer of future oil price trends . Earlier this week , US Energy Secretary Charles Duncan warned consumers not to be lulled into a false sense of security by the temporary softening of spot market prices . In an address in Boston , Duncan stressed the need for continued conservation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of petroleum fuel . The US oil industry last raised gasoline prices by between 3 and 6 cents a gallon and increased home-heating oil prices by an average 3 cents a gallon in mid-December after Saudi Arabia and three other OPEC members boosted their crude oil prices . When OPEC failed to agree on a uniform oil price at its Dec. 18- 21 meeting in Caracas , most other cartel members raised their oil prices - some retroactively to Nov. 1 or Dec. 1 . Exxon , the nation ' s largest oil company , said it was lifting prices of all grades of motor gasoline , distillate fuels - home- heating oil , diesel fuel and kerosene - and heavy fuel oil by 3 cents a gallon because of " continuing crude oil price increases by foreign suppliers . " Chevron , a division of Standard Oil Co. of California , said it was raising the price of its motor and aviation gasolines by 3 cents a gallon and upping diesel fuel prices by 2 cents a gallon " to partially offset the impact of the cost of increases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " A Texaco spokesman said the company was boosting its wholesale gasoline prices by 3 cents a gallon and raising gasohol prices by 2.7 cents a gallon to cover " the increased costs of crude and operating expenses . " Phillips Petroleum said its 3-cent-a-gallon price increase applied to motor gasoline , home-heating oil , aviation gasoline , diesel fuel and turbine fuel . " The costs of producing these products have gone up with the recent increases in foreign crude oil prices , " a Phillips spokesman said . A spokesman attributed Shell ' s latest pricing action to " price increases in both domestic and foreign crude oil . " He said several of Shell ' s foreign crude suppliers had made their price rises retroactive to Nov. 1 and Dec. 1 .                     