@@668441

When William Wolff received a Mailgram last Saturday , he opened it with the sweaty palms and palpable trepidation of a student expecting the results of his law school admission tests . But the shock the 23-year-old Brighton resident received was not because he had flunked the tests . The answer sheets from the grueling exam , said the " Dear Candidate " letterfrom the Law School Admissions Services , had been lost in the mail . Continuous efforts to locate the material " had been unsuccessful , " said the company that produces the Law School Admissions Test ( LSAT ) . Wolff was stunned . Lost in the mail ? All that sweat , toil and grind for nothing ? His career plans up in smoke ? And without a word of apology from LSAT . " I turned white , " Wolff said . Then he telephoned his woman friend , who had also taken the 5 1/2-hour test , and said , " Sit down . I have some bad news . " Identical epistles bearing the bad news were sent to 365 Greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of anger , frustration and disbelief in student ( and parental ) quarters . They cried , they swore , they tore their hair . Some of the budding law students even threatened legal action . Then yesterday , more than five weeks after the students took the tests at Boston University , LSAT found the answer sheets . Not in first-class envelopes at LSAT ' s headquarters in Newtown , Pa. , but 12 miles away in a fourth-class bin at the rival Educational Testing Service in Trenton , N.J. " We ' re still trying to find out exactly what happened , " said an embarrassed Thomas O. White , president of LSAT . He said a new batch of Mailgrams , telling students to disregard the first one , were sent out last night and that the grades would follow later in the week . Blame for the snafu that threw nearly 400 law school hopefuls into a tailspin lies with the LSAT supervisor of the Dec. 4 exam at BU ' s Hayden Hall , LSAT officials said . They said that the answer sheets were inadvertently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sent on their slow journey by fourth-class mail when they should have been sent first class to LSAT . " Clearly someone wasn ' t terribly alert , " said White . However he declined to name the supervisor , who he said is employed at BU , on the grounds that " it wouldn ' t be helpful for his relationship with some of the upset students . " That is not to say that LSAT itself is forgiven . Dozens of students are still angry at the testing service ' s handling of the mix-up . How could such a post-exam blunder happen , wondered student Cara Pelle of Brighton , when security measures for taking the competitive tests include the extreme precaution of fingerprinting the applicants ? In addition , many students complained about the tone of the first LSAT notice because it contained no note of sympathy in announcing that the results were lost and that two makeup exams would be held - on Jan. 15 and Feb. 19 . Those dates gave what students considered two unacceptable alternatives - either a short week to re-prepare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks after the application deadline to many law schools . " Talk about Catch 22s , " commented 22-year-old Vincent Chiricosta of Winchester , who , like many of the students , had spent $350 preparing for the first test in an intensive eight-week cram course . " I cried when I learned the scores had been lost , " said Chiricosta , who feared the LSAT blunder would jeopardize his chances of getting into law school . " The whole thing was clearly inadvertent and very unfortunate , " said LSAT President White . " But at least it has a happy ending . "                     