@@734869

txt The following article , reflecting upon the former hostages as classic American ' heroes , was ibritten , by Eugene Kennedy , professor of psychology at Loyola University . : By Eugene Kennedy AMERICA FEELS that it has found its heroes ? and itself ? again . : During a surreal day last week , one that bridged a biblical darkness , the country witnessed.the transfer'of power and the deliverance of the hostages . Americans who nave watcned tearful things together over the last generation ? the death and disgrace of Presidents , the loss of honor , and the loss of war , ? viewed a happy ending for almost the first time in memory . There had been the voyage to the moon , of course , but that was sterile and remote compared to the landing in rain-spattered Algiers where the hostages , as tentatively at first as the astronauts , took their first steps again on a free part of Mother Earth . ' The citizens of the United States , after long hours seeded with dread and ? rony , - began to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' welcomes and maybe even parades . It has been a long time since Lindbergh . It was not an event without its mythological aspects , as though the hostages as our surrogates had made a great journey and undergone a test . for us all . They had traveled , as all heroes must , to a far country to do battle with the blind and violent armies of ignorance . And they returned , arching - above the ancient lands of all our beginnings , to bring the fire of knowledge of bravery home again . . Something had come full circle ? Jonah . had come out of the belly of the - whale ? and greatness rising from simple dignity and endurance touched the nation with grace once more . ' SEEING THE HOSTAGES become perceptibly more comfortable as they moved from one stop to the next , we became more comfortable with - ourselves . The fire the new heroes shared with us as they flew through the darkness illuminated our self-respect . We began on that long night to feel the ' beginnings of confidence again and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on our national spirit . It was a remarkable time for the celebration of a national transition because the intertwining of these counterpointed events ? inauguration and deliverance ? reminded us of our own heroic possibilities in a way that none Of the speeches or the band music ever could . We have not lacked analysis of the return of the freed Americans : there htiVre been cautions aplenty . But even without these the ' country 's citizens sense that they should not exploit or weigh the returned hostages down with expectations for greatness which they may not be ready to bear or fulfill . Their return has been anticipated for months by medical specialists and social scientists ; the ex-prisoners , we are told , need a Carefully monitored . . re-entry into our national life . Americans know all that but they know something else as well . They understand instinctively that this event is too important to be left to the professional managers and expert consultants . Our countrymen appreciate the difficulties that lie ahead for the returnees but they also know that they and their families @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of us would be ? have won a great victory , perhaps the only Clear one that the country has enjoyed since the end of World War I/ . It is an achievement of and a tribute to the qualities Americans have always prized , a testament that decency , goodness , and loyalty to one another are as strong and indispensable as we always believed that they were . Americans know that this is worth celebrating , that this deliverance must be marked and remembered . It was not a triumph kir the old men ? legislators , columnists , war lovers everywhere ? who are always ready to send young men into battle . And there never was much light at the ends of the tunnels , as we found in Korea and Viet Nam , when we let loose the dogs of technological war . We never brought home a victory that way .. ' The incident which has brought us half a hundred heroes could never have been resolved except for the bravery and fortitude ? how rarely we have used those words lately ? of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vulnerable and the weak over the all-powerful masters who are puzzled and frustrated when they can not get their way through force and ? bluster . The swaggering jailers ' became weak and the bound and blind. , folded prisoners became stronger as the ordeal wore on . FINALLY . THE RELEASE was a victory for patience and discipline , the inner characteristics which the Iranian captors could not destroy . It was a peaceful victory liffed-With- honor because it depended , net on threats or killing , but on the personal strength and restraint of the hostages , their familieS , and the nOgotiators . Perhaps we have never completely understood the Iranians . It is clear that they never really understood us . Let those Westerners who have longed in their spiritual quests to tranform themselves lift Sufi mystics think twice about what tney might gain or lose in. the process . Americans will always regard this last week as remarkable . We rediscoivered the heroism of ordinary men and women and found again some of the ' strength of . character we thought we had lost . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human . We do not expect them to be otherwise . For themselves , for the country , being quietly and humanly courageous was quite enough . In their triumph heroism has become possible for all of us again . To switch a phrase through which we . once . professed our guilt , we have looked at the heroes and they are us.                     