@@734667

txt The week of eight performances by the Royal Danish Ballet which opened last night ( and will end next Wednesday ) at the Civic Opera House in Chicago is America 's only chance to savor the joys of what was certainly the most important European dance event of the 1979-80 season , the remarkable Bournonville Festival held in Copenhagen last November in coinmemoranon of the centenary of the choreographer 's death . The Royal Danish Ballet , seen recently in Copenhagen . is in top dancing form , and the presentation of the lovingly preserved works of the 19th Century romantic master August Bournonville is a coup for Chicago . Best known in Amenca for " La Sylphide , " " Konservatoriet " ! called " The Conservatory " in the Chicago program ! and the final act of " Napoli , " Bournonville took over the direction of the Royal Danish Ballet in 1830 and gave the company half a century of inspiration , dedication and love , a heritage still evident today . Unlike many great choreographers whose appearance creates a great dance company which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , August Bournonville came into a Danish dancing tradition that dated back to the Court performances in the last half of the 16th Century . Dance and drama had existed happily side by side in Denmark since they were presented together at the opening of the first Danish theater in 1722 , and through both good and bad periods the Royal Danish Ballet has continued to symbolize the preservation of the past while experimenting with the newest choreographic compositions . " The Whims of Cupid and the Ballet Master " is generally believed to be the oldest original choreography in Western ballet , dating from its premier in Copenhagen in 1786 . It is in the Danes ' active repertory along with works by modernists Glen Tetley , Hans van Manen and former Royal Danish Ballet director Fleming Flindt . But the Bournonville style and repertory are the backbone of this agile company , and the training of the dancers from their first acceptance in the company 's school between ages 6 and 11 is based on the theories of the great choreographer and teacher . A student of French ballet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the difficulty of its intricate and often high-flying steps . The movement flows with a graceful logic rather than simply stringing groups of steps together At its best  --  and the allBournonville programs being presented this week in Chicago are certainly its best ? it is ballet which has an inner smile and is easily accessible to audiences . If " Konservatoriet " is a primer on this Bournonville style , not only in its classroom sections but in its light-hearted plot . then " A Folk Tale " or the rarely performed full-length " Napoli " shows the style at its full flowering Like " La Sylphide , " " A Folk Tale " combines classical choreographic vocabulary with a rich mixture of mime , deals with the spiritual world of the dark forest and contrasts peasant folk dancing with the formalism of aristocratic dance . The saving power of religious faith has its moment as well as Bournonville 's lighthearted cancatures . " Napoli " and " The Flower Festival at Genzano " lof which only the pas dr dear will be performed in Chicagoi are light-hearted story ballets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . a concert Bournonville shared with his friend Hans Christian Andersen and the painters of his day . The stories are of little import but the dancing captures the Latin temperament and provides the kind of fast bravura playfulness which the ! lanes execute so well . One of the reasons these ballets are such gems is that they are amazingly unaffected by time . Another is that the acting . which is integral with the dancing , is a natural part of the dancers ' training . Henning KronsLarn , artistic director of the company and one of the great Bournonville interpreters during his long dancing career , says . " One of the reasons I dared to take over the company is that I saw so much undiscovered talent . Nurturing that talent is no easy job but the happiness conies when you see the dancers realize their potential . " His associate artistic director , former Danish ballerina . Kristen Ralov calls attention to the fact that children in the bah let school are constantly in the theater . " The children learn so much from being at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in ballet performances but when special kids are needed for drama and opera performances , that acting is as much a part of them as dancing . " With character parts for older dancers in many of the Bournonville ballets , the dancers ' lives are also long ones . Fredbjorn Bjornson. who as a young dancer danced " every dance you can think about . " now does only mime parts . " There are no small parts . " he says , quoting one of Ins mentors , " but only small artists . " Although New York City Ballet principal Peter Martins and international star Peter Schaufitss hare joined the company for the Chicago season , it is only because they are both graduates of the Royal Danish school and company . Both Mr. Kronstam and Ms. Ralov insist that the company has no star system and that the use of guests is to show the Danish tradition at its best . Certainly with dancers as talented as Frank Andersen . Arne Villumsen , Linda Hindberg , Metre Honmngen . Lise Geppesen and the lovely and Lisa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of talent in the company . The recent departure of lb Andersen to join the NYC ' Ballet , however , leaves the company somewhat short of major romantic male soloists In a lovely peach-colored studio or onstage in the intimate Royal Theater in Copenhagen , there is a calm and tranquility about the Danish company . The close family feeling so important to great ballet companies is clearly there . Soloist MetteIda Kirk says , " We are more privileged here than other countnes . The life is softer and they ca n't just throw you out as they can in New York . " Perhaps that security plus the tradition of being part of one of the great dance institutions in the world is what comes across the footlights so radiantly from the Danish dancers . The Bournonville spirit ts alive and well in Chicago this week , along with his choreographic masterpieces .                     