@@669958

FORD MOTOR declared a 3-for-2 stock split and raised its quarterly cash dividend 18% on a pre-split basis . The auto maker cited improvement in its " underlying profitability . " Ford ' s stock price has surged since the firm said last year that it would buy back up to 30 million shares . The Senate voted to delay consideration of a tax-overhaul bill until Congress and the White House agree on a budget . The move could hamper Reagan ' s tax-revision effort.  --  - American Airlines plans to increase restrictions on discount fares to help shore up profit . The curbs , which start May 23 , will make it more difficult for consumers to get discount fares without cancellation fees.  --  - A.H. Robins agreed to add a government appointee to its board to handle the health-products firm ' s bankruptcy-law reorganization.  --  - The dollar plunged on expectations of falling U.S. interest rates and reports that big industrial nations want the Japanese yen to strengthen.  --  - Delaware ' s banking chief said a routine inquiry of an E.F. Hutton trust unit found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ violated its fiduciary obligations.  --  - Major retailers reported a modest rise in March sales , largely because of an early Easter . Apparel sales increased at many stores , but sales of appliances , furniture and other big items remained depressed  --  - Five big banks reported double-digit increases in first-quarter earnings , bolstered by gains in securities trading . The results were generally better than expected.  --  - The Home Loan Bank Board will propose rules to boost the liquidity of thrifts and limit the amount they can lend to a single borrower.  --  - The semiconductor industry continued to improve in March , based on the increased ratio of orders to sales . The news lifted semiconductor stocks sharply in active trading.  --  - Reagan ' s chief economist , Beryl Sprinkel , indicated that he expects the Fed will soon lower its discount rate . Bond prices fluctuated widely amid continued speculation of a rate cut.  --  - GTE is having problems reaching a joint-venture accord with Siemens of West Germany to make phone switches in the U.S. There are indications the project may fall through.  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept TransCanada PipeLines ' $2. 99 billion takeover offer . Hiram also plans to have an affiliate drop a rival bid.  --  - The Soviet Union asked a West German bank to arrange a $427. 4 million credit to help finance Western purchases . Moscow ' s hard-currency reserves have been depleted by the drop in oil prices.  --  - Raymark ' s board authorized management to file for bankruptcy-law protection if the firm is unable to settle asbestos-related lawsuits.  --  - A block of Navistar stock was traded on the Big Board for an exchange record of $487. 9 million . The sale was made by a lender group that bailed out the company in 1983.  --  - Markets  --  Stocks : Volume 184 , 760 , 000 shares . Dow Jones industrials 1794. 30 , up 15. 68 ; transportation 787. 41 , up 0. 61 ; utilities 189. 17 , up 0. 57 . Bonds : Dow Jones 20 bonds 91. 26 , up 0. 12 . Commodities : Dow Jones futures index 126. 27 , up 0. 12 ; spot index 128. 43 , off 0. 20. 