@@734877

txt DAYTONA BEACH , Fla . ? NASCAR officials were cheering speed , but drivers were talking safety after Bobby Allison beat his old nemesis , Darrell Waltrip , by barely a second Monday to win the pole position for Sunday 's Daytona 500-mile race . " I 'm honestly surprised there have n't been more accidents , " said Waltrip , who earned $71,500 for his victory in Sunday 's Busch Clash . " The reason is that everybody is afraid of the new ( downsize ) cars and they 're being more careful . " " I think possibly we are going to see some hairy situations before the week is out , " said Allison , wild pushed his Pontiac LeMans to a qualifying lap of 194.624 miles an hour . Waltrip qualified his Buick Regal at 194.506 to fill out the first row in the only other starting position awarded Monday . A.J. Foyt , paying his annual visit to the NASCAR circuit , was one of 17 drivers who ran at 190 miles an hour or over . After averaging 191.959 , Foyt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will be more accident-prone than their larger predecessors . " I think you 're going to see a lot of wrecks in the race , " Foyt said , " And in the big qualifying races , too . " THE FIELD OF 47 returns to the track Thursday for a pair of 125-mile qualifying races that will determine the rest of the field behind Allison and Waltrip , who , by tradition , will drive ' in the races even though they already have qualified . Allison immediately jumped to the attack after winning the pole . The Alabama driver , who won the Daytona 500 in 1978 , has been the subject of controversy since he unveiled his rebuilt Pontiac LeMans , the only car in the field with an old-fashioned sloped rear window rather than an abrupt drop-off . " If we 're so awfully bad ' and Waltrip is so legal , " Allison said , " how come he was so close - to me in the qualifying ? " If we had gone to a shorter track like Richmond or Rockingham before coming here to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their cars . We would have had factory input and a lot of the aerodynamic problems would already be shaken down . " ALLISON SAID he decided to give up on an Oldsmobile he had been testing and build the LeMans , the only Pontiac in the field that is n't a Grand Prix , because " all my life I have felt that if a race car does n't feel good to-me , I want to change it . " I happen to be privileged to be with a car owner ( Harry Ranier ) who does n't mind going out and building cars . We have built two  --  Oldsmobiles , a Buick , and two Pontiacs this year . " Everybody got the same rules at the same time . Everybody had the same chance we did to go out and build the same car we did . I honestly expected to see some other LeMans cars . "                     