@@668041

Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr today threatened to wage war on Iraq and battles against Israel and warned America ' s oil- importing allies they won ' t get " so much as snake ' s poison " from Iran if they back the sanctions President Jimmy Carter imposed Monday in an effort to free the 50 Americans held hostage in the US Embassy in Tehran . Accusing Iraq of " dancing to any music that America played , " Bani- Sadr warned " we will go to war " if there is a worsening in the border hostilities with Iran ' s Moslem neighbor . " If Iraqi forces stepped onto Iranian soil , the Iranian government would not be able to stop the Iranian armed forces from pouring into Iraq , " Bani- Sadr said in a speech broadcast by Tehran Radio . He said he was confident the Iraqi people would topple President Saddam Hussein and warned Hussein his own troops " would not fight against Iran , but would turn their back on him and join the army of the iman , " Iran ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a massive anti-Iraqi and anti-American rally in Tehran was the sharpest volley yet in the bristling war of words between Iran and Iraq . Khomeini ' s regime poured truckloads of shouting , fist-waving supporters into Tehran for the mass demonstration . However , Bani-Sadr also urged Iraq to cease hostilities toward Iran so the two Moslem neighbors could devote themselves to fighting Israeli forces in southern Lebanon , where Israel has deployed about 360 men to head off possible Palestinian guerrilla attacks . Bani-Sadr also said Iran was prepared to stop making direct sales to Japan , which relies on Iran for 10 percent of its oil needs , and Europe , which gets 5 percent of its petroleum from Iran , because they are under " US domination . " " Not only shall we not give orders to governments which wish to attach themselves to America , but we shan ' t give them so much as snake ' s poison , " Bani-Sadr said , using a Persian language expression that means " less than nothing . " " If we widen our horizons and look around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ too . We have this ability , " he added , without elaboration . Yesterday , Tehran Radio said Iranian and Iraqi gunners and helicopters traded fire across the border again , an Iraqi bomb killed one person and wounded 20 in the oil refinery city of Abadan , and Iranian navy ships steamed into the northern Persian Gulf to prevent more Iraqi " aggression . " Iran claims Iraq launched the latest border attacks against it at the direction of the United States , which has hinted it will blockade Iran ' s sea routes or mine its ports if Carter ' s sanctions fail to speed the release of the hostages . On Wednesday the Moslem militants who have occupied the embassy since Nov. 4 threatened to kill all of their captives if the United States intervened militarily , and yesterday one of the militants told NBC they would kill them all if Iraq or any other US " puppet " invaded . Iraq urged other Arab nations to rally behind it against Iran , and its official news agency declared : " This crazy , racist Khomeini is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broke diplomatic relations with Iran , ordered all Iranian military personnel and diplomats except those accredited to the United Nations out of the country , imposed an almost total embargo on US exports to Iran and urged America ' s allies to take similar measures because Khomeini refused to transfer the hostages to government custody . The nine nations of the European Common Market said their ambassadors in Tehran would call on Bani-Sadr and demand that a date be set for the release of the hostages . The governments would review their policies toward Iran after receiving his response , they said .                     