@@735090

txt SEPULVEDA , Cal. ? It 's time someone said " Just a moment " to the Star Warriors , Third Kind Enoounterers , UFOlogists , and others of eminence , including Carl Sagan , Isaac Asimov , Robert Jastrow , Freeman Dyson , and all the other " gee-whiz " scientists and moviemakers who are either operating out of insufficient science or deliberately exploiting a public eager to part with its hard-earned shekels for the latest in extraterrestrial mythology . Their main argument is a statistical one : There are billions of suns out there ; some of these suns must have planets ( I 'll go along with that ) ; among these planets there must be some that are habitable ; and surely on one of these habitable planets there must be a good Italian restaurant . We may smile at the patent absurdity of the pizza parlor reference . But for some unearthly ( no pun intended ) reason , we do not laugh loudly at the Idea that , on one of these planets , there must be a group of advanced scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both concepts are equally nonsensical . THE MODEL SKETCHED hy , the space cadets is of a schizoid universe made up of two disconnected parts : Part 1 : The stars and the planets and the comets and the meteor showers and gravitation ' and the big hot bang and light energy and radiation  --  the entire world of which we are aware , Part 2 : The civilizations who observe , ? study , research , explore , and finally solve the riddle of Part 1 . The sophisticated scientists of these civilizations , representing Earth and other planets , then get together at a giant universal seminar in the sky and share the secrets of Part 1 ? how Part 1 began , how Part 1 will end , and no on . And this is not whimsy . I found it , all written down , in a serious NASA study report ( Project Cyclops ) , submitted to a government of politicians who are eveh more confused by the subject than the scientists are . The UFOnauts depicted in the reported contacts made by us Earth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bad landings , and their attempts to communicate with us have been rather sketchy and not too clear . But , according to the UFOlogists , we must never question their existence . AND WE HAD BETTER not question the existence of the agoraphobic aliens who stayed behind and chose not to venture forth on their saucers . That is a sacred article of faith to the many cosmologists kneeling at the microwave altar , each one secretly hoping to be the first to make contact . Jack Catran is a behavioral scientist who has worked on Apoilo and other space shots , where he specialized in the design of life-support and man-machine systems . He is the author of " Is There Intelligent Life on Earth ? " But what they are looking for is a person , a fellow scientist , an externalization of their false concept of themselves . No special talent is needed to understand this when the facts are considered on their own merits . Normally , tilt whole idea would not bother me except for the millions of dollars NASA plans to spehd to build @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We can easily prove , in an experiment that would cost our government about $30 , that a scientist who speaks only English could not possibly communicate by telephone with a scientist who speaks only Chinese . Without translators , it is impossible to communicate Iktween unrelated Earth languages . Now , imagine trying to communicate with alien organisms biologically unrelated to anything that has ever existed on this planet  --  if they exist at all . The weakness in this concept is in the scientists ' view of a human , whom they see as an autonomous being , controlled and steered by a computerlike brain , exempt from the laws of the universe and capriciously self-propelled , AT THIS MOMENT , riding aboard Voyagers I and IL there are recordings of Bach , Beethoven , Louis Armstrong , and Chuck Berry ( just in case there is someone out there who is hip to rock ' n ' roll ) , deposited aboard those spacecraft at the suggestion of Carl Sagan . Aboard Pioneer 10 , which will take about 80,000 years just to reach our nearest star @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that way  --  there is that plaque featuring Earthman and Earth-woman waving greetings , another Sagan idea . I repeat that the Voyager recordings are based on a false premise . There are no space aliens out there waiting to " listen " to Chuck Berry . Neither are there space people available to " view " those drawings aboard Pioneer 10 . Yet it is understandable how such a comic-strip view of the universe can arise ; the study of any science always begins that way . Strange explanations precede the valid . . Chemistry began as alchemy , astronomy as astrology , and medicine as witchcraft . And the field of exobiology still has its astrologers and medicine men . Writers and moviemakers have the creative right to speculate on any science subject they will , but let 's call it what it is : science fiction and not science . And let 's label their objectives for what they are : exploitation and sales rather than education . Whether or not they succeed in contacting " aliens , " the Sagans , the Asimovs , and the rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that Chuck Berry recording directed ? Who are Earthman and Earthwoman waving at ? NASA owes the U.S. public an answer to those questions . Meanwhile , those millions of " communication " dollars proposed would better serve us if they were utilized by a board of science and technology as a down payment on a massive program to redesign our own human society . If we could make a start in such a direction , then , and only then , could we say that there are intelligent beings on Earth . Copynght , 1981 , Independent Nes . Alliance , Ino. //                     