@@669007

An April 24 Tribune story addressed an issue of which everyone , regardless of age , ought to be cognizant . Citing the experience of a mistreated , 74-year-old double amputee whose Social Security checks had been squandered by his custodial daughter , the article by reporter Gary Marx outlined proposed changes in state laws that would increase protection of elderly and disabled people from physical or financial exploitation . The bill was promoted by law enforcement and state officials who favor tougher penalties for crimes committed against disadvantaged people . It is hard to fathom the con artists and false advertisers who scam unwitting people out of their savings , much less individuals who would willfully neglect or take financial advantage of a relative under their care . Yet such stories should not be dismissed as simply unusual occurrences . There is growing recognition that the infirm and the aged need special protection from acts of abuse , fraud and deception . And there is good cause for concern : - According to census and demographic studies , the very aged population , those 85 and above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the elderly population grows in numbers and in importance as a consumer bloc , it is becoming a likely target for deceptive advertising schemes and financial exploitation. - Improvements of modern science and technology have resulted in longer life spans . Yet aging experts say that attitudes , institutions and laws may not have kept pace to assure the quality of those lives . Having emphasized this , it is equally important that readers of the earlier article not be left with the impression , no doubt unintended , that Social Security beneficiaries and the elderly have no legal recourse from abuse and misuse . Many laws and government programs at the federal , state and local level protect senior citizens and consumers . It is a federal felony , for example , to steal or forge a Treasury Department benefit check . Individuals selected as " representative payees " to act on behalf of incapable Social Security beneficiaries are accountable for the use and management of the funds they receive . If benefits are misspent , the representative is personally liable for repayment , or faces court action . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prosecute individuals and businesses who mislead the public into thinking that their moneymaking " services " are connected with or endorsed by the government . Potential incidents of financial exploitation , misrepresentation or misuse of funds should be reported to the Social Security Administration by the victim , or by a concerned party , without embarrassment . Information and guidance about protective services for a mistreated older person also can be obtained by contacting the state or local agency on aging . One final word of caution about individuals who identify themselves as government employees : A confidence ring , passing itself off as Social Security or Medicare officials , has sprung up recently on the North Side , along Lake Shore Drive and Sheridan Road . Visitors or callers to elderly people ' s homes should be questioned carefully for their identification and about the nature of their business . Social Security employees who are authorized to make official home visits carry photo identification cards . They can be confirmed by calling the Social Security office telephone number listed in the directory . Do not call a number provided by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                    