@@668380

By Carol Gilligan . Harvard University Press . 184 pp. $15.00 By Alfie Kohn " It is obvious , " wrote Virginia Woolf , " that the values of women differ very often from the values which have been made by the other sex . " It is worse when the other sex defines maturity to correspond with its own values , leaving women to puzzle over their apparent developmental retardation . Here we have the central theme of Carol Gilligan ' s " In a Different Voice , " a collection of interviews with women leading us to the message that allegedly universal theories of psychological development are wide of the mark for half the human race . This is nowhere more true than in the case of approaches to moral development , whose primary theoretician - Lawrence Kohlberg - appears to have constructed an implicitly male-oriented model . Gilligan ' s book is feminism at its best : it is emphatic without being shrill , and it manages to avoid that familiar polemical tone that is so defensive as to become offensive . She gives us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral issues ; then she points out how their concerns and their very style of struggling diverge from that of men . Her thesis is rooted not only in research but in common sense : " We have listened for centuries to the voices of men and the theories of development that their experience informs . " Now it is time to listen carefully to women - who may be saying something very different - and it is time to end the arrogance that equates the man ' s experience with the human experience . And how , exactly , do women tend to approach morality , according to Gilligan ? With emphasis on relationships and connection and caring rather than on more abstract notions of equality and rights . While girls approach moral dilemmas by wondering how to avoid hurting , boys more often see the whole enterprise as " sort of like a math problem with humans , " to quote one 11-year- old subject . This style , Gilligan asserts , defines the difference between men and women , too . The male interest in rights is grounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a sensitivity to human interdependence . Psychologists have operated with a syllogism like this : ( 1 ) Maturity consists in autonomy and individual achievement ; ( 2 ) women , with their proclivity for intimacy and the like , are not as wedded to these values ; therefore , ( 3 ) women are less developed than men psychologically and morally . Now Gilligan clearly accepts the second premise and disputes the first . But what she does not do anywhere in the book is launch a coherent and sustained attack on this prescriptive view . Her rhetoric leaves no doubt that she prefers " the ongoing process of attachment that creates and sustains the human community " - and who wouldn ' t when it ' s put like that ? Yet she ducks the responsibility of defending this preference . Philosophers will be unsatisfied with what appears to be a superficial understanding of ethical issues here . She seems not to see the distinction between relativism and simple tolerance , or between situationalist ethics and the rejection of either/ors . Furthermore , Gilligan fails to contrast a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thereby glossing over the fact that even men subscribe to a wide variety of ethical theories . The problems with " In a Different Voice " are disturbing precisely because Carol Gilligan ' s message is so important . More than a critique of Kohlberg ' s stage theory , it is a reminder that women and men do not see themselves or make tough decisions in the same way . Theories of human development are never more limited or limiting than when their bias is invisible , and Gilligan ' s book performs the vital service of illuminating one of the deepest biases of all . Alfie Kohn ' s values have developed to the point that he can judge other people ' s books . B07809518                     