@@735029

txt - Yinally faced with an unavoidable mandate and a deadline that ca n't be postponed , the Chicago Board Education has adopted what it imaginatively calls a budget for the 1981-1982 school year . IL is submitting to the Chicago School Finance Authority what amounts to an acknowledgment that its financial problems are unsolved . And no rescue or rescuer is in sight . The board nominally complied with its mandate by saying vaguely what it will do , " to the extent necessary , " to achieve a balanced budget . Its two biggest promises are that it will " restrict or reduce aggregate ? level of employment " and " restrict or reduce overall level of compensation for board employes . " It gives no details about what jobs will be ended , or when or by how much the school year will be curtailed in order to cut survivors ' pay . The so.called budget of course does not address financial problems still in the future but firmly scheduled ? union demands for salary increases , the costs of the pending desegregation and enrichment programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the system as a whole follows children from poor families to their individual schools . Raul Villalobos , board president , still asserts that he is confident Mayor Byrne will enable him to announce some still invisible means of opening school on schedule . When ? Week after week he says , " Maybe next week . " He is candid enough to have said , " We are going to need legislative action before Sept. 1 . " But no powerfully influential official has justified expecting rescue by a special session in Springfield in the next few weeks . If Jerome W. Van Gorkom and the School Finance Authority say they approve this feeble pretense at a budget , they will impair their own credit and credibility . Rejection is confidently expected . Then what can the school board do but confess even more plainly than it has yet done that it has no solution to its financial problems ? It even failed to get authority to operate skeleton administrative functions after Sept . I without a balanced budget , so the whble system is headed for total paralysis within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and for many others , too . Even people With short memories can recall the strident demand that the schools reopen when they have been shut by teachers ' strikes . Is any suburbanite so short-sighted as to think it no concern of his if the doors of the public schools are shut to the central city 's children and youths ? Can anyone imagine the impact on the future , the disruption of normal patterns of maturing in Chicago , if the public schools have to adjourn All the movers and shakers in this city and state , in both public life and private business , should have been working long since to assure that the Chicago nubile schools will open in September They have not done so , and now one of the most destructive time bombs in Chicago 's history is about to go off                     