@@735588

txt During the 1981-82 school year , Charlene Boyd . a public elementary schoolteacher in Mobile County , Ala. , recited this prayer with her class every day before lunch . Was she violating the Constitution ? Ishmael Jaffree , a local agnostic , charged that she was . He sued Ms. Boyd , two other teachers who recited comparable prayers and local school officials for 8115,000 , claiming his three children , Jamael , Makeba and Chioke , suffered emotional harm for refusing to join in the prayers . In a preliminary hearing last August , Federal District Judge W.B. Hand denied a motion by defense lawyer Fob James III , son of the then-governor of Alabama , that the case be dismissed because only God  --  not the courts  --  has jurisdiction over prayer . But Judge Hand has upheld the constitutionality of the prayers in a bombshell opinion that deliberately violates 21 years of Supreme Court precedent on school prayer , and a longer precedent of 14th Amendment interpretation . His decision is almost certain to be reversed on appeal , and pending a decision @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has issued an injunction against prayers in Alabama schools . But the higher courts , and perhaps more importantly the public , would do well to examine carefully Judge Hand 's arguments . The First Amendment says that " Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion . " Until the 20th century , this clause was held to apply only to the federal government . State establishments actually existed in this country until 1833 . But beginning in the 1920s , the Supreme Court gradually applied the Bill of Rights to the states , through a series of 14th Amendment reinterpretations . Citing historical studies by Raoul Berger and others , Judge Handruled that " the historical record clearly establishes that when the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868 , " it " was : not intended to incorporate the Bill of Rights ( the first eight aznendments ) against the states . " He therefore . : ruled that " the United States Constitution does not prohibit the state from . establishing a religion . " This logic , though historically correct , : would overturn thousands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ranging from criminal law to freedom of speech . It would wreak so much havoc on- modem jurisprudence that it will most likely be rejected out of hand . But on narrower and more practical grounds , Judge Hand 's ruling also challenges the Supreme Court 's interpretation of the term " establishment . " The " wall of separation between - Church and State " cited in so many recent court opinions does not exist in the Constitution . It is , as Judge Hand points out , only a metaphor taken from a speech by Thomas Jefferson ; what was meant by the establishment clause was simply that the federal government should not favor one religion over another . Moreover , the founders never intended the clause to imply , as the Supreme Court now holds , that government activity must " have a primary effect that neither advances nor inhibits religion . " On the contrary , Judge Hand observes that Presidents Washington , John Adams and Madison all issued prayer proclamations , that one of the earliest acts of the House of Representatives was to elect a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among the Founders , signed into law bills that provided federal funds for the propagation of the gospel among the Indians . It 's one thing to say the Constitution does n't prevent school prayers . It is quite another to have them . Throughout much of the mid- to late19th century , and well into the 20th , public schools in much of the country , especially the Midwest and the South , taught Protestant prayers  --  often with Protestant clerics as teachers  --  a violation of the " establishment " clause , even under Judge Hand 's definition . Many religious leaders are afraid that any prayers acceptable to all denominations would be sterilized of most of their religious content ; meanwhile many parents think their schools have more pressing problems than worrying about prayers . And even though the Supreme Court may have exaggerated the separationism of the Founders , it 's worth remembering that Tocqueville attributed the vitality of American religious life to the separation of church and state  --  which , among other things , protected churches from the hostility citizens felt toward their government . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his unusual opinion . He may have violated the principle of stare decisis , or adherence to precedent . But he has clarified constitutional issues that have become muddied during the past generation .                     