@@734825

txt WASHINGTON IAN ? The country 's first commercial plant to produce synthetic fuels has been dealt a serious and possibly fatal blow by a federal appeals court , project spon ? sors said Tuesday . A three-judge United states tzurt of Appeals panel ruled invalid a surcharge which the five gas companies had sought to impose on their customers to help pay financing costs for the $2 billion plant near Beulah , N.D. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC had no authority to impose the surcharge , the court said , because FERC does not have jurisdiction over unfinished projects . However , company sponsors , which include Chicago 's Peoples Energy Corp. , say a guarantee of gas rates is critical to their efforts to get financing for the project . THE GOVERNMENT already has given conditional approval to a $1.5 billion loan guarantee . But one of the conditions was that the FERC tariffstand up to court challenges . The Great Plains project has been the centerpiece of the Carter administration 's efforts to start up an Industry in this country to turn coal and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is far ahead of other projects and was the first selected for a loan guarantee . Administration officials had hoped successful completion of this project would encourage others to enter the field . But American Natural Resources Co. of Detroit , one of the chief sponsors , said the court order , issued Monday , was a " serious setback . " " AT BEST THE decision means a delay of as much as a year in construction of the project , " the company said . " At worst . it could mean the end of the attempt to construct the plant . " Phil Gallo , an Energy Department official involved in the project , said the decision probably represented an " enormous setback " for other projeels to convert coal into synthetic gas because of questions raised over guaranteed markets . The plant , which sponsors had hoped would he operating in 1984 , was to convert 4.7 million tons of coal annually into daily production of 125 million cubic feet of gas . To get financing , project sponsors proposed a tariff on current gas customers that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be as high as $400 million . HOWEVER , GENERAL Motors and state officials from Michigan , Ohio , and New York challenged the order in court , saying the agency had no power to force customers to pay for a plant that might end up becoming a " white elephant " because its synthetic gas would not be competitive with natural gas . Other companies whose subsidiaries involved are : Columbia Gas System of Wilmington , Del. ; Tenneco , Inc. , of Houston ; and Transco Cos . Inc. , also of Houston .                     