@@670321

NEW YORK  --  Caving in under pressure from big government-bond dealers , a major bond broker has abandoned its controversial effort to broaden access to bond-trading information . At stake is who gets to view the electronic screens of middlemen , known as bond brokers , showing second-by-second changes in U.S. government bond prices . This information , long available only to the largest government bond dealers , is considered to give them a highly important edge in trading bonds . Early last month , RMJ Securities Corp. , a bond-broker unit of British &; Commonwealth Holdings PLC , decided to defy strong opposition from large dealers and offer its electronic screen to a larger group of customers . RMJ also spoke with several news agencies and information vendors about carrying its price quotes . But RMJ has quietly pulled back . Several individuals familiar with the situation say RMJ buckled because five or six major government bond dealers either stopped doing business entirely with RMJ or severely curtailed contact . Bond traders say RMJ was " tossed into the penalty box " or " thrown into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several dealers say they recently received calls from RMJ officials confirming that the company is making a U-turn . Traders said the brutal fight over RMJ ' s plan is another sign of the hard times afflicting the U.S. government bond business , the biggest securities market in the world . Sluggish trading volume and increasingly tough competition have hurt many dealers as well as brokers . Even some large bond dealers , such as Discount Corp. of New York , had losses in this year ' s first quarter . Some firms viewed the RMJ plan as another headache that they just didn ' t need . Brokers such as RMJ serve as intermediaries between dealers . Dealers use brokers for much of their trading because that allows them to remain anonymous while buying and selling bonds ; that way , they don ' t alert rivals to their trading strategies . The brokers promise not to disclose the identity of the buyer or seller . RMJ officials hoped to expand their business by selling access to their electronic screen to many large concerns that aren ' t members of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 44 banks and securities dealers recognized as primary dealers by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York . Also , several other concerns have applied to join the elite group . The New York Fed will do business only with primary dealers when it buys and sells government securities in executing the Federal Reserve ' s monetary policy . As a result of its pullback , RMJ will sell its screen only to the primary dealers and other firms , known as " aspiring dealers , " that have applied to the Fed for primary-dealer status . RMJ ' s change of heart came as unpleasant  --  though not entirely unexpected  --  news to some bond traders who aren ' t primary dealers . " This really disappoints me , " says Ralph Horn , executive vice president and manager of the bond division at First Tennessee Bank in Memphis , Tenn . RMJ ' s plan " was seen as a first step in disseminating bond-price information to the public . So a lot of people said : ' Good for you , RMJ . ' " Mr. Horn also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We were excited about the possibility of another source of bond-price information to compete with Telerate , " he said . Telerate Inc. , 67%-owned by Dow Jones &; Co. , the publisher of this newspaper , carries bond-price information supplied by Cantor , Fitzgerald &; Co . The Justice Department ' s Antitrust Division has studied the question of public access to bond-price information for many years . The issue is " a very thorny one , " says Heather Ruth , president of the Public Securities Association , a trade group . RMJ still is proceeding with one aspect of its original plan : It has changed the company ' s role from serving merely as a middleman to serving as a " principal , " meaning that RMJ guarantees the completion of trades . But it won ' t do any trading for its own account . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     