@@734861

txt ? ASHINGTON  --  America 's public schools are going to hell for want of academic and disciplinary standards , right ? - Well , suppose your school district set up a handful of schools that emphasized the old values : discipline , academic rigor , respect , and regular homework . And suppose that applicants for these traditional schools overwhelmed the space available to them . What would you do ? You 'd probably fall on your knees in prayers of thanksgiving ( not in school , of course ) and quickly move to convert more and more regular schools to the traditional curriculum . Unless you happen to live is Louissffle , Ky . The Jefferson County ( Louisville ) school district has five traditional schools ? a high school , a middle school , and three elementary schools ? and a waiting list of more than 4,000 . But expansion of the traditional , academically rigorous program to inThe stricter discipline of the traditional schools can be unsettling to children . used to a more tolerant atmosphere . In fact , many black parents say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ elude snore of the system 's 90,000 students is n't as easy as it might seem . For one thing , the county . is under a desegregation order that requires - each school to have a black ? enrollment of approxiiiibtely 20 per cent . But only about 7 per cent of the applicants for traditional education are black . As re- cently as last fall , the figure was less than 1 per cent . Attendance at the traditional schools is voluntary . BUT IF THE schools are so good ? parents are positively lyrical in their praise . ? why are n't more blacks interested ? " The traditional schools were created at the tune of desegregation here , " exp. lain Superintendent David Daum &; " Louisville 's schools were some 60 per cent black at the time they were mergedwith Jefferson County . A lot of black parents see the schools as a development for middle-class whites ? as a way of opting out of the desegregation program . " And so , apparently , do a ldt of white parents . " I do n't think @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the traditional schools as a homogeneous situation , where everybody has the same values , " DeRuzzo said in a telephone interview . " They like the idea of getting out of the busing program and sending ' their children to a school where the People are all the same . " DeRuzzo acknowledges that there are some problems with the traditional format . For one thing , the special schools have virtually no vocational education , or general business course . As a result , they . tend to skim the best of the academic talent , depressing still further the achievement levels at the regular ' schools . Expansion of the traditional program would exacerbate that problem almost to the point of disaster , he said . In addition , the stricter discipline of the traditional schools can be unsettling to . children used to a more tolerant ' atmosphere , he said . In fact , many black parents say that the " discipline " often amounts to racism . DeRUZZO SAYS , however , that the black parents whose children do attend the traditional schools tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the waiting lists . White students sign up early because of the fierce competition ? to get in , he said . But black students often wait until the last minute , knowing that the 20 per cent requirement means thereon always get in . Still , the . unequal attractiveness the special schools have for white and black students creates a dilemma fir tbe schools system . Meeting the unequivocal demands of white parents could result in a resegregated school system , with whites , attending academically superior schools . DeRuzzo , superintendent only since last summer , has proposed to the school beard that the dilemma be resolved by installing the best features of traditional curriculum in all the schoo/s . Critics say this approach can only lead to the watermg-down of standards that created the long waiting list in the first Place-                     