@@668325

SANDY RIVER PLANTATION , Maine - Real winter came to the North Country this weekend , 20-below zero at the tops of these windswept mountains in western Maine . Riding up on the chair lift , the temperature drops about 10 degrees for every 500 feet . By the time you get to the top of Saddleback the hardy pine that survives is encrusted ; it is a short stubby tree and very tough , and in fact you must guess at the exact species , for not a needle shows in the snow . The entire mountain top is buried , deep white , the snow looking somehow like drifting sand . The top of Rangeley then is a frozen desert , huge and blinding white in the cold noon sun . So where do you get warm ? Heaters , blowers , fires - fine for the surface of the skin , I guess . But I got warm more by a visit to Dick Frost ' s Rangeley Region Sports Shop . It is not that Dick keeps his heat cranked up or has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you happen to come find him , Frost will always get the talk going toward fishing . Not that he is disinterested in skiing . For many years Dick was the manager of Saddleback Mountain and this morning he stood there wearing his famous Rossignal cap , standing beside a deer ' s antler mounted on his wall . You see , here in one of New England ' s greatest outdoor areas , this is not that artificial separation and distance between the ways of enjoying the outdoors . Many native skiers here also hunt and fish , and the contempt you will find in natives of some regions toward visiting skiers doesn ' t exist here . At any rate , Dick Frost watches the ski activity of the area closely . This morning , though , he picked a new 5 Shakespeare fly reel off the shelf , and turned his thoughts to fishing . " Trick ' round here is timing , " Frost intones with a twang as he cranks the spool . " You might know just that when a little real heat comes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to get a couple of hatches of May flies . If you strike right out then there ' ll be plenty of fishing . But people who miss it go off saying there isn ' t any fishing . " " There ' s fishing up here , all right . Problem is , it ' s getting closed off some places . Paper companies . We always went into the western corners for good trout fishing , but then they went and put a chain-link fence up across the road . So now we ' ve taken to flying in with a seaplane . A friend of mine puts us right down on the lake . And all day we fish right down the rivers and get back so he picks us up in the afternoon . " But as gorgeous and profitable as the summer ' s here may be , Dick Frost , like most other natives , wonders when the fishing is going to pay off for the region as well . Under its new management , Saddleback Mountain is one of the half dozen truly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ drawing the destination skier . Rangeley Lake , however , has no trouble drawing hundreds of snowmobiles . " Just now , " Frost says , " folks are getting plenty worked up over the 100- mile race around the lake next month . Now there ' s an event that will draw them from everywhere , " he says . But Dick Frost is still one of the many townspeople who have been enlisted to keep visitors from practicing out on the lake . " Up until now we haven ' t had a real freeze , " he says . " But we did get three feet of snow come over and insulate the thin ice , so it ' s not really as cold around here as it looks . " Still , from the top of the 20-below zero mountain , which is so cold it shines , that is a hard case to make .                     