@@668418

Technically speaking , it is not possible to play the piano any better than Anthony Di Bonaventura did in his recital Saturday night . Technically speaking , in fact , it shouldn ' t be possible to play the piano that well at all . Not that Di Bonaventura was putting on a show ; his presence at the piano , like Horowitz ' s , is elegant and almost unobtrusive , deceptively so , because that presence masks what have to be extraordinary powers of concentration . A distinguished musician in the audience remarked that there isn ' t a computer in the world that could make so many simultaneous complex decisions so fast . Which is another way of remarking how human Di Bonaventura ' s playing is . Extreme virtuosity can often sound extremely cold and machine-like ; that is part , and sometimes all , of the " demonic " appeal of certain famous pianists . But there is something singing about Di Bonaventura ' s playing , even in the most violent and percussive passages ; the tone is always beautiful . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thick the textures , everything is always clear , clean and proportionate . This could possibly be a disadvantage in certain famous music that is about struggle ; nothing sounds difficult in Di Bonaventura ' s playing . But he didn ' t play anything like that on this program , which was triumphant . He opened with a cluster of five Scarlatti Sonatas . Among many astonishing things about them - the sparkling beauty of sound , the rhythmic liveliness - there was nothing more remarkable than the complexity of the dynamics Di Bonaventura could achieve on the modern piano . He didn ' t content himself with merely playing the repeats more softly ; they were truly an " echo , " reproducing every nuance of color and touch and contrast at a softer dynamic level . I ' ve never heard anything like it . Ginastera ' s first piano sonata , written 30 years ago , was , perhaps the last to enter the standard recital repertory ; it is a rousing local-color virtuoso piece in the tradition of Balakirev ' s " Islamey . " The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is built along the same lines , but it is unlikely to match the success of its predecessor because there is less music in it - and even more virtuosity . Not many people are going to be able to play it , or want to take the trouble . The best movement is the central Adagio , which is built on a pre-Columbian melody given a keening keyboard transcription interrupted by evocative night-murmurs that scurry over the entire keyboard . Both of the outer movements depend too much on meretriciously exciting ostinato repetitions of dance rhythms and percussion effects that aren ' t very interesting in the first place . But you can ' t say that it doesn ' t exploit every resource of the keyboard , and of the pianist . The nine Preludes from Rachmaninoff ' s Op. 32 that Di Bonaventura offered after intermission sounded for once like real music . I had always thought that the keyboard elaboration in these pieces cluttered over the basic inferiority of the ideas . But these performances simply cleaned up the clutter , and the music shone . None @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the famous song " Lilacs , " with a murmurous accompaniment twining around a melodic line of aromatic delicacy . There were encores of course . First came Chopin ' s " Aeolian Harp " Etude , transparent and full of mystery , and then Liszt ' s 10th Hungarian Rhapsody . Nothing I could tell you about that transcendentally teasing performance would make you believe it , because I still can ' t believe I heard it myself .                     