@@668612

Additional material published Feb. 22 , 1985 : Corrections and clarifications . The Restaurant Notes column in some editions of the Friday section of the Feb. 15 Tribune incorrectly listed Feb. 17 as the date for the Chinatown New Year ' s parade . The parade will be held at 1 p. m . Sunday . The Tribune regrets The Year of the Ox is upon us , and in a culture as attached to symbolism as the Chinese , that is important . Children brought into the world in this year , 4683 , will be calm , quiet and trustworthy , but sometimes stubborn . Life and labors started in this year have a checkered future . The symbolism of Chinese thought leaves room for plenty of interpretation , but as the Chinese ring in their New Year there is one thing they are taking no chances with : the kitchen . In fact , restaurant owners both here and in China know that this is the time the Kitchen God makes his yearly report on the conduct of the cook in home and restaurant . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Austin Koo of Szechwan House , Michigan Avenue and Ohio Street , is taking pains to chase evil spirits on Wednesday , New Year ' s Day . The celebration continues through Saturday . The " lion dance " has been a tradition at this restaurant for several years ; around 11 : 45 a. m. , the strange beast will linger outside , lighting firecrackers , and then go into the kitchen to greet the staff and provide them with good luck . Luck , of course , is something that Austin Koo has in abundance . Since arriving in Chicago in 1974 , when he opened the Orchid Room on Broadway , he has opened or consulted in a variety of Chinese restaurant ventures . In 1975 , he opened House of Hunan Lincoln Avenue , with George Kuan , a fellow Taiwanese immigrant . He subsequently sold that restaurant to Kuan , opened House of Hunan Michigan Avenue , and sold that to Kuan , too . Kuan , in turn , has sold interests to Koo , and the revolving partnership goes on . Koo himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ city and suburbs . Actually , it is Koo ' s employees who would appreciate the luck provided by the lion ( Tsee Bu Shian ) dance . At least four of them have left Koo ' s employ to open their own places , but have returned after failing . " They become much better workers after that , " said a friend of Koo ' s . Koo ' s success is in part attributable to the newly sophisticated palates of American diners , who have discovered the infinitely complex tastes of different regional cuisines of China . The best Chinese cuisine is a hybrid of traditions , something that mixes the delicate styles of Szechwan and Hunan provinces , which is spicy , and the seafoods of Canton and Shanghai . For example , Woks , 158 E. Ontario St. , features a dish called royal tung ting platter , large shrimp , lobster , broccoli , baby corn and umbrella mushrooms in delicate wine sauce . The dish is labeled Szechwan , but the seafood is coastal . This mixing of traditions occurred in the last few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese from the east were holed up in the more western province of Szechwan . That was when their chefs adopted the delicate sauces of Szechwan and the still spicier ones of nearby Hunan . At Woks , Wednesday ' s New Year celebration will feature Peking duck , a crispy , tender bird that was developed at the royal court , among the entrees . A full dinner with wine , hors d ' oeuvres and dessert costs $19. 95 . Chinese entertainment and little money bags for children will be offered , says Amy Young , Chen ' s wife . The two also are partners of three Chinese spots in New York . In the suburbs , the greatest concentration of Chinese restaurants is in the Skokie-Morton Grove-Niles area , where much of the Chinese population has migrated from Chinatown . Dong Hung Vien , Niles , is considered by these people as a good place for New Year ' s . Although it can be crowded for the festivities , which run through the end of next week , it is particularly popular for its eel dishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Chinese people , especially at this time . " No Chinese dinner is complete without some kind of seafood , " said Long Hwa-shu , from Nan King province and now living in Skokie . In Highland Park , Kurt Youngmann runs the Meanderin ' Mandarin , where daily New Year ' s specials will be priced at 25 percent off through Feb. 24 . There are some interesting selections , including pan fried snapper with orange/ garlic sauce and smoked tea duck , smoked in tea leaves and deep fried . But for the real ethnic treatment , a trip to Chinatown is a must . This weekend the area merchants will put on their yearly parade at 1 p. m . Sunday with the long-tailed dragon marching amidst continuous volleys of firecrackers . The spectacle is good luck for all who attend , and is especially important for partly Americanized Chinese people who like to make the trip to recharge their Chinese identities . Here too are found non-stylish but good , economical restaurants . Three Happiness Restaurants Nos. 1 and 3 are some of the better known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rd. ( more of a cafe ) they offer an array of culinary styles , but are best known for dim sum , the Cantonese brunch that features dumplings , pastries and barbecued meats . Owner Alfred Moy also is working on a special New Year ' s menu that will feature much culinary symbolism , such as the noodles of long life , fish which signify abundance and the chicken of wealth . The specials run through the end of the week . The old Three Happiness No. 2 has been sold to family member Sally Moy and her husband Paul , who operate it as Chee King at 216 W. 22d Pl . Szechwan is the style of choice here  --  which is rare and delicate enough in this old ethnic neighborhood to make this place " the Yoshi ' s of Chinatown , " according to one restaurant aficionado with a knack for hyperbole.                     