@@669903

MANAGUA , Nicaragua  --  After this nation ' s revolutionary rulers decided to hold an election , they spent more than a year touring Western and Eastern Europe , the U.S. and Latin America for tips on how to go about it . What they came up with is now on view , and in many respects it ' s a surprise : an ideologically unique hybrid that has more in common with Mexico ' s system than with Cuba ' s . To the Sandinista National Liberation Front , the Nov. 4 presidential and legislative elections are designed to win friends abroad and legitimize their claim to power over the country they have ruled , in an increasingly hard-line leftist fashion , since the 1979 revolution . To their critics , including the U.S. government , the elections as now designed are a sham ; power isn ' t really up for grabs , the critics say , and the only significant opposition isn ' t participating . But , judging from the campaign itself , which has been under way in this Central American nation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t defined as starkly as either its supporters or detractors claim . The election campaign hardly could be called open , but it isn ' t entirely closed either . The Sandinistas won ' t lose the election , but the election won ' t simply ratify their revolution . The Sandinistas have broad control over the electoral process , the media , security forces and most labor and peasant groups ; and they clearly intend to maintain it . Nonetheless , political parties of the left and center have succeeded in mobilizing campaigns that are highly critical of the revolutionary process . " We promised the people they would have the right to choose , " says Sergio Rimirez , a member of the ruling junta and the Sandinista candidate for vice president . " There ' s no doubt we will win , but we are establishing a system of choice . " The election is set against an acceleration of the long-running jousting between the Sandinistas and the Reagan administration . Last week , Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega declared at the United Nations that the U.S. planned to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promptly branded as " absurd . " Last month , the Sandinistas clearly upstaged the U.S. by saying they would accept the draft of a regional peace treaty that the administration hasn ' t been willing to endorse . Now , the Sandinistas are hoping to score further marks with their election . What ' s happening in the election  --  the allowing of anti-government speeches , for instance  --  wouldn ' t count for much by U.S. electoral standards , but it ' s light years ahead of what is found in the Marxist orbit , where the Reagan administration , among others , often puts the Sandinistas . Cuba hasn ' t had a presidential election in the 25 years since its revolution , and the sort of attacks on the regime that are being permitted here simply wouldn ' t be allowed there . " The Nicaraguan model is not the Cuban model , " says Gioconda Belli , spokeswoman for the Sandinista political campaign . " Nicaragua is Nicaragua , not a second Cuba . " Indeed , this electoral system in many ways resembles that of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Institutional Revolutionary Party , with largely token opposition has mobilized its labor and peasant unions , dominated the airwaves and even resorted to intimidation to win every presidential and gubernatorial election . That isn ' t to suggest that Nicaragua is politically akin to Mexico ; among other things , the two countries ' ruling groups have vastly differing priorities . Also , many skeptics question the Sandinistas ' post-election intentions , with some predicting a drift to a more conventional Marxist system  --  a claim that Sandinista leaders publicly dismiss . " This will be a traditional presidential system , similar to Costa Rica or Venezuela , " says Mariano Fiallos , president of the Supreme Electoral Commission and a party activist . To outsiders , including many European and Latin socialists who support the Sandinistas , the elections here would mean a lot more if there were serious opposition . But the Sandinistas and their only formidable rival , a coalition of groups known as the Coordinadora , so far haven ' t been able to reach an agreement that would put the Coordinadora ' s presidential candidate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thinks any of the six registered opposition candidates , from smaller parties , will defeat Mr. Ortega , the Sandinista presidential candidate . Nonetheless , the candidates who are running believe there is a chance to open Nicaragua ' s political system . " After five years of Sandinista political monopoly , the people see the election as a miracle because people are openly expressing a different point of view , " says Virgilio Godoy , the candidate of the Independent Liberal Party and the most serious registered challenger Mr. Ortega faces . Still , Mr. Godoy , a lawyer and labor minister until he resigned in March , says he might withdraw from the election unless there are more guarantees against fraud . Last Sunday , Mr. Godoy donned a peasant straw hat and took his campaign to the city of Esteli , near the embattled Honduran border region . Following a spirited march through the city ' s streets , 500 supporters heard some very tough campaign rhetoric . On the topic of Sandinista sympathies with the Eastern bloc , Mr. Godoy complained , " There are hundreds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spies . " On the controversial draft system that sends conscripts to fight against the U.S.-backed counter-revolutionary forces , known as Contras , he said ; " The boys are not there because they want to be  --  they are obliged to be there . " Mr. Godoy says opposition hopes lie in electing a majority to the new 90-member National Assembly , something he thinks could happen provided the election is clean . The assembly is to write a constitution for Nicaragua , and Mr. Godoy says , " It ' s possible we will be able to write a democratic constitution . " He adds that he favors a document that would guarantee civil liberties , private property rights and a separation between the Sandinista party , government and army . Such talk shouldn ' t obscure the nature of the struggle here , though , and the Sandinistas ' nastier side also has come out in the election campaign . Rock-throwing mobs from Sandinista popular organizations disrupted an Aug. 5 rally in the city of Chinandega for Mr. Cruz , the Coordinadora ' s unregistered presidential candidate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day when Sandinista censors ordered pictures and news of the violence be cut . Perhaps the best illustration of Sandinista strong-arm tactics in the election involves the Independent Liberal Party ' s campaign youth committee in the city of Granada . Shortly after the first eight-man committee was selected last spring , all eight members were drafted into the army . They were replaced by eight other activists , who then also were drafted . Eight new members then were selected . Just recently , they were notified that they , too , will be called up for service . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     