@@734627

txt The Carter administration is preparing to send Congress a new standby gasoline-rationing plan that is far more complex , costly and favorable to business than the plan Congress rejected last year . Unlike last year 's rationing plan , which could have provided the same basic allotment of fuel for each registered vehicle in the country , the new proposal attempts to tailor fuel allotments to the particular needs of businesses and certain other " priority " groups . As a result , the Energy Department 's own internal analysis describes the plan as " a massive and extremely complex undertaking " entailing " high cost " and a " large federal bureaucracy . " The analysis says it will take nearly $600 million and IS months to ready the rationing system for use and cost $2 billion a year to operate it . The study concedes that , even then , the system will be subject to " many errors " and will invite " fraud and abuse . " The proposal still must be cleared by President Carter before it 's sent to Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Carter administration sources predict that the White House will submit the plan , with only minor changes , as early as next week . The President is required by law to devise a standby plan for rationing gasoline , to be used if the nation ever suffers a Iry shortage of the most common petroleum products . This standard is tough ; it would n't have triggered rationing , for instance , during last year 's gasoline shortages . Only a special vote by Congress could authorize rationing during a less severe shortage . ' Last year , Mr. Carter sent Congress his first proposal for a standby rationing plan , and was strongly rebuffed . In an attempt to minimize the cost , complexity and delays in rationing the gasoline , the 19:11 version would have provided all individuals and businesses in the country with an equal number of ration coupons , regardless of their actual driving patterns or where they lived . But the Senate cleared the plan only after Mr. Carter agreed to base allotments on state-by-state driving patterns . and to give extra coupons to farmers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further special categories that some House members demanded , the House killed the proposal . 246 to 159 . This time . because of a change in the law , it will take both houses to kill the plan . Still . Energy Department officials have decided to anticipate congressional parochialism by building in numerous exemptions . In addition , the complexity of the 1980 version conforms to the administration 's current political position that rationing is too complicated to work well . Sen. Edward Kennedy Mast . Mr. Carter 's opponent for the Democratic presidential nomination , strongly favors rationing . The plan currently before the President contains even more special categories and exemptions , and would thus be more difficult to operate . than a version the administration proposed for public comment last December . before Sen. Kennedy began stressing rationing in his campaign . The December proposal included fewer priority users and was much more vague about extra fuel for business . Under the new plan , each individual and business would receive special federal checks that could be redeemed for free rationing coupons The coupons would have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amount of gasoline a holder could buy The holder would still have to pay for the gasoline . As in last year 's plan , individuals and businesses would start with the same number of coupons for each car or truck they own . Those in states with the heaviest gasoline use in the past would get more than those in low-consumption states . But businesses would be able to apply for " supplemental " allotments , based on some fraction of their gasoline use in a base period . Also . certain kinds of businesses , such as those in the food and energy industries . newspaper deliveries , taxis and car rental companies . would get " priority " status , enUtillig them to more coupons than other businessesThe Energy Department estimates that . if this plan were m use currently , individuals would be allotted an average of 42 gallons a month , or - an of what the department considers normal needs . " Priority " businesses would get 90 ' of their normal needs . and all other businesses SO ' ' r . The department figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million people would star ; with more coupons than they should have , IS Million people with fewer coupons . The coupons could be bought and sold freely in a largely unregulated market . The Energy Department estimates that , if gasoline averaged $1.50 a gallon betore me snortage struck . me-gallon coupons , on the resale market , would average $2.13 in addition to the cost of the gasoline .                     