@@668996

Ever since electrolysis , or permanent hair removal , was developed in the late 1800s , the procedure has remained in a categorical limbo between the beauty business and the medical profession . " Electrolysis was developed by doctors in 1875 , " says Dr. Richard F. Wagner Jr. , an associate professor at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston . " But later , a judge ruled , mistakenly , that electrolysis was like barbering , because the practitioners worked on dead hair . His mistake was in not realizing that the electrologist is working on the hair follicle , which is a living tissue , and that occasionally , he or she can draw blood in the course of the treatment , " Wagner says . Questions about the medical aspects of electrolysis have surfaced again most recently because of concerns about AIDS and hepatitis . Although there have been no documented AIDS- or hepatitis-related problems connected with the procedure , concern about those diseases centers on the fact that needles used in the procedure occasionally break the skin . Attention has focused on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , according to Trudy Brown , president of the International Guild of Electrologists , headquartered in High Point , N.C. Tighter controls - +-  Recently , the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta re-categorized electrolysis as a medical profession . And in Massachusetts , electrologists since Jan. 1 are required to sterilize needles and forceps used in the practice of permanent hair removal . The electrologists ' guild determined in 1987 that " the only way AIDS could be dangerous to the electrologist is by not wearing gloves and having cuts on the fingers , " and recommended that electrologists use rubber gloves , Brown says . The guild asked Wagner , who is the group ' s medical consultant , to lecture members on the necessity of sterilizing their equipment . Although there was no law to that effect at the time , he says , " responsible electrologists have responded appropriately , and consumers who are in the know ask about sterilization as well . " Buy your own needle In the past several years , as the AIDS threat has been publicized , many electrologists , such as Doris @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular client to purchase his or her own needle , at a cost of about $8 . The electrologist then keeps the needle on file for use with that particular patient . Others have chosen to use disposable needles . Speaking of using different needles for each client , Dorothy Trites , a technician at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute , says that " I think it ' s good that ( Cole ) is doing it because it makes her patients feel better , but it ' s not really necessary . The AIDS virus is an extremely fragile virus , which doesn ' t last long outside the body . Almost anything , including just a wipe with alcohol , will kill it . " But Wagner suggests that " reusing needles , even if they are personal needles of the patients , is not acceptable , in my opinion , unless the needle is resterilized . " He says he prefers disposable needles , " which are the rule in hospitals now . " Still , since many electrologists feel the single-use needles are too bulky for their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next best method . No rules in 23 states - +-  Wagner , who was a staff member of the department of dermatology at the Boston University School of Medicine , now lives in Texas , one of the many states that have no licensing requirements for electrologists . In fact , in 23 states anyone can call himself or herself an electrologist and set up a practice . Massachusetts has the strongest law in the country , requiring that a person have a minimum of 1 , 100 hours of both clinical and academic work in electrolysis in order to receive a license. -                     