@@668393

Right-wing Christian militiamen yesterday clashed with their leftist Moslem counterparts in the mountain village of Aley in the worst outbreak of sectarian fighting since Israel ' s invasion of Lebanon four months ago . One Israeli soldier was reported wounded in the Lebanese cross- fire . It was not immediately clear what triggered the fighting , but Christian militiamen and their traditional enemies , the Moslem Druze sect , have been involved in sporadic shootouts over the past week near the resort 10 miles east of the capital along the Beirut- Damascus highway . Maurice Khawwam , the military prosecutor of Aley , said at least 20 militiamen from both sides were kidnaped when the combatants set up roadblocks in and around Aley . In the capital , a coalition of rightist militias called the Lebanese Forces crossed from the Christian eastern sector into Moslem West Beirut , rounding up leftists in cooperation with the Lebanese government , police sources said . The sources , who asked not to be identified , said the intelligence apparatus of the Lebanese Forces was cooperating closely with the Deuxieme Bureau , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with names of leftist Moslem militiamen and Palestinian guerrillas in the capital ' s western sector . The sources said the militiamen have also been assisting the army in its search for hidden weapons and ammunition left behind when 8000 Palestine Liberation Organization guerrillas were forced to withdraw to other Arab countries in late August by the Israeli invasion . Police sources said they had reports that several militiamen had recently visited West Beirut carrying lists of Lebanese leftist Moslems who fought alongside Palestinian guerrillas against the Christian Phalangists during the 1975-76 civil war . Mufti Hassan Khaled , religious leader of Lebanon ' s Sunni Moslems , recently gave Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan a list of 150 persons he claimed were kidnapped by Christian militiamen . Western diplomats here have said in the past there was reason to believe there was close cooperation between the Lebanese Forces intelligence service and the Deuxieme Bureau . They cited specific cases in which the two presented identical security reports on the same incidents . Lebanese newspapers and government sources reported Saturday that a plan to demilitarize Christian East Beirut has been postponed pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of West Beirut . The sources said the army had requested an extension to complete its search and arrest campaign in Moselm neighborhoods . Western military sources said more than 1000 tons of ammunition have been collected by the army since it moved into West Beirut last month and more than 1000 people arrested . Christian militiamen have been accused of massacring 600 Palestinian men , women and children in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps Sept. 18-19 following the PLO evacuation . The Israelis , who moved into West Beirut following the withdrawal , said they allowed their Christian allies into the camps to round up guerrillas suspected to be still hiding . The Lebanese army ' s top echelon is dominated by Christians . Lebanese President Amin Gemayel is affiliated with the rightist Christian Phalange militia , and since the army took control of leftist leaders have demanded that he impose similar security measures in Christian East Beirut and disarm the Phalangists . A tentative plan to begin collecting weapons in Christian- populated areas was indefinitely postponed yesterday pending the completion of the security operation in West Beirut . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ homeless as a result of Israel ' s invasion , the Lebanese army bulldozed what remained of illegal houses in the Ouzai neighborhood erected by refugees in the since the civil war . Security forces issued an ultimatum for refugees to clear out of their homes yesterday before the demolition team arrived to complete the job .                     