@@670071

WASHINGTON  --  Farm-state lawmakers and their constituents are pressuring the Reagan administration to bolster agricultural export programs , as the U.S farm-trade picture darkens further . There are signs that the pressure may be having an effect . Aware of an election-year need to address farmers ' distress , the cabinet-level Economic Policy Council met this week and heard Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng describe the bleak farm-trade picture . Mr. Lyng also made a pitch for a substantial expansion in a year-old program that gives foreign buyers bonuses of government-owned wheat and other commodities as an enticement to buy commercial farm goods . This " export enhancement program " is limited mainly to markets in which U.S. officials say the Common Market has used export subsidies to take business from U.S. exporters . Mr. Lyng ' s idea , strongly backed by Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole ( R. , Kan. ) and many farm groups , would include subsidized sales to the Soviet Union , a plan sternly opposed by others in the Reagan administration . In the latest sign of the growing pressure , Sen. John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain-firm and other farm-group officials here yesterday and pieced together a not entirely seamless consensus on the need to boost spending on major export-subsidy and related programs . Meanwhile , Sen. Dole has been pushing the administration to broaden farm-export programs . He recently wrote to President Reagan , asking to meet on the issue and suggesting that without some improvements by the administration in two or three months , Congress is likely to liberalize export programs . Part of Mr. Dole ' s concern is that farm-state Republicans up for reelection in November are in jeopardy , threatening GOP control of the Senate . However , Mr. Melcher said in an interview that he plans to ask Mr. Dole to join him in a bipartisan farm-export assault on the White House . Despite Mr. Lyng ' s proposal at the Economic Policy Council , broader farm programs still face a tough fight . In recent months , some in the Farm Belt have stepped up calls for government farm-production controls , while others have urged expanded export-subsidy programs . The administration has balked at these proposals , considering instead only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new farm law , sharp cuts in federal farm-price supports should lower prices and make U.S. growers more competitive abroad , but that will take time , administration officials say . " It would be expecting too much to see a big export ( surge ) just suddenly take place , " Secretary Lyng said . Sen. Melcher called his meeting in the wake of a recent report that as grain exports keep plunging , the U.S. had an agricultural trade deficit in May , the first such deficit since 1959 that wasn ' t related to a shipping strike . In its most recent farm-trade report , the Agriculture Department lowered its forecast for U.S. agricultural exports to $27. 5 billion for the year ending Sept. 30 , a drop from $31. 2 billion in fiscal 1985 and 37% below the peak reached five years ago . With exports already slumping , buyers have trimmed purchases further in recent months as they wait for U.S. farm prices to settle . In response to the new farm bill , lower wheat prices took effect June 1 . Reduced corn prices won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corn futures prices lately reflect anticipation of cash-price drops . Sen. Melcher brought in Orville Freeman , agriculture secretary in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations , to tell the assemblage that when the U.S. was in similar farm-export depths 25 years ago , he had to urge farm organizations to muster all their collective political power to make headway at the White House . At yesterday ' s gathering , there was widespread agreement to push forward , with another meeting tentatively set for next month in Omaha , Neb. , to solidify the coalition . As for the consensus , the participants generally endorsed expansion of the export-bonus program , boosting Food-for-Peace and other food-aid spending that the administration is curbing , and extending a new export plan for rice and cotton to larger-volume crops such as wheat and corn . Under that " marketing loan " plan , growers trying to compete better in world markets can cut their prices sharply below levels set by usual federal price supports and get increased government income-protection subsidies to compensate for lower prices . Many participants in the Melcher meeting said they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansion , which Sen. Dole favors . The secretary has opposed extending the plan to wheat , corn and soybeans , partly because it could increase costs $3 billion or more annually . The department already has raised its estimate for fiscal 1986 grower subsidies to $25 billion from $17. 8 billion last year . As bumper crops loom , farmers facing lower prices are expected to sign up in droves for benefits under the government farm programs , and huge government-owned crop surpluses appear certain to grow . Meanwhile , dissatisfaction over the failure of government farm-export programs to boost exports is helping fan the flames for a different approach : a federal requirement that farmers sharply cut their harvests in order to boost prices . Critics charge that approach would mean abandoning export markets . A poll of wheat growers ' sentiment on the idea could revive interest in production controls , which haven ' t been used since the 1950s . The Agriculture Department mailed ballots to about three million wheat growers , whose votes are due at local department offices Monday . But Mr. Lyng has campaigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out any such controls no matter what the outcome of the non-binding vote . Growers in some distressed areas such as Nebraska and Oklahoma tend to favor the idea , while others in the Pacific Northwest and regions dependent on exports lean against it . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     