@@668478

AMMAN , Jordan - King Hussein has accused the Palestine Liberation Organization of breaking a tentative promise to cooperate in peace negotiations , halting talks which US and other officials hoped could lead to a Mideast settlement . In a blunt statement issued yesterday by the government news agency , Hussein called off his series of meetings with PLO chairman Yasser Arafat and said Jordan " will neither act separately nor in lieu of anybody else in Mideast peace negotiations . " The king ' s declaration could doom President Ronald Reagan ' s peace proposal , which was based on the prospect that Hussein would join in negotiations with Israel as a representative for the Palestinians . Under the Reagan plan , the negotiators would arrange for " autonomy " for the Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip , in close association with Jordan . Western diplomats in Amman , who requested anonymity , said today Hussein was exhuasted by recent events and was unlikely to revive a dialogue with PLO in the near future . " There is gloom around town , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a great deal of effort made at the expense of many other things , including the king ' s health . So I don ' t think anyone has the stamina to continue . " Reagan blamed " radical elements " of the PLO for the development and said he remained hopeful about his plan after talking with Hussein by telephone . Israeli officials today said Hussein ' s move virtually ended hopes for the Reagan plan , but they suggested the king still could open talks with Israel on his own . One official in Jerusalem said his government had anticipated no results from the Jordan-PLO talks , and added , " only those who expected something from these talks will be disappointed . " Israel has rejected the Reagan plan , but US officials had suggested the Israelis might compromise if Hussein and non-PLO Palestinians offered to negotiate in lieu of the guerrilla organization . Neither Israel nor the United States will deal directly with the PLO , which claims to be the sole representative of the 1.2 million Palestinians on Israeli-held land . In Kuwait , PLO officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one source today predicted the king would ignore the PLO temporarily and try to rally support from moderate Palestinians . The Jordanian news agency said Hussein and Arafat had worked out their tentative agreement last week , and PLO sources said the proposal would have included an implicit recognition of Israel . Arafat flew to Kuwait to gain support of other Arab leaders and was supposed to return to Amman . The Jordanian statement said , Arafat sent a delegate to Amman " to convey to us new ideas and to propose a new course of action that differed from our agreement and that did not give priority to saving the land . " " In the light of this , it became evident that we can not proceed with the course of political action which we had planned together and to which we had agreed in principle and in detail , " it said . " We respect the decision of the PLO , it being the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people . Accordingly , we leave it to the PLO and to the Palestinian people to choose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their land . . . " The references to " saving the land " apparently reflected Hussein ' s concern that time was running out for the Palestinians to start negotiations because of Israel ' s expanding settlements on the West Bank . Hussein ' s impatience with the PLO was reflected in yesterday ' s statement : " Jordan has also cautioned against letting time pass by without concluding a just and comprehensive peace settlement because time was , and still is , essential to Israel ' s aim of . . . bringing about a fait accompli , " a reference to concern that Israel will annex the West Bank . According to a PLO source , the message Arafat sent to Hussein said the PLO would not endorse the Reagan plan , would not grant Hussein a mandate to speak on their behalf , and would not make other decisions until an Arab summit scheduled later this month . US diplomats in Amman insisted that " it ' s not over yet " and suggested the Saudis could pressure Arafat into changing his mind . But Hussein specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the PLO was adamant that it would not endorse the Reagan plan . In recent months , Arafat has faced increasing pressure from PLO radicals , who opposed his overtures to the United States and Jordan . The assassination yesterday in Portugal of a top PLO moderate , Issam Sartawi , seemed to underscore Arafat ' s dilemma . Responsiblity was claimed by the Syrian-backed " Abu Nidal " group , indicating those who stepped too far from the radical line could be in danger . One European diplomat in Amman said the breakdown of the Hussein- Arafat talks might mark the end of a unified PLO . " It may well break up into factions associated with one country or another , " he said .                     