@@668505

We have all read about how the flow of information can replace , in part , physical transport . Commuters will become " telecommuters , " working at home and submitting their work via electronic mail ; air travel will by replaced by " teleconferencing , " and the like . Whether this will all happen in real life remains to be be seen , but it might be noted that it has already done so symbolically . This spring the Computer Museum , an institution devoted to a collection of the relics and artifacts of information processing , announced that it would move next year from Marlboro to the space vacated by the Museum of Transportation in Boston . The idea of a computer museum might , in itself , strike many as a little odd . Most industrial museums collect objects that make some sort of visual sense : When you look at an old plow at Sturbridge Village , or a harpoon in some maritime museum , you know what you are looking at . The form is a clue to the function . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did , for whom , or when , they are all cabinets with keyboards and display screens . It is hard not to be a little puzzled , walking through the various exhibits , as to what one ought to be noticing . Here we have the CDC 6600 ; there the IBM 7030 . Yes ? So ? To its credit , the Museum lays out the history of computers in enough detail to startle anyone who thinks that the machine was invented by IBM sometime after WWII . In fact , the first stored- program industrial device wasinvented more than 250 years ago in France , where it was used to weave ornamental patterns in silk . That technology was steadily improved upon all though the 18th and 19th centuries and spread to a number of industries . In 1890 a statistician working for the Census Bureau combined the stored- program concept with the much older tradition of machine calculation . This statistician , whose name was Hermann Hollerith , and who founded a company thatwent on to become IBM , appears to have as good a claim as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But none of this answers the problem of what the Computer Museum is for or what people expect when they pay it a visit . The most baffling part of the museum is that there is nothing to do or watch . The keyboards do not work . Nolights flash ; no drives turn . Nothing appears on the screens . There is the usual museum justification for this - about the machines being old and delicate and hard to keep in repair - but it is nonetheless the case that museums have for some time been moving away from static exhibits , whatever the problems associated with them . These looming , silent , bulky volumes are not unimpressive - there is something totemic about them - but the overall impression is a little like being in a video arcade during a power failure . There is a sense of frustration in the air . The official origin myth of the Museum - the one put in the literature - is that years ago the President of DEC , Kenneth Olsen , heard that a computer he had worked on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Horrified , he jumped in his car , drove to Cambridge , and had all 3,000 square feet put in storage . This became the nucleus of a collection which , together with the holdings of another computer collector , Gordon Bell , in turn became the nucleus of the Museum . That story may be a clue to the Museum ' s rationale . While there , I kept running into engineers in their late thirties or forties who , when we began to talk , would point to one machine or another and say " I worked on that , fifteen years ago . " The Museum has posted the technical specifications of each machine next to it , and so it was always possible to read a little about what sort of machine it was they had worked on . Of course , by contemporary standards , those computers belonged to another world : tiny memories , enormous power demands , and the clumsiest tools for programming and data inputs . " Wow , " I would say . " What was that like ? " " Different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quiet smile . At times I felt like a kid talking to some old tars who had shipped out on the last clipper ships . After a few of these conversations I realized that whether these old computers were really turned off or not was ultimately a personal question . To me they were , just as to me it was a beautiful afternoon in Marlboro , summer of ' 83 . But to others in the Museum it was 4 a.m. in Cambridge , 1966 . Clusters of nineteen-year-olds , wearing rock-climbing boots and swigging from Coke bottles , huddled around screens that were alive with invitation . And though the room was windowless , somehow all those present could still feel the dawn rising in front of them .                     