@@670340

On his first day as drug czar , William Bennett decided to declare war on America ' s 70 million gun owners . The war will not be one on " assault weapons , " however , but one on law-abiding citizens who , under a bill introduced by Sen. Howard Metzenbaum ( D. , Ohio ) , could get 50 years for possession , transportation and failure to register many semi-automatic rifles with magazines . This is not the first time American legislators have prohibited popular substances and then blamed gun owners for the resulting violence . They reacted with chilling similarity to the gang fighting generated by the Volstead Act ' s prohibition of alcohol during the 1920s . The philosophy behind both the New Prohibition of drugs and the Old Prohibition of alcohol is that if the " noble experiment " fails , infringe on the Second and Fourth Amendments . In 1924 , Congress held hearings on " Firearms and Intoxicants in the District of Columbia " in response to an incident in which Sen. Frank Greene of Vermont had been wounded by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the hopes of the crusaders , the police rather than the bootleggers turned out to have fired the stray bullet . Nevertheless , a permit requirement for carrying handguns was imposed in Washington . Similarly , a petition to the Illinois state constitutional convention of 1922 called for the " suppression of the manufacture , transportation and sale of " concealable weapons " so far as private individuals are concerned . " The petition also proposed amending the state constitution to allow denial of bail to people accused of any crime , even misdemeanors . ( Neither proposal became law . ) Other proposals made in the 1920s to ban firearms were linked with demands for the infringement of other civil liberties . A committee of the American Bar Association concluded that " the revolver serves no useful purpose in the community today . We recommend that the manufacture and sale of pistols . . . shall be absolutely prohibited . " The committee also recommended weakening the rights against self-incrimination , to appeal convictions , and to trial by jury . In 1926 , a book entitled " Outlawing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Handbook Series . The canned brief for the pro side noted that pistol ownership , like " the traffic in narcotic drugs , . . . is a great national shame and abuse , and only complete prohibition is an efficient remedy . " " Within the last decade two new schools of crime have developed in the United States , " observed one contributor . " Violations of the National Prohibition Act . . . comprise the first group . Gun crimes comprise the second . " Another contributor argued that a federal prohibition on firearms traffic was necessary , just as earlier " it was realized that if the saloon was ever to be outlawed it must be by national , rather than local or community , action . " Prohibition violence eventually persuaded Congress to suppress pistol traffic . Rep. Loring Black of New York argued for a constitutional amendment against concealed weapons modeled on the Prohibition Amendment , and Rep. Heartsill Ragon of Arkansas likened opponents ' arguments to " the old anti-prohibition cry . " These efforts resulted in a 1927 ban on mail-order handguns , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the postal ban , the Chicago gangs that had arisen after passage of the Volstead Act discovered the machine gun . Al Capone ' s first use of the Tommy gun in 1926 left a likely trio dead : a bootlegger , a politician , and William McSwiggin , assistant state ' s attorney . Congress again jumped into the fray . Rep. Hamilton Fish of New York , proposing in 1930 a machine-gun ban " copied word for word from the prohibition law , " conceded that you have " to stretch the constitutional provisions to a considerable degree . " The repeal of Prohibition in 1933 ended most of the gang violence . But without waiting to evaluate the effects of the repeal of the alcohol ban , Congress passed the National Firearms Act of 1934 . As introduced , the National Firearms Act requirement would have strictly regulated not only machine guns and sawed-off shotguns , but also pistols and revolvers . Attorney General Homer Cummings conceded that the Second Amendment precluded an outright ban on possession and instead sought registration of these firearms under the guise of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harrison Anti-Narcotic Act , which mandated doctors ' prescriptions and justified that by saying it was the only way the government could keep track of narcotics sales for tax purposes . Pistols and revolvers were ultimately removed from the bill . This deletion avoided perhaps as much civil disobedience as alcohol prohibition had caused . Just weeks after the bill passed , federal agents searching for an unregistered machine gun shot and killed an innocent mother of four children . The National Rifle Association magazine commented : " This is probably just an unfortunate accident similar to many unfortunate accidents of the same type which occurred during the efforts of federal agents to enforce the Prohibition Law . Fortunately , there are relatively few machine guns in use around the country , so that relatively few innocent citizens may be expected to be killed by federal agents looking for machine guns . Had . . . pistols and revolvers been included in this new Federal Firearms Law , this incident perhaps gives a hint as to what might have happened . " These words are prophetic for what will happen if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the states today . Millions of citizens will not forfeit or register their firearms , squads of federal and state agents will snoop , massive no-knock warrants will be issued , and both citizens and police will die in raids . While previously law-abiding citizens and the police battle each other , the drug lords will continue their nefarious trafficking . Adding firearms prohibition to drug prohibition means war on the innocent and , by diverting police resources , will give armed pushers even more free rein.  --  - Mr. Halbrook is author of " That Every Man Be Armed : The Evolution of a Constitutional Right , " recently re-issued by the Independent Institute in San Francisco.                     