@@735743

txt At age 38 , Conrad Black is Canada 's most famous businessman . Others are richer or more powerful , but few are as controversial and none as quotable as Mr. Black . The financier was only 34 when he grabbed control of Argus Corp. , an almostlegendary holding company in Toronto . He then pulled Argus out of Massey-Ferguson Ltd. in a move that many thought spelled bankruptcy for the farm-machinery maker . Last year , Mr. Black made an unThe Bookshelf " The Establishment Man " by Peter C. Newman friendly and unsuccessful bid for control of Cleveland 's Hanna Mining Co . It was his first major move into the U.S. , and he says there 's more to come . Centuries-old Vatican intrigues fascinate Mr. Black . He also spends hours replaying historic battles with toy soldiers . He can reel off daily casualty reports from the Siege of Leningrad and name the tonnage of every ship in the Spanish Armada . He wrote an admiring and admired biography of Maurice Duplessis , a former Quebec premier widely viewed as a demagogue , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his friends . His 12 cars bear gold-plated hood ornaments showing an eagle killing a snake . With material like that , it was inevitable that the author of this biography , Peter C. Newman , would turn his attentions to Mr. Black . Until last year , Mr. Newman was editor of Maclean 's , the Canadian news magazine , and he has been writing best sellers about business and political power for 25 years . A 1975 book , " The Canadian Establishment , " became the country 's all-time best seller by colorfully describing Canada 's business leaders and how they fit together . Mr. Newman 's approach is to amass revealing anecdotes and mix them liberally with metaphors and other figtires of speech . The result , though sometimes triv -- ial and overwritten , is usually vivid , informative and interesting . " The Establishment Man " ( Harper &; Row , 349 pages , 319.95 ) results from eight years of tape-recorded talks between Messrs . Black and Newman , and Mr. Black also gave the author many documents . The book describes how Mr. Black grew @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partner . Young Black set his sights early : At age seven he declared his ambition to rule Argus , and a neighbor recalls him at age eight washing dollar bills and hanging them to dry . Mr. Newman tells how a private high school expelled Mr. Black after he made almost 35,000 ( Canadian ) selling stolen exam questions to classmates . His father sent a lawyer to argue that cheating was common but " nobody thought to put it on a commercial basis until Conrad came along . " After attending university , writing the biography of Quebec Premier Duplessis and making money with a chain of regional newspapers , Mr. Black moved on to bigger corporate game . Mr. Newman is at his best bringing to life the battles for control of Argus , Massey-Ferguson and Hanna Mining . In 44 pages he tells the Argus story , defining the characters and laying out the plot like Agatha Christie . At a crucial point , Mr. Black presents Argus 's chairman , Maxwell Meighen , with the document that means he 's out : " For once , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ posture as he whips out the document , hands it over and explains its contents Meighen blanches but says nothing . The room grows chilly and silent . Even the street noises are unaccountably silent , as if Bay Street were holding its breath . " Mr. Newman 's strength is in capturing the drama in business that most reporters MISS . With Argus came control of MasseyFerguson , and Mr. Newman offers anecdotes that explain why the company fell into trouble . Massey-Ferguson had a RollsRoyce so fancy that Queen Elizabeth borrowed it for ceremonial occasions ; the company 's U.S. executives were ordered to buy Cadillacs to project prosperity ; a disastrous acquisition passed the board without debate , although nobody saw the proposal in advance . Turning to last year 's bid for Hanna Mining , Mr. Newman ably outlines the clash of strong personalities . Hanna Mining fought Mr. Black hard , accusing him of " a pattern of racketeering " and " fraudulent and manipulative conduct . " After the lawsuits were settled , Mr. Black addressed a tense , let's-make-up meeting with Hanna Mining 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the eye and deadpanned , " Seriously , Bob , I 'm delighted to be in Cleveland and say a few words ( long pause ) without being under oath . " The board broke into laughter . But while Mr. Newman excels at de- scription , he is weak at reflection . A chapter grandly titled " A Random Walk Through the Mind of Conrad Black " offers examples of Mr. Black 's amazing memory and little else . The book also was supposed to provide Mr. Black 's defense of capitalism and proprietorship , but the defense just is n't there . " The Establishment Man " is windy , evidence that few men have done enough by age 38 to carry a biography . A prolonged description of Florida , where Mr. Black has a home , contains passages like this : " Here , too , are the vulpine , sexually charged men who arrive self-consciously alone in their electric-blue leisure suits with built-in instamatics They gravitate from steak house to dimly lit patio bar , sloshing back shots of bourbon and gripping drinks with ragged-cuticle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence . " Who needs it ? Conrad Black emerges as an intriguing man , with an intelligent , historical approach to life . As a Toronto newspaper once put it , he is " a maker of news , not a maker of companies " The book raises questions about his character ? in the cheating episode , the Argus takeover , the Hanna Mining fight  --  but on the whole , Mr Newman appears to have treated his subject fairly . While Newman 's book is flawed , in part because it was written too soon , the author captures something other writers on business often miss . As demonstrated elsewhere , Mr. Newman has the instinct and ability to tell a good business story , and that is n't done often enough .                     