@@668513

If you are female and thinking about the purchase of life insurance , you ought to buy now . You may never be able to buy insurance so cheaply again . That ' s because the US Supreme Court sent shock waves throughout the insurance industry last Wednesday when it ruled that it is illegal for pensionplans to pay smaller monthly benefits to women than to men . The question now is whether the insurance companies will have to ignore their actuarial tables and provide the same rates for men and women of the same age in all forms of coverage : life , health , automobile and disability . If that happens women will pay more for some forms of life insurance and men will pay less . Women will pay less for disability and health insurance and men will pay more . In states other than Massahcusetts - where unisex autombile ratings apply - women will pay more for auto insurance and men will pay less . What ' s most possible is that the compromise plan previously offered to Congress , and then withdrawn by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compromise , the industry would have accepted unisex rating in all forms of insurance without any retroactive adjustments for participants in existing pension plans . That ' s the way the Supreme Court handled the pension payments case . The court was specific that prior inequities would stand and that only retirement benefits derived from pension plan contributions made after Aug. 1 must be calculated without regard to the sex of the beneficiary . Opponents of unisex rating emphasized that the ruling involved a public employee plan and its provisions may not apply to a private plan when a commercial insurance company is involved . In that situation an insurance company and not the taxpayers would be required to foot the bill for any retroactive adjustments . Massachusetts is one of four states where unisex rating applies in automobile insurance . It is significant that even though females are now paying more and subsidizing men , unisex rating is an accepted practice . No auto insurer in Massachusetts has yet claimed financial stress despite the fact the experience statistics are essentially the same now as they were before the enactment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ automobiles have been responsible for half as many claims per person as youthful males - the same pattern that previously existed . Local leaders of the womens ' movement , including State Rep. Mary Jane Gibson ( D-Belmont ) , hope the insurance industry gets the message and makes the transition to unisex rating in an orderly and efficient manner , without any legislative or court battles . As happens frequently when the court speaks on a narrow issue , those who are satisfied with the decision tend to read into it ramifications in their best interests , while those opposed tend to read into it ramifications favorable to them . Both sides are having difficulty convincing insurance buyers that the figures being presented to them in support of or in opposition to this issue are valid and not self-serving . In the interim , as the controversy continues , it is becoming obvious the extremes in time , effort and money this issue is capable of consuming . Is it now time for the women ' s movement and the insurance industry to sit down and come up with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ credibilty of an industry and the potential for unnecessary ruptures in too many personal , business and governmental relationships . Benjamin Lipson is an insurability consultant and broker-agent in Boston .                     