@@735115

txt Chicago architect Harry Weese has probably turned out more visionary plans for the lakefront than anyone since the great Daniel Burnham . All of them are calculated to broaden the use and accessibility of our magnificent park land and the waters that border it . Now Mr. Weese has come up with a plan for a 400-slip , privately owned sailboat marina adjoining the north side of Navy Pier , and the city appears close to approving it . All lakefront users can only cheer the result . A not-for-profit group headed by Weese will build the floating dock structures and sell the slips to yachtsmen In condominium fashion . After a 12 to 15 year period , the marina will be donated to the city . In exchange , yachtsmen will get a hefty tax write-off . One interesting feature of the marina , unique in Chicago , will be a water agitation system that will keep the docking area ice-free all winter long and eliminate the cost of storing vessels in private sheds . Weese is aware that some may call this a rich man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point . Chicago is short of docking spaces . The Navy Pier marina will cost the taxpayers nothing . This is the kind of teaming upbetween the public and private sectors that is often discussed but seldom realized . Despite all of these good intentions , of course , city officials will be well advised to exercise care in working out final details with the Weese group . Nothing but an absolutely first-rate marina will do at Navy Pier , where extensive other developments are expected to be carried out by private enterprise . Nor should the marina be allowed to impede any pier attractions designed for non-boaters . The objections of Edmund Kelly , Park District superintendent , are not impressive . Mr. Kelly 's contention that only the Park District should be allowed to manage boating facilities seems like merely a tight fisted and silly claim to turf . Mr. Weese , himself a ' yachtsman , deserves praise for his persistence as well as his planning ingenuity in this instance . It took him several years to persuade the city that the marina scheme had merit . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Make no little plans , " should not be taken too literally . The Navy Pier marina is no grandiose scheme : Still , it should benefit all of us whether we sail or not by adding a bit of nautical color to the already marvelous pedestrian promenade on the pier 's north side .                     