@@668741

Anatoly Shcharansky , the buoyant Soviet activist who is on a U.S. campaign for Soviet Jewry , advised Congress Wednesday to link human rights to other negotiations with the Soviet Union and contended that only such public pressure would improve conditions for other dissidents . " My position is quiet diplomacy can help only if it is the final point of strong public pressure , of public diplomacy , " said the 38-year-old Jewish refusenik who was freed last Feburary after nearly nine years in prison for treason and anti-Soviet agitation . The dissident ' s appearance before the congressional committee that monitors the Helsinki accords on human rights pointed to new and diverging strategies in Washington on dealing with Soviet authorities about rights issues . The irrepressible 5-foot 2-inch refusenik got a loving reception as the four senators and seven representatives on the committee eagerly stepped into his limelight . One called him a " truth bomb " against the Russians . While he called for increased public advocacy , Shcharansky acknowledged other methods , including the months of secret negotiations that led to his own exchange @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . . . , " he said , adding that it was also a Soviet attempt at " cosmetic improvement . " The issue of private versus public efforts on Soviet human rights has surfaced because of President Reagan ' s shift to " quiet diplomacy " that apparently includes personal appeals to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev . The administration , unlike in earlier years , is resisting opportunities to embarrass the Soviet Union on its human rights record . Shcharansky ' s meeting with Reagan on Tuesday , for instance , was kept private except for a single photo and a brief statement made later by Shcharansky . Despite a congressional effort to change his mind , the President has declined to meet with Yelena Bonner , the wife of another famous Russian dissident , Andrei Sakharov . When he was seeking the Republican presidential nomination in 1976 , Reagan criticized President Gerald Ford for not meeting with exiled Soviet writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn . On the other side , groups of exiled Soviets , including many in the packed hearing room Wednesday , believe only a barrage of public attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are waiting to emigrate to the U.S. or Israel . Shcharansky supporters and congressional staffers displayed large photos of other members of the Soviet group monitoring compliance with the Helsinki accords who remain in prison or internal exile . It was the certainly the most formal forum for a man who barely four months ago languished in a Soviet prison camp . He sat perched forward on the witness chair and wore a blue pinstripe suit with an open-necked shirt , the style in his new home in Israel . Several congressmen were clearly seeking his guidance on how they should respond to the activists and to Soviet authorities . Shcharansky said the Soviet attitude is that anyone who wants to leave the country is already a criminal and for those already in prison or internal exile , " the moment you stop asking of them , stop displaying interest , they will be doomed to much worse . " As far as his release is concerned , Shcharansky told the congressmen , " to a great extent , it depends on you , whether it will be the beginning or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people , now they are holding my mother and my brother . " He said 5 , 000 to 6 , 000 Soviets are in prison only for their religious practices , and about 15 , 000 in the prison camps or in internal exile are " prisoners of conscience . " Even before his testimony , members of the bipartisan committee were crowding close to Shcharansky . When chairman Sen. Alfonse D ' Amato ( R. , N.Y. ) publicly escorted him to the center of the hearing room and presented him with a framed copy of the U.S. Bill of Rights , Rep. Jack Kemp ( R. , N.Y. ) and a half- dozen others nosed into camera range . Each congressman tried to present himself as intimately involved with Shcharansky ' s cause or background . Kemp , who may run for president in 1988 , said , " Shalom , Shalom " and offered Shcharansky a " Mazel tov " for when his child is born . Rep. Don Ritter ( R. , Pa. ) mistook those Hebrew words for Yiddish and then greeted him in Russian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fondly recalled meeting Shcharansky ' s mother.                     