@@668063

Today ' s American families should learn a lesson from history and consider relearning the survival skill of flexibility , illustrated by the old practice of taking in boarders and lodgers . That was the advice from historian Tamara Hareven yesterday at a meeting in Washington , D.C. , of the National Research Forum on Family Issues . Until the 1920s , according to Hareven , between one third and one half of all American families included a " stranger , " that is , a boarder or lodger in the home . The benefits of this lifestyle were mutual for family members and boarders . The children of the family were exposed to different kinds of people ; a " stranger " often proved to be a valuable role model . Until the 1920s fewer than 3 percent of America ' s elderly lived alone . For the elderlyboarder , the activities of the household relieved loneliness , Hareven explained . " I don ' t think the family is breaking down or will disappear , " Hareven said in a telephone interview before she delivered her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopting the kind of interaction with groups outside the family that has meant continuity in ethnic and blackfamilies . " Along with other members of the forum , some 20 scholars who do research on the family , Hareven was offering an intellectual framework for issues that will be taken up this summer by the grass roots delegates to the White House Conference on Families . The conference , expected to draw 2000 delegates , will be held in three regions : Baltimore June 5-7 , Minneapolis June 19-21 and Los Angeles July 10-12 . To determine the content of the conference , a series of public hearings are being held around the country to find out what family-related issues are of most concern to citizens . Conference planners have already identified four broad topics : Family strengths and supports ; diversity of families ; the effect of various kinds of discrimination on the family ; and the impact of public and private institutional policies on families . Although approving of the grass roots contribution to the conference , Hareven believed that the " research component was lacking " and last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Issues whose two-day meeting is intended to remedy that lack . A professor of American history at Clark University in Worcester , Hareven is also founder and editor of the Journal of Family History . She is also a research associate at Harvard ' s Center for Population Studies . Forum speakers also included Mary Jo Bane of the Harvard-MIT Joint Center for Urban Studies whose topic was " Structurally Diverse Families " and Janet Giele of Brandeis University whose subject was " Sex and Family Structure . " Each scholarly presentation is followed by discussion and comment by lay people . Some 200 persons are attending the meetings on Capitol Hill , in several House Office Buildings.The forum ends today . In Hareven ' s paper , " American Families in Transition : The Historical Perspective , " she terms a " myth " the long-cherished belief that most Americans lived happily in extended families - several generations under one roof - until the Industrial Revolution changed living patterns . Of far greater continuity over time , she says , is the nuclear family of two generations , parents and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear family has tended , since the 1920s , to live very privately , apart from the larger community . Not so with ethnic families ( defined as immigrants , as well as the second generation ) and with black families who maintain ties to and interact with groups much larger than their immediate family , Hareven says . Insistence on privacy may well destroy the nuclear family , says Hareven . The erosion of family stability began in the 1920s , she believes , a decade that brought the ideal of family privacy , with the home as domestic retreat . The decade of the ' 20s brought forth , for the first time in American history , an abundance of housing units built for small groups of people , the single person , the childless couple or the nuclear family . Married women were expected to stay at home . The emphasis on the privacy of the family unit , thinks Hareven , forced its members " to rely too greatly on themselves and they ended up demanding too much of each other . " Had the family interacted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefits of collaboration and mutual assistance , she says .                     