@@734993

txt Should a worker have the right to sell his labor to whoever will pay him the most , or to find a new employer if he does n't like the one he has ? Of course he should , most Americans would answer . And in most American jobs the worker has those rights . Federal courts have ruled that , to a limited extent , major league baseball players also have those rights . But the club owners think the game 's health is profoundly endangered by letting its employes do what workers in other jobs take for granted . That is why the players went out on strike Friday . Despite our disappointment at the prospect of a summer without baseball , we endorse their decision . For the first 100 years of professional baseball in America , players toiled in the shackles of the reserve clause , which bound a player to one team for life . This condition of employment severely restricted each player 's bargaining power , his choices being limited to taking what he was offered or finding a new line @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , indeed regarded it as the very heart of organized baseball . When an arbitrator 's ruling in 1975 effectively overturned the reserve clause , there was much wailing and gnashing of teeth from the owners . The prospect of having to pay players what their talents would command in a free market filled them with terror . " I think you could expect bankruptcies , Sharp retrenchment of franchises , and great dissatisfaction among the players themselves as the money gravitates to the top ? to the super stars ? at the expense of the majority of the players , " said Bowie Kuhn , once an attorney for the owners but by then the baseball commissioner . Other doomsayers predicted grotesque imbalances in each league as affluent teams bought up all the talent , leaving poorer ones languishing in the cellar . None of the predictions have come true save those of higher player salaries . No club has gone bankrupt since the denounced arbitration decision , which was upheld by the courts . In fact the last six years have been the most profitable in baseball history . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the financidi squeeze , the owners have prudently avoided raising this issue in the negotiations , which would force them to open their books for inspection . If clubs were really in trouble , the owners presumably would n't be so bashful. players obviously feel that not only a few superstars benefit from their new freedom , or they would n't all be going on strike to preserve it . Nor are the leagues less balanced than before . Some teams that have signed lots of free agents , have become powerhouses , like the New York Yankees , while others have remained also-rans , . like the California Angels . And some teams which have n't gone after free agents have nonetheless won pennants , including the Kansas City Royals and the Baltimore Orioles . Despite the failure of these predicted calamities to materialize , the owners have chosen to endure a strike over the free agent issue . They want more generous compensation for teams whose premium players jump ship , so as to lessen the incentive for hiring free agents . Under the previous contract if team A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ B was entitled to only one amateur draft selection from team A in return . If the owners get their way , team B would get to pick any player from team A except for 15 who would be specified as off-limits . For most players , this would be a serious threat to job security . The players therefore offered on Thursday to let team A protect 35 players . The owners want to increase the penalty for signing a free agent ; the players want to minimize it . It goes too far to say , as player attorney Marvin Miller has , that free agency itself is at stake here . But the- compensation favored by the owners clearly would inhibit teams from signing top players who become free agents . Many , if not most , players would have little choice but to remain with their original club . In the National Football League and the National Basketball Association , where even heavier compensation is required for free agents , the breed is almost unknown . Though free agents are n't likely to become extinct in baseball @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this strike . That obviously would be bad for the players . The owners have n't demonstrated that it would be good for . baseball .                     