@@670023

MONTREAL  --  Ford Motor Co. and South Korea ' s Hyundai Motor Co. have sued each other over use of the Pony name for cars sold in Canada . Court documents related to those suits indicate that until last July the auto makers had been discussing the possibility of Ford importing Hyundai-built vehicles from Korea for sale by Ford dealers in the U.S. and Canada . Hyundai entered the Canadian market with its Pony subcompact two years ago and has since become Canada ' s leading auto importer , ahead of its Japanese rivals . Hyundai plans to start selling its cars Feb. 15 in 31 U.S. states , though it won ' t be using the Pony name . Hyundai and its two Canadian subsidiaries last summer sued Ford Motor Co. of Canada , Ford ' s Canadian unit , in Quebec Superior Court after Ford of Canada changed the name of one of its Escort subcompacts to the Escort Pony . Hyundai ' s suit charged Ford with " attempting to get a free ride on the market created " by Hyundai for the Pony , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to stop using the Pony name in Canada . Ford of Canada countered that its U.S. parent holds the exclusive trademark in Canada and the U.S. for the Pony name , which was used until 1980 to identify one of the auto maker ' s now-defunct Pinto models . Ford Motor has sued Hyundai in Federal Court of Canada , accusing Hyundai of making " unlawful profit " from use of the Pony name . Ford seeks an order recalling all 75 , 000 Ponys sold by Hyundai in Canada for removal of the name . Hyundai in turn has launched its own Federal Court suit against Ford , arguing that Ford ' s trademark for Pony should be cancelled because of nonuse . Settlement talks have failed , and an appearance in Quebec Superior Court is scheduled for Jan. 20 to set a trial date . Robert Stocks , general counsel for a Hyundai Canada unit , said Ford acquiesced to Hyundai ' s use of the Pony name when the cars were introduced to Canada in January 1984 , but demanded last April that Hyundai stop using the name @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantial market share that they began to make noises about us using the mark Pony , " Mr. Stocks said . A spokesman for Ford of Canada said Ford " believes it has a longstanding ownership of the Pony name in Canada . " In court arguments , Ford of Canada said Hyundai in 1982 bought rights to use the name Pony in 30 countries , excluding the U.S. and Canada . Ford ' s chairman , Donald Peterson , said last July in a letter to Hyundai Motor ' s president that Ford was willing to grant Hyundai use of the Pony name , " but only in conjunction with a specific proposal to work together in the near term . " That letter was filed as evidence in court . Ford of Canada said talks on the possibility of Ford selling Hyundai-manufactured vehicles in North America continued until last July . It wouldn ' t comment on whether those talks had ended altogether . But Ford did say it had agreed in May that in 1987 it would begin to import subcompacts to North America from Kia Industrial Co. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mazda Motor Corp. of Japan . Meanwhile , following a similar move by Ford Motor , Ford of Canada last summer advised dealers it would rename an Escort model the Escort Pony , " to reassert our rights " to the Pony name . And Hyundai is introducing in Canada and the U.S. a front-wheel drive subcompact that in South Korea is sold as the Pony Excel . In North America , it will be known simply as the Excel . The rear-wheel drive Pony will continue to be sold in Canada but won ' t be sold in the U.S. In Canada , the Pony rivalry is exemplified by a Quebec Ford dealer ' s French-language advertisement : " The Real Pony has Returned . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     