@@668507

Consider the okapi , a sort of short-necked giraffe once thought to have been extinct for at least 12 million years . Until 1901 , that is , when English explorer-naturalist Sir Harry Johnston found the beast frolicking in the forests of the Belgian Congo , now Zaire . Consider , too , the coelacanth and the Pleistocene peccary . Scientists once believed that the coelacanth had vanished from the earth 70 million years ago - a notion that had to be hastily revised when fishermen landed a flopping six-foot specimen of the primitive fish off the West coast of Africa in 1939 . As for the peccary , no one ever thought that animal extinct for the simple reason that no one ever dreamed it existed in the first place . This entirely new species of mammal was discovered in a South-American thorn desert in 1975 . Fittingly , the okapi has been adopted as the symbol of an organization whose members believe that even stranger animals await discovery . The recently-formed International Society of Cryptozoology - based in Tucson , Arizona - is dead serious about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We are talking about extraordinarily rare animals , animals so scarce that there is hardly a trace of them , " said Roy P. Mackal , 57 , a University of Chicago biologist who has probed the depths of Loch Ness and the steamy swamps of equatorial Africa in search of unlikely beasts , including the Mokole- Mbembe , a dinosaur-like something described by 18th-century missionaries and present-day natives . Even scientists who doubt that any wondrous new species remain to be discovered lurking in the depths of Loch Ness or Lake Champlain say the possibilities , however remote , should be explored , although not necessarily with government or university research grants . " I expect the search will probably be futile ; I don ' t think there is anything there , " said Thomas Roos , professor of biology at Dartmouth College . " Still , as long as there are questions , they are worth pursuing . Until one has a clear rationalization for the reports ( of creatures in Loch Ness and elsewhere* they should be fair game for scientists . " Science requires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would not call cryptozoologists crackpots or screwballs . " Nonetheless , cryptozoology invites skepticism . When the fledgling society held its first public forum here late last month , the agenda read more like something from the pages of a supermarket tabloid than the topics of a scientific forum : " Is There a Giant Octopus ? " ; " Searching For Mokele-Mbembe " ; " Sasquatch and the Walla-Walla Evidence " ; and " Closing the Net on Nessie . " Several of the speakers wore ties embroidered with serpentine sea beasts and the initials " L.N. " - for Scotland ' s Loch Ness , cryptozoology ' s Mecca - but their lectures were generally more scholarly than sensational . " Cryptozoology is slowly being recognized as a legitimate branch of science , " asserted Bernard Heuvelmans , 66 , the Belgian author and zoologist considered the " father of cryptozoology . " The term itself , coined by Heuvelmans in the 1950s , means the study of " hidden " animals - animals unknown to science . " Time makes all things respectable , " he said jokingly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who seek after monsters . " Almost respectable , at any rate . For though the society ' s 500 members are mostly scientists and serious-minded amateurs , the field also attracts off- the-wall types eager to propound feverish theories of hairy half-men stalking the New Jersey pine barrens and gargantuan bats from Mars . " Yes , we have an image problem , " said J. Richard Greenwell , secretary of the organization and a University of Arizona anthropologist . " There is a crank element and that element has created an overall crank image that we are trying to overcome . " The society ' s central aim is to investigate reports of " animals of unexpected form or size , or unexpected occurrence in time or space . " Which sounds innocuous enough , until you realize that means studying sea serpents , giant octopuses , mysterious lake-dwellers , big-footed hominids , immense reptiles - kin to dinosaurs - supposedly lurking in the swamps of central Africa , and the Ri , an aquatic something said to inhabit the coastal waters of Papua New Guinea . Mainly because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the past two decades , the existence of " impossible " beasts is now at least being considered by more traditional scientists . " The ranks of modern science include a good number of closet cryptozoologist s - and some of them are starting to come out , " said Greenwell two days before he was to embark on an expedition to New Guinea in search of the mermaid-like Ri . " We are not saying that all of these animals definitely exist . Some of them do , I ' m sure , and some undoubtedly do not , " he said . " What we are saying is that there are reports of phenomena that need to be investigated , scientifically investigated - not just smirked off as unlikely . " The smirking goes on , but so does the search for all manner of bizarre beasts . Some developments along the cryptozoological front : - Repeated sightings - including 10 in 1982 alone - of a long- necked creature in Vermont ' s Lake Champlain . Reports of Champ have been buttressed , to some extent , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reproduced recently in Time , Life and other publications . Scientists have concluded that the shot is not a fake , but say they have no idea what the animal is or if it is really an animal . - The recent discovery in Washington and Oregon of outsized footprints , possibly made by the " Sasquatch " or Bigfoot - a much- publicized creature described by anthropologist Grover Krantz as an " unknown bipidal primate . " Plaster castings of the 15-inch prints reveal intricate dermal ridges , toeprints , that researchers believe could not have been faked. - Nessie , the mysterious denizen of Scotland ' s Loch Ness , continues to rear its outlandish head . Though sought by sonar , sex lures and even trained dolphins equipped with cameras , the famous monster continues to elude researchers . " Cryptozoologists are a cantankerous bunch - we do not like to be told something is not likely to exist by people who have no way of knowing , " said George W. Earley of New Haven , Connecticut , an amateur cryptozoologist whose business card reads , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as researchers scour the forests of the Pacific Northwest for the Sasquatch or " Bigfoot , " their Chinese counterparts are said to be hot on the spoor of Bigfoot ' s counterpart : a Himalayan wild thing called the Yeti . Seaserpents , too , are always in season - and over the years they have been sighted from Baltimore to Borneo . More recently , marine biologists have begun pondering reports of six-ton octopuses with 72-foot tentacles ( the largest known octopus weighs a measly 125 pounds , with 20-foot tentacles ) . Mackal , perhaps this country ' s best-known cryptozoologist , believesNessie , Champ and other large , long-necked animals sighted in lakes all around the northern Hemisphere may be a form of primitive whale that chases migratory salmon into the deep-water lakes . " The evidence seems to suggest a rare , surreptitious cetacean ( whale ) " he said . Robert Rines , director of Boston ' s Academy of Applied Sciences , is more inclined to believe that whatever dwells in Loch Ness is a plesiosaur , a remnant dinosaur , while Bernard Heuvelmans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , France , dismisses both theories as " purely romantic . " The way he figures it , Champ , Nessie and other creatures sighted in lakes from British Columbia to the Soviet Union are actually gargantuan seals with elongated necks . The cryptozoological society includes scientists from around the world , including the chairman of the Department of Vertebrate Zoology at Washington ' s Smithsonian Institution and researchers from universities in France , Russia , China , Bulgaria , Canada , South Africa and major US cities . Mackal , author of " Searching for Hidden Animals : An Inquiry into Zoological Mysteries " has led expeditions into equatorial Africa hoping to find evidence of the Mokole-Mbembe , a dinosaur-like creature described by natives of the area as well as European missionaries and explorers . He got hooked on monsters ( a term he dislikes ) after reading accounts of the Loch Ness dweller back in 1965 . One thing led to another , and Mackal wound up as director of the Loch Ness Investigation Bureau - a post he held until the late 1970s . " Some of my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " he acknowledged . " You need thick skin to be cryptozoologist . Laughter has killed more scientific research than anything I can think of . . . " Mackal finally stopped actively looking for Nessie - not because he doubted the animal ' s existence but because he became too convinced of it , losing proper scientific detachment . " I don ' t think there ' s a creature in the lake . I know there ' s a creature in the lake because I ' ve seen the creature in the lake - twice , in fact , " he said , describing a dark , smooth-skinned creature that emerged from the depths just a stone ' s throw from his boat . " It was an intensely exciting experience , but it destroyed my objectivity , " he said . More recently , Mackal ' s fascination with unknown animals has taken him up to the Upper Congo , near the Zaire border , where 70,000 square miles of malarial swamp may be home to the Mokole-Mbembe , which is said to resemble a Mesozoic sauropod @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the region , Mackal ' s party , which included Greenwell , lived on cooked monkey and other culinary delights while contending with steam-bath heat , vicious sand flies and poisonous serpents , including 15-foot-long river jacks , gabon vipers , mambas and African cobras . In the end , the scientist-explorers found only tantalizing hints : A trail of broken tree limbs and bushes supposedly made by the beast , and the accounts of natives who claimed to have either seen the animal or heard of it . " They described a large animal with a reddish-brown body and serpentine neck , " Mackal said . " They were fearful of it , they said it had overturned canoes and killed people . " Mackal said he doesn ' t know whether he will return to Africa ; but he does intend to continue searching for " hidden " animals of one form or another . " Even today we know very little about the world we inhabit and the myriad life forms we share it with , " he said . " The oceans and other bodies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pockets of unexplored land on our planet - virgin territory from the standpoint of botany and zoology . These areas may contain new species of animals . "                     