@@735766

txt To my mind , these were the week 's most vivid pictures of the aftermath of the Korean massacre : ? Soviet United Nations delegate Oleg Troyanovsky sitting with his face hard and his obdurate back to the display screen in the Security Council while the rest of the delegates listened in shock to the voice of a Soviet pilot sending 269 souls to death by fire and terror . ? Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko m Madrid standing before a conference dedicated to the sacred quality of human life and asserting that it was Soviet territory that was " sacred . " ? Japanese mourners on a ferryboat near a place in the unmarked ocean where they thought their relatives might lie , throwing sweaters over the side to keep the dead warm in the chilly water . ? A reporter here in Washington reflecting the view of the city 's foreign-policy professionals by saying of the crisis , " All we have left is a few more days of newspaper pictures of grieving families . " The professionals may be right , at least in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Reagan administration decided to go to Madrid and meet Mr. Gromyko as scheduled , to continue arms talks , to carry on with U.S.-Soviet trade deals . This is what we get for kicking the pusillanimous Democratic doves out of office in 1980 and installing a bunch of fire-breathing Cold Warriors . But the Soviet attack last week illuminated the political landscape in a way that may have some long-term consequences . This was  --  let us admit it  --  a darkly satisfying week for hawks . The American public literally yelled bloody murder over Capital Chronicle by Suzanne Garment the incident . Doves who usually insist that the U.S. and the Soviet Union are not very different from one another had to admit that the Soviet decision rules in this case were a little bit out of our moral ballpark . Diplomatic elites throughout the West showed that stiffened backbone that somehow emerges mainly over human-rights violations that directly threaten diplomats and other such travelers . Hawks had the luxury of calm . They did not have to parade their outrage . They had been preaching for years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been dismissed as hysterical . Now they had received an unhoped-for confirmation . In fact , some of us hawks felt perversely annoyed at all the " hullabaloo , " as the Soviets aptly called it . Why did these 269 dead move Western governments to such clarity of moral vision about a regime that has murdered millions of its own people ? How come the howl at this late date when there had been such a hush over the atrocities of the Gulag ? Had anyone really thought that this gang would scruple at making scrap metal out of one lousy airplane from the annoying little country of South Korea ? Moreover , the Soviets had not committed some strange and exotic act like beating their victims to death individually . Cambodian-style . The attack was partly a matter of bad organization , bad judgment , bad decision rules . Korean computers may have failed . Soviet organizational changes designed to repair the shortcomings of a previous error may have led to too much rigidity this time around . In the Soviet blunder we could recognize some dangers common to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good reason for fist-pounding , demonstrations and tears . Many commentators said this tragedy was a mark of the Soviet Union 's contempt for human rights , but in fact it was something worse . Elaborate systems of human rights to protect people against their governments are something new in the world and have not really taken hold in very many places . The Soviets have almost no such system , of course . But , then , there are a lot of countries in the world where you can still get thrown in the slammer for shouting " Death to the king ! " Some of them even have passable cuisine and other such marks of civilization . But countries and individuals have bonds and contracts with one another even older than human rights . Long before many people began rebelling against the terror of their kings ' punishments. they had begun to deal with their more elementary fears of the geographic unknown . They felt it absolutely necessary to limit their uncertainties about what might befall them when they traveled long distances , beyond conventional communications , beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their own familiar tyrants . It is from these old terrors of peril on the open road and sea that certain conventions stem . Even in war , civilized nations return bodies for respectful burial . On the road , civilized countries do not prey on one another 's travelers . Sovereigns have agreed that on these basic logistical arrangements they will keep their congenital lying to a minimum . Yet now we see the Soviets practicing a notion of territorial sovereignty no more advanced than " Mine . Not yours . Boom , you 're dead . " We watch them refusing to cooperate with other countries in a search for the dead victims . We watch them paddling desperately in the mud of their falsehoods until they come up with the non-disprovable Big Lie that Flight 007 was a spy plane . And we get a special chill . We seem to understand that though we may be safe from the Gulag at the moment , we are at peril if we should wander anywhere in the world in the vicinity of Soviet authority or influence . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic system allows them to maintain a foreign policy that violates even older human conventions . The word " uncivilized " is often used merely as a euphemism for nasty . But uncivilized is quite precisely what the Soviets are . Next time you hear your nearest right-winger mutter that the barbarians are at the gates , think twice before dismissing him . In all probability he is exactly right .                     