@@668242

WATKINS GLEN , N.Y . - His name is Teo Fabi , and if the Can-Am auto racing tour were as well known as the Sports Car Club of America ( its sponsor , Budweiser , certainly wishes it were ) , he would already be well known even though he has been in the United States for only a few weeks . The 26-year-old Italian driver is literally taking the rejuvenated Can-Am series apart for the racing team owned by actor- racing nut Paul Newman . Newman hired Fabi ( he pronounces his name TAo FARbe ) , who has been test driver for two years for March , manufacturers of the race cars Newman uses . He teamed Fabi with all-time Indy car great Al Unser , but so far Fabi has been embarrassing his teammate with his fabulous driving . Yesterday , Fabi , took his first timed laps around the 3.377-mile Grand Prix Circuit here and immediately broke a pair of records , one the late Mark Donohue ' s 8-year-old Can-Am mark for the fastest race lap . Fabi amazed everyone by turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That was .4 second faster than last year ' s record qualifying time set by John Morton in a Frissbee and .3 second faster than the Donohue ' s mark which he set in a Penske Porsche before the SCCA restricted the Can-Am engine power . It ' s nothing new for Fabi either . He did the same thing in qualifying at both Mosport , Ont. and Mid-Ohio then went on to win those first two Can-Ams of the season in his March 817 . " When your car is very well balanced , it will go faster , " said Fabi after setting the mark in the initial qualifying session . " I think the March has an advantage because it has more down force . " So in Can-Am as well as just about every other raceing series , ground- effect technology is making the difference . Fabi alibis for the 42-year-old Unser , who has won the Indianapolis 500 three times . " I think Al is having some problem with the car , " he said . " I ' m not three seconds quicker than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different . " The best Unser could do in his March 817 yesterday was 1:41.8 , fifth fastest behind second-generation Australian driver Geoff Brabham , Californian Rocky Moran in a new Frissbee and Mario Andretti protege Danny Sullivan of Louisville , Ky. , in a Lola . There is one more qualifying session today before the 3:45 p.m. start of the 55-lap , 186-mile race . " I ' ll test the car with a full fuel tank tomorrow , " Fabi said of the final qualifying session . " If Brabham or Unser comes close to my time , I ' ll try to go quicker . " So Fabi is confident he will have the pole . But how much faster can the marvelous March go ? " I don ' t know , " says Fabi . He calls Brabham whose time was 1:40.2 , a second slower , his primary challenger . " Brabham has a very well-balanced car , too , " he says . Fabi says he is able to drive North American race circuits so well even though seeing them for the first time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be enough . " He tested here for two days earlier in the week . On his first trip to the United States after success in Go Karts , Super Formula Ford and Formula 2 in Europe , Fabi says he hasn ' t been able to properly appraise this country so far . " All I have seen is airports , motels and race tracks , " he said . One accident marred qualifying yesterday . Defending " under 2- liter " champ Gary Gove of Tacoma , Wash. , broke a leg when his car crashed in the final turn on the course . " Something broke on the left side of the car , " he said . John Paul Jr . turned in the best time for tomorrow ' s Six Hour enduro while Chip Ganassi of Pittsburgh , the reigning Northeast Formula Ford champ , was quickest in the Super Vee , to be run today before the Can-Am.                     