@@734823

txt John W. Castle , director of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community Affairs , spoke on the Illinois business climate at a recent meeting of the Chicago Tax Club . An excerpt follows . ILLINOIS IS neither a bad place to do business nor a bad place for business . I 'm also happy to say it 's getting to be a better place to do business all the time . Illinois ' record on taxes is something to crow about rather . than cry about . one 1111MIS aaxpayers r euerauon recently released figures rating Illinois on a variety of taxation indices . This group , you may recall , was instrumental in working out a more moderate compromise on the corporate personal property tax replacement . These people are no friends to state and local tax collectors . In their report on the 1980 tax climate , the federation praised Illinois for seek ? ing to change tax policies to be more favorable to individuals and business . How did Illinois rate on taxes ? On personal income , Illinois ' per capita taxes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average in the top 10 industrial states , and low er than the average in the Great Lakes states . ? On corporate income taxes , Illinois was lower than the national average , lower than the average in the top 10 industrial states , and lower than the Great Lakes ' average . ? On total state taxes , Illinois was lower than the national average and lower than the industrial states ' average . In the past two sessions , the General Assembly has taken dramatic and positive steps to improve the business climate . They included the tax break for manufacturing machinery , the recently enacted reforms in workers ' compensation , and recent changes in unemployment insurance statutes . Some industry-hungry states have tried to use tax incentives as carrots to attract industry . I , for the most part , reject tax incentives as a development tool . I think Illinois has enough to offer without giving away the cookie jar . Tax incentives have only limited usage . They must be tied to some kind of tangible advantages for the state . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor by the General Assembly . THE GOVERNOR 'S biggest objection John Castle was that nothing in the hill insured that the people of Illinois would benefit from the tax break being given industry . He and I would both find it more acceptable if the credit were somehow tied to the creation of new jobs . I also see the use of tax incentives as a legitimate bonus for companies locating in blighted central-city areas . My big concern about tax credits and tax incentives is that they erode the tax base . And if there 's not commensurate reduction in spending , taxes will just have to be raised in another area . Unless you can reduce spending or cut services , the tax break you give one individual becomes the tax burden you impose on someone else .                     