@@668357

In February 1981 , a Middlesex County jury awarded Gena Glicklich , a 39- year-old Brookline woman suffering from cancer that had spread to her brain , slightly less than $400,000 in damages for the negligence of two doctors who treated her for a breast lump that later proved to be cancerous . Four months later , however , Judge Thomas Morse , who had presided at the trial , set the verdict aside , but immediately referred the case to the Appeals Court himself , because he stated he was " in doubt " about this ruling . The case has not yet been heard before the Appeals Court . Some months after the trial , Glicklich ' s brain cancer , for which she had undergone chemotherapy , went into remission and still remains so , according to her attorney , Clyde Bergstresser . At the time of the trial , doctors had believed that she was dying from her brain cancer . Glicklich had sued Drs . Alan Speivack and Jennifer Jones , who treated her at Harvard University Health Services and Dr. Joan Golub @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , found negligence only on the part of Golub and Spievack . During the trial , Glicklich testified that she had found a tiny lump during a breast self-examination in August 1978 , and had immediately sought the opinion of her private gynecologist , Dr. Golub . Golub , she said , initially told her the lump was a cyst , but wanted to perfrom further tests . Golbu did perform a needle aspiration test , which suggested the lump was not a cyst . But , Glicklich testified , Golub never informed her of this fact . Shortly afterward , Gliclich entered a graduate program at Harvard and began going to the university clinic , where she was seen on various occasions by Dr. Jones and Dr. Spievack . Glicklich testified these doctors told her she had " lumpy breasts " and " cystic disease . " While Dr. Spievack did order a mammogram - an X-ray of the breast - it failed to pick up Glicklich ' s cancer . Though the breast lump persisted , Glicklich testified , none of the doctors had told her she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not cancerous . By the time the biopsy was performed in July , 1979 , - almost a year after Glicklich first felt the lump - the mass had grown to the size of an orange and measured almost 4 by 6 inches . The lump was cancerous and , because of its size , inoperable . In May 1980 , Glicklich suffered a seizure . A CAT scan - a computer X-ray - showed she had a brain tumor . Exactly when this second tumor started to grow became an important issue during the trial . The defense attorneys argued that the brain tumor had taken root before any of the doctors saw Glicklich for her breast lump . Therefore , she would have died anyway regardless of what her doctors did or did not do and therfore the doctors were not liable for damages . Cancer experts who testified during the trial differed on this question . Two nationally prominent experts testified that Glicklich would not have had the brain turmor if she had received prompt treatment when her breast lump was still small . However , a chemotherapist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells had probably spread to her brain two to three years before the brain tumor was discovered . By this estimate , the tumor started in the brain before she discovered the breast lump . In his memorandum and order , Judge Morse was troubled by the question of causation - that is , whether the evidence had shown that the doctors ' failure to treat Glicklich ' s breast lump had , in fact , allowed the cancer to spread to her brain . Morse cited expert testimony that " no one can tell when the mestastisis ( secondary tumor* began or the rate at which it progressed . "                     