@@734992

txt FEDERAL OFFICIALS did n't know how to cope with 200 potentially unruly Cuban refugees at Ft . Chaffee , Ark. , last fall , so they told underlings to use their best judgment . " That 's the oldest dodge in the bureaucracy , " declared Curtis Clark , 31 , an Immigration and Naturalization Service ( INS ) supervisor based in Chicago who worked for almost two months at the Ft . Chaffee compound for especially rowdy Cubans . " I felt that it was a rotten setup from the beginning , " Clark said as he bitterly related events at the camp leading to his indictment with four INS colleagues , on brutality charges last May 27 . " They ( the camp officials ) wanted people to be placed there for from 3 to 30 days in punishment for infractions . But they wanted them to have the same freedoms as they would have had in the general areas of Ft . Chaffee . So I did n't see any point to it . " NEVERTHELESS , I did what they wanted me to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cubans about Sept. 17 of last year . The Cubans did n't like being separated from the rest of the main camp , so they went wild . " They burned a couple of buildings . A few Cubans escaped . The higherups in the camp administration said they could n't handle it . So they released a hundred back to the main camp and kept only 20 in the compound . " Then the buildup began again . They told me to keep them in there . They said , ' Do n't let them destroy property or hurt each other . But do n't treat them differently than the main population . ' Yet , these were people who had committed acts of violence and supposedly were being punished . " Clark , who lives in Elk Grove Village and has been an INS Border Patrolman and immigration officer eight years , has been suspended from duty without pay . HE AND FOUR other INS officers were named in an 18-count federal indictment returned in Ft . Smith , Ark. , charging them with brutality and abuse of Cuban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In addition , Clark is accused of having ordered a coverup . Clark denies the allegations . He says his men only used riot batons in quelling an Oct. 7 outbreak of violence among 80 refugees attending an evening movie in the compound where hard-core troublemakers were kept . In that clash , five Cubans and eight INS officers were injured . Many of those housed in the compound had been convicted of serious crimes in Cuba before setting sail for the United States in the so-called Freedom Flotilla a year ago , Clark said . " They were among the dregs sent to Ft . Chaffee from other relocation centers because nobody wanted them , " he added . " The government did n't know what to do with them . " BEFORE HIS Ft . Chaffee assignment last Sept. 2 , Clark also served at refugee camps at Eglin Air Force Base , Fla. , and Ft . McCoy , Wis . Speaking of his experiences at Ft . McCoy , Clark recalled : " There were refugees who admitted under oath to INS interviewing officers at McCoy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and rape . " The people in Washington Jaid they wanted to close McCoy and to release such refugees onto American streets as fast as possible . As time progressed , they were willing to get rid of anyone , especially after it became obvious Cuba would not accept the return of convicted criminals . So the orders were to cut them loose if you could find any kind of sponsor for them . It was an excuse for the government to get rid of them . Only the worst of the worst were sent to our area at Ft . Chaffee . " CLARK REPORTS that soon after some Cuban refugees lodged brutality complaints , the Bureau of Prisons , State Department , Department of the Army , and the INS conducted inspections at the camp . Refugees were questioned . " Afterwards , everyone said we were doing a good job , right up to the end , when they sent me back to Chicago Oct. 28 , " Clark said . Then , he said , the Federal Bureau of Investigation conducted an inquiry , which published reports @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then our own people ? the INS Office of Professional Responsibility ? pushed for a grand jury investigation , " Clark declared . " I think the indictments resulted from bureaucratic in-fighting . " The State Department was critical of the ability of INS and the FBI to conduct an in-house investigation for the Justice Department . And the Justice Department sought the indictments to prove that was n't so . " Clark has a wife and two small children . He faces legal fees  --  of up to $25,000 . His co-workers are raising a legal defense fund for him . He has retained as counsel Nicholas A. DeJohn , a former assistant state 's attorney . And he can not understand why doing his duty caused his world to collapse .                     