@@734775

txt Ronald Reagan has uncovered a sleeper issue that at first glance would seem unlikely to attract intense public interest . First glances , however , can be deceiving . It is the unified gift and inheritance tax . During a major farm policy speech in Nevada , Iowa , Mr. Reagan said he would phase out this tax . He got an ovation . A short while later , speaking at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York to some 500 small business owners , about half of whom were blacks , Mr. Reagan again promised the phase-out . And again , he got heavy applause . There was a time in this country when only the rich worried about estate taxes , and they were usually rich enough and smart enough to hire lawyers skillful in helping them avoid such levies . But , as with so much else , inflation has changed all that . A $300,000 estate is no longer out of the ordinary ; almost any viable farm in the Midwest can be worth more than that , not to mention service stations , machine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals own and operate . Moreover , the cash income from some of these holdings with substantial paper worth can often be relatively modest . Which , of course , has meant that many heirs to family businesses have found that they have had little alternative but to sell their holdings to pay estate taxes . Congress addressed this issue in 1976 by phasing in a tax credit that had the effect of increasing the exemption that can be applied to inherited wealth . But to satisfy the liberal bloc it also installed a provision requiring heirs to pay taxes on capital gains dating all the way back to the original purchase , should they dispose of the asset . This was later repealed over President Carter 's objection but estate taxes themselves , the subject of an untold cost in legal fees and estate planning , remain , with rates ranging from 18% on anything above $161,563 to 70% on anything over $5 million . The tax yields the Treasury very little , only about $5.5 billion last year . It also is unevenly applied , hitting people who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wealth . Its effects on incentives are tangible , discouraging efforts to build an enterprise that can be passed along to children . In a broad economic sense , it is yet another form of attack on savings and capital formation , extracting capital very often at a crucial stage of the development of a small enterprise . In a social sense , it tilts away from small business toward the big businesses that stand ready to buy up the small holdings heirs find it necessary to sell . In short , Mr. Reagan has discovered a populist issue in a tax whose proponents had always assumed was aimed at malefactors of great wealth . But it is a different kind of populist stand from those his opponent once took so successfully . It 's aimed at protecting modestly successful people from having their wealth expropriated , not at giving them something someone else has earned .                     