@@734671

txt WASHINGTON  --  When President Carter and Federal Reserve Board , Chairman Paul Volcker teamed up to design today 's recession , they surely did not perceive in advance what a magnificent piece of economic architecture would finally be constructed . It is magnificent for its grotesqueness , its shocking unevenness , and its outrageous distortions . To view it from a distance , in all its wonder , is like seeing a 's sign atop the Great Pyramid . It Is modern-day economic kitsch . Something went wrong with the design or with quality control . And here in Washington , where the economic policy-makers wander about in hopeless confusion , nobody is sure which . The latest unemployment statistics reveal the craziness of this designed recession . In Detroit , the unemployment rate is 16.4 per cent t. for the state of Michigan as a whole it is 14.4 per cent . The blue-collar workers in that automo bile-dominated area are suffering as they have n't suffered in a long while . In other Industrial places , the suffering does n't come up to Detroit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the unemployment rate is 8.0 per cent ; Pennsylvania , 8,3 per cent ; Ohio , 9.4 per cent ; Illinois , 7.9 per cent ; and New Jersey , 8.4 per cent . Because President Carter had no idea how to fight inflation , he turned over the job to Volcker , who countered with tight-money policies that Carter supported . As a result , people stopped buying those " durable goods , " the kinds of products they mostly make in the aforementioned states , Since the recession began in January , the number of jobs In construction has declined by 300,000 , those in the factories by 550,000 . The number of unemployed black workers has risen by 322,000 during the same period . Yet , in Texas , the unemployment rate remained steady during May at 5.4 per cent , In Florida , it was 5.9 per cent , and in California , 7.1 per cent . But in Los Angeles County , the jobless rate fell from 6.2 to 6.1 per cent . By now , the grotesqueness of this structure should be becoming apparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sector actually grew in the economy in May . The unemployment rate for white-collar workers did take an unfortunate jump , but it went up to 3.9 per cent . Professional and technical workers also felt a bit of a pinch , as unemployment in their sectors went up from 2.4 to 2.7 per cent . Joblessness among blue-collar workers rose from 9.7 to 11.3 per cent . In construction , the rate went up from 15.1 to 17.5 per cent ; in manufacturing , from 7,9 to 9.9 per cent . Given the type of policies the federal government has used to fight inflation , this is probably no surprise . If you decide to slow down the economy with overall " demand restraint " policies stop the dummies from buying ) , then you are bound to affect first the areus where people can cut back , such as cars , and homes . Clearly , you are also pitting one class against another  --  the production worker against the services worker . And you are pitting one region against another , the industrial Northeast and Midwest against the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frost Belt against the Sun Belt . " Demand restraint " sounds profound coming from the mouth of that polished public performer , Treasury Secretary G. William Miller . But all it means is that he is willing to inflict more pain on certain regions and certain types of people than he is willing to inflict on others . It is a subtle form of elitism being practiced in Washington . It rewards those companies that have fled the industrial areas and put up more modern facilities in the West and South . It forces the faithful old factory worker in an older city to bear the economic sins of others . A final grotesqueness . In Washington , D.C. , home of the formation of this policy , where the idea-men put it together , the unemployment rate dropped from 4.0 to 3.8 per cent . Somebody should start asking questions about equity .                     