@@668449

The main battle on today ' s NCAA Convention floor in San Diego will involve increased academic standards for incoming athletes . Most of the 277 major colleges represented there , including the 96-strongCollege Football Assn. , want to establish an 11-course core curriculum in which schoolboys must attain a minimum 2.0 grade point average . But there is significant opposition , particularly from black universities , to a concurrent requirement of a minimum 700 combined score on college boards . Meanwhile , a plan to demote almost 50 Division 1 basketball schools , including Vermont , is facing defeat . The proposal was prompted by a number of non-football schools jumping into Division 1 to gain revenue from the lucrative basketball championship . Endorsed by the NCAA Council , it would require those schools to make a broader program commitment by sponsoring at least eight sports and awarding at least 50 percent of the NCAA-permitted athletic scholarships . But a further requirement of averaging more than 3500 home attendance in basketball , the stumbling block for such as Vermont and Fordham , appears to have doomed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gavitt of the NCAA basketball committee , is almost unanimous . There was a move in San Diego yesterday to refer the proposed amendment back to the council . There are five proposals to raise academic requirements for incoming athletes , a spinoff from the scandals on the West Coast two years ago . Amendment No. 48 , requiring both a varied core curriculum and minimum board scores , is sponsored by the American Council on Education ( ACE ) via the NCAA Council . However , a Sunday evening informational session by the ACE turned into a protracted debate . Spokesmen from the black colleges were especially opposed to the minimum 700 score on the SATs or a 15 composite score on the ACT . " Most of the attention at our Division 1 roundtable discussion this morning was centered on the academic issue , too , " said UConn athletic director John Toner , who is NCAA secretary-treasurer . " My president ( Dr. John DiBiaggio of UConn ) pointed out that the measure would not interfere with admissions standards in general . It would pertain only to that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in both academics and athletics . And chancellor ( Charles ) Chuck Young of UCLA spoke in the same vein in support of No. 48 . " There is resistance to that test score requirement but I think we will walk out of here with something in the academic area . Maybe it will be No. 51 ( another ACE proposal which calls for an ll- course high school curriculum including at least three in English , two in math and four in sciences but no test score minimums ) . It all will depend upon the passion of the convention floor following our debate . " " I do not want anyone to get the idea that we are not concerned with stronger academic standards , " said Dr. Joseph Johnson , president of Grambling . " But we also know how biased the ACT and SAT tests can be . " Johnson said he was speaking for the more than 100 predominantly black schools that make up the National Association for Equal Opportunity . Unlike the past two controversial conventions , when the College Football Assn. tried unsuccessfully to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Division 1 football , there appears little beyond the academic issue to raise blood pressure in San Diego today . A resolution to admit all 277 Division 1 basketball teams into the championships ( similar to some state schoolboy tourneys ) appears headed for overwhelming defeat . And there appears little opposition to Amendment No. 80 which would make cooperation with NCAA investigators a condition of employment for coaches and of eligibility for athletes . No. 91 , which would prohibit fans , alumni or anyone outside of thecollege ' s staff , from recruiting schoolboy athletes , could bring strong debate - especially from Ivy League colleges which benefit greatly from alumni involvement .                     