@@668523

For evidence that Igor Stravinsky composed some of the most felicitous music ever written for dance , you of course need look no further than the composer ' s monumental collaborations with choreographer George Balanchine . For proof that not all Stravinsky ' s music is choreographable - even pieces originally intended to be danced - see the two works currently being produced by the Musical Theatre Company of Cambridge . Neither the 1922 " Renard , " here choreographed by Deborah Wolf of Concert Dance Company of Boston , nor the 1934 " Persephone , " with choreography by Boston Ballet soloist Richard Dickinson , is nearly as successful a vehicle for dance as any number of other Stravinsky works . ( Even Balanchine ' s version of " Persephone " is a bore . ) Both " Persephone " and " Renard " have clear-cut narratives , here translated into English , which reduce Wolf and Dickinson to the status of charade makers . Neither choreographer is able to add anything to the music , only to follow its commands . For " Renard , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by a wily fox , Wolf has created a suite of straightforward , humorless dances which have none of the irony and intentional silliness of the music . The four dancers - Carlo Rizzo as the Cock , Magrez Rudolph as Renard the Fox , Renee Caso and Susan White as the Cock ' s friends the Cat and the Goat - perform with an oozy , stretchy dynamic : Their arms seem to stretch out straight from thegut . But their movement has little character or detail or surprise . The Cock struts , the Fox travels stealthily ; we knew all these cliches before we entered the theater . The only distinguishing characteristic of the bland choreography is the use of two levels : The stairs and platforms do keep the characters - and our focus - running up and down . Wolf at least has four competent dancers to work with ; Dickinson doesn ' t even have that advantage . Of the quartet of nymphs who follow Persephone around , only one can point her feet properly and straighten her legs into a passable arabesque . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ steps and have no business appearing before a paying audience.Because of their lack of skll , Dickinson resorts to a lot of pseudo-Grecian wafting and posing which looks like the barefoot " aesthetic dancing " so popular around the time of Isadora Duncan . Stravinsky ' s " Persephone " was commissioned by Ida Rubinstein , who had more wealth than talent and had starred in such Diaghilev productions as " Cleopatre . " The text is a poem by Andre Gide , wherein the goddess is not kidnapped by Pluto , as in Greek myth , but willingly descends to Hades to help the poor souls suffering there . As played in this production by Jeanne Jones , Persephone is a goody- goody with a nobly chiseled profile and a one- dimensional , Pollyanna manner . She floats up and down the staircase ( the same basic set was used for both " Persephone " and " Renard " ) with arms outstretched and wrists daintily arched , for all the world like a contestant in a 1950s beauty pageant . There are several longish spots in " Persephone " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the wavelike momentum of Stravinsky ' s beautiful score , as sung by a small chorus and soloist Peter Harvey . These chances come as a relief after the clutter of the decorative choreography and those wrinkled tunic costumes , which wouldn ' t pass muster in an average dancing school recital . Given the level of the dancing in both " Persephone " and " Renard , " perhaps it would be better to dispense with the choreography altogether , and simply move the musicians up onto the stage .                     