@@669852

WASHINGTON  --  The National Labor Relations Board , overturning an earlier board decision , ruled that employers don ' t need to bargain with unions before choosing to transfer operations elsewhere . The decision , which widens the impact of a Supreme Court ruling , is the latest in a recent series of reversals of broad , pro-labor principles by the NLRB ' s new conservative majority . The decision further erodes unions ' ability to negotiate over work transfers as well as a range of other management decisions . Companies aren ' t required to bargain over any " decisions which affect the scope , direction or nature of the business , " the NLRB asserted . The board limited employers ' bargaining duty to decisions that solely " turn upon a reduction of labor costs . " The case concerned Otis Elevator Co. , a United Technologies Corp. unit . In 1977 , Otis decided to discontinue its research and development functions at Mahwah , N.J. , and transfer them to a bigger facility in East Hartford , Conn . The United Auto Workers union , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , contended the company should have bargained over the decision . In March 1981 , the labor board upheld a UAW complaint that Otis ' s refusal to bargain was an unfair labor practice . But three months later , the Supreme Court ruled that an employer could close part of a business for economic reasons without bargaining with employees over the decision . The high court specifically said the ruling didn ' t apply to other decisions , such as selling or relocating a particular plant or subcontracting . But in reversing its stance in the Otis case ; the NLRB in effect applied the Supreme Court ' s bargaining limits to a broader range of management decision making . The board said " the critical factor " is whether the employer ' s decision " turns upon a change in the nature or direction of the business " and " not its effect on employees nor a union ' s ability to offer alternatives . " Otis Elevator moved the research operations because its technology was dated and its product wasn ' t competitive , the NLRB ruling said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fundamental change in the nature and direction of the business , and thus wasn ' t amenable to bargaining , " the board said . Stephen Schlossberg , the UAW ' s Washington counsel , said the NLRB decision " has fairly serious policy ramifications " because it " strikes at the heart of bargaining . " Given the chance , the union " could have really done something " about the threatened transfer , he insisted . Other UAW officials said the union hasn ' t yet decided to appeal the ruling . The union warned that the Otis case " threatens to unleash a new wave of plant closings , joblessness and community misery as companies are released from any obligations to bargain with their workers , before trasferring or subcontracting work , or even to supply any information relative to the move . " Management attorneys applauded the NLRB move . " It answers the unanswered questions " of the Supreme Court case , said John Irving , a management lawyer . He called the board ruling " a good decision for management " because it no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do with the direction of the enterprise and which are unrelated to labor costs . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     