@@670297

LHASA , Tibet  --  On the morning of Dec. 10 , 1988 , International Human Rights Day , a procession of frightened but determined monks and nuns marched out into the market square in front of the Jokhang temple here . A few seconds later some of them were dead , and one of us was shot . We found ourselves in the middle of a panicking crowd being fired on by a unit of the Chinese People ' s Armed Police . Wounded Tibetans tried to escape to the safety of alleys and courtyards surrounding the temple . The military operation was carried out with unbelievable precision ; the soldiers took their positions and opened fire without any warning or provocation . Nothing like this had happened before during the disturbances that have taken place in Tibet or , so far as we know , in China . Was it a mistake then that there was no effort to keep foreigners out of the square , in contrast with earlier protests ? It had to be obvious to those giving the final order from the nearby security @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior to this demonstration , moreover , the military presence had been beefed up and police patrols increased in the Tibetan neighborhoods of Lhasa ( much of the capital is occupied by Chinese immigrants ) . Before last Oct. 1 , in anticipation of trouble during Chinese National Day , Tibetans had been told in neighborhood committee meetings that demonstrators would be gunned down in the streets . On Dec. 9 , the same message was conveyed to Tibetans by political leaders in neighborhood meetings . We therefore do not believe that the shooting can be blamed on individual decisions by people in the government or miltary on the spot . Government sources told us that in a meeting of the Political Consultative Committee of the Tibetan Autonomous Region on Dec. 12 , it was announced : " What had happened on Dec. 10 had happened before and might happen again . In every case it will be dealt with in the same way , the demonstrators will be shot . This is the policy from the Central Committee in Beijing . " This raises the question whether China has decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prime concern with respect to Tibet . The first demonstrations in the fall of 1987 were a spontaneous expression of frustration with Chinese rule . These frustrations were fueled by the failure of the Chinese government to meet expectations following the open-door policy announced by Deng Xiaoping and Hu Yaobang for the 1980s . Tibetans felt that they had to do something to support the Dalai Lama in his search for a solution to the Tibet problem . But that demand for independence was an emotional outcry for a better situation , without any clear idea about the practical implications . Since these first protests , Tibetans have found themselves subjected to political-indoctrination sessions , arrest , torture and interrogation . This has led them to start thinking more pointedly about the meaning of independence , as well as of political terms such as freedom , democracy , human rights and socialism . This growing political consciousness is especially evident among the group of young Tibetan professionals in government positions who have been educated in China . They come back to Tibet only to discover that their aspirations are blocked by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their educational qualifications . In all government offices , Chinese have the ultimate say . But this also creates a dilemma for the Chinese . If they put these Tibetan professionals in positions of leadership , Beijing runs the risk of losing control of Tibet . If , by contrast , China ignores the aspirations of these Tibetans , then sooner or later it will have to deal with the fruits of accumulating resentment . Already this can be seen in the nature of Tibetan demands , which are becoming much more focused . No longer do Tibetans speak vaguely of independence and the return of the Dalai Lama ; now they try to identify Chinese policy promises on language , education and religion that have not been implemented . Students at Lhasa University , for example , are agitating for the creation of a real Tibetan university  --  with a Tibetan faculty and curriculum , taught in their own language  --  rather than a Chinese university with one Tibetan department . In letters and posters students have threatened to demonstrate if promises are not kept , and they have refused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ As any long-staying visitor in Tibet soon learns , virtually every Lhasa family has a relative who has been killed , injured or imprisoned since the demonstrations began . People have been arrested for participating in demonstrations , putting up posters and speaking out in meetings . Most of those detained have never been charged or put on trial , and they are frequently beaten and tortured . Those who simply threw stones during the disturbances have been released . The ones we know of who are still in prison have been singled out because of their strong political opinions . For example , of the 14 monks from Ganden Monastery who have been in prison since demonstrations on March 5 , 13 had not thrown stones and several had not even participated in the demonstration . But all had spoken out in political meetings held at the monastery in previous months , showing their knowledge of Tibetan history or urging that the forthcoming Great Prayer Festival be boycotted because the Chinese would misuse the event as propaganda to prove that religious freedom exists in Tibet . Since October 1987 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by ideological indoctrination squads , ominously named the " Affairs Unit . " These units consist of cadres from government offices , public security and the Communist Party . They hold political meetings in which monks and nuns are forced to voice their views on Tibetan politics . Potential leaders and troublemakers are thus identified for future arrest and interrogation . At Rato Monastery , about 18 1/2 miles west of Lhasa , a visit by the Affairs Unit in early October provoked a village uprising . The villagers came to the support of monks who resisted indoctrination , saying , " Why can ' t you leave our monks in peace to pursue their studies ? Why do you force them to speak about politics ? " Many monks we have talked to in Ganden , Sera and Drepung monasteries complain that the presence of political workers and police in their monasteries makes it impossible for them to be monks . Many Tibetans tell us that the situation today is no better than during the Cultural Revolution , the only difference being that now there doesn ' t seem to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time that China is wrestling with questions of reform at home , the policy of control and repression that we witnessed in Tibet  --  including the shooting of unarmed demonstrators and innocent bystanders  --  represents a new development in the security apparatus . And the formulation and execution of this policy point toward the highest levels in the Central Committee in Beijing.  --  - Miss Meindersma , who was shot by the Chinese during the Dec. 10 disturbances , is a medical translator from Amsterdam who lived in Tibet for 14 months . Mr. Schwartz , a professor of sociology at the University of Newfoundland , lived in Tibet for eight months.                     