@@668097

Richard Ivan Queen , the American hostage who is reportedly to be releasedfrom Iran , had been frustrated with life in that country for several months before the embassy seizure last November , according to his former college roommate . Peter Brown , an investment banker in Anchorage , Alaska , who was Queen ' s roommate at Hamilton College in Clinton , N.Y. , for three years in the early ' 70s , said he detected a growing malaise , and even a sense of despair , in Queen during the months before the hostage-taking . Citing a Sept. 7 , 1979 , letter , the 28-year-old Queen wrote to him from Tehran , Brown said his friend found Iran " far from hospitable . " His position as consular officer placed him in an enormously difficult situation , " Brown said in a telephone interview yesterday . " He was judge and jury to who got a visa to come to the United States and who did not . As the revolution gathered steam , there were many people who wanted to leave . He resented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he was seeing Iranians under the worst of circumstances but found difficulty seeing beyond that . " He was uncomfortable in the increasingly anti-American climate , and he called the daily scene in his office a " great and indescribable zoo . ' " The son of Harold and Jeanne Queen , Richard Queen graduated from Hamilton in 1973 . Friends say he aspired to a military career but was rejected from the service because of poor eyesight . Undaunted , he applied for admission as a plebe to West Point , though he had already been graduated from college . " That ' s how badly he wanted the Army , " recalled another Hamilton friend , Mark Walpole , of Cincinnati , last night . " He went to the trouble of getting congressional sponsorship , was admitted , but failed the physical again . " Another friend , former Hamilton classmate Benjamin Soule of Waltham , said Queen ' s interest in the military was part of his desire to " serve his country . " Soule said that " the foreign service was probably a good second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s degree in history from the University of Michigan in 1978 , Queen joined the State Department . He had wanted to go to Pakistan , but was sent to Tehran instead , on July 1 , 1979 . Queen ' s mother traveled to Europe last April with several other parents of the hostages , to seek support from French , West German , British and Italian leaders in getting their children released . Her only recent glimpse of her son came on television , when Easter services held in the embassy compound in Tehran were broadcast . She said then that Richard appeared " all right , " but she criticized the networks for supplying " too much commentary . " Mrs. Queen moved to Lincolnville , Maine , about 90 miles north of Portland , from New York City last December to escape what she viewed as incessant and intrusive press coverage of the hostages and their families . " It makes me sick , " she complained at one point . Her husband has been working in New York . She settled into an old , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Last evening , the neighborhood was crowded with reporters trying to contact some member of the family , but they were not home . A neighbor , Elizabeth Griffin , said Mrs. Queen had told her recently that her son had " a lame shoulder . " But she said she did not know how Mrs. Queen came by that information or whether it was in any way related to his current reported illness . David Nall , a staff member at the Iran Working Group at the State Department in Washington , said officials contacted the Queens as soon as word of their son ' s possible release was received . " We notified Mr. Queen ' s parents of the news reports , and we will make every effort to assist them in any way that may be required , " Nall said . Queen ' s friends last night sounded cautiously optimistic about the reported impending release . " It ' s terrific news , " said Mark Walpole , " I hope his illness is minor and that they ' re just using that as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ former roommate , was alarmed at Queen ' s reported illness , " because Richard was always healthy as a horse . He ' s never been sick before . It ' s a very unsettling circumstance to be in , but he ' s a tough fellow . He can be very determined , and I think he ' ll pull through . " Soule said he didn ' t know " what to make of it . " " I hope the illness isn ' t serious , " he said , " and that this isn ' t an indication that the other hostages are sick too . " Soule recalled that he and Queen attended the 1978 Red Sox- Yankee playoff game together at Fenway Park . In a Jan. 25 letter to Soule , Queen wrote from captivity that he was looking forward to seeing the Red Sox again .                     