@@734517

txt Now that Moscow has turned to top volume its world-wide propaganda apparatus . it is going to become increasingly important for Americans to separate fact from fiction in the crisis concerning Afghanistan . Here is a handy glossary . Fiction one : The Soviets acted in Afghanistan in response to American . Chinese and Egyptian efforts to overthrow the government of Hafizuliah Amin . Fact one : The Soviet Union has invaded Afghanistan with armed force and has imposed a puppet regime on the Afghan people . It was the Soviets who ousted and killed Amin , previously their protege , and replaced him with a more pliable pufipet , Babrak Karmal , whom they brought into Kabul only after they controlled the city . Fiction two : The Afghan insurgents are Moslem fanatics from backward tribes . Fact two : The insurgents , who have been fighting against the regime since a short time after the pro-Soviet coup of April . 1978 , are nationalists from every tribal and ethnic group in the country . Their leaders are educated men , and virtually all educated Afghans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Afghan people who have fought for generations to prevent any foreign power from controlling their country . Fiction three : The Soviets will be caught in a quagmire akin to what happened to the United States in Vietnam . Fact three : The situation in Afghanistan is not at all comparable to Vietnam . The analogy breaks down at every significant point . The Soviets have advantages in Afghanistan that the United States never had in Vietnam : Afghanistan is on their border ; the Afghan opposition is poorly armed and led ; there is no effective domestic public opinion in the Soviet Union opposing their use of napalm , helicopter gunships and every other modern weapon against the Afghan populace . It should also be recalled that , from a military standpoint , the Vietcong guerrillas did n't defeat the U.S. ; it was a Soviet-supplied , mechanized North Vietnamese army that beat the South Vietnamese army after we pulled out . Fiction four : The Soviets acted in Afghanistan to prevent the Islamic insurgency there from reaching the Moslem . population of Soviet Central *sic Fact four : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet authorities . The few Moslem leaders who are still permitted to perform their religious duties are treated as cultural anachronisms and effectively prohibited from political activity . Whereas it is true that the proportion of the total Soviet population represented by non-Russians , including Central Asians , is steadily rising , and that this development is posing social and economic problems for the Soviet leadership , it is patently ridiculous to believe that the mo- tive for the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan was fear of the political potential within their own borders of the Afghan rebels or even Khomeini . This will be worth remembering with respect to Soviet policy not only toward Afghanistan but also toward Iran . Fiction five : What the Soviets are doing in Afghanistan is nobody 's business but their own and the Afghans ' . Fact five : This is of course a fiction traditionally broadcast by aggressors . Afghanistan is a strategic territory . As the British realized for a century while they controlled India , Afghanistan is the stepping stone to India and the Persian Gulf . Fiction six : Afghanistan is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have some natural resources of value . They include sizeable amounts of natural gas . iron and copper and possibly also uranium and petroleum . The Soviets know this better than most because they have for many years been exploiting Afghan natural gas for their own benefit and have been trying to get their hands on Afghanistan 's other resources while preventing others from doing so . Fiction seven : The United States has been trying to turn Afghanistan into an antiSoviet base . Fact seven : Nothing could be further from the truth . Since we established diplomatic relations in 1943 , American policy has favored a nonaligned Afghanistan . Even in the era of John Foster Dulles , when nonalignment was a dirty word , we refused to supply arms to Afghanistan bernilisP we did not want to involve Afghanistan in the Cold War . Fiction eight : The decision last year to cut off aid to Pakistan , Afghanistan'sneighbor , was justifiable as a measure to prevent Pakistan from developing a nuclear weapon . Fact eight : Pakistan is the key to aiding the Afghan rebels , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aid to Pakistan has not only not stopped Pakistan 's efforts to develop an atomic device but has soured our relations with Pakistan and greatly eroded our influence in Pakistan . Our ability to help Pakistan respond to the latest Soviet threat has been correspondingly reduced , a fact surely taken into consideration in Moscow . Pakistan now has the Red Army on one border , a suspicious and often hostile India on another , and an anarchic Iran on the other . In this situation it is not surprising that Pakistan has been looking for ways to match the nuclear weapons capacity of India . Fiction nine : American military aid to Pakistan will threaten India . Fact nine : This fiction completely overlooks the tremendous disparity in the size of the two countries , their economic potentials and the strengths of their military forces . Pakistan represents no significant military threat to India . It is time that American security interests took precedence over irrational Indian fears . Hopefully India will realize that the best way to ensure its security is to improve its relations with Pakistan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ small . poor country which is of no great importance to the United States ; our Involvement will lead to another Vietnam . Fact ten : The Soviet thrust into Afghanistan represents a major threat to world peace and to vital American interests in western Asia . Acting on this fiction would mean encouraging the Soviets to believe that they can proceed with impunity to commit aggression elsewhere . It would ignore their presence in Afghanistan within a two-day march from the Persian Gulf through an Iran already in turmoil . It would ignore their ability to use Afghanistan as a base from which to engage in subversive and disruptive activities in both Iran and Pakistan through overlapping tribal groups . It would ignore the psychological effects on our remaining friends in western Asia of our standing on the sidelines . It would encourage the Soviets to keep moving in the direction of our and our allies ' oil supplies as they have done not only in Afghanistan but also in Ethiopia and South Yemen . The most important fact is that the time Is long overdue and is certainly upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-term political , economic and military policy for protecting our Middle Eastern oil supplies , for supporting our friends in that region and for thwarting Soviet expansionism . The urgency of our developing more effective policies to reduce our dependence on Middle Eastern oil is also clear .                     