@@669942

Prices of most major foreign currency futures rose sharply amid rumors of banking problems stemming from the failure of a small government securities dealer . Although analysts cited as a factor the banking-loss rumors related to the collapsed government securities firm of Bevill , Bresler &; Schulman Asset Management Corp. , the most prevalent rumor  --  that an unspecified Oklahoma bank had taken significant losses  --  were denied by a state banking official . The denial slowed the rally in foreign currency futures , which closed below the day ' s highs . Swiss franc futures led the gains , rising 0. 3 cent to 38. 03 cents for June delivery ; that ' s 0. 84 cent below its recent high in late March , when many traders speculated that the dollar would begin a significant decline . The rally capped a week of volatile trading , when many traders have been awaiting clear signals of the dollar ' s direction . Yesterday ' s gains in foreign currency contracts weren ' t strong enough to have the usual bullish impact on other commodity futures prices . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buying in commodity futures because of its inflationary impact on foodstuffs , fiber and metals . " There ' s no clear trend in the market right now , " and that ' s causing the recent volatility in foreign currency futures , said Tina Folk Lemieux , an analyst in Chicago for Geldermann Inc . Volume was moderate as traders and other participants awaited several economic reports , due later this week , for further signals of the dollar ' s likely direction . The government will release retail sales statistics for March and money supply figures today ; the March producer price index is set for release tomorrow . " There ' s a strong feeling from the ( traders on the ) floor " at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange " that the markets want to rally , " Mrs. Lemieux said . If the economic reports signal a slowing of economic growth that could reduce the dollar ' s appeal as an investment , foreign currency contract prices are likely to rise , she added . Traders responded to continuing rumors that losses caused by the collapse of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ futures trading for Gruntal &; Co . , New York , said some traders overseas expect the Bevill Bresler ripples to spread , further reducing the dollar ' s appeal . " The Europeans basically feel this is the tip of the iceberg , " Mr. Barbanel said . Part of yesterday ' s buying also was a belated response to statements made Tuesday by Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker , raising doubts about the strength of U.S. economic growth . The currency futures market had closed Tuesday by the time Mr. Volcker ' s comments were widely circulated . Mr. Volcker ' s discussion of persistent weakness in the economy ' s manufacturing segment led to speculation that the Fed won ' t tighten credit . " If anything , ( the Fed is ) leaning toward a steady or accommodative stance , " said Fred Leiner , an analyst in Chicago for Heinold Commodities Inc . Such a posture by the Fed would do little to bolster the investment appeal of dollars and dollar-denominated instruments . In other commodity markets yesterday : GRAINS AND SOYBEANS : Soybean oil futures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower . Many traders took profits on recent gains in soybean oil futures , which recently set life-of-contract highs despite declines in most other grain futures . Rumors of Soviet purchases of competing Brazilian soybean oil , rather than U.S. oil , also led to selling , analysts said . In addition , traders were anticipating the shipment of Brazilian soybean oil from this year ' s harvest , which will further inflate competing supplies , according to Susan Hackman , an analyst for Pershing Futures , Chicago . Soybean meal futures scored gains in early trading , in response to reports of heavy meal-trading activity in Europe . Wheat traders also continued to take profits from recent sharp gains . After the futures market closed , the Agriculture Department released a report predicting that soybean meal supplies as of next Sept. 30 will reach a 10-year high of 570 , 000 metric tons . Analysts said the report likely would lead to selling in soybean and soybean-product futures today . COTTON : Cotton futures prices fell , retracing part of their recent sharp gains . " It was mostly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since early March , amid worries about tight supplies of cotton available for delivery against maturing futures contracts , said Ernest Simon , analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . , New York . " More cotton seems to be appearing . " Many traders don ' t expect delivery problems in the May contract to be as severe as believed earlier , added Nauman Barakat , analyst for Smith Barney , Harris Upham &; Co . , New York . At issue is the availability of high-quality cotton certified by the New York Cotton Exchange for delivery against futures contracts ; much of the latest U.S. cotton crop was damaged by heavy rains . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     