@@668691

Prime Ministers Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Garret FitzGerald of Ireland will meet Friday to sign a historic agreement giving Dublin a voice in Northern Ireland affairs for the first time , sources said Thursday . The sources confirmed reports appearing in British and Irish newspapers . James Molyneaux and Rev. Ian Paisley , leaders of the two largest Protestant political parties in Northern Ireland , greeted the news by announcing that they would challenge the constitutionality of the agreement in court . They also said they were withdrawing their support for the British government and would break off all contact with British ministers in Northern Ireland . In Parliament , Conservative Party member Harvey Proctor accused the Thatcher government of " betrayal , " and Enoch Powell , an independent from Northern Ireland , said it was guilty of " treachery . " Thatcher said she found such remarks " deeply offensive , " and Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock denounced them as " inflammatory " and " irresponsible . " For security reasons , the site of the Thatcher-FitzGerald meeting is a closely guarded secret . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ British officials that they will be informed of the site only a few hours before the meeting . Reports in British and Irish newspapers this week have mentioned four possible sites : a castle near Shannon Airport in western Ireland ; Belfast , the capital of Northern Ireland ; Hillsborough Castle , about 12 miles south of Belfast ; and Leeds Castle , about 50 miles southeast of London . The British Cabinet is believed to have approved the agreement at a meeting Thursday morning , but government officials would not even confirm that . Dublin announced in a terse statement Thursday that the Irish Cabinet had " considered the Anglo-Irish agreement and approved it . " Informed sources said the principal point of the agreement is the establishment of an Anglo-Irish commission through which Ireland would have a consultative role in Northern Ireland affairs . They said this is intended to give greater confidence to the Roman Catholic minority in Northern Ireland that its views are represented at a senior level . The commission will operate in Belfast . Protestant leaders in Northern Ireland urged the British government to locate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would undercut the goal of gaining Catholic confidence , sources said . Northern Ireland , partitioned from the rest of the island when Britain granted independence to Ireland in 1921 , has a population of about 1 million Protestants and 600 , 000 Catholics . The area had a measure of self-rule until 1969 , when Protestant-Catholic conflict erupted . Since then Northern Ireland has been under direct rule from London , and the conflict has taken more than 2 , 400 lives . The British and Irish governments have described their impending agreement as a first step toward reconciliation of the warring factions in Northern Ireland and not as a final solution . They also have stressed that it will not change Northern Ireland ' s constitutional status as a part of the United Kingdom . Informed sources said the agreement would make several unspecified changes affecting the security forces and the judiciary in Northern Ireland . The purpose of these changes , they said , is to deal with Catholics ' complaints that the security forces and judiciary do not act impartially and sometimes treat them harshly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the agreement by proposing a major aid program for Northern Ireland to Congress . They said British officials secured the promise of aid with the argument that this would help to soften Protestant opposition to the accord . How soon an aid package is announced may depend on how the two communities in Northern Ireland react once the agreement is announced . A fresh outburst of fighting or civil unrest could delay or even scuttle the aid program , some observers believe . Some Protestant politicians have threatened to call strikes or to resign their parliamentary seats in protest , but British officials discount these threats . Earlier this week , London ' s Financial Times reported that the Ulster Defense Association , the largest of the province ' s Protestant paramilitary groups , did not plan to react to the agreement , at least for the time being . It quoted association leader Andy Tyrie as saying he had advised Protestant political leaders to " exhaust all the political avenues " before coming to him for help . He described his attitude toward them as one of " mild contempt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Charles Haughey , which is expected to win the next general election there , has opposed the agreement strongly because it does not provide for a united Ireland . But in a shift of tactics , Fianna Fail sources said Thursday that some parts of the agreement would receive a guarded welcome . This change was believed to be the result of an appeal to Haughey by John Hume , leader of Northern Ireland ' s Social Democratic and Labor Party . That party commands the support of a majority of Catholics in Northern Ireland , and its future could depend heavily on how Irish nationalists on both sides of the border react to the agreement.                     