@@668339

Philip Johnson , Henry-Russell Hitchcock and Lewis Mumford will be among the notables gathering this week at Harvard to celebrate the anniversary of a famous event in architecture . It was 50 years ago that a fledgling institution , the Museum of Modern Art in New York , staged a controversial exhibition called " Modern Architecture : International Exhibition . " The show opened in 1932 and went on to tour American cities for seven years . It helped introduce the whole notion of modernism and something called " The International Style " to a generation of Americans . The International Style - the name came from this show - is the stripped- down , so-called " glass box " style of architecture most of us think of when we think of modernism . Before 1932 it was hardly known in America . The 1932 show kicked off a raging 20-year debate that led to the triumph of the new style all over the world . This week , on the exhibit ' s anniversary , the Harvard Graduate School of Design will host a conference called " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and historians from Europe and America to talk about what modernism was and what it means today . The presence of Johnson , Hitchcock and Mumford may make the Harvard event unique in the annals of culture . They created the original exhibit and now , a full half century later , they will be gathering again to discuss it . Philip Johnson in 1932 was a 26-year-old who was about to become the Modern Museum ' s first director of architecture and design . He later went on to become a famous architect himself . Henry-Russell Hitchcock became an eminent architectural historian , and Lewis Mumford achieved fame as architecture critic for the New Yorker and author of many books , including an autobiography he has just published at the age of 86 . Harvard has also , with an irony that can ' t possibly be unintended , invited another celebrated architect to deliver the prestigious annual Gropius lecture on Thursday evening , just before the conference gets underway . He is Robert Venturi , whose 1966 book " Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture " fueled the current anti-modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is largely a reaction against the International Style ' s lack of exuberance or variety . Harvard is the right place for this conference . It was at Harvard that the so-called International Style made its entry into the United States , for better or worse . Both Johnson and Hitchcock were Harvard products , as was Alfred Barr , the Museum of Modern Art ' s founder . And it was to Harvard that Walter Gropius , founder of the Bauhaus school of modern design in Germany , came in 1938 to headthe architecture school and make it America ' s first modernist school . Gropius ' own house in Lincoln and his graduate student commons at Harvard are among the few early examples of the International Style in the Boston area . The term " International Style " emerged from the 1932 exhibit and was was popularized in a book written by Johnson and Hitchcock after the exhibit . The International Style was , at the time , only a small and extreme trend within world architecture , a trend that emerged during the 1920s in the work of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ van der Rohe , Gropius and J.J.P. Oud . These architects at that time were all designing box- like white buildings with flat roofs , no ornament , and much glass . The Johnson-Hitchcock book is basically a dogmatic cookbook that tells architects in no uncertain terms how to design the international way . According to the authors , the style had three main characteristics . First , a building was to be thought of as a light , airy volume , not a heavy mass like traditional brick or stone buildings . Second , it shouldn ' t be forced into any preconceived formal shape , such as a symmetrical one , but should be organized according to a natural order suggested by the functions it would serve and by the way it would be built . Third , it should have no applied ornament at all . Its beauty should come instead from fine materials or simply from good proportions . As propaganda the show and book were a fantastic success . But long before the triumph of the new style many who had started the movement in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one . Johnson went to Harvard to study under Gropius and became an architecthimself . In his own work , he began as a believer in the International Style with the design of his own house , the famous Glass House of 1949 in New Canaan , Conn . This house was in some ways a demonstration of the new style . Its exterior was entirely glass floor to ceiling , and inside there were no rooms , except for the bathroom , but merely free-flowing space . In other ways the Glass House was also a goodby to the International Style , for it wasn ' t in the least functional - issues of privacy and sun control are pointedly ignored - but rather an exercise in pure style . Soon the style-conscious Johnson moved on to other fashions . Today Johnson has come full circle . He heads a busy practice in New York designing office towers and other large projects in whimsically personal shapes , such as the Chippendale-topped American Telephone and Telegraph tower under construction on Madison avenue . He is now considered the godfather of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come increasingly under firefrom younger architects , some of whom , such as Thomas Beeby and Robert Stern , will be participating in the conference . Among many other well known architects and academics at the two-day conference , which starts Friday , will be Richard Meier , Paul Rudolph , Peter Smithson , Peter Eisenman , Helen Searing , Bruno Zevi , Alan Colquhoun and Eduard Sekler . To accompany the conference Harvard has mounted a fine exhibit of its own at the design school in Gund Hall . Besides recapping some of the 1932 show , the new exhibit provides a fascinating review of comments taken from newspapers during the years the original show toured the United States . These give a strong sense that people in the depression years understood the new architecture very well and accepted it as the wave of progress or of necessity , but didn ' t actually like it very much . When the show hit Boston in 1933 Kenneth Conant , a well known architectural historian at Harvard , praised the new style but in a way that must have given @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conant wrote , " has effaced many local factors which gave individuality to the buildings of particular regions , and the machines themselves , which are universal , have contributed to our ideas of style . " Views like Conant ' s suggested that there wasn ' t much reason why one place should look any different from another . Machines were the same everywhere , after all , they were now the basis of civilization , and they would create a rational , universal architecture . This was the view that pretty much swept the world . No one really buys it today . At enormous cost and energy , and with enormous destruction of local context and tradition everywhere , it succeeded in creating a world of maddening uniformity , a world in which you can hardly tell the boxy towers of downtown Tehran or Singapore from those of Houston or Sydney . Enough time has passed to make it clear that the dream of a machine-based universality was a human and ecological disaster . Were the International Style and its promoters responsible ? I think so . Houston @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement . In truth , as early as the late ' 30s the notion that the style would work anywhere was already under atatack by many architects . In hosting this conference , it ' s likely that Harvard is making an effort to associate itself with the school ' s glory days of the 1940s and 1950s under Gropius and Josep Lluis Sert . Then it was known first as the school that brought modernism to America and the school that was trying to relate architecture to the broader issue of cities and urban design . Fifty years is a long time . In 1932 , architecture was , as things turned out , on the verge of coming together in the period of relative consensus that we call modernism . In 1982 , architecture is charging off in a dozen directions at once and no one knows what the next consensus will be . The contrast between then and now makes this an especially good time to be taking a backward look . 