@@668206

Two Massachusetts courts yesterday rejected 11th-hour attempts by Boston police and firefighters to halt a total of 400 layoffs and numerous station closings . Judge Christopher J. Armstrong of the state Appeals Court turned down a motion by the Boston Police Patrolmen ' s Assn. for an injunction to block the distribution of layoff notices to 200 Boston Police Officers . Armstrong ' s decision was delivered orally at 3 p.m. , less than 24 hours after Superior Court Judge Edith W. Fine had denied the injunction sought by the police union to stop the furlough notices . Judge Fine late yesterday denied a request by 10 East Boston residents to stop the closing of the police station in that neighborhood , one of seven district stations which will be shut down . She also rejected a request by the Boston Firefighters Union to halt the layoff of 200 firefighters and the deactivation of 13 fire companies . Although Judge Fine acknowledged that shutting down the East Boston station " will probably have some adverse affect on the convenience and security of the citizens of that neighborhood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had assured her that the present level of police patrols in that area will be continued . Jordan said the names of the people receiving furlough notices would not be released until Monday , after the men involved had been individually notified . Fire Comr . George Paul released the names of the 200 affected firefighters late yesterday . Under the police furlough notices , the officers will be instructed to cease reporting for duties after midnight tomorrow . They will be paid through April 27 , at which time Jordan is scheduled to hold hearings to determine whether lack of funds in the police budget makes the layoffs necessary . Frank J. McGee Jr. , counsel for the police union , warned that if the layoffs become effective " after midnight Sunday , only 100 to 150 police will be available to man each of the three shifts in the entire Boston Police Department . " " That ' s a very serious situation for the city , " McGee added . He argued that there is at least $6 million now available in the police budget to pay for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , attorney for the Police Department , contended that there are no funds in the police budget that can be used to keep the men on the job . Many of the furloughed policemen were not gloomy and said they were optimistic they will be rehired - particularly because of the potential for trouble in the summer . One , Robert Thompson , 30 , of Station Four in the South End , a black with three years on the force , said : " You can ' t go through the summer like this with so few guys unless you want to have a cityful of dead bodies . " Patrolman Bob Tully , who is white and not scheduled for furlough because he is a disabled veteran , said that because minorities comprise the bulk of the laid-off policemen " it ' s going to make the black community hostile toward us . " A furloughed firefighter blamed Mayor Kevin H. White ' s " high political ambitions " for the cutbacks . John Moran , 32 , on the department since February , said White " can ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the voters were talking about because they ' re the ones he owes favors . " Moran was attached to Engine 34 on Western avenue , Brighton , one of the 13 companies closed . Of the 200 police officers about to receive their layoff notices , 49 of them are from the so-called " Class-That-Nearly-Wasn ' t . " Joseph Zinck , 33 , of Dorchester , was one of 49 police cadets who graduated last August after being hired , fired and rehired again over a budgetary battle between the mayor and the City Council . Zinck and the 48 other recruits had had their appointments canceled by White in a fiscal austerity move in February 1980 on the day before they were to begin their police training courses . At that time , White said he had to take unspent money from the police budget as part of a $2.7 million transfer to deficit-ridden city departmentsbecause of a ban on overspending of budgets . Many of the appointees had already quit their previous jobs , expecting to start training at the Police Academy . Nine weeks of uncertainty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settled . The mayor authorized the reappointments on the day before their Civil Service certifications would have expired . They were later rehired , attended the academy and were graduated last Aug. 6 . Now they ' re being laid off again . Said Zinck , a former Edison Company employee , married and the father of two young daughters : " I wish I knew the answers . I think they ' ll have to hire us back eventually . There were two murders last night , numerous rapes and assaults every night . I don ' t know how they can function with the reduction of 200 officers . If you ' re taking 200 officers off the force , that ' s 100 cruisers . "                     