@@668745

Down the coast from here in San Diego on Friday , a report will be issued that could reshape the future of American society . That ' s a big statement , but those of us who believe America ' s prosperity and democracy depend directly on the quality of our public education system consider it no exaggeration . The Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy will issue its long- anticipated report on reshaping the teaching profession . The panel , which includes the heads of the two major teachers unions as well as key state elected officials and educators , apparently is ready to shake things up . Advance reports indicate it will propose a national teacher certification system for basic subject matter competency and for advanced levels of skill and specialization . These certifications could  --  and almost certainly would  --  become the basis for differential pay scales , designed to attract and hold more of the highly qualified people who now shun or flee the teaching profession . The radical report also is expected to recommend a fundamental restructuring of teacher training and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republican Gov . Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey , who has led the effort in his state for alternate certification of teachers who lack traditional education majors , has called the report " the second round of school reform . " The first round was triggered by the 1983 report , " A Nation at Risk , " by a panel chartered by then-Education Secretary Terrell H. Bell . It led to a wave of sweeping changes in most of the states , including tougher classroom and graduation standards , stricter curriculum requirements and tighter discipline . But it is implausible to believe the momentum of education reform can be maintained for long without addressing directly the issues centering on the talents and training of teachers . That is a premise that Mary Hatwood Futrell , president of the National Education Association , and Albert Shanker , head of the American Federation of Teachers , share with the other members of the Carnegie panel . Some studies have indicated that as many as half the current teachers are likely to leave their jobs by 1992 , either through retirement or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quality of undergraduates aspiring to teaching careers are encouraging , but for the most part top students still tend to avoid education courses and careers . That is , presumably , the rationale for such a radical suggestion as a national certification process , separate from education degrees or state licensing . No one should ignore the risk in such a proposal . It is designed to strengthen the professional status of teaching . But it could lead to bureaucracy or buck-passing or both . The risk is that suggesting that certification be taken out of the hands of the local and state officials who decide most other public school questions may provoke a jurisdictional struggle that delays other vital steps to improve the quality of teaching . To gain Futrell ' s qualified endorsement of the report , the Carnegie panel reportedly will suggest that teachers dominate the national certification process . The panel is deliberately vague on whether there would be a federal role . Still , nationalization could be an excuse for inaction . While the states have shown commendable initiative in meeting new challenges in education and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inertia pervades Washington when it comes to facing long-term social and economic needs . Let ' s hope it ' s different with the Carnegie report . The states have shown they will react to a serious challenge . The record on the national level gives less reason for optimism.                     