@@668264

For the first time , specific guidelines have been developed for the eventual withdrawal of US District Court Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr . from the nine-year-old Boston school desegregation case . If Garrity approves the terms of a proposed consent degree based on the guidelines and issues a final order in the case , such action would be unprecedented , according to outgoing State Education Comr . Gregory R. Anrig . Anrig , who prepared the guidelines at Garrity ' s request , said yesterday that no judge has officially terminated supervision in a federal court desegregation case , including the original suit , Brown vs. the Board of Education in Topeka , Kan. , now more than 25 years old . He said he expected no consent decree or final order before fall at the earliest . At a court hearing Thursday , Garrity remarked that Anrig ' s guidelines provide a " basis for optimism on most of the issues in the case being resolved by agreement . " Among Anrig ' s recommendations is the immediate appointment of a master to help in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ current overseeing by the federal court . In effect , Anrig would shift the jurisdiction now held by the court to a series of monitors , including the Department of Implementation for Internal Compliance , the State Board of Education for state-mandated programs and the balance by a master . He also proposed that all parties in the case have immediate access to the court in the case of an alleged violation after all other appeals have proved fruitless . In that regard , Anrig mentioned last week ' s School Committee vote that rejected affirmative action orders on administrative appointments in defiance of the court . Proposals for a consent decree were outlined in a letter from Anrig to Garrity following a month of meetings with attorneys for all parties in the suit . Anrig ' s recommendations coincide with a Boston School Committee vote that defied court orders to maintain a ratio of 20 percent minorities in principal and headmaster positions . The committee repeated the vote last week despite warnings from its own attorney , Marshall Simonds , that the action violated the court ' s orders on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee actions . Dr. Robert A. Dentler and Dr. Marvin B. Scott , both educators , were appointed by Garrity in 1975 to ensure compliance with the student and staff assignment aspect of his desegregation order . Earlier this year , Alex Rodriguez , an Hispanic community leader , was appointed by Judge Thomas Morse of Suffolk Superior Court to monitor Boston schools ' compliance with the state ' s special education legislation Ch. 766 . More recently , Morse named former State Comptroller Arthur McKinnon to act as a watchdog on the rate of school spending as the result of a battle between City Hall and the School Committee over last year ' s expenditures . Anrig said yesterday that attorneys for all parties in the desegregation case will continue to meet through the summer to attempt to reach agreement on a consent decree . " If they don ' t , they lose any chance of controlling the final action , " Anrig said . If the parties can not agree on provisions of a consent decree , Anrig said , Garrity can simply issue a final order . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all of the parties in the case to establish a legal basis on which the court could terminate its control of the schools . Anrig , who is leaving Massachusetts to become president of the Educational Testing Service in Princeton , N.J. , suggested that the court issue standing orders in 12 areas to ensure continued compliance with desegregation orders . He called for a consent decree or a final order that would address the following issues : Student assignment and transportation , mandated programs - including bilingual , special and vocational education - faculty and staff desegregation , long term facility planning , parent and community groups , university , cultural and business pairings , security , examination schools , discipline code , South Boston High School , kindergarten and extended day programs and advanced work classes .                     