@@735057

txt WHEN MEALS ARE being prepared en a limited budget , It would seem that the most obvious common sense solution would be to concentrate pn excellent preparations of good , honest foods that are relatively inexpensive . Instead , too many home cooks and restaurant chefs apparently feel compelled to offer second and third-rate examples of foods that are expensive to buy or costly to prepare , with results that inevitably pre depressing , if.not downright disastrous . ' Such culinary pretentiousness abounds , both in restaurants and private homes . Any-ono in search of decent , moderately priced , old-style , French bistros will surely come across examples even though the natural and traditional fare of such eating places Is humble but savory . , Yet many such bistros will offer a tough . and sinewy ec Mope of veal , rather than a delicately seasoned , patiently braised stew based on the less expensive shoulder cut of veal . Similarly , dreadful , cheap canned pato de fete pros , mixed with chemicals and ' starchy fillers , is offered instead of homemade chicken liver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this age of the food processor . At a recent dinner In such a bistro , the menu listed roast duck at US , the main course in a table d'hote meal , Duck is no ; ' really a high cost food item , and the generous , well-prepared portion would have rep. . resented a good bay , had it not been seriously compromised by the pretentious garnishes-Aalf a canned peach ' andwIld ? , rice extended with white rice . Duck with peaches is currently fashionable , and this is the season of ripe peaches . But the cost of labor . involved in blanching , cutting , and poaching or sauteing a fresh peach might snake it too expensive for a diner at that price . THE SOLUTION , then , should be no peach , not a dreary canned substitute , thereby giving the customer a better meal and the management an even healthier markup . Mixing wild rice with white rice , a combination that does neither grain Justice , is more expensive , than serving white rice alone , and since white rice lends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the improvement again can be accomplished at lower cost . In restaurants , the blame for such pretentiousness does not lie wholly with the owner . It takes an educated and secure eating public to recognize that it is better to have a mellow beef stew than a fibrous entrecote , duck seasoned only with its own pan Juices instead of one decked out with a canned peach , and an appetizer of sliced Italian salami rather than metallic and medicinal , pate , albeit one that is a French import . ? Tho most memorable as well as the most depressing dinner I have ever had In a private home was a meal in which every single dish symbolized what the hostess wished she could afford . It began with the worst lumpfish roe , technically eligible to be called , caviar , but a , revollingly salty mass of glassy beads colored by a black dye that ran all enter the plate . But this caviar was served in a big if cheap silver-plated bowl designed solely for that purpose , holding 0.1 crushed ice and , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The caviar was spooned out with precious care in minuscule portions , just as though it were triple " 0 " beluga . Fittingly enough , tough and stale packaged ' Melba Nast. accompanied it , but in this instance , where sour cream , onion , and every sort of condiment would have provided welcome relief , only lemon was served . . CANNED HAM painstakingly studded ? with cloves and glazed with pineapple and brown sugar was the man course , rounded out with canned white potatoes that had been roasted , and frozen French-cut string beans amandine . Home-baked frozen rolls and a " parfait " of ice cream and canned fruit cocktail were also included . ' ? As she presented each dismal course , the ' hostess mumbled apologies , alternately blaming shortages of time or money for the food being served . clearly , the message way that she hoped her guests would understand , and that we would all accept these symbols ' of food because we knew that she knew ' better . INw much wiser it would have been to serve a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garlic , and a velvety tomato sauce along with steamed rice and a fresh and sprightly green salad . She could have saved considerable time and money , and at least one guest would have come away with much more pleasant memories of the event , ? and a far greater respect for her talents as . a hostess . ?                     