@@734687

txt Except perhaps for federal bureaucrats and top executives of the Fortune MO , most Americans tend to regard huge organizations with suspicion and unease . Kirkpatrick Sale 's new book " Human Scale " ? a nearly internunable assault on Big Everything  --  attempts to confirm our worst fears about all those institutions that have grown larger than the neighborhood foundry , the corner grocery store and the New England town meeting Big cities , businesses , governments , buildings , power grids , hospitals  --  all are inimical , in Mr. Sale 's view , to human happiness , and he produces massive amounts The Bookshelf " Human Scale " By Kirkpatrick Sale . Coward , McCann &; Geoghegan. 558 pages . s15.95. of documentation to prove that none is necessary . And of course he could hardly miss getting some things right . The manifold pathologies of big cities , for example , or sprawling bureaucracies are obvious enough , and have been so for a century . But for all the easy points he scores this is a silly , even mean-spirited book . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ us one of many catalogues of the horrors of American life : Vietnam , Watergate . My Lai , Charles Manson . Of course . But Wilbur Mills ? Andy Warhol ? 's ? All lumped together in the same paragraph , without the slightest hint that there are any distinctions to be drawn . We become apprehensive about the author 's intellectual rigor even earlier . For he begins his attack on " giantism " with an account of the ratages of pollution on the Parthenon : a true and depressing account , to be sure , but we are left wondering what it has to do with the size of organizations . If indeed automobile emissions have caused the greatest damage to the ancient stones of the Parthenon , Mr. Sale neglects to explain what difference it would make if there were ' several dozen relatively small auto makers in the world rather than a handful of giants . The suspicion anses that his complaint is directed at least as much against technology as against scale . So too his treatment of labor-saving devices in the home . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ save housewives any labor at all , which will he news to anyone who has ever scrubbed clothes by hand and hung them up to dry . But here again It Is clear that Mr. Sale 's displeasure with the way things are has a great deal more to do with industrialism than with organizational size . Nowhere does he suggest that he would be pleased to have dishwashers and air conditioners if only they could be produced in small , locally owned factories . To the contrary , his disdain for all such contrivances is monumental , and he is perfectly sure that none but the benighted could possibly disagree with him . After one of his dozens of lists of hateful products , this one including fast foods , national defense , sleeping pills , pornography and underarm deodorants , he pauses and sighs , " But need I go on " He is particularly dismayed by big cities . Over the course of several chapters he recounts the horrors of life in them and reminds us repeatedly that the evil things did n't even exist until the 19th @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social value . While many of us might argue that great cities , for all their faults , have at least been centers of art and high culture . Mr. Sale will have none of it He quotes the late Bertrand Russell 's remark that " when art flourished in the past it flourished as a rule among small communities , " without apparently noticing the phrase " in the past " and ignoring all that Pans , London , Vienna and New York , among others , havenieant to the arts over the last hundred and more years . And one may doubt that many urbanologists would agree that London , say , was a more agreeable place to live in Hogarth 's time than in our own . Nor will most readers share his easy dismissal of contemporary medical care . He characterizes as " not so utopian at all " a proposal to dispense with intensive-care units , which of course can only be a product of the high technology which he loathes . " This clearly involves a certain hardheartedness , " he quotes a favored author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good folk of " an enlightening little novel " who " have a curiously fatalistic attitude toward death . . . when they feel their time has come , they let it come , comforting themselves with their ecological religion : They too will be recycled . " No , this is n't some cruel right-wing parody of environmental zaniness ; Mr. Sale is as solemn as he could be . Nor is It a momentary lapse from cool realism : as much as any other passage it captures the informing spirit of the book . Ever so slowly we work our way toward Mr. Sale 's idea of the good society . It turns out , not surprisingly , to be anarchy 111 use the term in its strict technical sense )  --  a stateless society of small communities , all industry in which is worker-owned . As evidence of its superiority to the hellish conditions In which we now exist , the author cites an abundance of real and fictional communes , Israeli kibbutzim , various African and Asian tribes and even paleolithic man . This may not strike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has , but even if it does we are left with the great question , How do we get there from here ? Mr. Sale addresses it unflinchingly . " It is a question I am asked often , by friends and foes . It is one that many . . . have tried to respond to . But it is one that can not  --  that must not ? be answered . " The emphasis is his and so is the charming insouciance of it all . He has only tried , he assures us , to accomplish " the clean , hard task of showing what the needed and preferable future is . " Let us hope the latter-day Age-of-Aquanans who will purchase this book by the thousands will not be too disappointed , after 520 pages , to find Mr. Sale opting for a non-directive therapy . Probably they wo n't be Apart from demonstrating for whales and against nuclear power , they seem to prefer to do not very much at all . A blueprint for action would only be an embarrassment to them . Mr. Sale @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of bible for the counterculture , a compendium of all the shibboleths and nostrums of the anarchonostalgia set  --  hardly a group from which to draw revolutionary cadres . And he has certainly succeeded . Or at the very least , he has composed an immense sermon on the text of that most popular of bumper stickers on college campuses these days : Split Wood , Not Atoms . On those four words hang all the wisdom and logic of " Human Scale . " Mr. Olessker is professor of public and own onmental affairs at Indiana University and senior editor of the American Spectator .                     