@@670277

NEW YORK  --  Growing public concern about the cancer-causing potential of low-energy radiation from power lines , broadcast towers , ham radios and other supposedly harmless electronic gear is creating problems for electric utilities , municipal officials and others . Power-line construction , for example , has ground to a virtual halt because of people ' s fear that extremely low ( 60 hertz ) electromagnetic fields generated by overhead power lines can cause cancer and learning disabilities . In Fremont , Calif. , the planning commission is requiring the state real estate department to warn potential buyers of homes in a new subdivision near power lines that the lines may pose a health risk . Other cities , including Portland , Ore. , and Seattle , have passed or are considering putting tough new exposure limits on radio-frequency and microwave radiation from broadcast towers . And a growing number of workers are suing their employers , claiming to have developed cancer from exposure to electronic equipment that emitted low-energy radiation . Fueling the concern is a host of recent studies  --  which add to an already significant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means prove , that low-energy radiation may be linked to cancer , learning disabilities and gynecological problems in as-yet-unexplained ways . All of the studies , which are preliminary , offer only statistical correlation between radiation and the problems cited . None purports to identify the mechanism by which the problems might be caused . Moreover , most have been attacked as flawed by groups representing such suspect items as video display terminals , power lines and ham radios . A recent editorial in the American Journal of Industrial Medicine concurred that at least some studies had methodological flaws . But the same editorial said there are now so many troubling studies that electromagnetic energy " must be considered an environmental health hazard and dealt with accordingly , until proven otherwise . " Louis Slesin , publisher of Microwave News , a New York-based newsletter on radiation and its health effects , says the studies show that " there ' s a real possibility we may have a big health problem on our hands . " The federal Environmental Protection Agency is also concerned . Last May , EPA Administrator Lee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whether children with cancer in McFarland , Calif. , got the disease from radiation emitted by a nearby radio-broadcast tower . " I share the public ' s concern about the suggested link between electromagnetic fields and human cancer , " Mr. Thomas said at the time . EPA testing in McFarland is expected to begin later this year , an agency spokeswoman now says . Other electronic equipment causing concern , according to Mr. Slesin and others , includes such consumer items as cellular telephones and electric blankets . It ' s long been known that high-energy or ionizing radiation , such as X-rays , is dangerous because it can disrupt human molecules . But low-energy or non-ionizing radiation  --  ranging from the extremely low fields put out by power lines , to the somewhat higher fields generated by VDTs , to the radio-frequency fields generated by ham radios and transmission towers  --  had generally been considered safe because it can ' t break molecular bonds . A couple of studies have already made headlines , in particular , one last June by the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ front of VDTs more than 20 hours a week have twice as much chance of miscarrying as other clerical workers . But most haven ' t yet attracted attention , including one published last June in the American Journal of Industrial Medicine that found that utility workers exposed to electromagnetic fields are 13 times more likely to develop brain tumors than unexposed workers . The study was based on randomly selected mortality data for men in east Texas . Meanwhile , a recent study by the Washington state Department of Social and Health Services found that amateur radio operators have a higher-than-normal cancer death rate . The Hawaii Department of Health found that people living near radio and TV broadcast towers had a significantly higher incidence of cancer . And , in a soon-to-be published study , the former president of the New York Academy of Sciences , Kurt Salzinger , found that rats exposed in utero to extremely low frequency radiation later showed signs of learning disabilities . Mr. Salzinger , a psychology professor at Polytechnic University in New York , exposed one group of rats to the same frequency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Then he trained that group , and a control group , to press a bar on command . He found that the group that had been exposed to the radiation was significantly slower to respond on command  --  a problem , he says , that didn ' t go away as the rats got older . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     