@@735788

txt ACF Industries Inc. said that it was n't able to reach an agreement with investor Carl C. Icahn , who recently purchased an 18.3% stake in the company , and that it was still considering a leveraged buyout and other defensive actions . The industrial , automotive and railequipment maker had secured a temporary agreement from Mr. Icahn to refrain from purchasing additional ACF Industries shares . The agreement , which expired yesterday , gave ACF time to explore responses to the recent purchases by Mr. Icahn and his companies of 1,525,900 common shares . Mr. Icahn , meanwhile , disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that he intended to continue discussions with ACF Industries , and that he would consider exchanging his shares for ACF 's assets or for cash . ACF said that " several persons have indicated an interest in effecting a leveraged buyout transaction , " and that it will discuss such a plan on terms that are satisfactory to an independent committee of the board . In addition to a leveraged buyout , the company reiterated that its board is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a recapitalization or a tender offer by the company for its own stock . The company did n't suggest that it might repurchase Mr. Icahn 's shares . Wall Street sources last week speculated that Mr. Icahn had refused to sell back his interest , but the SEC filing makes clear that the Investor is willing to deal with the company . Earlier filings by Mr. Icahn said that he might buy more shares in an effort to seek control of the company . and that intention was n't amended in the latest SEC filing . Mr. Icahn has secured a $100 million bank credit from a group led by National Bank of North America to back any possible effort to gain control . Observers speculated that Mr. Icahn might be able to top a leveraged buyout price for ACF . A leveraged buyout involves taking a public company private with mostly borrowed money , secured by the company 's own assets . In such transactions , existing management customarily is retained to run the company and often is given a significant equity stake in the private concern . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ACF management , observers said . Mr. Icahn in recent years has made sizable profit by buying shares , threatening a takover or proxy fight and later reselling the shares to the companies or other bidders kt above-market prices . Observers familiar with Mr. Icahn 's tactics said ACF is in some ways an ideal target for a possible takeover , because of its lack of substantial management ownership and current vulnerability that reflects earnings declines and recent cuts in dividends . Operating earnings in the first half plummeted to $433.000 , or five cents a share , from $27 million , or $3.01 a share , a year earlier . ACF common closed yesterday at S50 a share , down S1.625. on composite volume of 357,600 shares on the New York Stock Exchange .                     