@@670077

REYKJAVIK PROMISES a boost for Reagan , but foreign-policy woes remain . GOP politicians believe the summit will defuse Democratic attacks over the lack so far of an arms accord . A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that 85% of Americans think the summit is a good idea ; more than two-thirds don ' t think the meeting will produce an arms agreement , but 60% think one is very or somewhat likely within the next two years . But critics say the U.S. fixation on Libya has kept Washington from trying to revive Arab-Israeli peace talks . Congress takes the lead on South Africa . Gorbachev ' s Far East diplomatic offensive still goes unanswered . Nicaraguan policy bogs down amid Contra infighting and confusion in Washington . Some senior officials point the finger at a weak National Security Council . A Senate GOP foreign-policy aide calls NSC adviser Poindexter a " good soldier  --  who follows what Regan tells him to say . " REAGAN SCORES some big wins in the 99th Congress , but problems loom . His victory on tax revision marks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FDR . He managed to pull out victories on Contra financing and judicial nominations despite heavy opposition . But defeats or forced compromises on South Africa , defense and the budget promise difficulties next year regardless of the election ' s outcome . Major issues that weren ' t resolved this year will probably prove even more troublesome . Congressional strategists and administration officials expect trade legislation to be back on the docket again  --  with improved prospects for passage . Tough environmental , banking and housing issues are likely to come up again as well . VOLCKER ' S DEPARTURE grows more likely as administration relations sour . Chances dim that the Fed chairman will be asked to stay after his term ends in August , even if he wants to . Regan has long disliked him ; now Baker , Volcker ' s principal ally , grows disenchanted . The Treasury chief finds him hard to deal with on banking deregulation and international economic policy . Baker " constantly has to prod the guy , " says one administration official . With Fed Gov . Emmett Rice ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry Wallich are pre-Reagan appointees . Since no two members can come from the same Federal Reserve district , officials ponder whether they should pick another New Yorker to replace Rice or leave that district open for Volcker ' s successor . It would probably take a major financial crisis or other exigency for the administration to consider reappointing Volcker . BIG BANKS infuriate the Treasury and Fed on the debt crisis . U.S. officials say Citibank and others benefit greatly from Washington ' s efforts but aren ' t keeping their promises to increase lending to debt-ridden nations . The officials say bank foot-dragging almost blew up the latest Mexican debt package . BOUNCING BACK ? Former Budget Director Bert Lance ' s $50 , 000 check to the Treasury , paying civil penalties for banking violations , was returned for insufficient funds . While the check was en route to the government , Lance discovered the problem , notified officials and hurriedly wired the necessary money . NERVOUS GOP POLITICOS plead with Reagan not to reject the popular Superfund bill . Sen. Heinz , chief of the Republican Senatorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate control . Republicans warn of an override , pointing up Reagan ' s lame-duck status , and say that in any event Democrats would seize on the issue in the campaign ' s final weeks . REPUBLICANS BATTLE to retain control of the Senate  --  literally . Recently , a physical fracas erupted between Jan Van Lohuitzen , an official of the National Republican Senatorial Committee , and GOP pollster Lance Tarrance . The issue : interpretation of polling data and GOP campaign strategy . CABINET CAMPAIGNERS hit the trail for Republican candidates . Big draws include Treasury ' s Baker , Transportation ' s Dole and Education ' s Bennett . North Carolinian Dole appears for Sen. Broyhill , despite the fact that Democratic contender Sanford is an old friend . Hodel of Interior and Herrington of Energy stress energy-security issues in an effort to reassure stricken oil states . Agriculture ' s Lyng maintains a busy pace but eschews farm heartland states like Iowa . " We ' d do more harm than good if we went there , " an aide admits . Pierce does little stumping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $18. 2 million in HUD grants for Detroit was timed to coincide with Reagan ' s appearance for gubernatorial candidate Lucas . Bowen of HHS stumps for his son , the GOP candidate for Indiana secretary of state , against former Sen. Bayh ' s son . MINOR MEMOS : Scalia is apparently the first jogging justice ; he is spotted ducking out of the Supreme Court in running togs . . . . Answering calls of " Four More Years ! " Reagan tells an Atlanta crowd : " If you ' re talking about how much longer I should live , I ' m with you . " . . . Sen. Wilson ' s staff , in a " midterm overview , " reaches the stunning conclusion that he " has been a workhorse , not a show horse. "                     