@@668476

The decision of Jordan ' s King Hussein not to join President Ronald Reagan ' s Mideast peace initiative was received here with little surprise or emotion . Israeli television quoted a " senior source " who said : " Israel has had many years of experience with Arab refusal to face reality . We had placed very few hopes in the most recent attempt and we therefore have very little reason to be disappointed . " Meanwhile yesterday , Israeli officials revealed plans for massive Jewish settlement in the occupied West Bank in defiance of Reagan ' s call for a freeze on new outposts . In private , some Israeli officials expressed oblique satisfaction that US policy , which pins so much hope on Jordan joining the peace process , has suffered a severe blow . " Maybe they will realize now in Washington that by punishing Israel and refusing to supply us the planes we need they will not bring peace any closer , " one official said . The Israeli television commentator on Arab affairs , Ehud Ya ' ari , suggested that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ final word but as an " interim position . " Ya ' ari said it should be seen as a warning both to the PLO and to the United States that Jordan will not go it alone . The announcement is also a message to the Saudis that they must apply morepressure on the Palestinians , Ya ' ari said . He said Hussein ' s statement contained a veiled threat to the PLO that unless it cooperates with the Jordanian regime , it can not hope to renew its activities in Jordan and rebuild there the base that was destroyed last summer in Lebanon . Officials here believe the Jordanian announcement , on the day that the moderate PLO leader Issam Sartawi was murdered , is a signal to the United States not to expect Hussein to act in defiance of the PLO . Other Israeli commentators noted tonight that while Hussein ' s decision relieves the immediate pressure on the Israeli government , which may now intensify its hold on the West Bank , it will come as a disappointment to many who had hoped to hear another Arab @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a final policy position and not just a tactical move , will come as a special blow to the opposition Labor Party , which has always maintained that Israel must negotiate with Jordan ' s king and even give him most of the West Bank in return for peace . Prime Minister Menachem Begin has always vehemently rejected this position , saying there is no " Jordanian option " and that King Hussein will never speak on behalf of the Palestinians . This position now seems to have been vindicated , at least temporarily . The ambitious settlement plan , published yesterday in leading Israeli newspapers , was formulated by the quasi-governmental World Zionist Organization . It calls for 57 new settlements to be built in the West Bank and Gaza Strip within four years . The plan would send one million Israelis to the West Bank by the year 2010 , making the Arab and Jewish populations in the occupied region equal insize . The outline , which has not yet been submitted to the Israeli Cabinet , came two days after the United States indicated it would pressure Israel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . Israel currently has 108 settlements in the region populated by 25,000 Jews . The State Department last week called continuation of Jewish settlement activity " a major obstacle in the way of broadened negotiations . " Speaking at the weekly Cabinet meeting yesterday , Defense Minister Moshe Arens sharply rebuked Washington for holding up the supply of 75 F16 warplanes , Israel Radio said . Reagan said the embargo on delivery would not be lifted as long as Israel remained in Lebanon .                     