@@670044

The journalists at Wednesday night ' s presidential press conference were hostile when they questioned Mr. Reagan about the recent U.S. operations in the Gulf of Sidra . But the president answered confidently : After all , the U.S. clearly had international law on its side . Respect for the law is a powerful factor in American public debate . The same respect should prompt some protest of the high-level delegation that our American Bar Association will soon send to the Soviet Union for meetings with Soviet attorneys . The ABA , like other trade associations , exchanges information and visits with its counterparts overseas . This is on the whole a good thing . It gives people new ideas . It strengthens the notion that there is such a thing as professional expertise , with its own standards and obligations , separate from the dictates of politics . It gives everyone a chance to bring back souvenirs . Last spring the ABA signed a co-operation agreement with the Association of Soviet Lawyers . It expresses the signatories ' mutual respect and provides for information exchanges and meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the White House explaining the enterprise , said that children of American lawyers might even visit the homes of Soviet lawyers and vice versa . He said the Soviet leadership seemed interested , " particularly because Mr. Gorbachev himself is a lawyer . " The agreement soon drew hostile fire . Some critics have protested that the Soviets will use the exchanges for propaganda . Others point out that the Association of Soviet Lawyers , the " counterpart " of the ABA , is not just your average bunch of independent-minded law practitioners . The ASL  --  surprised , anyone ?  --  has close connections with the Soviet government . The organization is author , along with the Soviet Anti-Zionist Committee , of a recent publication titled " The White Book . " It was written to counter the Jewish emigration movement in the Soviet Union and is not readily available in the West . It contains sections like , " Under the Guise of Studying Hebrew , " and " To Be a Refusenik is Profitable . " The ABA ' s board of governors , meeting now in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The advocates of cancellation will have to take their case to the big ABA meetings in New York this August . What the ABA decides there will be the business of anyone who values living under the rule of law . The law is a crummy way to settle most disputes . But the breakdown of law is a synonym for terror . Without law , anxiety rules each day and the future is a realm of endless fear . Law replaces this nightmare with uniformity , predictability and limits . When political regimes wish to become tyrannies , one of the chief things they must do is to undermine this regularity . Last summer a court in Tehran ruled  --  in a new interpretation  --  that a family of the Baha ' i religion , one of whose members was killed by a negligent driver , had been wronged under the law but could not collect damages because they were apostates . This was the sign of a country sinking deep into darkness . Around the same time , human rights lawyers in Ferdinand Marcos ' s Philippines were being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ murder . The then-president of the ABA protested publicly and was right to do so . On the scale that these events suggest , where should we place the Soviet Union ? At one level , where law is a useful instrument for maintaining general order , the Soviet system functions with some regularity . On another level , where the system is truly challenged , the government does not simply discard the idea of law but goes further . The Soviet system does not merely say to a dissident , " You have committed a political crime ; therefore law does not apply to you . " Instead it perverts law , using quasi-legal rules and punishments to manipulate political opponents . There is just enough law in the Soviet Union so that Soviet dissidents do believe in the law and tend to form their behavior and expectations accordingly . This makes the dissidents vulnerable to the government ' s tactics of hewing to the law at one point and ignoring it at another , exploiting it to the full on one day while acting leniently on the next . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use the law as an instrument of torture . Professional organizations often say that they should not break contact with one another just because their governments are feuding . For some professions this may be true , but not for lawyers . The problem with U.S.-Soviet attorney exchanges is not that the Soviets are hostile to the American government . The problem is that the Soviet system depends for its survival on perverting law as the West knows it . How can Western lawyers , defenders of the idea of law , deal as peers with the representatives of a regime so inimical to this idea ? The ABA says that its emissaries to Moscow will raise human rights issues with their Soviet hosts . Do the U.S. lawyers think they can possibly achieve enough this way to counteract the deeply corrosive effect of their fraternal visits ? For a country like ours , making public policy is almost the same thing as making law . Right now we are trying to drag liability law back from the brink of self-destruction . We are still struggling over defendants ' rights in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rips and tears . But if the legal leaders we rely on for security under law don ' t start showing more collective care for the principle , the issues they touch will continue to cause us headaches and the issues they evade and deny will do us even deeper harm.                     