@@668502

Faced with mounting opposition to widespread use of the herbicide 2,4-D , a primary component of the Vietnam era defoliants Agent White and Agent Orange , manufacturers and applicators of the popular weed killer have launched a nationwide effort aimed at bolstering what they call a " 30- year record of safe and effective use . " The chemical industry ' s fight is being organized by a group called the National Coalition for a Reasonable 2,4-D Policy , based here . The 18-month old coalition boasts 180 members , and is supported in large part by Dow Chemical Co. and Diamond Shamrock Corp. , the chemical ' s two primary manufacturers , and operates on a $120,000 annual budget , according to executive director Glenn W. Bostrom . " We believe that 2,4-D is among the most beneficial herbicides available , " said Bostrom . " Scientists have stated that it is the single greatest advancement in weed control and one of the most significant gains in agriculture . We would have trouble feeding our people without this chemical . " Opponents of 2,4-D , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where its use is widespread , including miscarriages , birth defects , nervous system disorders , kidney and liver damage and cancer . " Scientific studies show that 2,4-D causes cancer in laboratory animals , " said Lewis Regenstein , vice president of The Fund For Animals and author of " America The Poisoned . " " Where people have been exposed to 2,4-D , the evidence is clear that it causes an incredibly high number of miscarriages . " The chemical **25;249;TOOLONG acid is a member of the controversial phenoxy herbicide family developed by military scientists at Fort Detrick , Md. in 1943 for possible use in biological and chemical warfare . It was part of the herbicides sprayed on the jungles of Vietnam . At home it has become a primarysource of revenue for Dow and Diamond Shamrock , and one of the most widely applied agricultural chemicals . Between 70 million and 80 million pounds are used each year nationwide , sprayed by farmers on wheat and barley fields , by timber companies on vast stretches of clear cut forests , by utilities on powerline rights of way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courses , even cemeteries for weed and brush control . In recent months the dispute over its safety has taken on added urgencybecause of a series of revelations which cast serious doubts on the validity of several key scientific studies used to register the chemical with the federal Environmental Protection Agency , along with the discovery by Canadian and US scientists that 2,4-D contains several compounds of the toxic chemical dioxin . For more than a decade Dow insisted that dioxin was not contained in 2,4-D . Just as important are the results of a new series of Swedish epidemiology studies which have linked 2,4-D to increased rates of several rare cancers found in Scandinavian railway workers exposed to the chemical over a long period of time . In the meantime , the coalition is busy mailing thick packets of material to thousands of farmers , timber professionals , and state agriculture officials which cite industry data that Bostrom says " prove beyond a doubt that this chemical is safe to use . " Included in the packet is a 33-page report , written by Dr. Wendell Mullison , a retired @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2,4-D . Mullison ' s study says 2,4-D is not toxic to animals or human life and is far less toxic than salt . He also cites Dow ' s own scientific studies which " demonstrate the pregnant animals can be exposed to relatively large amounts of 2,4-D , even during the most critical stages of pregnancy , without causing teratogenic effects in the offspring . "                     