@@735790

txt The Air Force is considering notifying big defense contractors that it intends at year 's end to unilaterally revoke contractors ' proprietary rights to the design of thousands of military spare Parts . The step , which the Air Force concedes could spur some lawsuits , is aimed at slashing the price of spare parts , which has been a source of controversy in Congress . Studies of the problem have concluded that prices could be lowered if parts were n't covered by proprietary designations , because proprietary parts usually ca n't be put out for competitive bidding . In a recent interview , Secretary of the Air Force Verne Orr said he was thinking of telling the contractors that , after Dec. 31 , the Air Force would n't recognize the proprietary designation any longer on parts that have been in use for five or six years . Loss of Confidence Cited " I think we should go to a contractor on a weapons system ... if we 've had it now five years , " Mr. Orr said . " I think we should write @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gone tin ough a lot of problems , and you have and we have both lost the confidence of the public . We are hereby announcing that we do n't intend to pay attention to proprietary items effective Dec. 31 on such and such a weapons system . We 'll be interested in hearing if you have ... complaints . " Mr. Orr conceded that companies may sue to overturn the unilateral step . But he asserted " the great bulk of this stuff should n't be proprietary " and he predicted that many companies would be embarrassed to assert in court that simple items are truly proprietary . In the interview , Mr. Orr displayed some of the items  --  a plastic washer and a metal clip among them  --  that are considered proprietary . He said one pail of the B-52 bomber , last built 25 years ago . still is considered proprietary and ineligible for competition . Even federal patents last only 17 years . lie noted . " What I want to know , " he said , " is whether a Garrett Corp . wants to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Garrett. based in Los Angeles , is a big supplier of military engines and other defense items . Defense contractors ' rights to the designs of the weapons they build are spelled out in Pentagon regulations and thousands of contract provisions . Over the years . these legal clauses have narrowed the Pentagon 's ability to get other companies to supply the Items . or even to obtain blueprints that could be shown to other potential bidders . Private Funds Cited Even when government funds have been used to subsidize the research and development of an item , the companies often are able to retain control of the design , by contending that private funds were used as well .                     