@@668109

" Cruising , " its production company , producer , director , film editor and distributor and the movie industry ' s rating board are being sued in a civil action on the West Coast by a theater which claims that the film was misrepresented when it was put up for bid . The theater charges that the movie was given an R rating when it deserved to be X-rated . An R rating permits children under l7 to be admitted when accompanied by a parent or adult guardian . An X stipulates that no one under the age of l8 should be admitted . In one sense , it ' s intriguing that anyone cares about " Cruising " any more . The film , which stars Al Pacino as an undercover cop who cruises heavy-leather homosexual bars in search of a psychopathic killer , is , according to a distributor spokesperson " not knocking them dead " at the box office . Less than a dozen theaters in the US are playing it and United Artists , the distributor , has no plans to re-release it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opened last February , had a six-week run . " It made money , " an exhibitor said . " But not enough that you ' d want to retire on . " " Cruising " had a unique history as a film . Nobody ever wanted to talk about it , not when it was conceived , while it was being made , when it was in release or now that it ' s dead . Almost everything predicted for it turned out wrong . Fanned by the media , it was a cause celebre that died a quick death . If the film proved anything , it was that not that many people are into heavy leather . Although there have been beatings and murders of homosexuals , no one has seriously alleged that they were caused by " Cruising , " probably because there aren ' t that many people willing to admit they went to see it . As one industry spokesperson wryly put it : " Nobody called it thoroughly enjoyable . ' " Nobody knows how the torrent of publicity cut on the film . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the negative publicity and demonstrations in New York last summer - and the attempts to shut down the production - led many to anticipate a public curiosity that would be translated into a stampede at the box office . It never happened . Some moviegoers probably heeded the call for a boycott by some militants in the homosexual community . But a more pivotal factor was the indifference of the majority of heterosexuals in the moviegoing audience . " A breakthrough ' movie is a movie that appeals to all segments of the audience , young and older , " an industry spokesperson said . " Animal House ' was a breakthrough movie . They ' re often light comedies or musicals . They ' re Laverne &; Shirley ' clones , big sitcoms . Films with extreme subject matter - like Cruising ' - aren ' t breakthrough movies . My parents would go to Animal House ' but they ' d never go to Cruising . " ' " Cruising " was made because an actor of Pacino ' s stature was willing to do it . What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ died no one can tell . " Cruising " was sandwiched between the disastrous " Bobby Deerfield " and " ... And Justice for All , " for which Pacino was nominated as best actor in this year ' s Academy Awards presentations . As for William Friedkin , the director of " Cruising , " he is still looking for a hit since cashing in on " The Exorcist " and " The French Connection " in the early 70s . " Cruising " didn ' t do anything more for him than Pacino , the audience , the media , or anyone else who thought that this particular idea ' s time had come . The gay community is probably the biggest winner . It doesn ' t look as if there will be any more " Cruisings " coming down the line .                     