@@668056

Celtic owner Harry Mangurian and the top officials of the Ogden Corp. , which owns Suffolks Downs in East Boston , are meeting today to discuss a plan that finally could bring a new major indoor arena to the Boston area . The plan calls for an 18,000-seat facility , which actually would be located in Revere , costing about $20 million . " We are in the midst of the worst of economic times , which sort of throws a pall over everything , " said Mangurian . " But I am still very optimistic . " We have worked very hard on this plan , and finally we have one that we think will work . The ( financial ) numbers will work , in our opinion , and if the Ogden people feel the same way after our meeting , then we could really have something . " Mangurian and Bill Connell , president of Ogden Corp. , which owns some 200 acres at the East Boston racetrack that spill over into Revere , have worked closely in trying to put together an arena package @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ businesses in Florida are real estate and construction , has employed several architects to work with him on the design of the building and the cost figures , which are the most important factors . He would not go into detail " on the nuts and bolts " of the financing , because he has yet to discuss them in full with the Ogden people , who will be partners with him in the venture . " The partnership is a natural , " said Mangurian . " They have the land for the building and the parking , and they are also in the concessions business . We have the team that looks like it ' s going to be a winner for a long time , but a team that needs a new building to be financially successful . " The Celtics , in the final days of their lease at Boston Garden , are at odds with the management of the Garden . A few weeks back , the Celtics filed suit in Suffolk Superior Court against the Garden for several issues which they say have breached their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new arena could not be ready in time for next season . But Mangurian says that if the meeting goes well and Ogden is in agreement , he would like to see the construction begin within the next three months . Some skeptics maintain that with the current construction costs in the Boston area , it would be impossible to build a new arena housing 15,000 seats or more for less than $25 million to $30 million . They also claim that because of the price for borrowing large sums from banks at this time , it would be impossible for an arena costing that much to pay for itself . About a month ago , Mangurian hired former Red Sox general manager Dick O ' Connell to work for him on the arena project as a liaison man in the Boston area . O ' Connell has spent much of the last few weeks meeting with top Boston banking officials trying to set the stage for loans at favorable rates . Garden president Paul Mooney has said the building would remain in operation and that the Bruins , who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the Bruins do stay in their present North Station facility , the Celtics would have to book many concerts and family- entertainment events in the new building to make it financially feasible . The Celtics apparently would be in much better shape financially in a new building for several reasons . First , the design is primarily suited for basketball , even though the facility also would house an ice surface . Second , at the Garden they do not share in any revenues from concessions or parking , which many of their NBA rivals enjoy in other buildings . There are a limited number of choice seats in the Garden for basketball , and the feeling is that there would be twice as many top seats between the baskets in a new building . " If this arrangement doesn ' t work with the way we ' ve got it put together , " said Mangurian , " then I don ' t know what will . "                     