@@735480

txt A struggle is shaping up in the thrift industry over such acronyms as GAAP and At issue are the sanctity of financial statements , the credibility of the accounting profession and perhaps the survival of the thrift industry . GAAP stands for generally accepted accounting principles , the rules companies use to prepare financial statements . RAAP stands for regulatory accepted accounting principles , the rules thrifts use to prepare reports to regulators . GAAP and P A Ap used to be almost the same . Now regulators are contemplating some major changes . Critics call them " creative regulatory accepted accounting pnnciples . " The controversy is over something called " mark-to-market accounting . " Federal thrift regulators are expected to issue soon a proposed regulation allowing the technique . Regulators in at least one state . New Jersey , recently required thrifts to use it . Proposals vary , but they all address the heart of the industry 's problems ; namely , the low-yielding mortgage loans on S &L; balance sheets . Thrifts have been losing money because these loans earn less than it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would mark down loans to market value . The resulting write-off against earnings would be spread over as long as 40. years . The industry 's earnings prospects would improve because the markdown would increase loan yields to a market level that generally would be above thrifts ' cost of funds . The argument for mark-to-market accounting boils down to one word : survival . " It 's a time-buyer to allow thrifts an opportunity to retain some semblance of net worth , " says William B. Lewis . deputy commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Banking . Thrift losses have eroded the industry 's net worth over the past two years . and most regulators believe that the measures to aid thrifts recently passed by Congress are n't enough to turn the situation around quickly . But many people contend that creative accounting , which is n't new to thrifts , is getting out of hand . Looking for accounting solutions to industry problems , they say , will only undermine public confidence in thrifts and in the accounting profession . Mark-to-market accounting , they say , could make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing has changed . " The savings and loan industry is n't going to be saved by ruining the credibility of the accounting profession . They need economic aid , " Charles Oglebay , an official at the Securities and Exchange Commission , recently told accountants meeting in Washington . Accountants have been slow in reacting to creative accounting , but now there seems to be growing concern about its populanty . Last week the Financial Accounting Standards Board , an independent body that defines generally accepted accounting principles , issued a proposal that would clamp down on controversial uses of the purchased method of accounting for S &L; mergers . Most accountants do n't like the marktomarket proposals because under GAAP , any loss from a markdown of assets has to be reflected in the next earnings statement . The mark-to-market requirement without a stretched-out write-off would be corporate suicide for many thrifts because it would wipe out net worth . But accountants are saying to do things the accepted way or do n't do them at all . " Personally , I 'm not enthused about it , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for Touche Ross &; Co. , a large accounting firm . " An unsophisticated reader might be misled " by financial statements that are n't prepared according to GAAP , Mr. Kabaker says . " You do n't create capital through journal-entry accounting . You create capital by going out and making a loan at 18% with deposits that cost you 16% , " another skeptic says . Thrift executives say critics of mark-tomarket accounting are concerned with theory rather than reality . " A bunch of eggheads , " scoffs the president of a large California thrift . Current methods of accounting " do n't reflect what is going on in the financial sector , particularly the savings and loan business , " says Dennis Jacobe , director of research for the U.S. League of Savings Associations , an industry trade group . Proponents say most thrifts will continue to prepare GAAP as well as RAAP financial statements . Publicly held S &Ls,; in particular , will continue to have to prepare their SEC financial statements according to traditional accounting standards . " It 's much ado about nothing . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Leonard Shane . vice chairman of the U.S. League . " I think an independent observer will be able to make up his own mind " about a thrift 's financial condition , says an accountant who is less opposed to RAAP accounting . The debate may eventually be resolved by a gradual switch to current-value accounting , an approach favored by federal regulators . The idea is that thrifts would eventually make periodic adjustments to their balance sheets , to maintain assets and liabilities at market value . Any writeup or markdown would be reflected immediately in an institution 's net worth . Such a procedure would be acceptable according to GAAP . It also appeals to regulators ' survival-of-the-fittest thinking by rewarding well-run thrifts while quickly promising to ruin poorly managed institutions . Thrifts would have to lock in positive spreads by matching the maturities of assets and liabilities , or else watch their net worth disappear if interest rates turned against them .                     