@@734812

txt -A SEASONAL MENU built arounipork will serve you well during the holidays and beyond . It can be a change Of pace when the family tires of turkey and other holiday roasts . It is an economical menu that is easy to put together . . Pork takes well to microcooking . While traditional roasting can dry out a piece of pork , microcooking. retains moisture while cooking it to the preferred degree of doneness . A microwave cook soon discovers that pork roasts other than those from the expensive loin are tasty and easy to prepare . The half-loin blade end roast , with the chine bone removed ; has two attributes . It is inexpensive and surprisingly easy to carve until you get to the end of the roast where the blade bone is . In our kitchen tests , we got best results cooking the roast on a medium high setting , loosely covered with plastic wrap to retain the moisture . This extra step tenderizes the meat much as braising does . For the final stage of cooking , the roast was uncovered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ roast an appealing color and adds a nice flavor touch . Extra sauce is heated to be passed at the table . A PRETTY vegetable platter accompanies the roast . Three packages of frozen vegetables , selected for color , are used , though fresh vegetables could be substituted . Using frozen vegetables saves time during the busy holiday season and also teaches a practical microwave technique : Before assembling the platter , the vegetables are-quickly thawed by putting the boxes directly in the oven at a low power setting to thaw them just , enough to separate the pieces . For the final cooking , the vegetables are arranged on a platter and covered with a piece of plastic wrap to finish cooking . An edge of the wrap should be turned back so the seal is not airtight and some steam can escape . Final touches to the dish are an herb butter sauce and the addition of cherry tomatoes . For dessert , a seasonal fruit compote complements , the pork and vegetables . To make it , mix fresh citrus fruits and their juices with sliced bananas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dessert that is a good source of nutrients and reduced in calories . the ingredients may be mixed in advance , but should be heated shortly . before serving for fullest flavor . The fruits and flavoring agents can be changed to suit individual tastes and supplies on hand throughout the holiday season . - Pork roast glazed with cranberries Six to eight servings 1 can ' ( 16 ounces ) 1 pork loin blade whole cranberry roast ( 4 to 5 pounds ) sauce 1/4 cup brandy 1 teaspoon each : 2 tablespoons fresh marjoram , basil lemon guice 1/5 leaspoon freshly ground pepper Microwave cooking BrJoanne Will partly thawed and can be separated . Arrange carrots in center of 10-inch pie plate or microwavesafe platter with lip . Add ' a ring of cauliflower , then a ring of brussels sprouts . Cover with plastic wrap , venting one corner , and microcook on high 6 to 7 minutes , or until vegetables are tender . Microcook butter , lemon jpice , and onion on high 1 minutes , or until onions are soft . Stir in parsley , chervil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arrange tomatoes around rim of plate . Microcook on high . uncovered . 2 minutes . Warm citrus ambrosia Six to eight servings 2 grapefruit , peeled , confectioners ' sugar 2 oranges , peeled , sectioned 3 tablespoons orangesectioned flavored liqueur or V1 teaspoon orange extract t 2 mediiim bananas , 1 ' /z teaspoons lime diagonally sliced juice 1 can ( 8 ounces ) Toasted coconut pineapple chunks Slivered almonds 1 tablespoon Lime or other fruit maraschino cherry sherbet , optional juice 2 teaspoons ? ? Put pork roast on plastic rack in 13 by 9-inch baking dish . Rub seasonings on roast ; sprinkle with 2 tablespoons water . Loosely cover roast with plastic wrap . Microcook at medium-high ( 75 per cent ) power 20 min ? , utes , turning dish once . Uncover and , microcook on ' medium-high 30* minutes , basting and rotating dish every 10 minutes . Mix cranberry sauce , brandy , and lemon juice in small bowl . Brush ' one-third of mixture over meat . Microcook , uncovered , on high 5 minutes , or : until instant read @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should rise to 170 degrees . Meanwhile , microcook ' remaining cranberry sauce on high 2 minutes , or until hot . Pass with meat . Vegetable platter with herb butter . Six to eight servings 1 package ( 10 ounces ) each : frozen sliced carrots , cauliflower , Brussels sprouts VI cup butter 1 tablespoon each : fresh lemon juice , minced onion , minced parsley I teaspoon chervil Sall , pepper to taste 1 cup cherry tomatoes Make a knife slit in top of each box of frozen vegetables . Put boxes in microwave and microcook on low 00 per cent ) power 3 minutes ; or until vegetables are                     