@@668883

It began , 18 years ago , with just a skater and a coach . The teaming of Brian Orser and Doug Leigh was enough to get Orser to the brink of international greatness . At that point , Orser pulled back , frightened by what lay beyond merely being the best male figure skater in Canadian history . He would finish second in the 1984 Olympics and second in three straight World Championships before realizing he couldn ' t get over the hump without more help . So Team Orser added a sports psychologist . And a new choreographer . And a costumer . And a nutritionist . And a specialist in the deep massage form called Rolfing . And the director general of the Canadian Figure Skating Association to handle financial matters . And , just for these Olympics , a personal publicist . For all this , the Canadian Figure Skating Association and the Canadian government foot the bill . It paid off when Orser won the World Championship last year . " This is the direction skating is going now , very sophisticated and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ helps . That was evident at the 1987 World Championships as compared to the year before . " For all that , the question remains whether it will be enough to keep Orser on his feet in the 1988 Olympic competition that begins with compulsory figures Wednesday . One major mistake could be enough for the battle of the Brians to be won by Brian Boitano of the U.S. , who was accompanied here by only his coach and choreographer . Orser ' s situation bears striking parallels to that of Rosalynn Sumners of the U.S. in 1984 . She also came to the Olympics as defending world champion and with a similar entourage , including a hairdresser . She still couldn ' t find the mental strength to attempt the jumps that might have beaten Katarina Witt . " I don ' t consider this an entourage , " Orser insisted . " They are part of my team . Every person plays a very , very important part . " What they are all trying to do is keep Orser from another performance such as the one at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national title despite falling twice and reducing three planned triple jumps to doubles . Or the one at the 1986 World Championships , when he missed his trademark jump , the triple Axel , and finished second to Boitano . " Before then , if you had asked me about using a sports psychologist , I definitely would have said no , " Orser said . " When I fell on a jump I was doing every single day in practice , I realized my problems were different than I thought . " When I realized I had a mental block about winning , I wasn ' t going to take the risk of having one every year . " This young man known as Mr. Triple Axel for his proficiency at the toughest jump in skating was becoming known as Mr. Broken Axle for his deficiency under pressure . Never will it be greater than here in Calgary , where Orser bears more than just the Canadian flag he toted in Saturday ' s opening ceremonies . He also carries Canada ' s best hope for an Olympic gold medal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has given the Order of Canada , its highest civilian award ? Such expectations have led Orser , 26 , into twice-a-week sessions with sports psychologist Peter Jensen , who uses positive imagery and simulation to help the skater be all he can be . Their association began after the 1986 World Championships , when Orser was so unprepared to win such a title that he tried to avoid the possibility . Rather than risk hearing the crowd ' s reaction to other skaters in the long program , he sat in the locker room and kept a shower running to cover the noise . " That ' s just showing you ' re afraid , " Orser said . " It ' s hiding from reality . " To help Orser and other Canadian figure skaters deal with reality , Jensen would try to approximate it . He would use an arena such as Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto , fill it with crowd noise and have people act as judges . A couple of weeks ago , he used Maple Leaf Gardens to simulate the first practice session of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice makes perfect not only for the athlete but the eyes of the judges who attend . Impressions left in practice also can have a psychological impact on other competitors . " Once I do a good first practice , I ' m fine , and I did that Saturday , " Orser said . But he and the rest of the Canadian figure skating team will still go to relaxation classes with Jensen every evening . He expects to see the psychologist privately every day . " There are certain times when it is up to me to remember the reason I ' m doing this is I love skating , " Orser said . " That ' s the best medicine when I ' m feeling the pressure . " He needed an extra dose after the debacle in the Canadian Championships a month ago . After getting seven perfect scores in the two-minute short program , Orser skated so erratically in the 4-minute 30-second long problem that he began to wonder if his training and skating were all wrong . " I began training again the first day @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " It was like a thousand pounds came off my shoulders . " I spent some time with Peter after that , but not as much as I thought I might have to . " By Saturday night , when the men ' s competition ends with the long program , Orser ' s 18 years of training may count for less than his 18 months of mind games . With the right costume , the right meal , the right muscle tone and the right frame of mind , he may be programmed for victory . " It ' s not like I ' m a computer chip , " Orser said . " Everyone treats me like a human being . We all have a common goal : for me to be the best in the world. "                     