@@668200

Commercial and savings banks are facing major changes in their industries that will likely lead to a decline in the number of institutions and require more management sophistication to run the surviving banks , a panel of top federal banking regulators and legislators said yesterday . Bankers and attorneys from the Northeast , attending a conference at the Boston University Center for Banking Law Studies , also heard the panel predict significant changes for bank customers who will be offered a variety of new products and find some traditional services missing . John G. Heimann , comptroller of the currency , said banking is " an industry in the throes of transformation , but with even more significant changes still to come . The challenge will be the management of this change . " Heimann attributed the changes to economic uncertainty , expanding technology , demographic and labor force changes and regulation . The way banks respond to all of those factors will inevitably change the way business is done in the industry , Heimann said . US Rep. Fernand J. St. Germain ( D. R.I. ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Urban Affairs said , " I think indeed we can call this decade for our financial institutions a decade of revolution . " Market pressures will cause weaker institutions to band together through mergers and acquistions , St. Germain said , adding , " there can be no doubt that the 80 ' s will see a decrease in the number of financial institutions . " Other predictions St. Germain made included a rise in interstate depository institutions , the virtual end of the passbook savings account and " a continued erosion of mortgage lending by thrift institutions and banks . " St. Germian said that in this decade there will be a less stable atmosphere for financial markets because of the development of alternative deposit instruments like money market funds , broader purchases of Treasury bills and increased participation in the futures market . Richard Pratt , newly appointed chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , said the role of housing in society will be directly affected by what is happening to thrift institutions which for the last year have been hurt by the high cost of thier @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The subsidizing of housing provided by mortgage lenders over the last four decades through low interest rates , " may well be a thing of the past , " Pratt said . He said the long-term fixed rate mortgates will continue to be offered by thrifts , which will sell them in secondary markets . Pratt also predicted a large increase in the number of renegotiable and variable rate mortgages offered by lenders . J. Charles Partee , a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board , told the bankers that new regulations must not be used as a way of stablizing the upheaval that is ahead for their institutions . " We must accept the principle that competitive forces will eventually prevail in the financial marketplace , rather than simply react to close new loopholes as they develop . " William Isaacs of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp . said that , " bank capital will be of increasing importance as we move into a more market- regulated banking environment , " and told the audience , " the time is right for a reevaluation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                