@@734701

txt " I have a very low threshold of taste . I will go to almost any movie and watch almost any TV . I even watch ' The Incredible Hulk . ' " That is said with good-natured , characteristically self-deprecating laughter by Walker Percy , whose fifth novel , " The Second Coming , " reviewed here June 23 , is receiving deserved acclaim . The confession should not surprise us . Allusions to ? films and television are prominent in the other novels , too . In his fourth , " Lancelot " ( 19771 , much of the action involves the making of a movie at an old New Orleans mansion and those who make the product in this instance are seen to be as artificial as the product itself . Dr. Percy sees movies and TV as the abstract and brief chronicles of the time . " They say a good deal about the culture . " The state of the culture and the alienation of some people from it are central concerns of his novels . I talked with him recently about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Louisiana but reaching him by telephone in Toronto where he was staying for a time , studying one of his many interests , semiotics , a branch of semantics concerned with the significance of signs , involving gesture and what is now called popularly " body language " as well as words . In spite of the long voice leap Dr. Percy was not remote . His affability , the easy warmth of his manner and speech , the tones unmistakably Southern but not broadly so , created a strong sense of immediate presence , harmonious with what I know of his appearance  --  a relaxed , lanky frame , strong interestingly seamed face , and close-trimmed white hair . I felt I was meeting the man . He is a physician who has never practiced except , as he says , that " I worked for a while as a pathologist at Bellevue . " That was following medical studies at Columbia University where he had gone after graduation from the University of North Carolina at ' Chapel Hill . Tuberculosis interrupted the medical career and after his cure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at first as a writer of scholarly philosophical essays . Dissatisfied with these as a means of communicating his vision of life and character to a general audience , he turned to the novel , succeeding so strongly with his first effort , " The Moviegoer , " as to win the National Book Award for fiction . From then until now , his reputation and his audience have grown steadily . Having recently turned 64 , he is at the height of his powers with the best of his books and probably the bestselling , for " The Second Coming " is a Book-of-theMonth Club selection . He is a writer capable of being surprised in the unfolding of his own work-inprogress  --  probably an attribute of every good novelist . The leading male character in " The Second Coming " is Will Barrett , now 55 , who at 25 had been the protagonist of Dr. Percy 's second novel , ' ' The Last Gentleman " ( 1966 ) . I ask if when he wrote that earlier book he had any intention of ever writing another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more . I was a good way into ' The Second Coming ' when I began to realize that this middle-aged man , to whom I had given another name up till then , was Will Barrett twenty years later . " Having used Will Barrett in two books , and made him . so appealing , does Dr. Percy identify with him more than with other characters ? " The things that happen to Will have n't happened to met so in that sense , no , but I think I am fonder of Will than of any other of my characters . " Of equal charm is the young girl , Allie Huger , fighting her way back from mental illness , almost literally forming herself as she goes along , In whose recovery of speech we see reflected Dr. Percy 's preoccupation with the nature of language . " I 'm very happy about this girl , Allie . Women sometimes have charged me with not knowing anything about women , which may be true ; but I like what I have done with Allie . I:think she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about a remarkable sequence in which Will attempts a perilous experiment to prove conclusively whether God exists : Dr. Percy responds : " In this I think of Will as a good Southern Episcopal Jacob ? the Jacob who wanted to force God to show Himself , who wrestled with Him for an answer . " There are funny , but also harsh , thoughts in Will 's mind about all the sorts of churches and styles of religion in the North Carolina mountain town that is the book 's setting . Do these reflect Will Barrett or Walker Percy ? " They 're Will 's views in a given time and en cumstance . I 'm a very ordinary Roman Catholic with no problems about the Church . But finally I think Will feels that he 's gotten God 's anSwc , . though not in the way he had expected " Walker Percy 's p ' *pus novel , " Lancelot , " in spite of its wit and strong plot , seems finally a negative book Was he in a low mood when he wrote 4i ? " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depression much of the time , which I 'm used to . But Lancelot Lamar and Will Barrett represent opposite solutions to a similar predicament . Lancelot adopts a destructive one , the way of Thanatos , of death ; Will adopts a constructive one , the way of Eros , affirming ; life . I was very conscious of the two men being much alike but taking different approaches to their problems . " There has been a gestation period of five years or so between Dr. Percy 's novels . Is a new one germinating ? His response is laughingly emphatic . " I feel like a woman who has just delivered a baby after a five-year pregnancy and I 'm in the midst of full postpartum depression . The last thing I want to think about is writing another novel ! " He laughs again , with an oblique promise : " I 'll get over it , though . "                     