@@735038

txt The strike by air controllers appears to be born out of frustration more than anything else , airline analysts say . Unfortunately for the union , the strike may end in frustration . Most analysts are betting that the strike will be broken and that the union wo n't achieve its major goals . The circumstances that drove the tiny 15,000-member Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization to launch an illegal strike and a battle with the government began developing about three years ago . At that time PATCO thought it had negotiated an agreement with the controllers ' employer , the Federal Aviation Administration , for free overseas trips . In return , PATCO signed a three-year pact with the FAA. the longest ever . But the airlines balked at giving the controllers the free tnps abroad , and PATCO 's leadership emerged with egg on its face . The union , which previously conducted only sick-outs and slowdowns , began girding for a full-fledged strike . Leyden Was Ousted John Leyden , who had been PATCO president for many years , apparently was n't militant enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his family expenses should he be thrown in jail for calling an illegal strike , a request that was greeted with ridicule by other union officials . Mr. Leyden was ousted last year , and Robert Poh , considered more militant , was installed as president of PATCO . Mr. Poli , however , has been just as frustrated in dealing with President Reagan 's administration as Mr. Leyden was with the Carter administration . The Reagan team offered Mr. Poli a $90 million package of wages and benefits on a take-itor-leave-it basis , even though it fell far short of PATCO demands . The package , predictably , was rejected by PATCO members overwhelmingly . Seek Four-Day Week Critics assert that the Reagan team completely miscalculated the mood of the union , offering a minuscule package of benefits and then announcing tough legal measures only after the strike began  --  and after the nation 's commerce had been disrupted . What is it that the controllers , who are mostly high school graduates who earn an average of $33,000 a year and up to $50,000 with overtime , really want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work , is the answer . " We want a four-day workweek , and a $10,000 across-the-board raise , though that figure is negotiable , " John Kubik. a PATCO public relations official , said yesterday . Mr. Kubik said that a controller 's career at a busy facility may last only 10 to 15 years . and he said many controllers are forced out eventually because of medical disabilities . A shorter workweek would alleviate the strain , he said . To reinforce this point , the controllers have cultivated an image of people working under great stress and tension , guiding planes that could collide in a few seconds after any miscalculation . In fact , at many small airports there is a minimal workload . and even at big city airports such as Kennedy in New York , there are dull periods . such as the mornings , and busy periods when flights come in from Europe in the afternoons . Only a few airports , such as O'Hare in Chicago . are busy nearly all the time . A study by a Boston University researcher a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , except that they suffered a slightly greater incidence of high blood pressure than a control group . The researcher concluded that the job was n't uniquely stressful . Langhorne Bond , former administrator of the FAA. was quoted as saying the average controller 's job was n't any tougher than driving a bus in New York City , an assertion that has infuriated the controllers . Whatever the merits of the dispute , the union is well prepared for its strike . Last year , PATCO issued a detailed , 55-page strike manual telling members how to set up picket lines ( complete with a dress code ) , what to do if arrested ( " do not resist " ) and suggesting other measures . " All successful group endeavors are characterized by a tiger-like togetherness of those people who have banded to accomplish a mission , " the manual advises members . " A well prepared rank-and-file union membership must have the numbers , the will and the wherewithal to win . " The manual goes on to advise controllers ' families to offset financial problems by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up on essential goods and having a spouse take a part-time job . And it suggests ways to get the controllers ' story across in the local press . Despite the detailed preparations , the union may well lose . For one thing , the air system is limping along pretty well , partly because many people decided against traveling , making it easy to cancel some flights , and partly because about 29% of the controllers reported for work despite the strike call . This , plus all the tough legal sanctions the Reagan administration can employ , may enable the administration to break the strike , despite the Reagan team 's initial fumbling , analysts say .                     