@@734778

txt AT FIRST BLUSH , Quest for World Monetary Order : The Gold-Dollar System and Its Aftermath " looks like a goldbug 's dream . The metal 's importance in the postwar monetary system is the central thesis of Milton Gilbert , former economic adviser to the Bank for International Settlements , the central bank for many central bankers . But Gilbert , who died last September , is n't a polemicist . His study , sponsored by the Twentieth Century Fund , provides a clear and convincing analysis of the developments in international monetary arrangements since the Bretton Woods agreement of 1944 . That agreement installed the U.S. dollar , convertible to gold , as the core of the world monetary system . TO ALLOW for the expansion of world trade , the system required that the volume of official reserves grow with international transactions . This was achieved mainly by a U.S. payments deficit that supplied dollars for the growth of reserves to supplement the small yearly additions to monetary gold . But the system , Gilbert points out , also depended on the " harmony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gold reserves or an increase in the price of gold , this system was bound to hit a snag . That severe problems did n't arise until the 1980s was a result of large initial gold reserves in the United States . " The eruption of the market price of gold in 1960 was a clear signal that the United States was being squeezed between the continuous rise of its dollar liabilities to foreign financial insti- Books Quest for ? World Monetary Order : The Gold-Dollar System and Its Aftermath , by Milton Gilbert . John Wiley &; Sons , New York , 1980 , 255 pages , $19.95. tutions and the shortage of new gold available for reserves . Thus , a rise In the official price of gold was becoming essential for the United States to maintain adequate gold reserves , " Gilbert states . THE PROBLEMS of the dollar that led to the breakdown of the Bretton Woods system depended only partly on the American currency 's overvaluation in relation to selected other currencies . It was also essential , Gilbert argues , to increase the price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not considering this solution . The book traces world monetary problems through the suspension of dollar convertibility in 1971 , the disruptions caused by OPEC price increases , the adoption of floating rates in 1976 , and the large-scale intervention to prop up the dollar in 1978 . UNLIKE MANY economists , Gilbert manages to explain a complicated subject in a concise and understandable way . The book is surprisingly fast-paced and often brightened by touches of humor . The chief flaw is the author 's failure to directly confront the issue of fixed exchange rates as opposed to floating rates . Even it readers accept his convincing arguments for the floundering of the 1944 system , here is no proof that leaving rates unfettered would have avoided the monetary crises .                     