@@734602

txt Q  --  My two women friends and I had a hot argument about Edward Burke , who ran for Cook County state 's attorney . They claim he is the mayor 's brother , and I say he is not . She has a brother who is a lawyer , but he is not running for office . Could you please give one an answer in black and white so I can show my friends . We have a real bet . Mrs. A. Becker , Eianston A  --  Your friends must bow to you on this . one . The 19th Ward alderman . who , ran for state 's attorney in the Democratic primary and lost to Richard M. Daley was Edward M. Burke . The attorney and brother of the mayor is Edward J. Burke . The middle initials can be an additional way of telling the two apart when ' you.consider the relationship of each to the mayor . The brotherl Edward J. , would be more likely to call her Jane , thus the " J. " Her political ally , Edward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " l . We were very pleased with this explanation , until someone pointed out there are still 12 more Edward'Burkes listed Brother Burke Aid . Burke in the Chicago telephone directory . Q  --  Please help my mother resolve a dilemma over the car she purchased in June . The dealer , II . Frank Oldsmobile in Orland Park , Included a new-car warranty of one year or 12,000 miles on the 1978 demonstrator model . She had several problems with the car , which a letter to you finally resolved a couple of months ago . Now , after a little more than six months of use and only 2,000 miles added to the original 8,000 miles , the dealer claims the engine has been damaged because the oil was not changed . The owner 's manual says It should be changed every six months or 7,500 miles . My mother had the oil checked regularly , but did not have I t . changed . The dealer claims her lack of maintenance caused the car to break down . Ile refuses to repair It , and General Motors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not provide a new-car warranty . It could cost $800 . My mother is a widow earning a minimal salary and connot afford it . ? L. Anderson , Tinley Park A  --  GM 's Oldsmobile division said the matter has now been " satisfactorily resolved , " with the dealer , owner , and Oldsmobile each paying one-third of the cost of repairs . Q  --  There seems to be a fishy odor per-tabling to the Do Pere Wis . Pollee-Department . On Dec. 24 , I received a card from that department indicating an overtime park ing violation with a fine of 851 . If I remember correctly , Action Line handled a similar request for help . In that case , the De Pere police told you the violation was correct , so you contacted someone in Springfield , Ill . Someone there told you it could be a chance duplication of license plates , but could n't explain how it happened . When you again contacted the De Pere police with that Information , they canceled the ticket . I can account for my time on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a slight chance of counterfeit license plates . Please send data if any action will be taken by The Tribune . F. Scherer , Peoria AL-An investigation by Lt. Terence Suttner of the De Pere police uncovered two errors that led to your receiving the violation . First , the illegible writing of the issuing officer caused the person making the registration check to read a 7 as a 1 . When the Illinois Motor Vehicle Department returned the information on the car , the registration checker failed to note that you have a Volkswagen and the ticketed vehicle was a Ford . The violation notice has now been directed to the correct person .                     