@@734843

txt NEW YORK  --  In the case of Ferguson Jenkins , it is devoutly hoped that Bowie Kuhn , the baseball commissioner who is all-wise and all-powerful , also is all-merciful . Jenkins , a pitcher with a magnificent 16-year major-league record , was convicted of possession of a small quantity of cocaine recently , and the Toronto judge then erased the conviction : wining Jenkins ' record as clean as if he bad never been charged . Tne. judge said he erased the conviction in recognition of Jenkins ' service to his people and community . Jenkins is a Canadian . Kuhn is pursuing an inquiry to decide what-penalties. if any , baseball should inflict . It is unlikely that the inquiry will turn up anything Commentary new . so Kuhn eventually will make his decision on information already in his possession . He now knows that Canadian law puts the offense Jenkins was charged with in a category that would constitute a misdemeanor in this country . It is about as grave an infraction as punching a marshmallow salesman , and that is why the court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the record clean . Kuhn also knows he is not bound by Canadian law . The fact that Fergie 's police record is clean does not tie baseball 's hands . The Chicago Black Sox , who threw the 1919 World Series to Cincinnati , were acquitted after a bizarre trial  --  important evidence vanished from the court files  --  but that cut no ice with Kenesaw M. Landis , who was baseball 's commissioner at the time . He threw eight players out of baseball for life . ON THAT PRECEDENT alone . Kuhn prob .. ably . has the authority to suspend Jenkins . though it is devoutly hoped that he does not exercise it . Considering Kuhn 's leniency with convicted felons and with pitchers who moonlight as bookmakers , a display of the Christmas spirit in Jenkins ' case would not be out of character . Especially at this time of year . Kuhn might be moved to emulate the judge in Mary Magdalene 's case . Chances are Jenkins did not endear himself to the commissioner by taking a grievance to arbitration when Kuhn suspended him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been advised by Jenkins ' lawyer that Jenkins could not answer questions while charges were pending in Toronto , the commissioner called the pitcher in and had him subjected to questioning . Jenkins declined to answer , and the commissioner suspended him for refusal to answer . Considering that Bowie is a lawyer fully aware of the presumption of.j.nnocence , this seemed a shocking example of prejudgment . " ' Let the jury consider their verdict . ' the King said , for about the twentieth time that day . - ? ? ? r s , no ! ' said the Queen . ' Sentence first  --  verdict afterwards : " ' Stuff and nonsense ! ' said Alice loudly . ' The idea of having the sentence first ! ' " IT - STRUCK the arbitrator as prejudgment , too . He reversed Kuhn 's decision and ordered Jenkins reinstated with the Texas Rangers . his current employer . If Jenkins is suspended again , he almost surely will file a grievance again . In pressing his case , he might call attention to Operation Cork , a program dear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the San Diego Padres . Its aim is to acquaint players and executives with the problems of alcoholism and drugs and try to show them how to cope . Darrell Porter , who was the Kansas City Royals ' catcher at the time , put himself in a drug rehabilitation center last spring and had the whole country rooting for him . How many others would do the same if stem action against Jenkins warned them what to expect ?                     