@@734670

txt WASHINGTON  --  There is growing doubt whether the first peacetime draft registration since 1975 will be able to start in mid-July as planned by the Carter administration . David Landau , an attorney represent ' ing the American Civil Liberties union , said he is ready to go to court to challenge the registration of 19- and 20-year-old men as soon as President Carter signs the legislation into law . The plan to register four million young men was approved by the Senate last Thursday , and the House is expected to give it final passage early this week . It is expected to be at the White House by Wednesday . The ACLU plans to file a class-action suit in U.S. district court here , asking that the plan be declared unconstitutional because it does not include women . The group will try to block implementation of the plan until the courts make a decision on the matter . " WE 'RE SAYING the chances of : registration beginning in July are only 7. - about five in seven , " said a Senate aide r , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courts eventually uphold the constitu-1 tionality of the law , the ACLU can easily delay things . " Both the House and Senate refused to include women in the registration , responding to arguments that women were not needed to meet combat require-meats and that the registration of women would " further push them into combat roles . " In addition to the legal question , draft registration also faces the prospect of igniting civil disobedience . The Committee Against Registration and the Draft CARD , the major antidraft organization that already has held some demonstrations in Washington and at political gatherings across the country , said it would attempt to disrupt the registration and urge 19 and 20 year olds not to register . " THE SELECTIVE Service System Is now at war with young adults , " said the Rev. Barry Lynn , CARD chairman . Lynn said he was planning demonstrations at both the Republican National convention in Detroit during July and the Democratic convention in New York during August . If ' registration actually gets under way , Lynn promised to have demonstrators at as many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lynn said he thought they could clog the system if CARD could keep just a fraction of the 4 million eligible men from registering . As many as 500,000 may fail to register , he said . Rep. John Seiberling D. , Ohio , who opposed the registration plan , agreed that antidraft groups could cause chaos . " If only 5 per cent of those who are eligible to register fall to report , you are talking about prosecution of 40,000 young people per year , " be said .                     