@@735099

txt F , ' WHILE browsing through de . corating magazines , you sigh over the ? photographs of luxury bathrombs , .. perhaps it 's time to do something with , the " necessity " in your home . A reader feels that way about guest bath in her home . She ' writes that she would like to . " brighten it up . " She writes : " Currently , the ceiling is papered in a silver foil and flat , white geometric design . The shower curtain Is a silver and white stripe . All the fixtures are white , and the cerium lc ; tile Is white with a beige spatter . Any suggestions you could supply would be greatly appreciated . " Peg E. Gerson , an interior designer and past president of the Florida South chapter of the American Society of Interior Designers , agreed to tackle the problem of the dreary bath . Site writes to the reader : " THE PLAN that accompanied your letter does not Indicate the overall size of your bathroom , but we can assume @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as windowless and dark .. The challenge , therefore , is to create an ambience of light and space within the available dimension . " Corson believes that generous use of a mirror Is the most effective means , short of rebuilding , to expand limited areas . " And when a background of cheerful wallcovering is added , the result is that of open space . " I would suggest that the long wail that harbors the lavatory and water-closet be mirrored f ro in a height of the vanity to the ceiling . Create a shelf from the vanity to the far wall over the w.c. , the depth of the water tank . I , Be sure to allow access to the tank . I " If the medicine cabinet is already recessed flush with the wall , all the better . Strip lighting along the top of this wall will supply aduipiate lighting for the mom . " THE UESUNtill also suggests a mirror ' for the Wall next to the toilet , Men floor to coiling . She would relocate the paper holder to the side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the . shower door bars lif tiny ' . or even nicer , folded on the ' shelf . ' . Because the ceramic tile has beige accents , a . beige ground wallcovering with a dynamic , bright pattern should be used lin the ceiling , the remaining wall space , and the dour , Corson suggests . Shower curtains of a matching Fabric would add greatly to the tailored look . With the patterned areas reflected In the two mirrored walls , the room will appear to be more than twice Its . actual size , lighter and airier , " she comIt  --  Ial . NOW TuAT the guest bulb problem Is solved , we 'll move on to a guestbedroom problem . Another reader 's problem is a " lovely antique Victorian ? walnut bed with a massive , beautifully decorated headboard and footboard. that she uses in a guest bedroom . " My problem Is what to use in furniture styles to go with the bed . I do tail like a room full of antiques , but do enjoy the uniqueness of one piece . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of furniture , I think I need to lighten everything , especially in a small room . The room has beige curtains to match the walls . Please advise . " Interior designer Billy Sister agrees that " a beautiful antique deserves a harmonious background . " The beige curtains and walls are counterpointS for the rich wood grain of the bed , " he observed . " I would suggest continuing this monochromatic scheme of texture in an overall color . Perhaps beige low  --  pile carpet and a beige chest painted to match the carpet and walls will complement tile tumult , of the bed . " Nonspoor. ,                     