@@734985

txt THEY WERE PUBLICATIONS at the opposite ends of the spectrum ? one a vile , anti-Semitic scandal sheet that would make the " National Enquirer " blush , and the other a staid , widely acclaimed newspaper with wide influence and resources . But together , they helped forge a legal doctrine that breathed life into the 1st Amendment 's guarantee of freedom of speech and the press . June marks the anniversary for the legal landmarks involving both publications . It was 50 years ago on June 1 that the United States Supreme Court , by the narrowest of margins , upheld the right of the obscure " Saturday Press " to publish in Minneapolis . And it will be 10 years ago on June 30 that the high court decided the more famous Pentagon Papers case , ruling that the New York Times and other papers could continue publishing a classified account of how America entered the Viet Nam War . ALTHOUGH DECIDED 40 years apart , these cases , taken together , have established the doctrine that the government is virtually powerless to stop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be left to the editors ; the government can not control the public 's informa- ? tion by dictating in advance what can and can not be printed . The doctrine against " prior restraint " is so fundamental to American democracy that it sounds self-evident . Many have taken it for granted , especially in these days of sharp criticism of the current court 's rulings in other areas of 1st Amendment law . And yet it 's a doctrine , so profound in its implications that the U.S. stands alone in its adoption .. " Prior restraint " is an odious species of censorship that gives the government the power to stop the presses or to yank a speaker 's soapbox out from under him before he even opens his mouth . As early as the 1970s , the English legal commentator Sir William Blackstone said the freedom of the press means , at its minimum , freedom from prior restraint . Any punishment for " improper , mischievous , or illegal " writings can only come after publication has occurred , he said . Prior restraint paints @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " ' target " material , but also much more from ? entering the public marketplace of ideas . It erects time-consuming and frustrating hurdles that discourage speakers and publishers . It lets the government meddle in a writer's. thought processes . It allows harsh punishment with few procedural safeguards . And it tends to encourage development of a censorship bureaucracy that mushrooms into an elaborate and oppressive tool of the government . IT 'S IRONIC THAT the modern roots against prior restraint can be traced to a 1931 Supreme Court case involving the " Saturday Press , " a scandal sheet published by a bigoted Minnesota editor named Jay N. Near . His venomous attacks on politicians and police ? many of which turned out to be fairly accurate , according to a new book on the case by veteran newsman Fred W. Friendly ? resulted in a court order declaring his publication a public nuisance . The penalty ? Under a Minnesota law against publications that a judge considers malicious and scandalous , Near was forever banned from publishing his newspaper . It was a classic example of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book , " The Minnesota Rag , " the state law permitting this censorship probably would have been upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court if the case had been promptly considered . But because of delays and changes in the court 's composition , this prior restraint was stricken down as unconstitutional ? by a 5 to 4 vote . Had the decision gone the other way , the states would have Lee Strobel is the Tribune 's legal affairs editor.been encouraged to enact similar laws aimed at shutting down pesky newspapers that question the local power structure . Censorship would have been legitimized and its spread would have been difficult to check . BUT THE COURT 'S decision went against prior restraint , although the-justices recognized there could be some legitimate exceptions . Prior restraint would be acceptable in " exceptional cases " such as publication of the sailing dates of transports or the number and location of troops during wartime . The court also included obscenity and incitement to violence as being the kind of material that could be halted . The Near v. Minnesota case was the guiding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government 's attempt to use " national security " as grounds to suppress publication of a classified study entitled , " History of U.S. Decision-Making Process on Viet Nam Policy . " The court 's decision was 6 to 3 against the government , but as Chief Justice Warren Burger noted later : " Every member of the court , tacitly or explicity , accepted the Near . . . condemnation of prior restraint as presumptively un'constitutional . " Two of the justices even agreed with the government that revelation of the Pentagon Papers would do substantial damage to public interests , yet they said even this fell short of legitimizing censorship . While the court 's hastily prepared opinion lacked the sweeping and inspirational language of the Near decision , the case nevertheless was a remarkable fulfillment of the Near principle amidst an adverse political climate . JUSTICE POTTER STEWART 'S opinion in the case endures r. le of the most frequently quoted . He said that prior restraint is illegal unless the government proves publication " will surely result in direct , immediate , and irreparable harm to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does n't mean there will never be prior restraints issued by courts for unsatisfactory reasons . There have been , but . they are typically short-lived because of Near and its progeny . Of course , no one knows what the high court would have done if it had considered the more recent prior restraint case against " The Progressive , " the magazine that intended to print an article describing how the hydrogen bomb works . A lower court order against publication was lifted as being useless after a newspaper printed similar H-bomb information . The danger was that the Supreme Court , which lost its two staunchest 1st Amendment defenders since the Pentagon Papers decision , might uphold the publication ban even though the article was written using public sources of information to show that there was no longer any H-bomb " secret . " IN DOING SO , the court may have adopted some of the irresponsibly expansive arguments made by the Carter administration in supporting the publication ban . The result could have been a reversal of the trend started by Near . Floyd Abrams , co-counsel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , remarked recently that the press has been somewhat ungracious in failing to recognize the court 's admirable policy toward prior restraint , while at the same time strongly criticizing other 1st Amendment decisions . Perhaps this is true . As the closeness of the Near case demonstrates , freedom from suppression was not a foregone conclusion . The Near and Pentagon Papers cases , especially Justice Stewart 's standard , shape a legal doctrine that certainly merits recognition in this anniversary month . But as the II-bomb case warned , the law can evolve . Praising the current prior restraint doctrine does not mean vigilance against new challenges to the 1st Amendment should never be relaxed .                     