@@668028

WASHINGTON - One of the first decisions made by President Jimmy Carter in the wake of Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan was to rush arms to shore up the defenses of neighboring Pakistan . But that turns out to be vastly easier said than done . Well-placed sources say Secretary of State Cyrus Vance is expected to meet here tomorrow with Agha Shahi , the principal foreign affairs adviser to the Pakistan government , in an effort to overcome some of the obstacles to a new supply of weapons . At issue are such prickly questions as Pakistani ambivalence on the desirability of a new embrace by the United States , India ' s reaction to sophisticated arms going to its traditional foe , what kinds of weapons to provide and who will pay for them , Russian reaction , and a congressional ban on giving arms to a nation that refuses to forswear the explosion of a nuclear device . Officials say that immediately after the Soviet move into Afghanistan , the Pakistani ambassador rushed to the State Department and asked what arms the United States would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told he would get an answer within 48 hours . But it was not forthcoming . For , in the meantime , American diplomats in Islamabad were told that President Zia ul-Haq , who faces considerable internal opposition , wasuncertain whether he would accept American arms even if offered . Shahi , Zia ' s de facto foreign minister , is expected to tell Vance that , unless the United States is willing to supply A7 jet fighter- bombers and M60 tanks , and quickly , Pakistan is not interested . But some American officials are prepared to argue that what makes more sense under current circumstances are lightweight artillery , helicopters , mortars and perhaps short-range , F5 jets , to enable the Pakistanis to contend with a small-scale incursion by Soviet or Afghan troops chasing guerrilla bands into Pakistan . They say these weapons Pakistan ' s foreign minister may request are more suited to a heavy assault by Soviet divisions or future combat with India . In order to minimize the image of renewed reliance on Uncle Sam , the United States is trying to work up a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay for hundreds of millions of dollars in new arms . In addition , Defense Secretary Harold Brown this week discussed with Chinese officials in Peking weapons they might supply quickly . Some analysts believe the United States should offer arms suited to improving Pakistan ' s ability to wage limited warfare along the mountains bordering Afghanistan and should clearly reaffirm its readiness to rush American forces to help defend the country , should it be invaded by the Russians . To make clear the defense pledge , officials are willing to offer the establishment of a joint American-Pakistani defense planning group and to stage high-profile military exercises in Pakistan to demonstrate both the willingness and the ability to rush reinforcements there quickly . Twice before , in wars with India in 1965 and 1971 , Pakistan attempted to invoke the mutual defense agreement with the United States . But both times the United States declined , on the argument that the pact was intended to help counter a Soviet threat . " The current situation is precisely what was intended when the 1959 agreement was put together , " one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , been strained in recent years , in part because of the American cutoff of aid and military credits nine months ago when Pakistan , which the United States believes is trying to develop nuclear weapons , refused to promise not to explode a nuclear device . President Zia , meanwhile , has been attempting to align his policy more with the Moslem world , rather than with America . Relations were strained further in November when Zia was slow in sending troops to drive off a Moslem mob sacking and burning the American embassy in Islamabad . Two Americans died in that affair . But the Carter Administration views Pakistan and Iran as the two next potential targets of Soviet aggression in Southwest Asia , once Afghanistan has been pacified . They are anxious to bolster Pakistan ' s defenses to deter Russian aggression . Administration officials say once Congress returns on Jan. 22 , it should be possible to get a one-time exemption from the ban on military aid to Pakistan . At the same time , they are considering the release of some nuclear fuel to India , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms , to mollify the new government of Indira Gandhi . It is understood that Saudi Arabia and other Moslem oil producers are willing to underwrite a significant part of an arms package for Pakistan . That would make it easier for Zia to accept such help and might reassure the nervous Persian Gulf states that the United States is willing to take concrete steps in response to the new Soviet threat in the region . The fear being expressed is that if a meaningful defense package can not be put together , Pakistan might feel compelled to try to assure its security by seeking an accommodation with the Soviet Union . B08049843                     