@@668099

Walter F. Roche , Jr. , investigative reporter for WBZ-TV Ch. 4 , was held in contempt of court yesterday for refusing to disclose the sources of his information for a 1979 broadcast on alleged incidents of misconduct by Roxbury District Court Judge Elwood S. McKenney . Justice Benjamin Kaplan issued the ruling in the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court adjudging Roche in civil contempt , but stayed temporarily the part of the order that directed Roche to " surrender himself " for commitment to jail until he testified or is cleared by the court . The stay of any jail term is to remain in effect until the full bench of the Supreme Court acts on Roche ' s appeal from the contempt citation . The sevenjustices of the high court are expected to schedule a special session early next week to hear that appeal . Kaplan ruled that Roche had " knowingly violated " the orders of the state Judicial Conduct Commission and of the Supreme Court directing him to appear at a deposition and answer questions concerning his interviews with about 50 persons who are listed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s case . J. Albert Johnson , lawyer for McKenney , obtained the orders requiring Roche to testify under oath at the depositions held June 2 and July 8 . A transcript filed with the court disclosed Roche answered questions about six persons who appeared on the Jan. 1979 broadcast , " Who ' s To Judge " or made public statements concerning McKenney ' s activities . The transcript disclosed that Roche , on advice of his attorney Matthew H. Feinberg , declined to answer questions concerning other witnesses who included some employees of the Roxbury court . Feinberg , in opposing any contempt finding against Roche , argued to Kaplan that Roche had a reporter ' s immunity from being required to reveal the sources of his news information . The Supreme Court currently has under advisement a decision in a similar case involving Herald-American reporter Paul Corsetti who refused to testify before a Middlesex County Grand Jury about his talks with a man in Florida concerning a Lowell murder . Judge Kaplan ' s order also refused yesterday a request by Johnson that there be a postponement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 17 in McKenney ' s case . The 9-member commission set that closed-doors session to hear witnesses testify concerning the allegations made in the WBZ television show that the judge had used his office to favor some lawyers , bail bondsmen and court employees , and also to obtain an automobile for himself . Judge McKenney , who attended the court sessions , said in a statement later that the WBZ broadcast was the first to raise questions concerning his judicial conduct during his 20 years on the Roxbury bench . " I am a controversial judge . I am a black judge . If I were not , there would be no investigation , " McKenney said . When asked if there was any " racial interest " behind the investigation McKenney replied , " of course I am suggesting there is a racial interest . " Johnson said Roche was " the originator " of the probe into McKenney ' s role as a judge . He said Roche ' s testimony on the information obtained from prospective witnesses is necessary for McKenney to present an adequate defense to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was being " investigated for things that have no foundation . " Johnson said " the rights of Judge McKenney as a citizen have been trampled upon . " He said he " is not aware of any newsman ' s privilege " in Massachusetts that gives a reporter immunity from testifying about news sources . Johnson said , " It is about time the news media is put on notice that it can not make irresponsible charges about a public official , in this case , a judge , and then refuse to back it up by testifying about it later . " Johnson had asked the court to cite Roche in criminal contempt , a more serious charge , but Kaplan reduced his finding to civil contempt . B08005085                     