@@668872

If you ' ve been in the thick of the computer revolution , you ' ve probably heard something like this : " The work of the computer is very fast and accurate . We ' re very impressed and need more than two . " But this time you ' re hearing it from Prachanda Suwal , undersecretary of the manpower and statistics section of the Ministry of Education in Katmandu , Nepal . Yep , that ' s right . Katmandu , lost in the Himalayas between India and China . " The people here don ' t know about computer phobia , and the women don ' t seem to have any math phobia , " reported Barbara Butterworth , resident technical adviser for the State Department ' s Agency for International Development project involved with the ministry ' s PC clones . " But they want projections of everything-the number of pieces of chalk they ' ll need-to the year 2000 . But their basic population data are shaky , and the fact that they , therefore , should not make such projections is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ garbage out-the phenomenon is now worldwide . It was probably inevitable . About half the world " consumption " of computers still goes to the U.S. , and the developed world ( Western Europe , the U.S. and Japan ) consumes 88 percent , according to International Data Corp. , a market research and consulting firm in Framingham , Mass . But the rate of increase in the rest of the world-the buyers of that other 12 percent-is twice as fast as in the U.S. , the figures show . The word has gotten out : Computers are useful , and micros are cheap . " It is widely recognized that microcomputers represent the first significant technological advance that a developing country can assimilate and exploit with a relatively low capital investment and without extensive involvement in prior technologies , " says a 1985 Agency for International Development report . So you see countries like Sri Lanka setting up a government-sponsored Computer and Information Technology Council , to promote and encourage computer use . " In most developing countries where there are a large number of nationalized institutions , their efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ council chairman and now with the World Bank in Washington , D.C. " The computer sector can help in providing tools for better management , since there ' s a shortage of skilled managers in developing countries- especially in government because the salaries are poor . " It ' s been successful in a number of organizations , where someone who supervised 50 people could , with a management information system , manage 500 people . The emphasis has not been on replacing unskilled labor but supplementing higher management skills . " Every country ' s approach is different . " The use of micros is growing by leaps and bounds , " noted John Daly , science adviser with the Agency for International Development . " Of course , some countries are too poor to buy them , but I don ' t know any place there they are banned . " For instance , Brazil , noted for its protectionist policy , intended to foster a domestic computer industry . Reportedly , its original intention was to free its navy from dependence on American computer suppliers . Sri Lanka @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy to ease computers into its society . India , with a large cadre of scientists , is seeking to compete in international market . ( As a sidelight , India recently was approved by the government to buy a U.S.-made supercomputer , as long as it isn ' t a state-of- the-art model-the country is said to want it for monsoon predictions . ) Software , of course , is cheaper to make than hardware , and many countries are hoping to export software , often to specialized markets overlooked by major U.S. computer companies . For instance , an Argentine firm sells banking software for " hyper-inflationary environments . " And Hungary ( home of Rubic ' s Cube ) exports a version of Prolog , an artificial intelligence programming language . ( Software for export is usually done in English , and it ' s common to find that computer professionals , in any country , also know English . ) " You find people in undeveloped countries who are in no sense undeveloped , " Daly noted . Remember those tiny Sinclair computers with 1 , 000 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ memory ) that were sold in department stores a few years ago ? He said he came across a doctor in Sri Lanka using one for patient scheduling . The revolution has not been without casualties . Electrical power is often erratic , surging to hundreds of volts . Butterworth said her office computer in Katmandu is protected by three separate power filtering devices and has so far survived . Her home computer , however , only had two devices and soon burned out . Phone systems are often too noisy to support modem transmissions . A floppy disk may cost half a day ' s wages , so backups aren ' t taken seriously . And then there was the Mexican grammar school using courseware " translated " from English . The teachers found that the computers were blithely telling the students that A is for manzana ( Spanish for apple ) . Of course , some countries just haven ' t gotten with the program . In the Eastern Bloc , where photocopy machines are kept under lock and key and typewriters have to be registered , personal computers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a backwater border post in in Soviet Armenia , New York computer consultant and newsletter editor George Elgar thought he saw trouble coming when the customs inspectors got excited by the sight of his portable computer . " They started sweating-apparently they ' d never seen a computer before , and asked me to turn it on , " recalled Elgar , who ' d been going to the trouble of encoding his files every night during his travels . As they gathered around , he turned on the power , and when the cursor began to blink , typed " THIS IS GOODBYE , MY FRIENDS " on the screen , without displaying any files or using any software . " When the message was translated for him , the head inspector smiled , and I was free to go . And to think I wasted all that time hiding my files . . . . " Elgar marveled . Australia , on the other hand , has gotten with the program to the extent that International Data ' s figures show it to be the only country that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In fact , with just 2 percent of world consumption , it buys more computers than all of Latin America-this despite the fact that computers cost about twice as much there as here . Neville Angove , a computer consultant in Sydney , said that , ironically , they ' re so up on computers Down Under because of business conservatism . " To most Australians , it seems that the U.S. is very heavily computerized-since the press they get is slanted that way-so they think it ' s acceptable , that ' s it ' s the thing to do and even expected of them , " Angove said . " People in business don ' t want to think that they are doing anything unusual . " Technologically , Australia has been abreast of the U.S. for about five years , he said , and many Japanese companies use Australia as a test market before trying a product in the U.S. , so that new products Angove sees at American trade shows are sometimes old hat back home . " And it ' s an accurate test market-about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he noted . And the Japanese probably desperately need a good test market-Japanese and American computing is a mix of mirror image and total unlikeness . Shozo Watanabe , editor-in-chief of Nikkei BYTE , the Japanese version of McGraw-Hill ' s BYTE Magazine , explained that Japanese programmers use the same English-derived computing languages as American programmers , like BASIC or Pascal , typed with QWERTY ( American-style ) keyboards . The programs would be legible to American programmers-except that the nonexecuting comment lines usually get written in Japanese . Once you look at Japanese word processing , however , about the only familiar ground is that they often use the QWERTY keyboard . Japanese programs can be written in romaji ( Roman letters ) , katakana ( one of two Japanese phonetic syllabaries ) and kanji ( ideograms , of which there are several thousand ) . " There are several methods for entering Japanese characters into computers , " Watanabe explained . " One is to use a dedicated kanji keyboard which carries many kanji keys . However , romaji to kanji ( and katakana to kanji ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dominates all input methods . " In other words , the computer has to have a dictionary of katakana or romaji words and the corresponding kanji ideogram . After it decides what word you ' ve typed , it displays the ideogram . Input is alphabetic ; output is ideographic . It ' s easy if you know Japanese , Watanabe indicated . " If we input ' nichibeibouekimasatsu ' in romaji , we need 21 keystrokes . But we can enter the same phonograms with 11 katakana keystrokes , and Japanese word-processing software will convert it to the 6 kanji characters that mean ' trade friction between Japan and U.S.A. ' " If you compare the necessary keystrokes to express this same meaning in Japanese and English , you will be aware that it ' s not tough work to input Japanese into computers . " While we ' re talking about the developed world , there ' s also Western Europe . " The major consideration in Europe is that there is no such thing as a ' European market , ' " explained Philip de Marcillac , International @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in general , the PC took off later here and is now making up ground . The second generation of computer applications-where you seek to increase productivity rather than simply reduce head count-is just now arriving . " " In the professional field of computing , there is no language barrier , " added Henning Wriedt , editor of Mini Micro Magazin in Munich , West Germany . " Both the user and the programmer could sit at desks in either San Francisco or Munich . Our pros have a very good command of English . Software for end-users , like you and me , should be translated . Software written in English will be used mostly by semipros . " As far as using personal computers , the difference is in quantity-we have fewer . One of the reasons could be that 75 percent of all companies in Germany have fewer than 50 employees . And it seems to me that a German general manager is a bit more interested in seeing the real benefits of using a PC . But the PC is popular-no doubt . " As for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as bad as Americans often think , " said Kees Mulder , the European telecommunications research director for International Data in London . Things like touch-tone credit card calling are usually not available , since digitalization has been concentrated at the inter-regional level . Modems are available , but the supply-as well as the phone networks themselves-is usually controlled by the local postal-telegraph- telephone ministries . Deregulation is moving at various speeds in various countries and already has occurred in England . Meanwhile , there is a black market for Radio Shack-style feature phones in his native Holland , Mulder said . The fact that the governments control the phone networks has led to the complex political issue of transborder data flow . The sight of multinational corporations sending data about the locals back to headquarters-usually in the U.S.-has made various countries nervous . That information could be used against them should relations with the U.S. turn sour-or so they fear , explained Rakesh Sambharya at the University of Kentucky in Lexington , who has researched the topic . Germany , France and Sweden seem the most interested . So far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imposed censorship , but the **26;28;TOOLONG ministries have made an issue out of pricing for the necessary data lines , Sambharya noted . But many places remain blissfully removed from such matters . Take San ' a , North Yemen . " You can ' t find anyone who can even plug in a computer , " said an American computer expert working there who decided not to give her name . " Maybe one person in a hundred knows about computers , and you hear about people-senior business people-who have never gotten theirs out of the carton . They may have heard about them and know they are useful , but the men can ' t type-there ' s no bias against typing , they just lack the skill and the opportunity-and only 2 percent of the women are literate . " You have to take two of everything when you come to a place like this ( she has a Toshiba and a Compaq , both portables ) , plus a lot of power regulation stuff , and you have to keep track of how much paper and ink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know , " she mused , " I was at customs , watching them log by hand everything that went in and out . And it occurred to me that we have Americans under 30 who have never seen such a thing. "                     