@@669901

John Silvia ' s praise of high real interest rates ( editorial page , Sept. 17 ) is right on , except for one small point . Real , after-tax interest rates in the U.S. are very low , at least at the upper marginal tax rates . In particular , money market funds currently yield about 10% . With 5% inflation and 50% tax , the real , after-tax yield is zero . Anyone facing these high tax rates and living on well-deserved " high " interest income is actually consuming capital and may live happily , but most surely not ever after . Paul Nelson Bound Brook , N.J.  --  - The credit that has become available because of high interest rates has been made at a higher price and is of a poorer quality than could be available with low interest rates . High interest rates mean that non-productive investments such as real-estate , commodities , and collectibles have been given more tax advantages than productive ones like business . So the money that has been made available has gone on balance to maintain non-productive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy to increasingly depend on debt to obtain their funds . Business must increase its borrowing because it can not utilize capital markets , labor must borrow because of stagnant after-tax real earned income , and government must increase its borrowing because of higher transfer payments and lower tax revenue . Funds raised because of low interest rates are not only less costly but of a higher quality . Low interest rates are associated with a more equitable tax system , so the bulk of funds will not flow to nonproductive investments but to productive ones . Pressure on the debt markets will decrease because there would be no need to fund a non-productive speculation , business would be able to raise its money mostly through capital rather than debt markets , labor would possess enough after-tax earned income for its purchases without excessive borrowing , and the resultant increased production would lower the need for government spending while simultaneously increasing tax revenue . Horold Laloian Fowler , Calif.  --  - Mr. Silvia makes several valid points . However , one point regarding government spending should be clarified . Mr. Silvia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some " households reduce their effective demand . . . " and " Because of the multiplier effect , the loss of income continues and the recovery collapses . " Many argue that funds not spent by the federal government will be spent or saved , leading indirectly to further spending , by the private sector . Also , the multiplier on funds spent by the private sector is widely acknowledged to be higher than the multiplier for federal spending . Consequently , reduced federal spending may enhance the long-term recovery rather than cause it to collapse . Jeff Bodington San Francisco  --  - I wonder exactly what market measure of the expected inflation rate is being subtracted from a market measure of the nominal interest rate to get a market measure of the real interest rate ? Also , the real interest rate is an endogenous economic variable . It is the rate at which the credit markets clear , and so is as much the " right " rate as it is a " high " or " low " rate . Michael J. Oakes St. Joseph , Mich. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In Praise of High Real Interest , " let me add my support by citing a real rate of interest he overlooked which traces back to Knut Wicksell . In modern analysis , there are two real rates of interest . Silvia considers only one : Fisher ' s inflation-adjusted nominal rate . However , the dominant real rate is that based on the marginal productivity of capital , sometimes called the " natural , " or in-kind , real rate of interest . It is the Wicksellian rate , certainly more than the Fisherine , which has supported the recovery . Because of improved technology embodied in new capital , and because more older capital is lying idle , with an average capacity utilization rate of about 82% , marginal costs are falling and inflation has abated . The Fisher real rate is indeed high precisely because the Wicksellian real rate is high in a freer market environment . All of this points to a secular ratchet effect in nominal interest rates and price levels in which we can foresee successively higher " floor " rates of interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cycles . Prof. Ogden O. Allsbrook Jr . University of Georgia Athens , Ga.  --  - Some economists believe high real rates are needed to attract the savings and provide the credit for fueling the recovery . According to them , arbitrarily lowering the cost of credit could have left us without a sustained recovery . This thinking is dangerously misleading . Current high real interest results from recent economic policies . Corporate tax cuts and faster depreciation have stimulated capital spending . This has given rise to a greater transactions demand for cash balances . Individuals satisfy this demand by selling securities , driving the price of securities down and the interest rate up . The recovery has prospered because of policies that stimulated capital spending and not because of high interest rates , which are only an effect of these policies . Farrokh Langdana Blacksburg , Va.                     