@@734567

txt American Financial Corp . said its directors approved a plan to divest the company of its Provident Bank subsidiary by forming a corporationuto bold Provident 's stock and distributing the shares of that , holding company to holders of American Financial common . American Financial 's decision to spin oft Provident , Cincinnati 's fourth largest bank with assets of about $640 million , does n't come as a surprise . It was brought about by the Bank Holding Company Act amendments of 1970 , which prohibit companies from engaging in both banking and nonbanklag activities beyond Jan. 1 , 1981 . The decision to spin off the bank rather than find a buyer for it was foreshadowed in April 1971 . Carl H. Lindner , American Financial 's chairman and president , told that year 's annual meeting that American Financial did n't have any " intention of selling Provident Bank . " Mr. Lindner even expressed the conviction that " the situation has 10 years to evolve and the law ( the Bank Holding Company Act ) could change . " An American Financial spokesman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shares of ? the new holding company American Financial holders will receive for each of their shares , were n't immediately available . The company said the record date for determining shareholders entitled to receive the distribution wo n't be determined until all appropriate regulatory approvals , including approval of the Federal Reserve Board , are received . The spokesman said the company plans to seek the approvals " as soon as possible . " American Financial acquired Provident in 1966 , over the opposition of the Cincinnati establishment . The bank was founded by Barney Kroger , patriarch of the Kroger supermarket chain , and the old money interests in the city did n't fancy Provident winding up in the hands of the Lindner family , which currently holds nearly half of American Financial 's common and has made its fortune since World War II . James Moriarty , a broker in the Cincinnati office of Thoms ? n Securities Inc. , recalled that " the bank had its own employes call shareholders telling them that the Lindners ' were n't the right people . ' " American Financial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shareholers , who got $90 a share for stock that was selling for $64 . Provident Bank currently makes - up roughly 20% of the assets of American Financial , a diversified financial holding company with interests in insurance , banking and savings and loan businesses . In 1978 , the latest year for which American Financial has results available , Provident had operating profit of about $12.9 million . Provident has been American Fmancial 's second largest contributor of operating profit in recent years , but is vastly overshadowed by its Great American Insurance Co. subsidiary , which provided 80% of operating profit in 1978 . At last August 's annual meeting , Mr. Lindner predicted- that Provident would have " n tremendous year , ' , ' in 1979 , but was n't specific .                     