@@668261

The Old Guard is dead . Long live the Old Guard . Only in major league baseball does this kind of logic make sense . This week , the owners were threatened with a rebellion by a vocal minority of their membership intent on settling the strike quickly . That fact is undeniable , despite all the cries of unity after management gave its Player Relations Committee an emphatic vote of confidence . That the majority survived and even became strengthened by the crisis reflects the skillful maneuvering of the men who now control baseball . The Red Sox ' Haywood Sullivan summed it up best when he said the newcomers aren ' t accustomed to the unique situation of conducting business and airing out baseball ' s dirty linen in a goldfish bowl . Maybe someone like Texas ' Eddie Chiles hadn ' t been exposed to the type of power politics that has dominated baseball for 100 years . But he knows about it now . The Old Guard is gone - the old Old Guard , that is . The late Walter O ' Malley @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still active in California , having shifted from Los Angeles to San Diego to Anaheim . But he is not nearly as powerful , it seems , as son Peter , who runs a mini-dynasty in Toronto . Calvin Griffith now leans more and more on son Clark . Ruly Carpenter wants out of Philadelphia . In a couple of months , there no longer will be a Wrigley dynasty in baseball . Where are you now , Bill Veeck , Charlie Finley , Tom Yawkey and Frank Lane ? Yankee boss George Steinbrenner and Atlanta ' s Ted Turner may be the dominant personalities in a group of often faceless men who have replaced the flamboyant fellows who once ran the game . But is either more powerful than John Fetzer of Detroit , Bud Selig of Milwaukee , Dan Galbreath of Pittsburgh or Frank Cashen of the Mets ? The answer that emerged from Thursday ' s showdown was a decided and resounding no . " We do have a lot of new ownership in recent years , " said Sullivan , a member of baseball ' s Executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the things that those more closely involved with the game have had to go through . It ' s not that these are not good men and are uninformed . It ' s just that to stay on top of the changing events in baseball requires a constant vigil . I ' m on the phone three , four times a day talking with other owners about problems . I stay in close contact with the commissioner . He was in our meeting this week as an observer and indicated afterwards he was very pleased at the way things had been handled . " Things are being handled by the new members of the Old Guard with skill , particularly during the players ' strike . Even the so-called dissident owners who demanded the New York summit had to recognize that the strategy of running baseball is not in the hands of a Bowie Kuhn or a Marvin Miller but a dedicated group of men who are in effect orchestrating the strike drama . Edmund Fitzgerald of Milwaukee is the chairman of the PRC , and a 10-year member . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining table with Miller and is a prime shaper of policy . Bob Howsam at Cincinnati is more than a general manager behind president Dick Wagner . Gabe Paul is no longer the force he was earlier in his career at Cleveland and New York , but he has made the transition from the Old Guard to the new Old Guard . It has been stated often that Ray Grebey has been a stubborn negotiatorbecause he knows the owners want a victory . That is essentially true . Baseball ownership has watched helplessly for 10 years as Miller scored negotiating coup after negotiating coup . But after 10 years of getting clobbered by the Players Assn. , ownership has finally learned that the fight for survival must be waged in a different manner . The men who were in charge of major league baseball were often selfish , greedy and more interested in themselves and their ballclubs than what was was occurring in the real world . They kept winning fans and losing the battle that was being waged in the courts and at the bargaining table . Free agency in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ simply refused to believe that their absolute power ever would be challenged . The current stance against the Players Assn. is an attempt to overcome their shortsightedness in an area where they should have had the superior expertise . With another battle over the Basic Agreement coming up in a few years and such items as arbitration and profits from cable television certain to crop up , this is no time for baseball ownership to revert to its old ways . So the men who stayed in the background all those years have taken over , and don ' t mistake them for the Old Guard . " I think a lot of the newer people don ' t understand all the various levels we deal at , " said Sullivan . " We have individual contracts and also a Basic Agreement . In a strike , we deal at a different level than some of them , who are successful businessmen , find in the private sector . If 15,000 plant workers walk out , most people will shrug it off and say , What plant ? ' If 650 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and aroused . " It ' s not just management and the players who are involved . People with jobs and related businesses throughout the industry are affected . Politicians get into it . The people involved and the fans of baseball get very upset . The only thing they want is to see the game . It belongs to them , and they deserve it . It ' s been that way for 100 years . " I ' m not blaming the players alone in this strike . We share some responsibility too . But our goals will be better served if all our ownership understands exactly what is happening . I think that is what our meeting was about . " And that ' s why the Old Guard is dead - and at the same time , stronger than ever . Only in baseball . . .                     