@@668414

Despite the admission , the military intensified its search for the intruder . Yesterday , Sweden sent two air force planes on reconnaissance missions over the area for the first time since an alien submarine ' s periscope was spotted in the bay 12 days earlier . " There has been a submarine in Hors Bay , " a statement by Supreme Cmdr. Lennart Ljung said yesterday . " It could still be there but the likelihood is gradually decreasing . " Ljung conceded the intruder sub may have escaped Oct. 1 , the day it was discovered , or between Oct. 5 and Oct. 7 . The navy previously confirmed the vessel made one unsuccessful attempt to break through mined barriers during the past week , but newspapers reported two more attempts . Capt . Sven Carlsson , a spokesman for the navy , told a news conference yesterday that " as far as we know , the submarine is likely still there . . . . The last firm indication was Friday . " But Ljung ' s statement , while acknowledging that " There has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area , " added that " It may be the same submarine or it may be a second one . " Officials said Saturday that a Soviet Ilyushin-38 spy plane had displayed " unusual interest " in the area where the submarine may be trapped . The Soviet news agency Tass last week suggested the search could be a hoax and denounced the publicity given to the incident in the West , calling it an effort to " sow seeds of suspicion " between Sweden and its " eastern neighbors . " Tass skirted the submarine identification issue . Carlsson said yesterday that laboratory tests of oil slicks believed to come from the trapped submarine had not yielded any indications so far on the nationality of the intruder . The submarine is widely believed to be from a Warsaw Pact country , but Swedish officials , adding to the mystery , have refused to speculate publicly on its nationality and merely refer to it as a " foreign " vessel and a " probable submarine . " Defense Minister Borje Andersson strongly denied Italian press reports that the submarine ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end to the incident with an unspecified " foreign superpower . " There was no official reaction to a report yesterday in the daily Dagens Nyheter that the navy knew with great certainty the location of the sub in Hors Bay . Quoting unidentified military sources , the newspaper said that a navy search team watched as " the sub made an attempt to sneak up its snorkel to get fresh air or raise the periscope to assess surveillance . " Yesterday , the navy tightened security around the press center at the naval base where hundreds of Swedish and foreign reporters are covering the hunt . Soldiers with submachine guns and dogs were patrolling around the building and reporters were barred from touring Hors Bay on a navy boat for " security reasons . " After the air force planes disappeared at 3 p.m. local time ( 10 a.m . EDT ) , a Vertol helicopter appeared in the bay and lowered a sonar into the water to listen for possible echoes for about 15 minutes . Three underwater mines were detonated Thursday in the nearby Mysinge Bay , possibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Carlsson said Saturday that " the mines were detonated by certain indications , " but added that " It has not been ascertained whether these indications came from a submarine . The mines may also have been detonated by mistake . "                     