@@669806

Like shattered statues of the Caesars , the quintet of British actor-knights who earned prominence in the theater , attained wider recognition through films and presided atop their actors ' Olympus for over 20 years , is no more . The careers of Laurence Olivier and Michael Redgrave have been blighted by debilitating illnesses , and Ralph Richardson departed virtually with his boots on when he died last year , 10 days after his last stage appearance . Among the successors to these ( and the other great members of the Old Guard , John Gielgud and Alec Guinness ) , there is no knighted actor of equal artistic stature . With titans tumbling , those who have treasured them grasp eagerly at their legacies . Sir Michael Redgrave ' s autobiography " In My Mind ' s Eye " ( Viking , 237 pages , $17. 95 ) was particularly anticipated because he had proved himself the most articulate of the actor-knights . His books " The Actor ' s Ways and Means " ( 1953 ) and " Mask or Face " ( 1958 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ original , but were commendable meditations on acting based upon practical experience , observation and wide reading on the subject . One hoped that Sir Michael would , as Lord Olivier didn ' t in " Confessions of an Actor , " his autobiography of last season , disclose many of his acting secrets . The relatively few reflections on his roles from " In My Mind ' s Eye , " however , are repetitions from his previous books . His view of Hamlet as a man of as much action as he could be in his circumstances , his description of and justification for the heavy accent he used as Hotspur and his account of his Sir Andrew Aguecheek as " an ass who knows he is an ass and takes the utmost delight in it " are all tantalizing . But they are pen strokes on a drawing he doesn ' t stay to finish . Perhaps Sir Michael ' s struggle with Parkinson ' s disease made it too taxing for him to articulate more about his art , for passages in this work as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , at least as a primer for future performers , a record of what actors did in their roles . This disappointment over the reticence of acting greats like Sir Michael and Lord Olivier about their acting processes ( and , similarly , over Tennessee Williams ' s inattention to himself as playwright in his scandal-laden " Memoirs " of 1972 ) suggests a question : What do people want from the autobiography of an acknowledged artist ? Most might agree that they seek as piquant a look into the subject ' s personal and professional life and times as possible , not omitting a certain amount of scandal and some event- and name-dropping . What separates the serious from the frivolous autobiography seekers is the issue of art . Sir Michael gives his readers a modicum of scandal , both personal ( his affair at 28 years old with his 48-year-old " As You Like It " co-star Edith Evans ) and political ( his near-blacklisting by the BBC in 1941 when he unwittingly signed an antiwar manifesto backed by the Communist Party ) . He hints at a side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and vows his approval of the fervor with which his controversial children Vanessa and Corin pursue radical left-wing causes . As he was involved with the most important British theater institutions of his time  --  the Old Vic , the Royal Shakespeare Theatre and the National Theatre  --  and achieved film success in such classics as Alfred Hitchcock ' s " The Lady Vanishes , " Anthony Asquith ' s " The Browning Version " and " The Importance of Being Earnest , " and Tony Richardson ' s " The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner , " Sir Michael has countless events and names to drop , and does so gracefully . There are also surprises , such as an account of his years as a schoolmaster before he became a professional actor , and a Moscow social encounter with former fellow Cambridge student  --  and Soviet spy Guy Burgess . Sir Michael ' s technique , however , remains that of sketching . Rarely does he examine in depth a person or event , or his reactions to them , especially after he enters his 30s . One closes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but lacks the essential insights into the man or the artist who lived them . The book is neither juicy enough to titillate the frivolous reader nor profound enough for the art lover . Autobiographers like Sir Michael , and probably their editors and publishers , may underestimate their potential readership in quality and possible quantity when they lay out chronologies , expose some peccadillos and chat about people they ' ve known , while skirting over their inner and technical development as artists . Most of us who sustain a relationship with any art form do so as appreciators . To be allowed inside a creative or interpretative mind as some works develop , to scrutinize from that vantage point the finished products , would be an act of grace . Most autobiographies are merely more or less candid acts of confession.  --  - Ms. Hill writes frequently on acting and the theater.                     