@@668652

You can ' t talk about AIDS for more than two minutes , even in a staid scientific meeting , without someone tossing out the ugly charge : " If it weren ' t gays who are getting AIDS , the government would work harder to cure it . " Or , " If those who are dying weren ' t gays , researchers would be trying harder to find treatments that worked , instead of concentrating on a vaccine to protect other people . " Or , " If it weren ' t gays who need help , they wouldn ' t have to go to France to get the newest treatment . " Depending on the sympathies and level of politeness in listeners , a frequent response  --  muttered or muffled  --  is , " Yeah , but how come nobody is doing as much about Alzheimer ' s disease or arthritis or osteoporosis or Parkinson ' s disease or cerebral palsy or mental retardation ? They hurt a lot more people . " AIDS is a scary , deadly , terrible disease . It is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States now doubles about every 10 months , and more than 12 , 000 cases have been reported . Its death rate keeps pace : About half of the known victims have died . AIDS leaves patients open to cancer , pneumonia , physical wasting and brain atrophy . There is no effective cure . Fear of AIDS is so great that many victims are shunned by their friends and families and lose their jobs and social supports . But measured by scientific and historical standards , rather than by personal anguish and fear , progress against AIDS has been extraordinary . It ' s been less than five years since the first cases of AIDS were reported in the United States . Since then , researchers discovered that it is spread chiefly through blood and semen . They learned that it strikes most frequently at homosexuals , particularly with multiple sex partners ; those who inject drugs and share needles ; and those who need blood transfusions or blood products . Now AIDS is occurring in infants of affected mothers and in women who are married to AIDS victims , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discovered the virus that causes AIDS . They can track the record of antibodies it leaves behind in people who have been exposed to it and are not ill , even if they aren ' t sure whether the antibodies are early warnings that the disease will occur or a signal that the body has produced a lasting defense against it . A vaccine is now possible . At least two drugs hold preliminary promise as treatment . A test to detect antibodies in the blood is now being used to screen donated blood , and scientists say the nation ' s blood supply is now almost totally safe from AIDS . Most important , physicians can now tell people how to reduce their chances of getting AIDS to almost nil . In deference to the political clout and civil-rights awareness of gay groups , the warnings are discreet and low key . Public health posters dispassionately describe " Safe Sex , " and gentle billboards in California urge gays to " Play safely . L.A. cares . " Would the same amount of progress have been made so quickly if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic group without the political power and hair-trigger defensiveness of gays ? Just ask someone who suffers from painful and crippling arthritis or is losing his mind to Alzheimer ' s disease or control over his body to Lou Gehrig ' s disease . The answer is obvious . Victims of cancer , heart disease and other illnesses have begged in vain for federal government permission to use drugs tested successfully in other countries but whose approval is held up here by the cumbersome workings of the federal bureaucracy . Yet pressure from gay groups , aided by headlines about Rock Hudson ' s illness , won from Margaret Heckler , health and human services secretary , the promise of quicker testing for likely AIDS remedies . The point here is not to play a numbers game with victims or to pit patients with one nasty disease against those who suffer from another . And it ' s not to charge , as some people do , that money for AIDS research is coming , at least indirectly , from nutrition programs for the poor . Every dollar that can sensibly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true for other diseases that also ruin lives or make people miserable  --  including the common cold . The money should come from the Defense Department . The Pentagon can most easily squeeze extra funds from its budget . ( It ' s already worried about AIDS in servicemen . ) And there ' s easy justification in the argument that a healthy population is more essential to national defense than a few more fighter planes or missiles.                     