@@668023

As long as Olympic athletes wear national colors and accept awards under the flags of nations , international politics will remain inextricably woven into the quadrennial games . Boycotting of the games by individual nations has been common , but it has seldom elicited more than a shrug from the rest of the world . In 1936 , an American Olympic official was expelled from the International Olympic Committee for suggesting that the United States boycott the Berlin games to protest the racist and anti-Semitic government of Hitler . Had his suggestion been heeded , Jesse Owens would never have become a national hero . In 1956 , Egypt , Libya and Saudi Arabia boycotted the Olympics because of their armed conflict with Israel . The same year Holland and Spain refused to participate , in protest over the Soviet invasion of Hungary . In 1964 , North Korea and Indonesia pulled out because Communist China was allowed to participate in another sports festival that year . In 1972 , the Soviet Union violated Czechoslovakia , but there were no great boycotts . In 1976 , 22 African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not banned for allowing its national rugby team to tour South Africa . Except for historians , most people who followed those games remembered the supreme performances of individual athletes and promptly forgot the gestures of national protest . The losers were the athletes from the protesting nations , not the Olympics or the host nations . No nation has won much praise outside its own borders for boycotting the games . The boycotts were widely perceived as picayune , empty gestures in the wrong forum . Politics will haunt the 1980 Olympics in a unique way . For the first time , an aggressor is also the host for the games . The United States is considering pulling out of the Moscow games to protest Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan . Saudi Arabia has decided to withdraw in protest against the attack on another Muslim nation . And the African nations are again threatening a boycott , this time because a British team has toured South Africa . Olympic purists justifiably bemoan the corruption of the Olympic ideals . But commercially and politically tarnished as the Olympic spirit has become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " Olympic " snuff , and NBC and other American interests have hundreds of millions of dollars riding on the action ) , the games enjoy worldwide popularity no matter where or when they are played because they provide not only the opportunity for moments of national pride for small as well as big nations but also some marvelous sports spectacles . And if we ' re going to boycott Olympics , why not the Winter Games next month in Lake Placid ? It is a travesty for President Carter to talk seriously of boycotting the Summer Games in July in Moscow as a significant national response to the Soviet aggression while at the same time ignoring Soviet participation in the Winter Games in February in upstate New York . One alternative , to some an ideal one , is to take the road suggested yesterday by Vice President Walter Mondale and move the Summer Games to a neutral site like Montreal or Munich . For many reasons , of course , any such move - just seven months before that competition is scheduled to begin in the Soviet capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used by the United States to make a political statement , then let that statement be a boycott of the opening and closing ceremonies , which are mostly host-country hoopla having nothing to do with the competition , or else a display of the US flag at half-staff in Moscow to show sympathy for Afghanistan . Let the Soviet athletes come to the United States to pit their skills against other world-class athletes , ( one contingent arrives in Wellesley next week to begin training at Babson College , that educational citadel of private enterprise ) . And let American athletes , who have put in years of training , travel to Russia as scheduled for the chance to compete at the pinnacle of their sport . At a time when both new and old influences are altering the world ' s balance of power , the United States should not be backing away from international forums or activities to sit at home and sulk . There are better ways to protest Soviet aggression than by staying away from an international sports competition .       @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @     