@@668788

Now that the election is over and it is once again legal to talk sense about the economy , analysts have been racing to tell us what the results mean for the next two years . The advice in this corner is to treat all such estimates as somewhat less reliable than the astrology column . The first flaw in most of these analyses is the assumption that there really was some overriding issue in the midterm election . On the contrary . I visited every part of the country this fall , and wherever I went people would tell me in disgust , as if it were news unique to their particular state , that they had never seen a " dirtier " campaign . The translation is quite simple , if disappointing to many of our world- class political thinkers : If politicians can ' t light on a genuinely pervasive issue dividing the parties  --  as they plainly couldn ' t this year  --  then they will indulge , in time-honored fashion , in character-smearing . Such vulgarity may carry pitfalls , including the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those regions where the local economy was indeed an issue ( notably in the farm and oil states and the Rust Belt ) , differences between candidates routinely blurred along party lines . Hence the conventional interpretation , that the shift to a Senate under heavier-than-expected Democratic control means distinct economic policy changes , is likely to falter . Congress was rumbling about subsidies and protectionism long before the votes were counted , and the shift in several committee chairmanships will be from " moderate " Republicans to " conservative " Democrats , which means it will take a highly partisan microscope to detect any substantive differences . Even more to the point , it has been difficult for some time to detect any real economic content to the much-debated " Reagan revolution . " When White House and Congress are euphorically united on an array of key issues , from " reforming " taxes to not reforming Social Security , party labels should be marked " handle with care . " The real policy victor in this election may have been complacency about the status quo . Certainly , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ looks to be a slightly lamer duck after most of the candidates for whom he campaigned took swan dives . But if Reagan ' s coattails turned out to be the shortest since the Eisenhower jacket , that is scarcely surprising ; these days , Americans routinely cast their executive and legislative votes out of different sectors of their brains . But those seeking to read massive ideological repudiation into these results will have their own problems . The Senate shifts were often by minihairs : Republicans elected by a whisker in 1980 , defeated by a whisker in 1986 . Moreover , the GOP scored impressively in governors races and held the expected Democratic off-year gains in the House to fewer seats than in the Senate . The real question is not so much whether Reagan has lost all power to influence events  --  clearly , this popular President , armed with a microphone and a veto , has not  --  but whether he truly intends to implement any further meaningful economic change . The truth beneath the electoral squabbling is that federal spending has been increasing disgracefully . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forward a coherent plan to reduce it . The truth is that even such historic movements as governmental deregulation have been stalled of late . The truth is that , once the self-congratulations are finished , there is important repair work to be done on taxes . So let the partisans go clucking after the chicken feed of these election results . For the rest of us , the authentic query about President Reagan ' s last two years will be whether he will reread his original campaign speeches , and genuinely seek to implement them , or merely be content to preside over an economic condition untouched by human , or even congressional , hands . In the latter case , unhappily for him , there might actually be a national economic issue by 1988.                     