@@668915

About 300 students who had just wrapped up a week of what could well be the most difficult lessons of their artistic careers graduated ceremoniously Saturday afternoon from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago . The indoor ceremony , which was off limits to reporters , went without interruption from demonstrators on either side of the fracas that arose last week out of a canvas depicting the late Mayor Harold Washington in women ' s lingerie . " This is the students ' day , something they worked hard for for four years , " said Kerry Brown , 24 , the student union president-elect who was active in demonstrations Wednesday and Thursday . " We didn ' t want to spoil it for them . " One graduate of the Art Institute school was perhaps conspicuous in his absence . David K. Nelson , the painter who rendered the image at the center of a dispute over racism and constitutional freedoms , reportedly was advised by friends to stay away . " He ' s just a scared kid , " said Joe Michelli , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the controversy erupted Wednesday . " He didn ' t want any of this to happen . " But Tony Jones , school president , had harsher words for Nelson during his address to the graduates . Jones reportedly told the audience that he felt " violated " and " angry " after he learned that he had a three-hour conversation on Wednesday with a person who claimed to be Nelson but who was actually a friend of the painter . The school president also reportedly read verbatim a full-page advertisement the school took out in Chicago newspapers apologizing for " the distress and concern that this painting caused the community . " The advertisement also criticized the aldermen who took the painting from the school on Wednesday . Jones was unavailable for comment after the private ceremony , which was guarded by a large detail of security guards and dozens of Chicago police officers . The graduates filing out of the ceremony mixed more traditional feelings of satisfaction and elation with thoughts about creative freedom and the life of the artist in a political world . " I ' m @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up an offensive painting of Harold Washington , " said graduate Gregory Hicks , 33 , of Chicago . " But the heading of art should not exclude rudeness and racial bias , " Hicks said . " You can not start talking about taking people ' s work away . Those are storm-trooper tactics . " Also Saturday , about 30 art students gathered at the base of the Picasso in Daley Center Plaza to protest the confiscation of the painting . Art Institute students and other artisits also had planned to hold a " be-in " in the plaza but scrubbed the plan to avoid confrontation when they learned other groups might show up , said student organizer Joe Medosch . Instead , groups of students and passers-by engaged in impromptu debates over the 1st Amendment and the seizure of the painting by aldermen Thursday . Clarence S. Wilson , an attorney and president of Lawyers for the Creative Arts , said he thought that legal issues should be the focus , and not racial or political ones . " Even if we could show that Nelson had bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he said . " Harold Washington was a good lawyer and a libertarian . He would be outraged by what ' s happening here . " A Chicago woman who was offended by the painting came to the plaza armed with her own satirical drawing of Nelson . It showed a man in Ku Klux Klan robes , holding an artist ' s palette in one hand while using the other to light a cross in front of a grave marker with Harold Washington ' s name on it.                     