@@670140

Within the past two years :  --  Ford Motor Co. decided not to consider the number of people a manager supervises as a factor in increasing salaries.  --  Herman Miller Inc. gave out " silver parachutes , " post-takeover salary guarantees just like those for top management that apply to nearly every company employee.  --  Chevron Corp. began tailoring its health care and profit sharing to the needs of a much younger work force . Different as all these moves may seem , they are responses to a single development : the purge of middle-management ranks that has swept thousands of people out of the corporate world . Layers of management have disappeared , and a generation of employees has retired early . As a result , many employers have found that their traditional pay policies reward the wrong people or encourage the wrong business strategies . Thus , new salary structures are being used to reassure remaining managers and to keep valuable ones from fleeing . But with fewer people on staff , companies are also using pay to try to squeeze the most out of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a leaner staff , it ' s imperative that each person perform to full potential , " says Craig Hausman , executive director for personnel and organization at Ford . " If you ' re fat and dumb and happy , if someone isn ' t doing as much as they should , maybe you ignore it . As you slim down , you can ' t afford to . " Pay structures that reward middle managers for increasing the size of their staffs have become frequent targets of change . Many conventional pay plans have awarded " points " for various aspects of a job , one of them being the number of people that the job-holder supervises ; the more points , the more pay . But some critics now say that staff cuts , restructuring and renewed emphasis on productivity have made the idea of awarding points for staff size obsolete . " People spent their time figuring out how they could take over somebody else ' s department , " says Jude Rich , president of Sibson &; Co. , compensation consultants . To change such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We won ' t even look at staff " in considering salaries , says Mr. Hausman . The auto maker has also done away with cost-of-living and general salary increases in favor of merit raises to promote productivity . Other pay practices are changing to accommodate the demands of the much-different organizations that remain after corporations pare down . Chevron , where 4 , 500 employees were dismissed or took early retirement last year , lost many employees who had been hired just after World War II . Its employees ' average age dropped to " the low 30s " from about 38 years , says Alex Ross , manager of benefits . Chevron changed its benefits in several ways . It lowered to 2% from an average of 3% to 5% the amount of pay an employee must contribute to earn matching company contributions in a savings plan . The theory was that younger employees can ' t save as much . The company also increased the amount an employee can contribute to a tax-favored Section 401 ( k ) plan to reflect " the needs of younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies have found it necessary to reassure managers left shellshocked by the news of widespread cutbacks . One method : " silver " and " tin " parachutes for middle- and lower-level employees . Because corporate takeovers often result in payroll-cutting , Herman Miller , an office-equipment maker in Zeeland , Mich. , has promised almost all its employees severance pay in case of a hostile takeover . Employees with one to five years of service would get a year ' s salary in severance pay ; those with more than five years of service would get 2 1/2 years of salary . " We ' ll see more of these plans in 1987 , " predicts David Swinford , a vice president at Towers , Perrin , Forster &; Crosby , a compensation consulting company . " The tin parachute is an idea whose time has come . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     