@@668914

Benet Academy basketball player Matt Rice was named the team ' s most valuable player at the 1988 Basketball Banquet . Others recognized are Randy Veselik , most improved player ; Justin Stalilionis , 6th man award ; Dennis Krob , best defensive player ; Bill McCathy , John Wooden award ; Matt Conrad and Dennis Krob , 1988-89 co-captains . Darien Elementary District 61 winners : Eisenhower Junior High School students Luis Gusman and Ted Lach tied for first place in the Literature Trivia Contest sponsored by the reading departments during National Library Week . Kim Kwarta and Megan Reilly of Eisenhower placed 2d in the Future Homemakers of America State Leadership contest . Kwarta won in the child care category and Reilly in personal sewing . The Eisenhower symphonic , marching and jazz bands received superior ratings at the World of Music Festival . In addition , the Rifle and Flag Corps won a first place rating , and Eisenhower band director Jon Larson was named outstanding festival director , the third time he has won it . Glenbard West High School winners : Three Glenbard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by WKDC-AM Radio ( 1530 ) in Elmhurst are senior Joe Hartman as forward , junior Sven Bonde as center and junior Kevin Moore who received honorable mention as guard . Glenbard West senior Steve Ramsey and sophomore J.J. Thakkar were named outstanding delegates at the 24th annual Iowa Model United Nations Conference . They were among 10 chosen for this award out of 700 delegates . Lake Park High School winners : Lake Park ' s contest play , " A Pack of Lies , " won 2d place at state competition . Jenny Nemcek and Becky Kellum were named to the all-state cast after performing in the play . Nick Cosino ' s short story is in the finals of a national scholastic writing contest . He is one of 50 to be chosen out of 2 , 000 nationwide . The Lancers boys swimming and diving team finished 2d in the Upstate Eight . Gregg Mihallik won the state championship in the 100-yard fly and joined teammates Mark Landrowski , Frank Niziolek and Scott Ternovits on the all-conference team . Six Lombard Junior High School students won top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Awarded 1st place trophies and ribbons were 7th graders Jeff Sarmiento , Kristina Scholten and Jessica Wright and 8th graders Andrew Glisson , Mike McCarter and Bob Ott . Naperville Community School District 203 winners : Gifted students from Steeple Run Elementary School and Lincoln Junior High School won top honors at the Regional Future Problem Solving Bowl and will head for the state bowl with their research on " The Effects of Chlorofluorocarbons on the Ozone Layer . " Steeple Run team members are Rebecca Gaines , Mike Hoffman , Rachel Kolend , Joshua Rest and Sean Tenner . Lincoln team members are Roby Bhattacharyya , Ryan Johnson , Karen Leckie , Jet-Sun Lin and David Youngdahl . Naperville Central High School applied sciences and technology students won medals at the recent Industrial Education Exhibit conducted by the College of Engineering and Engineering Technology at Northern Illinois University . Lisa Caselli won for a sound directive amplifier , Owen Trepanier for a tap wrench , John Graham for a gun rack and Joanna Malley and Troy Nolon for a brass and aluminum chess set . Washington Junior High School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Du Page County poster contest sponsored by the SSC Area Leadership Committee . The contest , designed to show support for the siting of the superconducting supercollider in Illinois , was open to all junior high school students in Du Page . Wood Dale Elementary School citizens of the month are Chris Beczka , 1st grade ; Beth Lamb , 2d grade ; John Chyllo , 3d grade ; Chad Daniele , 4th grade ; and Matt Magrone , 5th grade . York High School business students Leticia Austermuehle , Karen Caruso and Missy Little won 2d place awards in state competition . Austermuehle won in promotional display , Caruso in information processing and Little in computer- aided graphics . Junior high school winners of Congressman Henry J. Hyde ' s essay contest are Mike Marcinkowski and Sharyn Nolan from St. Alexander School in Villa Park and Joelle Charbonneau from Blackhawk Junior High School in Bensenville . Winners of the senior high school contest include Julieta Morales from Fenton High School in Bensenville . Bensenville Elementary School District 2 students recently competed in the Odyssey of the Mind state finals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the World Finals at the University of Maryland . The team worked on the Comics problem , requiring them to select cartoon characters and portray them in a live humorous performance . In addition , they had to create a large graphic cartoon . The winning students are Joelle Charbonneau , Annie Saunders , Ryian Tailes , Carolyn Kuch , Andy Jack and Al Lozano . Bloomingdale Elementary School District 13 students viewed Child ' s Tour Theater , sponsored jointly by the Parent Teacher Organization and a grant from the Illinois Arts Council and the National Endowment for the Arts . The performers used creative works written by Bloomingdale students in a variety of skits and musical pieces . Four DuJardin Elementary School students had their creations performed in a World Premiere , and other students received Certificates of Creativity . The World Premiere authors are Shannon Bryan for " Mommy , " Beth Jett for " Meeting Robin Leach , " Cherise Quinlan for " The Great Ice Cream " and Christine Toberman for " If I Had Wings . " Certificate of Creativity authors are John Belda , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Craig , Jeff Douglas , Kristy DaPrato , Melissa Duffey , Mike Hatt , Taryn Hettlinger , Jennifer Holish , Erica Karlsson , Shannon Kelly , Katie Kotnour , Mark Krage , Todd Lehky , Mike Pacini , Peter Pontecorvo and David Swanson . Brook Forest Elementary School ( Oak Brook ) winners : Students presented with certificates of achievement by the Corridor Partnership for Excellence in Education are Nadia Arain , Jenny Blythe , Stephanie Crement , Paul Crisostomo , Josephine Det , Jasmine Florcruz , Michael Giarritano , David Kim , Jason Novak , Fuad Rana , Rajiv Singh and Julie Troost . Students who submitted winning posters to the 10th annual conference on anti-vandalism are : first-place , Julia Lee and Julia Troost ; second-place , Larysa Domino , Andrea Pesce and Fuad Rana . Downers Grove Elementary School District 58 winners of the Downers Grove Fire Prevention Poster Contest are Blayke Shermer , Scott Wold and Amber Pearce , 4th graders from Highland Grade School . Eisenhower Junior High School ' s ( Darien ) cheerleading squad has won the 1988 Sportsmanship Award from the Southeast Du @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 205 winners : Emerson Elementary School winners of the Parent Teacher Association Arts contest are Ryan Sinon , 2d grade , and Susie Pasnick , 4th grade . And in the Young Author ' s contest , Nikki Carnevale , a 3d grader at Emerson Elementary , is a first place winner and will advance to state competition . York High School wrestling winners are : junior Pete Maggio , co-captain varsity wrestling , West Suburban Conference champion , IHSA regional and sectional champion , 1 of top 8 wrestlers in the state ; junior Kelly Rudnick , varsity wrestling , West Suburban Conference champion , IHSA sectional qualifier ; and senior Scott Hebda , varsity wrestling , West Suburban Conference all-academic . Gower Elementary School District 62 ( Burr Ridge ) winners : Brandon Donofrio is the winner of the 1988 state wrestling championship in the 95-pound category , by finishing 4-0 , which extends his record to 24-0 for the season.                     