@@735018

txt FORMER COMMERCE Secretary Philip M. Klutznick believes that a cablnet officer 's responsibilities do not end with his term in office . . He bowed out of a distinguished government career , which spanned service under six Presidents , last January when the Reagan administration arrived on the Potomac . But that departure has not inhibited his support for equal treatment of Great Lakes shipping by Washington bureaucrats . He has assumed the role of an eloquent and well-qualified spokesman for Midwestern interests in the survival of that industry . And since learning that his successors at the Commerce Department have refused to give the Great Lakes a fair share of federal foreign aid and military cargo , Klutznick has been badgering Capitol Hill and the bureaucracy to reverse that decision . " If you travel the Great Lakes ports , you come away with a few conclusions that people forget , " Klutznick said . " There probably is no great nation in the world that has as much of a natural waterway asset in the center of its territory as we have with the Great @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north , we have access to Europe and Europe to us . " IT IS NOT , therefore , alone a question . of the beauty of the lakes nor their fiscal soundness . A great power like the United States needs transportation and infrastructure facilities , not only during periods of peace but potentially in periods of conflict . " Even now , any study of our port facilities and potential for export will demonstrate that whether it is the North- ? west , the East , West , or Gulf coasts , they are overcrowded and inadequate to meet the economic and the potential security needs of our country . " In short , Klutznick is asserting in his communications with administration and congressional leaders that a viable Great Lakes maritime industry is vital both to the Midwestern economy and the national interest . It is a conviction that spurred Klutz-'nick to order during his last month in office that at least 10 per cent of all federal foreign aid and military cargo be shipped through Great Lakes ports . He believed such action would attract more American  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dwindled to one U.S.- owned carrier . Over a decade , federal bureaucrats had systematically diverted a vast majority of government cargo to tidewater ports in response to intense political pressure . But because federal law requires that at least 50 per cent of such cargo be shipped in American bottoms , ordering a fair share for the Great Lakes would force the return of U.S. flag vessels to Midwestern waters . That service , in turn , would provide opportunity for generating more Midwestern maritime jobs by shipping privately owned cargo aboard the same Vessels . WELL , KLUTZNICK Issued his order last December and left office . The ink barely had dried on his signature before tidewater port interests and their congressional delegations began a drum beat of political protest . And last month , Klutznick 's successor , Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige , and the Maritime Administration scuttled Klutznick 's rule to give the Great Lakes a fair share of federal cargo . In Klutznick 's view , it is foolish to ignore the energy efficient potential of the Great Lakes-St . Lawrence Seaway system at a time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a very serious condition as far as its port facilities are concerned , " he asserted . " Hampton Roads can take care of the military , but at the same time can not take care of commercial pressures if we are to export coal , lumber , and grain . " The same complaint is to be found in the great Northwest ; where I have recently been , and where lumber operators are desperate because of what they feel to be Inadequate facilities . " I NEED NOT ADD that Detroit Is rt . city on the brink . Toledo is trying to go forward , but has its problems . We , who have invested so much in the Port of Chicago , need the benefit of this economic activity . The nation needs the viability of the Great Lakes system , . hopefully on an all weather ( year around ) basis . " Gov . Thompson and other Midwestern governors and congressmen have been lobbying the White 1-louse . So have Sen. Charles Percy ( R. , Ill. ) and his freshman Democratic colleague , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lending the prestige of a longtime business and public service career to the battle , along with personal observations made while commerce secretary . However , so long as the Reagan administration acts like silly putty in the hands of tidewater port interests , Midwestern taxpayers will continue to be cheated and the Great Lakes shipping industry probably will go down the drain , a sacrifice to bureaucratic bullheadedness ,                     