@@668065

US District Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr . yesterday sent the Boston School Department back to the drawing board to prepare a new assignment plan for elementary pupils in four community districts by April 22 . In an order issued yesterday , Garrity instructed school officials to base the new plan on projections of enrollments in grades one through five . Garrity said the new design would result in " fewer changes " for pupils now enrolled . The order was signed for Garrity , who is away on vacation , by Deputy Clerk Stephen A. Moynahan Jr . It apparently was not related to a letter from state Education Comr . Gregory R. Anrig to Garrity , asking the judge to modify his position on the assignment issue and other matters in the school desegregation case . " This will be the sixth assignment plan we have drafted since December , " said John Coakley , director of the Department of Implementation . " It is also the first time since we began desegregating the schools that we will use projected enrollments as the base line for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He said the projections will be based on the present number of students in kindergarten 2 ( the second year of the kindergarten program ) and the fourth grade . " In so doing , you project 700 to 800 white children from kindergarten 2 who will likely transfer to private schools . You will also not show 600 to 700 black children and 200 to 300 other minorities who are presently not in kindergarten . " For some reason , black and other minority students do not enroll in our kindergarten programs in the same proportion as whites , " he explained . " While there may be fewer changes this year , " Coakley estimated , " we might find ourselves in worse noncompliance the following year . " The order affects all elementary schools in districts 2 , 3 , 5 and 6 . Thedraft assignment plan apparently was limited to these districts because they include the schools that are most out of line with the court ' s racial-ethnic guidelines . In another development yesterday in the continuing controversy over recent decisions in the 8-year-old desegregation case @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet Monday with groups who oppose Garrity ' s orders to close 13 schools in June . The aim will be to examine the possibility of linking efforts aimed at reversing Garrity ' s recent orders related to school closings and continuing work on a Unified Facilities Plan . Whether to proceed with an appeal of the judge ' s decision , as voted last week by the School Committee , or simply to request that Garrity reconsider is one of the issues that must be decided . Representatives of the Boston Teachers Union and the Citywide Parents Advisory Council appeared before the committee yesterday to push for the school system ' s support in filing two motions with Garrity . One would ask that the Mead Middle School and the Richards and Conley elementary schools be stricken from the closing list . The other motion would request a delay in the filing deadline for a new Unified Facilities Plan from July 1 to Oct. 31 . " We can come together on two very critical issues without spending the kind of money necessary for an appeal , " said Kathleen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heard appeals from parents at the Richards and Conley schools " to do all in your power to save this school , " as a parent at the Richards put it . Unlike the other 11 schools ordered closed , these two had not been recommended for closing last December by Supt. Robert C. Wood but were added by Garrity . They had appeared on an earlier draft plan by the School Department . " I don ' t want to mislead you , " committee president John J. McDonough told the parents , " but I don ' t think he ( Garrity ) is going to pay the slightest bit of attention to the School Committee on this matter . " McDonough said the committee was waiting for a report from its lawyers on the grounds for an appeal before going ahead with it .                     