@@734907

txt BETHESDA , Md . ? This is a primer for new federal appointees , especially those who are cutting budgets to the bone , wiping the slate clean , clearing out deadwood , helping the country make a new beginning , and who harbor other such . t ant asies . Its wisdom ( if I may call it that ) is derived from the experiences of a man who entered the bureaucracy with naive hopes of being productive . I work in a backwater of a small agency that is either mistaken for another , or draws a total blank from it ) per cent of the population ( excluding a handful of congressmen , most of whom by ARM have left Capitol Gill ) . THE AGENCY 'S main function Is to give away money " for useful projects , " Its budget supports 1,200 workers in Washington , in any of whom have a salary far above what they could command elsewhere , in addition to thousands throughout the country who are busy writing proposals , computing , and watching video display terminals . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their average pay was $27,000 . But averages mislead , for the agency ? employs more GS-155 ( 644,547450,112 annually ) than any other single grade . The function of my division is to report numJulia Q. riddle ? I are my veil name , lit lose eiy job "  --  describes himself os a -. loot soldier in Washinuton 's mom of bureaucrats . " nets gathered by others working on contracts This makes its 50 people middlemen , passing money from the Treasury to contractors This process requires forests of forms . memos , re , visedinemos , and remised memos , not to mention reports that take eons to produce and revise There are four types of people employee in this division . The first is its director , who after entering the government clinging to the coattails of a long-gone agency head , was periodically demoted ( in status and responsibility but not , of course , salary ) in attempts to insulate subsequent agency heads front his advice and to find his level of competence Maly the former goal vas readied ) In fairness , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualities : Ile Is u consummate bureaucrat ( if success is measured by survival ) , he is a good world traveler , often found in Paris , San Francisco , or Las Vegas attending meetings ; and he provides an excellent subject for imitations by his staff . As a manager , supervisor , or writer , he Is considerably wanting . The second type consists of those in their preretirement years , who are putting in time while loping that no one tampers with the Civil Set-vice retirement system . The third type is those not yet of preredrement age but who are too old and with too much invested In the Civil Service to leave . Moving to other federal agencies is tempting , but those agencies may be Just as bad , and might expect more work and respowsibility for the same pay . Furthermore , there Is not much Incentive to seek a promotion , for these people are approach-Mg the 050,112 maximum and any possible raise would not change their styles of life . 11i:sides , their jobs provide them with ample opportunity to spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squash in the afternoon . In short , life is easy and their unpleasant encounters with the director are usu . Jan Povnan ally quickly forgotten , for tomorrow he will not remember what he asked today , and by next week will be in Paris . The final group consists of young ovoids Those with intelligence and ambition leave be fore the director learns their names , and the others join the third group . I HAVE developed four guidelines for new appointees while observing this openation . I. Check the senior management of your organization . Any individuals arriving at their positions by climbing down the ladder have probably not descended far enough . The Senior Executive Service was designed to facilitate the shifting of people to jobs closer to their level of incompetence . 2 . Bodily eject bureaucrats who brief you by using multicolored slides to depict simple numbers and trends . These shows are expensive , inane , and substitute for the need to be articulate . 3 . Beware of bureaucrats who in one breath tell you how well they and their organizations perform and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ funds , and space . Their organization. % could function better with half the staff . 4 . Filially , do n't take your job too seriously . The bureaucracy existed before you , and will continue after you . The bureaucrats have witnessed the grandiose plans and good intentions of your predecessors , including : regularly communicating with the staff , keeping doors open , welcoming suggestions , rewarding good work , etc . Freud characterized government as one of the three endeavors predestined to yield unsatisfactory results ( the others being education and psychoaalysis ) . So , relax . A year after you leave , you 'll be referred to as " what's-hisname , " and the bureaucrats will continue to play the game of self-preservation.                     