@@668480

Q. I read your article about new legislation that provides continued insurance coverage for divorced or separated spouses . I am in the process of divorcing and have just learned that I can not continue the Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage under my plan for my soon-to-be-divorced wife . Doesn ' t the new law apply to Blue Cross- Blue Shield ? A. As indicated in the article , the chapter of the Massachusetts General Laws ( 110I ) that was amended to benefit this class of consumer does not govern Blue Cross-Blue Shield . The policies of the Blues have been to accommodate much of what the new law mandates for commercial insurance companies . However , the subscriber or employer must give permission to the individual to continue the coverage . In effect , the employer has veto power over whether this valuable benefit will still be provided . Blue Cross-Blue Shield says this accommodation has existed for several years and prevailed long before the current legislation was passed . Further , individual policies , even though they might not be as broad as group health coverage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ continue the group insurance . These individual policies preserve the individual ' s insurability and will continue to pay for pre-existing conditions under the individual policy benefit schedule . Q. Would my firm ' s corporate liability insurance cover malpractice claims that could be the result of in-house or contracted employee assistance programs ? A. The basic liability policy excludes medical malpractice coverage . A broad-form , comprehensive general liability endorsement may be added to provide incidental medical malpractice coverage to the basic liability coverage for your corporation . It will not automatically provide coverage for individuals delivering the medical or mental health service , such as a nurse or social worker . Endorsements to basic liability forms can vary with the insurance company and care should be taken to discuss the coverage and exposure with your insurance broker , the medical professionals and , if necessary , your attorney . If a contract is entered into with a firm that will provide employee assistance programs , care should be taken to determine that insurance is maintained by the vendor of the service as well as your organization . Q. My @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hospital and has been home recuperating two months . He might have to return to the hospital for bypass surgery . Since the heart attack , my husband ' s employer has paid all the medical bills and has continued his full salary . We have no idea how long the employer will continue to pay the medical bills and my husband ' s weekly compensation . We wonder whether we should make a worker compensation claim now because we believe that continued stress at my husband ' s place of employment caused his heart attack . A. You raise two issues . One is whether the heart attack can be tied to a worker compensation claim . The second is , having established a valid claim , whether medical expenses and any subsequent disability resulting from bypass surgery would be covered . As the cost of bypass surgery and after care usually runs into modest figures , insurance companies wherever possible will attempt to resist the payment for these operations . In these cases , the companies tend to argue that the operation was related to the underlying pre-existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In any event , you should seek out a lawyer with expertise in worker compensation cases . Some will provide screening at no cost to you . At that time an evaluation of the case will be made and you will be advised if the facts justify litigation and just what costs and risks are involved .                     