@@668376

Each your heart out , Sylvester Stallone . Dorchester ' s Mark DeLuca has let it be known he will enter the ring as " The Italian Bazooka " Wednesday night in his pro debut at Freeport Hall . With a nickname like the " Italian Bazooka " DuLuca is halfway there . Look what WBA lightweight champ Ray Mancini did with his father . Boxing is show biz and in show biz you need a gimmick . Promoter Jim Farrell says DeLuca , a 175-pounder and a Golden Gloves champ , can fight as well as he can pick nicknames . " A dangerous southpaw who figures to be even more lethal in his own backyard of Dorchester , " Farrell says in his publicity release . Farrell has welterweight Dick Eklund against Caesar Gusman on top of the card , with Eklund pointing toward a September bout against Pipino Cuevas . Welterweight Billy Smith - known as " The Fighting Townie " - and Hyde Park ' s Kenny Butler are on the card , as are Everett ' s Tommy Jancey , Burlington ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lowell ' s West End Gym . A more ambitious local card is shaping up for July 23d at the Cape Cod Coliseum . Brockton ' s Steve Hilyard - one of Goody Petronelli ' s best prospects - is going after Herb Darity ' s New England junior welterweight title . Hilyard , a stylish boxer-type , is 11-0 as a pro . He and Darity used to box on the same amateur team in Hartford . The Coliseum card also has junior middleweight Sean Mannion against welterweight Chris Clarke . Mannion , who is supposed to come down to 147 pounds , is coming off his recent 4-round TKO loss to Gary Guiden . Clarke , a Canadian , fought and won on the April 30 Coliseum card . Medford ' s Billy and Danny Cronin - who have ripped off the San Antonio Spurs ' nickname of " Bruise Brothers " - will continue their buildup on the Coliseum card . Hyannis welterweight Terry Crawley ( 3- 0 ) and Brockton lightweight Edwin Curet ( 9-0-1 ) are also scheduled to fight . Boxing ' s long , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Comacho and Louis Loy in a 10- rounder today ( 4:30 p.m. ) from the Felt Forum . Comacho , 20 , is one of the comers in the 132-135-pound divisions . Loy , a 15-0 fighter out of Portland , Ore. , comes with the word " Champ " tattooed above his navel and a picture of Jesus Christ tattooed above his left breast . CBS also has a good welterweight matchup next Saturday in Marlon Starling and Kevin Morgan . Starling , of Hartford , has built a 23-0 record against warm bodies . Morgan , a good club fighter at 20-9 , is a step up for Starling . ABC has WBA 154-pound champ Davey Moore defending against former champ Ayub Kalule next Saturday . This is the " other " 154-pound title , with WBC champion Wilfred Benitez the acknowledged champion of the division . But Moore was impressive in TKOing South Africa ' s Charlie Weir in his last fight . Kalule gave Ray Leonard eight tough rounds in June 1981 . July 18 - Former WBA lightweight champ Art Frias returns after being bombed out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Munoz , site Las Vegas . July 21 - Salvador Sanchez defends his WBC featherweight title against Azumah Nelson in New York . Don ' t ask me who Azumah Nelson is . July 22 - Howard Davis Jr . continues to search for the lost garden . Anthony Collins is the opponent in Atlantic City . July 24 - Mancini makes his first defense against Ernesto Espana , the eternal No. 1 contender from Puerto Rico . Mancino should destroy Espana before the recession-hit hometown crowd in Warren , Ohio . July 31 - Alexis Arguello in a non-title bout against welterweight Kevin Rooney . Arguello testing himself at 140 pounds in preparation for Aaron Pryor . Aug. 1 - Tony Ayala moves into position for a shot at either 154- pound champion with a 10-rounder against Robbie Epps . Ayala may get winner of Moore- Kalule , or may have to wait in line behind Roberto Duran for the winner . Aug. 7 - The Spectrum may have the best fight of the summer . WBC light heavyweight champion Dwight Braxton defends against Matthew Saad Muhammad , who lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort left in him after a career of wars . Aug. 14 - WBA featherweight champion Eusebio Pedroza defends against Bernard Taylor in Charlotte , N.C. Pedroza is the spiritual cousin of Conrad Dobler . Paola Zaccaria points out correctly that Gerry Cooney was not TKOed but disqualified by referee Mills Lane because of trainer Victor Valle ' s intrusion during the 13th round . But Bert Sugar of the Ring Record Book says that it will be recorded for posterity as a KO . " The corner may have been disqualified , " said Sugar , " but Cooney was being knocked out . It was the same as Max Schmeling ' s corner throwing in the towel in the second Louis fight . The only difference here was that Victor Valle hand-deliverd the towel . "                     