@@668732

Waylon Jennings and Jessi Colter have scheduled a " celebrity auction " during Nashville ' s annual Fan Fair to benefit the YWCA youth services . Beginning at noon June 12 , fans will have a chance to bid on such articles as : Jennings ' best-known Telecaster guitar ; a radio headset Willie Nelson has used while jogging ; Colter ' s " porcelain doll " ball gown ; a Rosanne Cash clothing ensemble , including black leather pants , western shirt and lavender and white western boots , as well as a pair of black patent high-heeled shoes Cash has worn on stage ; a silver and turquoise hatband belonging to Larry Gatlin ; a pair of John Schneider ' s western boots ; a Hank Williams Jr. rattlesnake hat . The items will be accompanied by a document of authenticity signed by each star . The auction , to which admission is free , is a result of Colter ' s interest in helping troubled teenage girls . Concerned about the plight of deserted and abused girls whose lives have no direction , Colter approached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the designing and implementation of a career planning program to build confidence and self-esteem and teach job skills . ON THE RECORD : Earl Thomas Conley ' s history-making " Don ' t Make It Easy For Me " LP , which contains four No. 1 country singles , has jumped back onto the country album charts after an absence of several weeks  --  at the same time his current LP , " Greatest Hits , " is in the Top 10 . Conley ' s manager attributes the resurgence of sales of " Don ' t Make It Easy For Me " to a heavy Conley touring schedule . . . . Restless Heart ' s lead singer , Larry Stewart , also can be heard on the commercial jingles of such products as Coast soap , Allstate insurance and Midas mufflers . . . . Song title of the week : " You ' re The Best I Never Had " by J. Chambers and L. Jenkins . Ricky Skaggs , Alabama , Reba McEntire and Loretta Lynn are among stars joining Roy Clark in hosting the syndicated TV @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season in September . Clark ' s former cohost , Buck Owens , recently announced he was leaving the show to devote more time to his businesses . Among performers scheduled for guest appearances during the next season are John Anderson , the Forester Sisters , Mickey Gilley , Lee Greenwood , Merle Haggard , George Jones , The Judds , Tanya Tucker and Dottie West . ON THE ROAD : Reba McEntire and Mel Tillis will headline the 1986 Kane County Fair in the Chicago suburb of St. Charles , Ill . McEntire will perform twice July 16 and Tillis twice the following evening . . . . Country-rock pioneer Chris Hillman and his new Desert Rose band recently opened for the Oak Ridge Boys at the MGM Grand Hotel in Las Vegas . The Vega Brothers  --  two Mexican-American siblings from El Paso , Tex. , who remind a lot of people of the Everly Brothers and of Roy Orbison  --  have seen their first single , " Heartache The Size Of Texas , " released by MCA Records . Inspired by the records of such country artists as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vega began playing guitar in lounges and ended up in New York . Ray Vega studied composition and arranging at Berklee College of Music in Boston until he ran short of funds , at which time he joined Robert in New York . They finally were discovered by a Los Angeles management company after they moved to California , where they supported themselves by cleaning carpets for Hollywood stars . ET CETERA : Barbara Mandrell , who won the Music City News ' Living Legend Award last year , will present that award this year in the Music City News Country Awards show June 9 from the Grand Ole Opry House in Nashville . Hosts of the show will include Reba McEntire , Roy Clark and Mel Tillis . . . . In case there was any doubt , Lane Brody really did catch all those fish on the Nashville Network ' s " Country Sportsman " Show . The show followed Lane and her father on a fishing trip in Wisconsin . WSM Radio and the Stockyard Restaurant , both located in Nashville , are sponsoring a weekly Tuesday-night " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will receive $2 , 500 , a recording contract with Compleat Records , a week-long paid engagement at the Stockyard and performing spots on the Grand Ole Opry , WSM ' s Opry Warm-Up Show and the Nashville Network ' s " Nashville Now . " Contestants must submit an 8-by-10 photograph , a cassette with two songs ( one original composition or arrangement and one cover ) , names and ages of all performers , an address for the act , and must be available to perform on requested dates . They also must be at least 16 , and performers under 18 must submit written permission to compete from parent or guardian . All entry material must be submitted to WSM Radio 650/Stockyard Big Break , Box 65 , Nashville , Tenn. 37202 . None of it will be returned . CAPTION : PHOTO : Jessi Colter . Illustration PHOTO <>                     