@@734645

txt A deep quest for freedom ' The World Press institute , headquartered at Macalester College , St. Paul , each year selects outstanding joreign journalists for an eight month program of American studies . As part of the program , the foreign journalists spent two weeks reporting on the early presi. ? dential primaries . This is the second of five articles about their observations . Today 's author is Mohamed Mustafa . 34 , from the Sudan . Ile is senior editor and a columnist for AL-Sahafa , Sudan 's largest and most important newspaper . By Mohamed Mustafa I HAPPENED to have observed two primaries in this country , but still I ca n't claim that I understand the process completely . I feel that many Americans have the same difficulty when I ask simple questions related to the number of primaries , caucuses , or state conventions , or about the role of the electoral college . In many cases the answers are uninformed , and that indicates the complexity of the process . It is difficult for an observer to find out what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Besides being complicated , it is a prolonged process . A candidate may start campaigning almost two years before election day . This makes for a long campaign which means extensive traveling for fund raising and issue discussion . That requires physical fitness . Since the number of candidates seems to be unlimited , a lot of taxpayer money is needed too . THIS LEADS to the financing system , which depends on private contributions and matching federal money . If , by any chance , a candidate is new on the election scene , he might find difficulty in raising funds , unlike those who are well-known or have a long political background . Finance is a very important element in keeping a candidate in the race , and some might drop out regardless of their stands on issues . So if the candidates were given equal amounts of federal money to start with , they could carry on their campaigns to ensure the public gets to know them . Although there is a federal ceiling on the contribution level , there is a danger of a candidate 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups or wealthy people whose interests might contlict with the interests of the majority of the voters . If the candidate were given federal money through a federal election committee or any appointed party committee , instead of directly , this might be an effective way to deflecting the influence of special in-Wrest groups . Through this campaign period , a candidate has to address a broad base of potential voters , so he depends on mass communication rather than personal contact . This reaching out is one of the primaries ' main objectives . But when it comes to issues , the candidates ' stands on many of them are vague . There seems no strong indication that a politician will carry out his or her commitments after election . Besides that , there is no difference in major issues between the current presidential candidates . The differences that exist are only very minor . Therefore , it looks as if the current presidential campaign is a personality contest rather than a political party contest . Americans pay much attention to the appearance , status , family life , charisma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , this has proved to be very important . So , the candidates concentrate on these things . Although the elections are freely competitive , there are elements which play an important role in creating the public support . These two elements are /the media and the early primaries . Sometimes the role of the media is direct , by backing a candidate with favorable comment or editorials . Sometimes it is indirect , with extensive coverage to one politician 's campaign or giving his activities more space . The same applies to television and radio networks . I think the media should be fair in their coverage without bias towards any candidate . The strong emphasis on the results of the first primaries has a great psychological effect on the voters nationwide . Americans are known to like winners . This has a damaging effect upon the candidates who are new on the political stage . Sometimes it is the end for them right at the beginning . ALTHOUGH THERE is vast media coverage and much emphasis on the primaries as the first steps in the nomination process , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In most cases the turnout is low , especially among the younger generation . My criticism does n't mean that the election process is ineffective . I should admit that it is unique in the world , and it is a process which promotes free political competition in a way that matches the Americans ' deep-rooted quest for freedom and democracy . Caucuses , conventions , and primaries play a useful role and offer the best assurance to satisfy to a great extent the different demands of a country consisting of many diverse states . The system also helps to enhance the voters ' access to the candidate and balances the Influence of the states on the national nominating process . It also helps the party officials in each state to maintain stronger ties with their constituents . It helps revitalize political parties by giving party organizations important roles . The system hai the flexibility to accept any modifications which could enhance its effectiveness without endangering the sense of freedom which is its framework . It should , however , minimize the financial obstacles facing the candidates and reduce the time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Mexico discusses the primaries and the media .                     