@@735587

txt The national debate over busing to desegregate schools is too often portrayed as a matter of black and white . A survey of the subject turns up mostly shades of gray . The Reagan administration , breaking sharply with its predecessors , strongly opposes requiring students to attend more distant schools to achieve better racial balance . Bradford Reynolds , head of the Justice Department 's civil rights division , argues that " forced busing " frequently causes so many whites to flee the school system that it becomes more segregated than before ; He also contends that mandatory desegregation causes strife and severely undermines support for the schools , without yielding educational benefits . How about Columbus ? Since 1978 , this city has put into effect a citywide mandatory desegregation plan with no violence , little recrimination and only moderate white flight . What 's more , test scores have risen in elementary grades . And Columbus 's relatively smooth desegregation is n't unique . Charlotte , N.C .. and TampaSt . Petersburg , Fla. , for instance , have had similar successes . On @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as fraudulent anything short of a comprehensive , mandatory busing plan . " I do n't know of any place in the country where magnet schools or volunteerism alone has worked , " says William Taylor , director of the Catholic University Center for National Policy Review . What about Milwaukee , Wis. ? It has desegregated most of its schools using largely voluntary techniques . It has encouraged transfers from one-race schools , partly by promoting 22 " magnet " schools with special programs in such fields as languages or creative arts . The state helps by subsidizing transfers of inner-city blacks to suburban schools , and suburban whites to integrated city schools . By 1978 , even before the program fully took effect , Milwaukee had raised the proportion of white students in the average black youth 's school to 38% . This is surprisingly close to ideal racial balance for a system that was only half-white . And according to a school board spokesman , it has been continued without accelerating the loss of white students . In short , neither mandatory nor voluntary desegregation techniques should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as serious deficiencies . The Reagan administration correctly notes that a serious problem with mandatory plans is their cost in opposition and desertions , mostly by whites . Take Boston . During eight years of mandatory desegregation by a federal judge , the city 's enrollment dropped from 65% white to 30% white . In 1975 alone , 19% of its white students left the system . In Los Angeles , only half of the white students reassigned to minority schools ever showed up , according to sociologist David Armor . And since the city reverted to a voluntary plan , says political scientist Michael Ross , so many whites hue returned to the school system that interracial contact is currently higher than under mandatory busing . Even here in Columbus , a visitor can find mixed results to mandatory school desegregation . Suburban Centennial High , once almost exclusively white , currently imports about 40% of its students from inner-city neighborhoods . But black youths here complain of half-hour bus rides and hostility from white teachers and students . Whites here say petty theft has increased . And Jodi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I do n't like the black people who are forced to come here . " " We are a segregated school in a desegregated school system , " says Centennial 's shop teacher , Robert Swanson . Better students are separated into " challenge " courses , for which few of the blacks qualify . And in the view of Principal Thomas Schleub , few barriers have broken down between the city 's blacks and the school 's more affluent whites . Inner-city East High School provides an optimistic contrast . Formerly a nearly allblack school , it is now 65% white . The school is clean , orderly and sends half its graduates to college . Administrators say East High School is closer to the norm here than Centennial , and that desegregation has generally improved race relations , but most local residents still are thought to prefer neighborhood schools . How much attitudes have changed is demonstrated by the intellectual voyage of Christine Rossell. a Boston University political scientist . In 1975 , she wrote a study concluding that forced busing does n't accelerate white flight . Today , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has drafted a voluntary plan for East Baton Rouge , La. , schools , where the enrollment is halfblack . The Justice Department hired Ms. Rossell to draft the plan . The department is asking a federal judge to approve it as a replacement for a mandatory desegregation plan that was fully carried out only last fall , in its second , year . But Ms. Rossell admits " there is a problem " with voluntary plans : Very few whites , Asians or Hispanics participatt by transferring to the schools ; and , she says , " You 're always going to have more onerace schools " than under mandatory plans . Indeed , most voluntary plans have failed to achieve more than token desegregation . And Ms. Rossell concedes her projections for comparative advantages of voluntary desegregation in East Baton Rouge are " purely speculative . " Clearly , though , voluntary plans with magnet schools have shown enough promise to warrant trying them in many situations . They appear best suited to city-only school districts common in the North . But voluntary , plans seem ill-suited to countywide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ levels of white flight after mandatory busing . And such a plan seems particularly out of place in East Baton Rouge , a countywide district that probably has already , seen its worst white flight . It lost 11% of its whites in each of the last two years . Generally , judges have been loath to dismantle mandatory busing to try voluntary incentives . Given the unproven value of voluntary plans , that seems sensible , especially since most mandatory plans were ordered only after the failure of voluntary techniques . And mandatory busing must remain an alternative for districts where all else fails . Dismantling it in the face of white flight makes sense only if the losses continue to be very high for more than two years . And in deciding how much white flight is unacceptable , courts must recognize that big cities will continue to lose white enrollment even without any desegregation . Experience indicates that exclusive reliance on voluntary plans would result in a tacit acceptance of much intentionally created school segregation . That remains unacceptable to the Supreme Court . as it recently reaffirmed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Tenn . Finally , the administration must face the fact that a voluntary plan that effectively desegregates is going to cost more , possibly much more , than mandatory busing . Indeed , that was a major reason why the East Baton Rouge school board recently rejected for now the Justice Department 's voluntary plan there even before the federal courts considered it . Yet nationally , the Reagan administration is drastically cutting desegregation aid  --  Milwaukee 's fell last year to $2.1 million from $6 million  --  while advocating tuition tax credits that would bolster private schools . If the administration believes in effective desegregation , that is a strange way to show it . Mr. Taylor , a member of the Journal 's Washington bureau , covers the Justice Department .                     