@@734524

txt ! Mr , Human , a writer for the London Observer Foreign News Service , hos traveled widely in Afghanisiart.1 Afghanistan has been central to Imperial strategic considerations since the early 19th century . The vast territories in Central Asia won by the Russians , after their defeat in the Crimean War , brought their frontier close to the British Empire in India , separated only by the mild and mountainous land of Afghanistan . The long rivalry between Russia and Britain over domination of Asia made Afghanistan an area of tension , and led to two costly Invasions of Afghanistan by British Indian Orioles , both unsuccessful attempts to Impose client-rulers as emirs , The rules of the Great Game  --  as Anglo-liussian rivalry in Asia became known -- were popularized for the British public after NM by ' halyard Kipling , who brought out the romantic aspects of the struggle for power and influence in Central Asia . In stories like " The Man Who Was " and " Kim " , Kipling wrote of espionage and feats of bravery in the remote borderland of Afghanistan and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in India were foiled in the nick of time by British and Indian secret agents . Although the British viewed the Great Game as a defensive operation , Afghans saw it as an excuse for interference and aggression against their country . They were convinced that Afghanistan was the real object of Anglo-Russian rivalry , although many Europeans agreed with one visitor 's assessment that the country was rich only in stones . Afghan losses of land in the north to Russia were resented as much as the incorporation of Pathan borderlands In the south into British India , and at critical periods in this century Afghan rulers have tried to regain these lost lands . With the breakdown of Russian administration after the Bolshevik revolution , Arline forces were active all over Central Asia , trying to retrieve and even expand Afghan pow or in the region . Similarly . with the independence of India in 1947 , Kabul attempted to detach the . Northwestern Frontier and Baluchistan from the new state of Pakistan and obtain access to the Indian ocean at least . The British need to make Afghanistan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Its rulers or its standing as an Independent state . But the British had a strong lever . Afghanistan was a poor , land-locked country almost entirely dependent on access to India for its trade mid contacts with the outside world . By the end of the last century , the British had succeeded in making the emir a special and superior category of Indian prince . though they had no direct power . Within the country , the British controlled Afghan foreign relations , granted a big annual subsidy , and supplied arms . The survival of Afghanistan 's independence was due less to its rulers than to the difficult terrain and fighting abilities of the Pushloon tribesmen . Grim experience in the Anglo-Afghan wars convinced British administrators of the wisdom of leaving the fierce tribesmen alone  --  as indeed the emirs were forced to do for lack of resources to Impose direct rule . Just before the First World War , Britain and Russia reached agreement over their Asian rivalries , recognizing tIle British sphere of interest there . But the war introduced a third European power into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as part of a scheme to foment disturbances in India . The German presence expanded rapidly after the war . While British control of Afghan foreign affairs was ended after the Third Anglo-Afghan War in 1919 , the Isolationism of previous Afghan rulers was reversed by the reformist King Amanualtali 11919-291 , who imported German capital and expertise . He preferred to rely on a distant third power , rather than on the Use familiar and overpowertul neighbors . The end of the Second World War and the " cold war " radically changed the situation by bringing in the U.S. as a large-scale provider of development ald . But after 1950 , Afghan relations with the Soviet Union became gradually more cordial and competition emerged between the two superpowers for influence . American involvement in the vast and troubled Helmand Valley irrigation scheme after 1952 Was the chief symM0 of U.S. prestige . Both the U.S. and the Soviet Union took part in many development projects benefiting Afghanistan . U.S. strategists did not consider nonaligned Afghanistan crucial to American interests in the region . Soviet aid and loans soon outstripped @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arms supplier . Foreign trade ** came lo depend I much more on the Soviet connection . With the coining of the transistor radio , many Afghans began to listen to lbolio Tashkent and other Soviet she lions , and doubtless became aware of the prosperous transformation of Central Asia under Soviet rule . Although Kabul professed to follow a policy of neutrality , in the 1950s it was already associated with the " anteunper. ialist " bloc of states , led by soviet allies , while managing at the same time to have excellent relations with both China and India . Thus the Great Game lies been played in recent times in a prosaic fashion , with insidious penetration of a poor and undeveloped stale by an immensely powerful neighbor and without serious competition from other powers . c The ** 50,5100 Hem , Serriu                     