@@734584

txt WASHINGTON 1API  --  A congressional investigation of beatings and other abuses of recruits at military training bases concluded Wednesday that the Army does not take the problem seriously and offenders get off with light punishments . A report filed by the House Armed Services Investigations Subcommittee said disciplinary actions taken in cases at Ft . Jackson , S.C. , and Ft , Dix , N.J. , " present a dismal picture of the Army attitude concerning abuse of trainees . " The investigation arose from the deaths of two recruits at Ft . Jackson in 1978 both were victims of heat exhaustion after being ordered to perform strenuous exercises in the summer heat ) and the beatings of 20 recruits at Ft , Dix dmonth later . IN BOTH CASES , the abuse was " attribute : He mainly to the lack of effective supervision of drill sergeants at Army training centers , " the subcommittee said . The drill sergeants involved " were lacking in the judgment , maturity , sensitivity , and experience which are essential to the training mission , " the report added @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Dix training company were too few and inexperienced and that the situation at Ft , Jackson " was only slightly better . " " Instead of selecting Its best personnel for the training command , the Army has chosen to assign them to tactical units while assigning less qualified people to the training companies , " the report said . No comment was immediately available from the Army . REP . SAM STRATTON ID. , N.Y.1 , the subcommittee chairman , complained that no one above the rank of captain was disciplined in connection with the Ft . Jackson deaths . Stratton 's subcommittee recommended that superior officers be held responsible ( or abuses in their commands , It also recommended screening potential drill sergeants to see how they will react under stress and urged more stringent preinduetion physical examinations of recruits . One of the two recruits who died at Ft . Jackson was overweight and the other had high blood pressure . ? THE REPORT SAID the disciplinary actions taken at the two bases " suggest that the Army criminal justice system does not view trainee abuse as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ft . Jackson , one drill sergeant was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and dereliction of duty . He was reduced in grade to private and sentenced to six months ' hard ! aims with two-thirds of his pay forfeited for six months . The other sergeant was convicted of negligent homicide , maltreatment of a trainee , and dereliction of duty . Ile was reduced one grade to staff sergeant and forfeited MO pay for one month . At Ft . Dix , three drill sergeants were convicted in special courts-martial , two were AC-quitted , and one accepted nonjudicial punishment . The subcommittee said an examination of the records of punishment for trainee abuses at both posts , going back to 1975 , " reflected a pattern of leniency. "                     