@@735617

txt New York 's attorney general sued a New Jersey metals-refinery unit of Amax Corp. , charging that the company has n't controlled emissions of " numerous toxic chemicals " from its smokestacks . In a statement , the attorney general , Robert Abrams , said toxic chemicals and gases from the plant in Carteret , N.J. , allegedly threaten the health of residents of nearby Staten Island , N.Y . Amax , however , says the suit , filed in federal district court in Newark , N.J. , has " no merit " , that " we 're not endangering the health and safety of , the citizens of either New York or New Jersey , " and that the problem is being solved . Amax is an energy and natural resources company . An Amax spokesman said that after two years of negotiations with federal and New Jersey environmental officials , the company agreed to terms of an administrative order from New Jersey under which it will spend S2 million during the next several months to reduce emissions from the plant . " Some corrections needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an Amax spokesman , adding that in January and March of 1982 , the federal government accused the plant of violating **26;1225;TOOLONG and carbon-monoxide emission standards of New Jersey . " The lawsuit will proceed , " said a spokesman for Mr. Abrams . He said that from what the attorney general 's office has heard so far , terms of the agreement are " unsatisfactory to New York . " Mr. Abrams 's spokesman also said that previous agreements reached with the company had n't resolved the problem and that there have been citizen complaints about the plant since the Depression . The smelter recovers copper and other metals by burning electronics , telephone and foundry scrap and is operated by U.S. Metals Refining Co. , an Amax subsidiary . Mr. Abrams said the smelter " continuously discharges toxic and foul-smelling pollutants into the air , " which the winds carry to Staten Island . Mr. Abrams said some of the chemicals involved are known or suspected to cause cancer and other damage in humans . Mr. Abrams 's suit seeks to stop the company from operating the smelter without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most up-to-date emission control equipment available , said a statement from the attorney general 's office . The statement also said the suit " seeks to have the company finance an independent study to determine whether the controls are effective . " An Amax spokesman said the company has an in-house environmental group and continually reviews environmental compliance at its facilities .                     