@@669937

It is nearing one o ' clock in the morning in the Miami airport , and my husband and I are among the passengers waiting for the arrival of the charter flight that will take us to Havana . The Castro government still rules Cuba in part because it has allowed its middle class and other likely dissidents to emigrate to the U.S. There is a price : Minimum humane standards dictate that the Cuban regime permit some back-and-forth family travel . After a fashion , the government complies . But nobody said it had to make it easy . You must pay for the flight up front and in cash . You are not allowed to make a return reservation until after you have arrived in Havana . The plane itself comes and goes with a regularity that approximates the traffic pattern at O ' Hare during a major controllers ' strike . Around us stands a dense crowd of Cuban families , each staying to the bitter end to see a loved one off . One Cuban-American lady in the departure lounge , having quickly marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be gulled in Havana by the Cuban government . " They will treat you royally , " she predicts . " You must look behind the facade . " This proves to be difficult , but the lady need not have worried . The facade itself is troubling enough . We have heard that because our Spanish is not good , we will not be able to make uncensored contacts with ordinary people . But the official curtain turns out to be pierced all over with pinpricks of light . Our taxi driver from the airport negotiates his fee in U.S. dollars , then asks us to hand it over before we get in sight of our hotel . His English is no better than our Spanish , but working together we triumphantly produce the news that he has a nephew in San Diego , a dental technician . This is not the last time we will hear Cubans tell us about relatives in the States , even when they will tell us nothing else . It is safe to assume they don ' t do this as a hostile gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the government ' s attempt to put on a good show for us is the Habana Riviera , built by Meyer Lansky  --  they love telling us  --  in the waning days of the Batista regime . Within an hour of our arrival we wish Mr. Lanksy were still running the show . In his absence the hotel has begun to fail the crucial Garment International Plumbing Test , which says that no matter how much a government insists that its first priority is the needs of ordinary people , it is in Big Trouble if it can not keep decent bathrooms in its best hotel . By this test Cuba is not yet a terminal case . But our bath has holes in the walls clear through to the pipes , and the place has begun to develop that smell beyond the power of the scrub brush to eradicate . Other signs point in the same direction : One out of every four bulbs is lit in the chandeliers , and the dining rooms are using facial tissues for napkins . Our arrangers leave us some free time in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the new Cuban planning for tourism taxis are still suspiciously scarce . On our walking route we do not see slums like the classic worst in other Latin American countries . We do see poverty , and plenty of the mean signs of want . There is simply nothing much to buy , expensive or cheap . The socialized pharmacies of which our guides are so proud are in fact unnerving , with their meager population of medicines lined up on a few shelves like a precious collection of antique Chinese snuff bottles . We walk not two blocks into the neighborhoods when a young man approaches us asking softly for money . More nervous than he is , we pretend to understand no Spanish at all . Still , these signs of failed development were unsurprising . What I had not been ready for was the beauty of Havana even in all its current trials . The tourist section of the city sits by a sea wall , beyond which glows the Venetian light of the ocean . The surrounding neighborhoods still boast their broad boulevards and block after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , part Spanish , and uniquely Cuban . Their quality shines out from beneath their sad masks of peeling paint . In the waterfront area of old Havana , some of it dating back to the 16th century , the government is undertaking a huge restoration project . It has stripped streets down to the original cobblestones , restored and refurnished emporiums from a butcher shop to a clock repairman ' s store , and provided plenty of appropriately atmospheric places where visitors can eat and drink . One already-open part of the restoration is a Museum of Colonial Art , filled with artifacts from ironwork to stained glass to first-rate china and silver . The effect of this may not be what the Cubans intended , but it is stunning . You stand before the exhibits and realize that this was no backwater country hauled out of insignificance for the first time by the Castro revolution , but the heir to centuries of considerable culture and craftsmanship . I say to the woman guiding us through the restoration , " Where did you manage to get all this wonderful old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " she begins , then pauses . She is in a corner and knows it . She barrels on through : " And of course some people have left . The furniture has found its way into museums . " This sort of revelation stalks even the government ' s best-controlled tours . I tell my tour guides I would like to buy my souvenirs at the government-owned Cuban crafts shop . They take us there without enthusiasm . We arrive at what was once a beautiful modern-style private home . The house has been stripped bare and the store set up in it like a squatter . The government offers a few cotton dresses , plain marble ashtrays , the simplest horn jewelry  --  not just an embarrassment but a humiliation to the country whose high-level wood and metal craftsmanship you can still see elsewhere . In the silence of the place it is hard not to hear the footsteps of the family that once used the gracefully built open staircase in the main hall . No such ghosts inhabit the Tropicana , Havana ' s still-famous nightclub . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hiding under the desk at school during the 1962 missile crisis , it is startling to walk through the Tropicana lobby , past the throng trying to squeeze through the inner doorway , and onto the club floor , which is out in the open air and walled around by towering palm trees illuminated by colored lights . Neon tubing sends light zapping through the air around the stage . A 50-piece Afro-Cuban band of absolutely the first order , plus a chorus , creates a continuous medley of those Cuban songs that are now settled in the American popular repertoire and that have origins we scarcely remember . Dozens of showgirls , all looking at least six feet tall , balancing another two feet of turban on their heads , and wearing costumes that must have absorbed half the annual Cuban textile production , dance on the stage and weave through the aisles and provide punctuation for the various production numbers with individual dance routines on platforms attached to the tree trunks . It is spectacular . My husband is a musician and saw the Tropicana show before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ever was . You are doubtless now thinking , if you have a single hardheaded cell in your brain , " So what ? You want me to forget Cuba ' s political prisoners and believe the government is a big pussycat at heart because it manages to put on a tourist show at the Tropicana ? " Actually , the show confirms an impression of the opposite sort . A few days in Havana remind you ineradicably that the Cubans are not Soviets . The revolution has dulled the city , but these are people you can still hear humming as they go about their business . They keep the streets more or less populated with their 1950s American automobiles , which they have preserved in running order since the revolution cut them off from imports . They still display their strangely American-style humor  --  strange , that is , until you remember how close our two cultures were until the revolutionary break . Havana ' s scarcities and deprivations would not seem half so sad if the city were not also filled with the evidence of what it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the achievements claimed by the Castro regime  --  in educating the population , or in health  --  seem both more plausible and less extraordinarily admirable . The acts of destruction the revolutionaries committed to open the road to their new society seem more serious . The threats they pose to us in trying to extend their influence in the world seem more concrete and credible . Upon seeing the new Havana you quickly get an expanded sense of how serious a loss the revolution was to us . And you become less satisfied with the idea of trying to contain this loss by consigning the place to permanent isolation.  --  - Mrs. Garment is associate editor of the Journal ' s editorial page . This article is the second part of a series on Cuba.                     