@@670089

We see sanctions against South African apartheid , but no sanctions against Syrian terrorism . Soviet aggression can be subsidized , but Libyan terrorist bases are bombed . The Pakistani government is involved in the international heroin trade , but is given financial aid . The reason for these contradictions is expediency . U.S. foreign policy is today focusing on ending apartheid in South Africa . Apartheid is wrong . But so is Syrian terrorism , such as the apparent sponsorship of the attempted bombings of El Al airliners in London and Frankfurt and the murderous destruction of a Berlin disco . And what do we see ? Syria given credit for arranging the release of individuals whom it has allowed to be taken hostage , such as the Rev. Lawrence Jenco , and asking for credit for its anti-terrorist activities . Foreign policy and public opinion ignore the contradiction . There is scant moral difference between South African apartheid and Syrian terrorism . Indeed , it is possible to argue that apartheid , which denies civil liberties , is not as serious a crime as terrorism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases are different . South African blacks are oppressed , and American blacks identify with their plight . The victims of Syrian terrorism have no comparable power base . Action to end apartheid helps politicians . Action against Syria would seem to yield no similar political benefit . Such was not the case with Libya . The U.S. was in danger of being perceived as a paper tiger . The Reagan administration found it expedient to find an enemy , an enemy stronger than Grenada , to prove the worth of its multibillion-dollar defense budget . But the enemy could not be too strong , could not be strong enough to inflict possibly more damage than it received . Thus did the U.S. unleash its military might against Libya , a lesser partner of well-defended Syria and densely populated , fanatical Iran in Third World sponsorship of terrorism . The attack may actually have validated the perception of U.S. weakness . Nearly one-third of the attacking land-based aircraft failed to complete their mission ( though only one was shot down ) . Expediency prevailed once more when , despite harsh condemnations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the suspected perpetrators of the Karachi hijacking and Istanbul synagogue bombing : the Abu Nidal terrorist organization based in Syrian-controlled territory . Expediency triumphed again when the U.S. tried to subsidize grain sales to the Soviet Union . President Reagan found the need to alleviate the economic plight of farmers to be so overwhelming as to overrule his previous exhortations against the " evil empire . " Secretary of State George Shultz and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger argued that subsidizing grain sales to the Soviet Union would result in increased Soviet military spending . Their argument had no effect . But theirs were voices of great authority when they told Congress why to support Pakistan . Pakistan is a military dictatorship enacting fundamentalist Islamic law . The military dictatorship , like all other military dictatorships , gives paramount importance to its own survival . The fundamentalist Islamic courts have two sets of laws  --  one for Moslems and the other for unbelievers . For example , the testimony of a Christian or Jewish " unbeliever " can not be accepted in an Islamic court unless a Moslem provides corroboration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim , even when substantiated by a disinterested but unbelieving witness , can not be used in an Islamic court to convict a Moslem . If the Moslem hijackers of the Pan Am airliner are to be tried in a Pakistani court , the testimony of non-Islamic witnesses can not be accepted . What this means is that it is legal , militarily and religiously , for Pakistan to remain the linchpin of the heroin trade . " Pakistan is one of the premier suppliers of heroin to the United States , " according to Drug Enforcement Administration spokesman Larry Gallina . It retains this distinction even while the U.S. fights a major war against drug smuggling . But instead of condemning Pakistan , instead of withholding military and financial aid or sending helicopters to destroy the poppy fields , the Reagan administration and Congress throw money at the Pakistani dictatorship . The reason is that the U.S. needs Pakistan , which borders Afghanistan , to shelter Afghan rebels and serve as a conduit for American arms . In other words , it is expedient to let a dictatorship flourish by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defeat the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan . But if the true purpose of the Reagan administration is to defeat the Soviet invasion , then it would not have tried to subsidize grain sales and thus let the Soviet Union divert resources from its agricultural to its military sector . Expediency is the triumph of form over substance . It is the acceptance of what will win votes over what is either consistent or right . It seems too often to be a requirement of American politics.  --  - Mr. Zatuchni , formerly of the Philadelphia Bulletin , writes a self-syndicated weekly column.                     