@@669904

LOS ANGELES  --  Yesterday ' s crash of an F-20 Tigershark fighter during a demonstration flight in South Korea threatens Northrop Corp. ' s fragile effort to keep the program alive while it scours the international marketplace for its first buyers . A company spokesman steadfastly maintained that " the program is going forward on plan , with flight testing and avionics development " on the two remaining planes , built before assembly of the F-20 was halted earlier this year because of a lack of orders . The crash , which killed Northrop ' s chief test pilot , Darrell E. Cornell , involved the first plane produced in the program . Northrop said it hadn ' t yet identified the cause of the crash , although it corrected early reports that the plane encountered difficulty during a machine-gun test . The aircraft wasn ' t equipped with guns , the company said . But despite Northrop ' s insistence that development wouldn ' t be affected , some securities analysts who have been following the company ' s fruitless attempts to garner F-20 orders suggested that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Northrop has invested more than $700 million so far without a return to develop the F-20 . Since development started several years ago on the F-20 , the company has been writing off its costs as incurred . That accounting procedure would keep any negative earnings impact from discontinuation at a minimum , Northrop has noted in the past . In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Northrop closed at $31. 25 , off 50 cents , on volume of 116 , 600 shares . " It ( the crash ) forces a decision , " said David J. Smith , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &; Co . Like other analysts who have questioned Northrop ' s ability to find buyers for its $11. 5 million F-20 against severe competition from General Dynamics Corp. ' s F-16 and the French-built Mirage , Mr. Smith called short-term sales prospects for the plane " bleak . " The F-16 , while more expensive , has the advantage of being in the U.S. Air Force inventory , a factor most foreign buyers have considered important . The F-20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ t require the capability of the F-16 , McDonnell Douglas Corp. ' s F-15 or other higher-cost fighters built for U.S. forces . " We ' ve been saying all along that this ( F-20 ) program is quite iffy , " said Christopher Demisch of First Boston Corp. , who added that he now expects Northrop directors " to rethink the entire program . " John N. Simon , with Seidler Amdec Securities Inc. in Los Angeles , disagreed that the F-20 program might be near termination because of the crash or the absence of orders so far . " I still feel they have a pretty good shot at getting orders , " he said . " Numbers is the key word for many countries " that need to replace older fighter fleets and can ' t afford to add F-16s on a one-for-one basis . Mr. Simon added that almost all warplane programs weather crashes in their first years of flying without a major long-term sales impact , although the F-20 is more vulnerable because it is geared for the competitive world market and not part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three F-20s on a tour of more than a dozen nations in the past few weeks in its latest effort to show off the jet . The accident at Korea ' s Suwon Air base yesterday was on the last stop of the tour . The aircraft has been getting good reviews from foreign pilots visiting California , and recently received favorable publicity in the U.S. media , including a CBS " 60 Minutes " report and an Atlantic Monthly article . But Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger gave a harsh appraisal of the F-20 , saying that the reason the U.S. wasn ' t buying F-20s was that " we have to have planes at least as good as . . . the Soviets ( have ) . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     