@@668294

By Nino Lo Bello MILAN - Nothing so dominates any city in Europe as the Glleria does Milan , Italy ' s second-largest but leas-visited tourist city . The Galleria is not the kind of place you step into , give a quick glance and then walk out . Heavens , no ! Rather it is a place to stroll through and take life easy , to watch patterns of people swirling around you . It ' s the place where everyone is an actor and , at the same time , a spectator . Inside the impressive architectural structure with its heaven- high glass- and-steel cupola rising 164 feet in height , it is like a mammoth cocktail party happening all day long . No matter what the time of day and usually until very late at night , whichever season - be it radiant and sunny , hot and suffocating , wet and foggy or cool and clear - the Galleria bustles with Milanese just being themselves , at least half of whom are engaged in that most popular Italian pastime - humanity-watching . Doubtless the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( there is no auto traffic ) , the Galleria is a promenade for shops and restaurants and cafes and propaganda displays of all kinds . Everybody meets everybody else in the Galleria , expecially since much of the year sees Milan immersed in the discomforts of adverse weather - and Italians don ' t like to stay home anyway . Officially named the Victor Emanuel II Gallery , Milan ' s " drawing room " has met the specific needs of this city for well over a hundred years . ( Although there is one almost like it in Naples , that one is mostly filled with noise and doesn ' t really dominate the city . ) With its four major arms in the form of a cross , of which the longest arm is 640 feet is length , the cavernous Galleria is where you go for window shopping , aimless strolling , promenading , and morning coffee , afternoon coffee and evening coffee . You can buy a suit , get a shave , have a letter typed , book a plane or boat ticket , pick @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a business transaction in the center floor , meet your friends clubroom-style , buy books or newspapers , bid on paintings , acquire life insurance , take a bath or shower , browse in book stores or look at the magazines , get to meet members of the opposite sex , buy wonderful Italian ice cream and have anything from a smack to a feast . But mostly you can slow down and unwind alla Milanese , with the tangy odor of freshly made Italian coffee , the semi-official smell of this amazing , active arcade . The history of the social salon of Milan goes back to March 7 , 1865 , when King Victor Emanuel II laid the first cornerstone . The area occupied today by the complex structures and buildings forming the Galleria was at the time a maze of narrow streets and old houses in great need of a more functional and esthetic planning . In 1859 the king decreed that a lottery be authorized for the collection of money to finance a glass-covered passage leading from the square in front of the La Scala Opera @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s impressively huge cathedral , the Duomo ( third largest church in the world ) . Of the many projects submitted , the one accepted was by Giuseppe Mengoni who directed a British firm in the construction that took about seven years to complete . The irony was that a few days before the inauguration , cruel fate killed Mengoni ; while inspecting some work from a scaffolding , he slipped and fell to his death , not far from the four pavement mosaics that represent Europe , Africa , Asia and America . Buried underneath the spot where his body landed , Mengoni is not forgotten by the Milanese today who revere him for giving their city a showoffy architectural wonder , one that is harmoniously integrated into the city ' s overall appearance . Beside ' s Mengoni ' s untimely death , there have been other disasters in the gallery . On the night of August 15 , 1943 , a devastating air attack left the Galleria in rubble and ashes . The roof was almost totally destroyed , the northeast building demolished , the facades torn , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapsed and most of the flanking palaces badly burned - not to mention that the remaining structural skeleton threatened to fall at any moment . If anybody ever thought that the Milanese would impassively accept the charred ruins of their city ' s pride , he did not reckon with the resiliency of these hard-working people . As soon as World War II ended , reconstruction of the monumental symbol of Milan ' s hospitality was a priority , And when all the work had been done , the Galleria was back in business . Should you want to do the kind of tourism that involves serious kaleidoscopic people-watching , then park yourself at one of the domino-dotted table arrangements ( tantamount to being in the open air ) , sit back with an espresso and become , like the Milanese , a gallery slave . B07862059                     