@@735173

txt SHORTLY AFTER Richard J. Daley suffered a stroke in 1974 , a rumor swept City . Hall that the mayor , who was recuperating in seclusion , had been robbed of his ability to sneak . An influential alderman was asked how local Democratic leaders , so accustomed to taking direction from Daley , would choose their candidates if the mayor were , unable to tell them who to annoint . " He does n't have to speak , " quipped the alderman . " All he has to do is point . " For nearly a quarter-century , Daley exercised near-absolute control over the Cook County Democratic organization . He chose the candidates , devised the strategies and , for much of his reign , led his forces to impressive triumphs . TODAY , FIVE YEARS after Daley 's death , his machine is operating on fewer cylinderit . Though it is still among the more formidable party organizations in urban America , its leadership is divided ' and its recent record in major primaries against independent Democrats has been dismal . But this decline can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even before the nation 's best known political boss left the scene , there were signs that his vaunted machine was wearing down . In the last primary election before his death , for example , Daley suffered an unprecedented defeat when his hand . picked choices for the Illinois Supreme Court lost to Independent candidates . On the same day , his aggrestive campaign to purge the maverick U.S. Rep. Ralph Metcalfe ( D. , Chicago ) failed miserably . Daley 's advanced age and illness in his last years may have contributed to a loosening of his political grip . But the lanvid Axelrod Is a Tribune reporter Who covers politics . ) chief causes of the machine 's malaise were factors beyond his control , factors that continue to erode the organization 's effectiveness . ? The federal Shakman decree of the early ** drove a stake in the heart of the machine by rendering illegal the ? practice of firing patronage workers to punish the politicians who sponsored them . The court decree , which opened the door to rebellion within the party , is now being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The advent ? of television as a tool ' through which candidates can reach voters has given non-machine candidates a means of combating the thousands of foot soldiers who once gave Democratic organization candidates a nearly insurmountable edge . Voters who once got their information solely from precinct captains now are better informed . ? The civil rights and antiwar movements of the ' 60s laid the groundwork for independent political activism in Chicago that persists today , particularly along the lakefront and in black wards . ? An exodus of white ethnic voters has shrunk the moat dependable base of the machine . ? The proliferatiim of social programs has caused needy ChiCagoans to look to the government for the emergency aid that once was delivered by precinct.captains , who acted as amateur social work-era in their quest to win over potential voters . ALL THESE FORCES were at play before Daley died . He merely retarded the inexorable process of decline that has quickened since his , passing . The first sign of eeriest decay came six months after Daley 's death , when his successor , Michael Bilandic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democratic mayoral primary . Two years later , the unthinkable hap- pened . The machine lost the crown jewel of Chicago politics , the mayor 's Office , to en underfunded , outmanned Jane Byrne . By defeating bilandic , ? Byrne became both a symbol of the organization 's dwindling Influence and the new boss of the machine . Unlike Daley , she is not chairman of the party . But Byrne is still the real leader of the regular DarnocratIc organization by virtue of the patronage-rich office she holds . Even Daley 's successor as party chairman , George Dunne , concedes that the party 's shots are being called from the 6th floor of City Mali . THE EROSION of the machine 's power has accelerated under Byrne 's tumultuous rule . Though the organization continues to dominate races fog , minor offices that garner little attention , its string of losses in major primary contests has grown . In 1980 , Byrne steered the organization endorsement for state 's attorney away from Daley 's son , Richard 11. , to Aid . Edward Burke . Daley won @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsement for Sen. Edward M. Kennedy 's presidential campaign , and he was , trounced locally by Jimmy Carter . And the machine suffered its greatest loss yet for the Illinois Supreme Court at the hands of Seymour Simon . Divided into factions led by Byrne , - young Daley and perhaps others , the Democratic organization today is a . dispirited shadow of the powerful machine that once operated with evangelical fervor . " We do n't have much of an organization anymore , and it has been going downhill for years , " said one veteran Chicago Ddmocrat . " In Daley 's last years , the organization was 50 percent effective .. Now we 're at 30 percent and sinking . "                     