@@670113

CHICAGO  --  Chicago Board Options Exchange directors voted against changing the exchange ' s stock-index options contracts as a response to quarterly " triple-witching hour " price volatility . In taking no action on the issue , the CBOE board broke ranks with the cross-town Chicago Mercantile Exchange . Last month the Merc asked federal regulators to approve rule changes in its stock-index futures and futures options contracts intended to dampen quarterly price swings tied to the multiple expiration of stock-index futures , options and options on individual stocks . The Merc asked the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to base cash settlement prices in its Standard &; Poor ' s 500 stock-index future and futures options contracts on opening stock prices on expiration days  --  the third Friday of March , June , September and December . The settlements currently are based on closing quotes on expiration day , in keeping with the usual settlement practices on futures and options exchanges . But CBOE officials said they didn ' t see any reason to make such a change in their most active contract , a stock-index option contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ open the possibility of future changes in their less active option on the S &; 500 . " We have no evidence whatsoever that there is any problem with the way we close " stock-index option contracts , said Gary Lahey , CBOE vice chairman . " The more you look at the expiration phenomenon , the more apparent it becomes that stock-index options aren ' t a significant factor in the arbitrage plays that have received so much attention " during triple-witching hours , added Alger Chapman , CBOE chairman and chief executive officer . Indeed , a Securities and Exchange Commission official , who said the SEC hadn ' t yet spoken with the CBOE about its decision , noted , " last expiration the action was almost entirely in the futures . " During the most recent triple-witching hour , on Dec. 19 , a record 118. 5 million shares changed hands in the final hour of trading on the New York Stock Exchange , sending the Dow Jones Industrial Average up 16. 03 points for the day . However , on earlier expiration days , hectic last-minute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s options index contracts expire monthly , compared with the quarterly expirations of the stock-index futures contracts . The Chicago Merc reversed its earlier united stand with the other Chicago exchanges in opposing a move to the opening on expiration days , a step first proposed by the New York Stock Exchange last year . Leo Melamed , the Chicago Merc ' s special counsel , denied last month that the exchange was caving in to pressure from regulators and legislators to curb volatility associated with triple-witching hours . Merc officials couldn ' t be reached for comment on the CBOE board ' s decision . Big Board spokesman Richard Torrenzano said , " eventually , all contract expirations will shift to the open , and we hope the CBOE will reconsider their position in the near future . " American Stock Exchange president Kenneth Leibler said that the Amex , which trades the Major Market stock-index option on 20 blue-chip stocks , favors all exchanges changing expirations to the opening . A spokesman for the Chicago Board of Trade , which trades a futures contract on the Major Market index @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kansas City Board of Trade executives couldn ' t be reached for comment on their Value Line stock-index contract . Some industry officials speculated that having expirations occur at different times might be the best solution to triple-witching hour volatility . They said that switching all expirations from the close to the open of trading might simply shift the volatility , rather than dampen it . " The more separation between these contracts the better , " said Gerald Walsh , an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     