@@670012

REAGAN GAINS private Arab backing for his stance against Qadhafi . Some moderate Arabs secretly welcome economic sanctions against Libya . They say they would shed few tears if Reagan takes tougher measures to deal with Qadhafi . But they say the U.S. missed its best chance to act militarily . One Arab diplomat says few Arab nations would have opposed U.S. action immediately after Qadhafi praised the terrorist killings at airports . The moderates say Moslem nations now have no choice but to publicly back their brother Arab . But they scoff at warnings that a regime that would follow Qadhafi would only be worse . They believe his successor wouldn ' t be Qadhafi ' s radical righthand man , Salam Jalloud , but rather a more-moderate military leadership . Libyan exiles want Qadhafi out in any case . The exiles quote an Arab proverb : " If you fall in a deep well , you use any means to get out even if you must grab the tail of the dog . " EASIER MONEY may be a fallout from budget cuts , but not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ loosen money strings further to counter the effects a more-restrictive fiscal policy would have on the economy , some officials say . But , says one , " it isn ' t going to be in the near future . " Volcker argues that cutting the deficit would lower interest rates even without Fed action . Officials will wait to see the impact of Gramm-Rudman . They can ' t be certain the law will survive court challenges or that it will force real deficit reduction . Even if the law works , officials say , the Fed will want to ease cautiously . The restrictive effects of lower deficits could be tempered by the stimulative effects of lower interest rates . BUDGETEERS SCRAMBLE to meet the Gramm-Rudman deficit limits . Budget Chief Miller compromises with NASA on funding for the space station . Officials grow optimistic that the $144 billion deficit target for fiscal 1987 can be met . But Miller sends a memo to agency heads asking for more savings if their final spending estimates rise ; the memo ends with " Have a happy New Year . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Miller has been slow to consult top GOP leaders such as Senate Budget Committee Chairman Domenici . Washington ' s Sen. Evans warns that without the help of powerful Northwest senators such as Oregon ' s Packwood and Hatfield , Miller ' s proposal to sell the Bonneville Power Administration will go nowhere . Officials at agencies hit by budget cuts talk of being " Gramm-Rudmanned . " STARTING OVER ? The Senate ' s tax-overhaul bill may differ more from the House version than has been expected . Senate Finance Committee leaders don ' t want to use the House-passed bill as a starting point . Instead , the panel staff is likely to draft its own proposal , or use a modified version of Reagan ' s plan . REVERSE STRATEGY : While Reagan wants to sell some federal operations , the General Services Administration pushes a plan eventually to buy buildings the government now leases . The GSA claims long-run savings , but it balks at putting the ultimate cost all in its next year ' s budget . One Reaganite jokingly dubs the plan " de-privatization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leave to join former FDIC Chairman William Isaac in a new company offering advice to troubled banks . Officials are recruited from the FDIC , the comptroller ' s office , the Fed and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board  --  all criticized by Congress as being slow to spot sick lenders . PROMISES , PROMISES : State Department spokesman Bernard Kalb opens the year ' s first daily press briefing by announcing a New Year ' s resolution " to be candid , frank , useful and constructive . " His response to the first question : " I have nothing that I can offer you on that . " PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFULS begin jockeying for position . Hints among Democrats aren ' t limited to Colorado Sen. Hart . Missouri Rep. Gephardt hires an adviser who managed the Carter and Hart Iowa primary campaigns . Delaware Sen. Biden consults with pollster Pat Caddell . New York Gov . Cuomo sets speaking stops in places like San Antonio . Another busy speaker is Arizona Gov . Babbitt . Virginia Gov . Robb garners more publicity . Among Republicans , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone . Vice President Bush today will name a chairman of his political-action committee . Kansas Sen. Dole hires some campaign organizers . And former Tennessee Sen. Baker spends more time in New Hampshire . Former Secretary of State Haig also meets with political consultants . Asked if anyone takes a Haig candidacy seriously , one GOP operative says , " Maybe his wife . " MINOR MEMOS : A White House official grumbles that history-conscious colleagues are rushing to ingratiate themselves with Reagan biographer Edmund Morris . . . . To help pay off campaign debt , Sen. Hart ' s advisers suggest that he , like pro football teams , sell a " Gary Hart Highlights " video tape or film . . . . Though banks lobby hard against tax increases , in an anonymous poll by Financial Institutions Forecasts Inc. , a majority of bank lobbyists say banks don ' t pay their fair share of taxes.                     