@@734728

txt For almost 100 years , Philip Morris Inc. has protected the trademark " Cambridge , " waiting for just the right moment to place it on a brand of cigarets . Maybe the company should have waited longer . In April , buttressed by a $60 million advertising campaign , Philip Morris put Cambridge 's distinctive blue-and-white striped packs before the smoking public . " Lowest tar ever , " was the brand 's bold theme . Four-and-a-half months later , Cambridge looks like a $60 million headache . Tobacco industry insiders are predicting privately that Cambridge will have only a tiny slice of the cigaret market by year end . Philip Morris says it 's too early to forecast the fate of its newest brand , but its executives do n't sound cheery . Failure Surprises Cambridge 's failure to attract many smokers is surprising for two reasons : 1 . Cambridge is Philip Morris ' entry into the fast-growing segment of the market known as " ultra-low-tar " : cigarets with five milligrams of tar or less . Ultra-low-tar cigarets make up about 6% of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Brands ' fast-growing Carlton cigarets , and the somewhat less successful Now cigarets , made by R.J. Reynolds . With 0.1 milligram of tar in one of its three versions , Cambridge claims to be the lowest of the ultra-lows , a point Philip Mon ris thought would appeal to health-conscious smokers who use these brands . 2 . Philip Morris is n't used to making mistakes . By following a highly conservative new-product strategy , the nation 's secondlargest cigaret maker ( R.J. Reynolds is No. 1 ) has recorded the industry 's best volume growth in recent years . It 's four-year-old low-tar brand Merit has been the single most successful new cigaret since Marlboro , also by Philip Morris , was introduced in the late 1950s . Until now , Philip Morris has also escaped the new product catastrophes that have often embarrassed its competitors . A good example is Real cigarets , which R.J. Reynolds introduced in 1977 and which bombed in one of the most costly new product failures ever . Some experts say just avoiding new product flops is as critical to a tobacco @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is going wrong with Cambridge ? Maybe it is that Philip Morris violated some of the guidelines that over the years have earned it wide respect as a marketer . The basic Philip Morris strategy goes like this : ? Aim the product at a broad audience . " This is a box-car business we 're in , " says James Morgan , executive vice president , marketing , at Philip Morris U.S.A. , the company 's domestic tobacco subsidiary . ' Avoid innovation . Being first with new brands is critical in most packaged-goods industries . Philip Morris , however , lets other cigaret companies move first and tries to capitalize on their mistakes . " We like to come in and make the consumer a better offer , " says Mr. Morgan . ? the number of product introductions . Philip Morris has introduced far fewer products than most of its competitors , believing that new brands divert management from existing battlegrounds . ? Stress quality . Philip Morris ' marketing executives work closely with the researchstaff . The idea for Merit came trom the company 's Richmond , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ things , " is a company slogan . But now it appears that the company erred on two points : Cambridge was aimed at an extremely narrow market segment , not the broad audience Philip Morris normally shoots for , and the cigaret was of questionable quality . Copying a tactic pioneered by Carlton , Philip Morris decided to make Cambridge in three versions with differing tar contents . Only the cigaret sold in the crush-proof box , with 0.1 milligram tar , qualifies as the " lowest tar cigaret " on the market . But the boxed variety of Cambridge is difficult to keep lit and offers so little taste that the company has printed a warning on the package that promises an " experience substantially different from other cigarets you have smoked . " Many cigaret distributors say Cambridge 's boxed version is lagging far behind soft-pack and 100s in orders . " Nobody in their right mind would smoke that cigaret , " says a Chicago tobacco dealer . Adds an executive for Lorillard , a unit of Loews Corp . and a Philip Morris competitor : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ads . " Waiting Too Long Ironically , Philip Morris ' faith in its rules may have contributed to Cambridge 's problems . Studiously avoiding innovation , the company watched the ultra-low-tar segment for four years before plunging in . That may have been too long . " Both Carlton and Now have been firmly entrenched in the market for years . 1 do n't see any way that Philip Morris can knock them out , " says a competing executive . Philip Morris says it never expected Cambridge to be an overnight success . " This is a strategic introduction for us , " says Mr. Morgan . " We want to be represented in the ultra-low-tar segment and we are willing to wait a little longer than usual for the brand to be a success . We never expected that this would be another Merit . "                     