@@670361

Consumers and others who claim health damage from toxic chemicals and drugs are finding it tougher to sue the companies that make such products . The reason ? Some judges are beginning to muzzle the expert witnesses that speak up for them . Such witnesses , usually medical doctors or scientists , are relied on heavily by plaintiffs to convince juries that their cancer or other illness was caused by exposure to a toxic substance . In some cases , where research on the effects of a product is still emerging , a plaintiff ' s chance of winning depends largely on whether a jury believes the expert testimony . But some judges are refusing to admit plaintiffs ' expert evidence , ruling that it is below acceptable standards . Recently , courts in New Jersey and Philadelphia tossed out health-damage claims involving polychlorinated biphenyls , or PCBs , after concluding that plaintiffs ' experts didn ' t have proper credentials and that the research on which their opinions were based wasn ' t up to snuff . In September , a U.S. appeals-court panel in Washington , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth defects from Bendectin , an anti-nausea drug commonly used during pregnancy . Such rulings still represent a minority of courts , but some legal specialists believe tougher scrutiny is just beginning . " I think this small trend will continue and sweep the day , " says Paul F. Rothstein , a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center . That would be good news for many companies , which don ' t like the majority approach : letting jurors hear expert evidence from both plaintiffs and defendants so they can choose which to believe . They believe that system favors injured plaintiffs , who can elicit more jury sympathy than can companies . If a judge decides in pretrial hearings that a plaintiff ' s expert isn ' t qualified , the case may never get to the jury . Some companies believe the trend could reduce the pressure to settle cases . " Now that we see judges addressing the issue , that makes the odds a little more equal at the starting gate , " says John Claussen , environmental counsel for General Electric Co . GE @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it used the chemical compound in some of its products . But critics suggest that judges aren ' t particularly qualified to sift through scientific and medical evidence and that , in fact , they are improperly usurping the jury ' s role , which is to decide what facts to accept . " When you have judges picking and choosing among various scientific studies , I think you ' re moving into uncharted waters , " says D. Bruce Hanes , a Philadelphia attorney who represents several plaintiffs in the PCB litigation there . In that case , railway workers and others alleged various illnesses and death from exposure to PCBs . They offered as evidence research based on animal studies that indicated health damage from PCB exposure , plus studies in Japan and Taiwan of people exposed through contaminated rice oil . But last November , U.S. District Judge Robert F. Kelley rejected the evidence as irrelevant and inaccurate , favoring instead abundant epidemiological evidence presented by defendants showing no health problems were caused by PCB exposure . In summarily dismissing claims against GE , Monsanto Co . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kelly argued that judges must be permitted to examine the basis of an expert ' s opinion . Otherwise , he asserted , federal rules regulating evidence might as well read like this : " An expert may cite as the basis of his opinion anything he likes . " In the Bendectin case two months earlier , a three-judge panel in Washington had used similar reasoning in overturning a jury verdict against Richardson-Merrill Inc . Both cases are being appealed . The decisions buck a trend that began in the late 1970s , when new federal rules of evidence implicitly encouraged admitting expert testimony whenever it would be helpful to a jury . Judges began recognizing a wider range of experts , and that sharply improved plaintiffs ' chances of proving injury in toxic tort cases , which are largely dependent on medical and scientific evidence . Alarmed by the big verdicts that followed , defense lawyers began arguing that too little attention was being paid to the qualifications of experts . " A lot of charlatans were getting in , " contends Georgetown ' s Mr. Rothstein . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A few judges did tighten up . And then , last year , the cases in Philadelphia , Washington and other courts suggested that the movement might be picking up steam . In April 1988 , a New Jersey superior court , by excluding expert evidence , in effect dismissed a case alleging wrongful death from colon cancer caused by exposure to PCBs once made by Monsanto . The expert , a biochemist cancer researcher , offered opinions that hadn ' t been accepted by a " substantial minority " of the scientific community , the court said . Last July , Monsanto won summary dismissal of a similar case when a California judge ruled that the plaintiff ' s expert , educated in chemistry and zoology , wasn ' t qualified to testify on PCB exposure and colon cancer . " I think the pendulum has swung , " says J. Ric Gass , a defense attorney with Kasdorf , Lewis &; Swietlik in Milwaukee . If so , critics retort , injured plaintiffs will have little legal recourse for health damage that may have been caused by toxic products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of conclusive research some courts seem to be requiring , they say . Industry can afford it , but few plaintiffs can . " It would become a financial barrier and raise severe constitutional questions about denying a plaintiff access to the judicial system , " says Benjamin E. Griffith , a Cleveland , Miss. , lawyer who has written legal articles warning against reducing the jury ' s role in weighing evidence . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     