@@670266

The term " networking " conjures up images of cocktail parties at which yuppies exchange cards for dates or , more seriously , Chamber of Commerce and Rotary Club types exchange leads for customers and suppliers . But increasingly , networking is becoming something more like what happened to Chris Hoezle , owner of a Santa Ana , Calif. , computer-products company . Back in 1986 , his company was " within inches of failing , " as he puts it . While attending small discussion sessions for executives on how to improve management techniques , sponsored by the American Electronics Association , he got to know a business owner who had weathered the same kind of crisis and came through it a spectacular success . Mr. Hoezle was invited to spend an afternoon touring his fellow executive ' s company and going over the key elements of his turnaround . He received insights on eliminating certain fixed expenses , reducing staff and reorganizing for efficiency . Mr. Hoezle ' s revenues have since tripled , with a staff one-third the size it was in 1986 . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regular management meetings with other technology executives in expectation of gaining more advice and tips . He also expects to pass along that advice to others who may be facing the same difficulties he once faced . For him and increasing numbers of other owners of smaller companies , networking is something much more important than simply gaining customer and supplier leads  --  it ' s a long-term commitment to a process for gaining management expertise and ideas for new business arrangements . Because smaller companies usually can ' t afford to hire staff specialists or expensive consulting firms , networking becomes a way to compensate for what ' s missing . At the Technology Executive Roundtable ( TER ) , a four-year-old networking organization with chapters in five cities , I have seen Mr. Hoezle ' s experience of gaining a business advantage repeated many times . TER fosters this advance type of networking by holding monthly , small discussion sessions at which executives of growing technology companies discuss business challenges they face in marketing , obtaining financing and motivating employees , among other areas . Participants are constantly expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last year helped organize the Texas Quality Consortium , a group of 12 small technology companies that pooled their resources to arrange training for employees on improving product quality . In the Santa Clara chapter , the owners of a technology company got to know one of the participants in the TER sessions and wound up hiring him to be president of their company . Such sophisticated long-term networking promises to become an increasingly powerful force for slow-growing resource-poor companies . Limited research on networking reinforces this view . In one study conducted at the University of Calgary , researchers monitored a group of five ownermanagers who began as strangers and met an average of three times monthly over a six-month period to share management insights . The participants became so excited by the idea sharing that three of them used the group ' s inputs to start completely new ventures . The researchers concluded that " peer network can make a positive and powerful contribution to new-venture development . " How can executives of smaller companies partake of networking ' s many benefits ? Here are some suggestions :  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established organization with likeminded executives , such as technology or retail types . You also want the organization to have a business/educational orientation rather than a social orientation . Such national organizations include the MIT Enterprise Forum and the National Association of Women Business Owners , while local organizations include the Smaller Business Association of New England in Boston and the Silicon Prairie Technology Association in Kansas City , Mo . If no such organization exists in your area , consider soliciting some help to start one . Business schools and government-sponsored economic-development agencies are often quite willing to be of assistance , as are large accounting firms and banks . All have come to realize that smaller companies create most of the nation ' s new jobs and also represent a significant and growing market.  --  Commit yourself personally . Executives who benefit most from networking are those who view it as an investment . They commit both their time and their expertise . As in many organizational activities , you tend to get out of networking only as much as you put in . You must be prepared to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about serious issues affecting your company , if you ' re going to gain the advice or assistance of others.  --  Be patient . Networking usually doesn ' t yield its dividends during the first meeting , or even the first few . It takes time to build the sense of trust and the necessary rapport that allow serious business relationships to develop . Once barriers are broken down , though , executives often come to rely on the insights they gain . Indeed , some have been members of TER for two or three years , staying with it as their businesses grow.  --  Have reasonable expectations . The dividends from successful networking tend to come in bits and pieces . A bit of industry information here , some money-saving tips there . Taken together , though , they can add up . One member of TER ' s Boston chapter calculates that in two years of involvement he ' s probably gotten $15 , 000 to $20 , 000 of free advice . The big payoff  --  a strategic partnership or an executive to be hired  --  usually comes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ networking is a string of small insights that , taken together , can make the difference between success and failure.  --  - Mr. Weisman is a program manager for Digital Equipment Corp. , and is founder and director of Technology Executive Roundtable.                     