@@735004

txt NEW , YORK ( AP ) ? Travelers may find their flight reservations cancelled and will have particular difficulty completing trips that require them to change airplanes if air traffic controllers carry out their threat to strike Monday . The nation 's airlines said they were preparing to cut flight schedules by more than GO per cent and some said they might halt operations completely if the controllers strike . A strike would hamper efforts by airlines to recover from one of the industry 's worst years ever . U.S. airlines lost $200 million in 1980 and industry officials estimate a strike would cost airlines $80 million to $100 million a day . Airline officials said that under . contingency schedules that would be mandated by the government in a walkout , a . traveler whose plans included more than one flight to get to his destination would have to make arrangements for each part of his trip , including the transfer of luggage . FEDERAL AVIATION Administration strike plans do not include curtailing International departures , but such flights may be affected by delays or cancellations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And there would be no food or lodging at airlines ' expense for passengers stranded by a cancelled flight . United Airlines said it is booking passengers on both its regularly scheduled flights and those set up in the contingency plan . If the plan goes into effect , United would fly 42 per cent of its 1,200 flights systemwide . Midway Airlines , which operates out of Chicago 's Midway Airport , is allotted five flights to New York and four to Washing . ton , D.C. , under the FAA plan . However , . Gordon Linkon , president of the carrier , said he hoped to retain service between Kansas City and Chicago as well . Eastern Airlines already has started advertising to alert passengers that FAA plans provide for Eastern to operate only about 570 of its 1,600 daily flights . Eastern is asking passengers now holding reservations to book passage as well on the contingency flights . DELTA AIR LINES , Continental , Pan American World Airways , and Trans World Airlines also said passengers will have to make new reservations if contingency schedules are implemented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " If we make plans now , there will he less chaos Monday if the strike occurs , " Eastern spokeswoman Paula Musto said . But TWA spokesman David Venz said , " Trying to do that ( advise passengers of alternate plans ) now would create even more confusion than now exists . " An official of USAir said that carrier may shut down if there is a strike but said terminating operations . is its last option . " Our first priority Is to keep the airline running as much as possible , " spokesman David Shipley said .                     