@@668699

Q-We want to sell our home " as is " in its present condition , which we know needs work . Our Realtor says we must disclose all the defects to prospective buyers . But we are finding this scares off buyers . How can we sell our home " as is " without discouraging buyers from making offers ? AAn " as is " realty sale means the seller and the realty agent make no warranties or representations as to the property condition and the seller won ' t repair any defects . However , the seller and realty agent must tell the buyer about any known defects in the house . But the trend is away from " as is " sales because , as you discovered , prospective buyers are scared away by those words . The few buyers who purchase " as is " properties , as I do , bargain hard to get a " real deal " because of the uncertainty involved . A better approach for home sellers is to avoid using the words " as is . " Instead , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To protect themselves , the sharpest realty agents now insist their sellers fill out a disclosure questionnaire at the time the house is listed for sale . A copy should be given to prospective buyers . This method is fast replacing the " as is " sale because it protects the seller and realty agent . Q-About six months ago we purchased a house for about $75 , 000 as a rental investment . Now we have decided to sell our current home , worth about $70 , 000 , and convert the rental house into our permanent residence . I talked to our tax adviser and she says she thinks we can use that " residence replacement rule " in IRC 1034 to defer tax on our home sale . But she wasn ' t sure . What do you advise ? A-You have discovered a gray area of tax law . IRC 1034 requires tax deferral when selling your old principal residence and buying a replacement principal residence of equal or greater cost within two years before or after the sale . Presuming your old home sells within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the replacement home appears to qualify . However , if your tax return is audited , the fact you rented the new house for six months before moving into it might cause a problem . Since there is no clear-cut answer either way , you can argue that your situation meets the requirements of IRC 1034 . If the matter winds up in Tax Court , then you ' ll be famous and we ' ll all know the legal result . Q-My neighbor recently constructed a new fence along what she says is the boundary line between our properties . But I told her the fence is in the wrong location because , according to my calculations , it is about two feet on my side of the boundary . I even wrote her a letter ( and saved a copy ) but she went ahead and had the fence constructed anyway . Now she is building a garage which also will infringe on my two foot strip of land . What can I do to stop my neighbor from taking my land ? A-As quickly as possible have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ located . If the survey proves the boundary is where you think it is , then show it to your neighbor and ask her to remove the fence and stop building the garage on your land . However , if that fails , then consult an attorney to bring a " quiet title lawsuit " as rapidly as possible . The lawyer may recommend asking the court for an injunction to stop further construction of the garage . But be sure to take prompt action to avoid possible problems such as creation of a prescriptive easement or a defence of laches ( which means unreasonable delay in protecting a legal right ) . Please note : Real estate laws differ from place to place , and laws of your area should be checked before making decisions on real estate problems . Robert Bruss will answer inquiries addressed to Tribune Real Estate Features Service , P.O. Box 6710 , San Francisco Calif. 94101.                     