@@668641

Democrats on the House Budget Committee approved a package of budget cuts late Tuesday that matches the Senate-set goal of $56 billion in reductions while keeping Social Security benefits intact . The action followed a day of budget talk on Capitol Hill and tax talk in the White House , where President Reagan and his aides are preparing a tax- revision proposal . The budget panel ' s package , announced by Rep. William Gray ( D. , Pa. ) , the committee chairman , would freeze military spending for next year . The Senate- passed version would allow defense spending to grow at the same rate as inflation . The House committee ' s package would not eliminate a single program or cancel any of the numerous cost-of-living adjustments in other government benefit programs , Gray said , but it would freeze or cut spending throughout the federal government . Details of the package were not available Tuesday night , but sources who spoke only on condition that they not be identified told the Associated Press that the plan would :  --  Freeze salaries of all government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but at a 10 percent reduction.  --  Keep general-revenue sharing alive at least another year , but at a 25 percent reduction in federal expenditures.  --  Preserve at reduced spending levels the Jobs Corps , the Small Business Administration , urban development action grants , mass-transit grants , the Appalachian Regional Commission and the Economic Development Administration . Rep. Delbert Latta of Ohio , senior Republican on the Budget Committee , criticized the package for " taking too much out of defense and not eliminating any programs . To get out of this mess you ' re in , you ' ve got to terminate programs , and they ' re not doing it . " He predicted heavy Republican opposition to the plan . Gray said the package " provides for low-income programs , protecting them , and at the same time it will not mean a freeze or a cut in Social Security . " He said the full Budget Committee would meet Wednesday to consider the plan , drafted in a series of closed-door sessions during the last few weeks among the panel ' s 20-member Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to debate the budget next week . Meanwhile , in an obvious effort to head off deeper cuts in the military budget , Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said the Pentagon has found $4. 02 billion in " savings " that could be used to reduce the President ' s military budget . He said the Pentagon so far this year has spent $4. 02 billion less than it had projected primarily because its inflation estimates were too high . Normally , Weinberger said , such savings are used to lower military spending when Congress takes up appropriations bills later in the year . Weinberger said he was identifying the savings earlier so Congress could use them to meet the lower Pentagon spending targets in the recently passed Senate budget resolution . On the budget action in the House , Majority Leader James Wright ( D. , Tex. ) , who supports a minimum corporate tax to cut the deficit , acknowledged that the party was " divided " over whether to raise revenues to cut the deficit or lower personal tax rates . Congressional sources said it was likely that conservative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member Rep. Marvin Leath ( D. , Tex. ) , would be allowed to offer their own package in return for pledging to support the party ' s position rather than bolt as the " Boll Weevils " did in 1981 by teaming up with Republican House members to pass the President ' s budget and tax proposals . In this case , with a number of Republican House members opposed to freezing Social Security , " the greater fear is if you don ' t have them ( the conservative Democrats ) you don ' t have the votes to pass a budget resolution , " said a Democratic leadership aide . Leath said that , while he can ' t speak for other conservative Democrats , he would be satisfied with an assurance that would allow a vote on his proposal in addition to the one the Democratic leaders put forth . At the White House , Reagan worked on the tax-revision plan , reviewing options prepared by aides , but he did not give his final approval to a tax package being worked out by the White House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , behind schedule on his long-promised tax bill , met with Rep. Dan Rostenkowski ( D. , Ill. ) , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee ; Treasury Secretary James Baker , White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan and other advisers at the White House . An official said more meetings were planned for Wednesday , indicating that a tax-reform plan is not likely to be unveiled until next week at the earliest . There were indications Reagan might make a televised address on the matter Monday . Earlier , Reagan ' s spokesman , Larry Speakes , said a tax bill might be introduced by the end of this week.                     