@@668733

The nation ' s highest levels of radioactive iodine fallout in rain were reported Wednesday by the Environmental Protection Agency Wednesday over 18 U.S. cities as a result of the Chernobyl nuclear accident . The agency has been monitoring environmental radioactivity since May 1 in the aftermath of the Ukrainian accident near Kiev April 26 . Though the measurements of radioactive iodine , which is not found naturally in the environment , are higher than those reported before , the agency said the new readings pose no danger to public health . Boise , Idaho , posted the highest reading on May 10 , with a measurement of 9 , 000 picocuries of radioactive iodine in rainfall per square meter . The second highest reading thus far was reported May 11 in Salt Lake City , with 1 , 400 picocuries . A picocurie is one-trillionth of a curie , the unit used to measure radioactivity . Generally higher readings were found along the West Coast as an air mass from the Soviet Union carried radioactive particles from the accident , in which flames reportedly shot a thousand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ detecting radioactive fallout in this country from the accident on May 4 at Richland , Wash . The agency has 68 sampling stations across the country monitoring radioactivity in the air , rainfall and milk . Radioactive iodine is a health threat because it can cause thyroid cancer . Its half-life is eight days , meaning half of its radioactivity decays away every eight days and eventually disappears . The highest radioactive readings detected in the United States so far were found in rainfall , explained Chris Rice , an EPA spokesman . This would be expected , he said , since rain washes radioactive particles out of the atmosphere and back to earth . Rainfall radioactivity readings were much higher than those for air . Chicago posted an air radioactive iodine reading of . 0018 picocuries per square meter on May 7 , for example . " That ' s very low , " said Rice . " Because of the way these clouds or air masses behaved , we have seen our highest levels in precipitation , as opposed to air content . " The highest rainfall reading recorded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with 54 picocuries on May 7 . Radioactive fallout in the United States came from the jetstream , traveling 100 to 150 miles an hour at an altitude of 30 , 000 to 40 , 000 feet , Rice said . EPA believes three separate air masses picked up radioactive debris from Chernobyl . The jetstream that brought radioactive fallout to the U.S. " is probably somewhere in its second rotation of the earth , " he said , and probably will drop another load of radioactivity over the country . The peak radioactive rainfall readings ranged from a low of 13. 4 picocuries in Bismarck , N.D. , to the high in Boise . In Boise , Sheryl Koshuta , Idaho ' s chief of hazardous materials , said : " We don ' t characterize them as extremely high levels . " Under federal guidelines by the Food and Drug Administration , protective action should be taken if radioactive iodine levels in the environment reach 130 , 000 picocuries per square meter . Portland , Ore. , with a radioactive iodine level of 452 picocuries in its rainfall on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action because of the elevated radioactivity level . The Oregon State Health Division advised against drinking rainwater until further notice . George Toombs , a state radiation specialist , said the move was " a precautionary measure " since many people in that part of the country still trap rain for drinking water . EPA ' s Rice said that three separate air masses have been detected carrying radioactive debris from the Chernobyl accident . The first drifted slowly over Europe at an altitude of 5 , 000 to 10 , 000 feet . This air mass brought the radioactive fallout that alarmed Finland and Sweden , and alerted the world to the accident . A second air mass moved west from Chernobyl across the Soviet Union . Somewhere off the coast of Japan , said Rice , this air mass shot upward into the jetstream , where high-altitude rainstorms caused the fallout over the U.S. " From all the readings we ' ve seen in this country , there are no readings in precipitation , air or milk samples that are any cause for alarm or might cause any long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Other EPA sources said higher radioactive fallout figures in the United States might be reported soon.                     