@@735023

txt President Reagan and the leaders of the six other major industrial democracies have set a hard-to-achieve goal for their annual economic summit conference beginning Sunday near Ottawa : They will try to discuss deeply felt differences on a variety of thorny issues without turning the session into a bitter shoot-out . Accentuating the positive wo n't be easy . European and Japanese leaders have been complaining for months that high U.S. interest rates and a strengthening dollar are hurting their economies by forcing them to tighten monetary policy at home . European fears about a new surge of Japanese auto exports are raising new concerns about protectionism . And U.S. allies are n't happy about the Reagan administration 's apparent coolness on aid to poor countries . Waning Rhetoric Except for France . European rhetoric about U.S. interest rates has waned in rec ent weeks . Four of the seven leaders are new in office . And several are in political trouble at home-hardly the sort of situation to make anyone go out on a limb , an American onlooker notes . Instead . the summit conference @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goal of bolstering relationships among the chiefs of state . Mr. Reagan , for example . is expected to assure the other six that the U.S. will consult them more regularly on foreign- and economic-policy - questions . And fellow leaders are curious to hear what French President Francois Mitterrand has in mind for his newly elected Socialist government . But the leaders are n't expected to tackle seriously two other issues that have domenated past summits-the attempts to coordinate the major nations ' economic policies and to protect the countries against high prices and possible shortages of energy . With the current oversupply of oil keeping prices generally in check , the energy question has been placed on the back burner . And the allies are much too split over economic policies to agree on more than a bland statement allowing each country to go its own way . The U.S .. Britain , West Germany . Italy and Canada all want to keep inflation-fighting as the No. 1 priority . But France wants to switch the emphasis to combating unemployment . Japan seems ambivalent . What 's more , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conferences had become too bogged down in details and ought to be kept flexible . As a result , the communique this time is likely to contain even fewer specifics than usual . aides say . " It 's going to be much more direct talking in less structured situations than before . " says Canadian Minister of External Affairs Mark . The agenda has been boiled down to a few broad topics . And the leaders have scheduled private meals together to give themselves more time to talk alone . Free-Trade Commitment Perhaps the most predictable element , according to summit planners , is the expectation of a strong restatement by the seven leaders of their commitment to free trade . With protectionist pressures mounting-and the Europeans hoping for an export-led recovery-all seven want something to use in beating back domestic demands for trade barriers . The heads of state have many more problems that they could talk about if they wished . Inflation still is raging world-wide , though the rate in the U.S. has slowed . The European countries have slid into recession , and most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic squeeze is creating political instability in Europe . British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt both are under heavy pressure at home over the pocketbook issue . Mr. Mitterrand and Italian Prime Minister Giovanni Spadolini both upset their predecessors partly as a result of economic discontent . Their victories have raised the specter of other ousters . However . there are n't any quick or painless solutions , and the leaders are too divided-or too restricted politically-to agree to any sweeping new initiatives . A British official says Mr. Reagan . Mrs. Thatcher and Mr. Mitterrand all are " circumscribed by their election mandates " and could n't change their policies if they wanted to . Embarrassed Japanese And the Suzuki government has suffered so many political embarrassments in the past few months that its main aim at the summit is simply to escape without a serious gaffe . Says Hiromu Fukada , the foreign ministry 's director general for economic affairs : " We will have relatively little to say about other people 's economic policies . " Despite their complaints about lofty U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for their own political reasons . with little expectation of forcing Washington to switch policy-or so some summit planners say . One U.S. official asserts : " No one is demanding that the U.S. relax its money and credit policies . It 's mainly rhetoric for the voters . " Those Europeans who are willing to suggest what the U.S. should do contend that the administration should fine-tune the " mix of monetary and fiscal policy " - shorthand for postponing the pending tax cut so as to hold down the burgeoning U.S. budget deficit . But most U.S. allies acknowledge that is n't very realistic , given the American political situation . Moreover , the Europeans concede that they themselves are vulnerable . Last week , a high-level West German advisory panel declared that nation 's resort to tight credit policies was prompted by deficit spending by Chancellor Helmut Schmidt 's government , not the result of U.S. interest rates . Analysts say that argument can be applied to much of the rest of Europe . " An Easy Target " " U.S. interest rates are an easy target for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are n't the fundamental problem , " asserts Robert Hormats , the assistant U.S. secretary of state for economic and business affairs . American officials say Mr. Reagan is willing to explain his policies but intends to remain firm against changing them . Treasury Secretary Donald Regan told reporters this week the U.S. will try to convince its trading partners that high interest rates " are one of the side effects of inflation " and will drop within a few months . " We are n't going to be keeping rates high just for the sake of having high interest rates , " he said . " We 'll get them down as soon as we can . " Adds a Canadian official who has conferred with the other delegations : " I do n't think anyone expects the U.S. to come out of the summit and announce a change in its economic policy . " And American officials delight in pointing out that only last year the allies were pressuring the U.S. to tighten its economic policies lest it continue to " export " inflation . Concedes Dutch Finance Minister @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. for doing what we have been begging them to do for two years . " More Consultation Sought What the Europeans really want now , all sides agree , is to be consulted more on U.S. moves . " The Europeans are convinced that they 're at the crossroads , they have to make very major investment to adjust to the new world , and they 're concerned about the Impact of interest rates-that it will inhibit them from getting the money they need for investment , - one summit planner explains . Part of the Europeans ' concern is that they would n't have a chance to talk about all that . Reagan administration officials concede that the President will have to mend some fences . Accordingly , aides say , Mr. Reagan Is preparing an elaborate explanation of U.S. domestic and international economic policy and will take pains to reassure U.S. allies that traditional " consultation patterns " will be resumed . " The summit will give the President a chance to explain his domestic policies in a convincing way-to show it 's consistent and all hangs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also are planning some gestures to meet European and Japanese criticism on American policy toward developing countries . The past weekend 's trip to the Bahamas by Secretary of State Alexander Haig to begin working out a Caribbean aid policy was intended in part to provide a show of good faith . But the U.S. will continue to balk at increasing its aid contributions . Even so . the other six governments want to send a signal from the summit that the industrial nations are interested in the North-South talks- " a message of hope " to the developing world , a summit planner says . Two Wild Cards U.S. officials warn that two wild cards could upset a generally cooperative mood at Ottawa . One is Mr. Mitterrand . The new French president is expected to lead the attack on the U.S. over interest rates and American policy toward developing countries . but no one knows how far he will go or to what extent he will clash with Mr. Reagan . " In an international economic system . can one accommodate the Reagan and the Mitterrand models at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The other is the possibility of a Soviet invasion of Poland . Such an event could dominate the summit . The turning point could come at a critical meeting of the Polish Communist Party 's central committee , which is scheduled to convene just the day before the Ottawa meeting does . American officials want the allies to come up with some sort of contingency plan spelling out what economic sanctions the seven would impose if the Soviets attack , but the Europeans , and especially the Japanese . have indicated reluctance to take up defense or nationalsecurity matters .                     