@@735070

txt In 1937 when Stalin was ordering the arrest . torture , exile and execution of great masses of his Soviet comrades , Eugenia Ginzburg , a professor at Kazan University and devoted Communist Party member , protested the arrest of one of her colleagues . Soon after , in a trial that lasted seven minutes , she was convicted of " participation in a Trotskyist terrorist counter-revolutionary group " and sentenced to 10 years in prison . There began The Bookshelf " Within the Whirlwind " By Eugenia Ginzburg an 18-year tour of the prison archipelago of eastern Siberia , the forced-labor camps where Mrs. Ginzburg learned along with so many other true-believers what really had been wrought in the name of Soviet communism . " Within the Whirlwind " ( Harcourt Brace Jovanovich , 423 pages . 817.50 ) is the second and final volume of Mrs. Ginaburg 's moving and brilliantly written accoorit of her journey through Stalin 's hell , and it ? mong the finest works of its kind . Mrs. Ginzburg recounts how she worked on the frozen land with other women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , eating rations that all but guaranteed starvation On the brink of death , she was fortunate enough to be given work in a children 's home , where babies born in camp were cared for and where most inevitably died . The rest of her time in the gulags with a few nearly fatal exceptions , she worked as a nurse in the camp " hospitals , " actually just shacks against the freezing winds , where the camps ' victims were offered brief moments of rest before they died . But " Within the Whirlwind " is not merely a chronicle of camp horrors . Through all of her suffering , and in the midst of the most desperate conditions , Eugenia Ginzburg managed to find that other part of human nature , the compassionate . generous side which is so often hidden by fear and hunger . Acts of kindness by prisoners and even their guards and commandants were not rare . In fact . Mrs. Ginzburg probably owed her survival to unpredictable and almost miraculous deeds of human decency . The Soviet prison system as she depicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authority , but a system based ultimately on irrationality . Matters of life or death could be decided by the whim of a camp commandant completely unaware of the effects of his decision , and prisoners could occasionally save themselves or their compatriots by subtle manipulation of their jailers . It was even possible for friendships between prisoners and commandants to develop , and such bizarre relationships saved Mrs. Ginzburg from almost certain death more than once . What may be most remarkable about " Within the Whirlwind " is that it has a happy ending . One may wish to shy away from using such words to describe so tragic a life , but it is perhaps the greatest tribute to Eugenia Ginzburg that after all she had been through she never fell prey to bitterness . " I was not only fortunate , but infinitely fortunate , " she writes " It was not only arms and legs . eyes and ears that I was taking with me relatively intact ; my soul , too , had come through it all more or less unscathed : it had not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ despair and to exult I was possessed by a feeling of gratitude . " Given all the awful possibilities , she had much to be grateful for . Unlike many of her compatriots who immediately received second sentences , she was released from pnson directly upon the end of her 10-year term , though she served another eight years in exile . She was able to settle near the camp where the man she had fallen in love with , the saintly Dr. Anton Walter , was still imprisoned . She got a job teaching kindergarten in an area school , unheard of for an ex-prisoner deprived of all civil rights , and managed to bring her only living son , Vasya. to live with her after 12 years of separation . Eventually , Dr. Walter was released and they were married . But perhaps her greatest good fortune was that she outlived Stalin , the " Georgian Serpent " who had taken 18 years nut of her life . On the day Stalin died she wept along with the rest of her country . " I was weeping for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prison cells . All the long files of those who had suffered the final penalty , and the countless legions who had been made to suffer . And my own life destroyed by his diabolical will . " Stalin 's death brought her unimaginable new opportunities . She was rehabilitated " in the light of newly discovered circumstances " and " In the absence of any corpus delicti " and allowed to return to the Communist Party . She was even permitted to resume her teaching and scholarship . Ironically , the rust class she taught included some of her former interrogators and jailers. a bizarre twist which brought stinging criticisms from some of her fellow ex-prisoners , but which she defends with characteristic charity and goodwill ? " Ours was an age in which events affected such huge numbers of people , and the dividing lines between butchers and their victims were so blurred ( think of all the people who had been only too ready to put others through Stalin 's mincing machine , before slipping into it themselves ! ) , that barricades such as that which in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ existed .... Well then , were we to revenge ourselves on all of them ? Should we rival the tyrant in cruelty ? Was the ritual of hate to be prolonged indefinitely ? " Mrs. Ginzburg , of course , had herself at one time swallowed the Great Lie . had loudly proclaimed the communist dogma . so her desire to forgive the wrongheadedness and cruelty of others was understandably generous . But in one chapter . entitled " mea culpa , " she looks back on her own errors with a harsher eye . " When you ca n't sleep , the knowledge that you did not directly take part in the murder and betrayal is no consolation . After all , the assassin is not only he who struck the blow , but whoever supported evil , no matter how : by thoughtless repetition of dangerous political theories ; by silently raising his right hand : by faintheartedly writing half-truths . Mea Culpa and it occurs to me more and more frequently that even eighteen years of hell on earth is insufficient expiation for the guilt . " All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reader of " Within the Whirlwind " who would not forgive this wise . courageous and compassionate woman for whatever mistakes she might once have made . Mr. Kagan is a student at Harvard 's Kennedy School of Govermnent.                     