@@668096

First , before anything , there is a new vocabulary to be considered . " Split weeks , " for instance . And " block time . " And especially " coparenting . " Which is not to accuse joint custody of being a bit of a fad , even though certain local lawyers refer to it as The Cambridge Arrangement . " It ' s just around , like pollen , " offers Jane Cohen , a local lawyer who specializes in family law . " People saw Kramer vs . Kramer ' and they don ' t want that to happen to them . " What happened in the movie " Kramer vs . Kramer " was that two parents fought it out in court for the custody of their 7-year-old son . Things got very messy . Neither mom nor dad ( nor their lawyers ) raised the possibility of joint custody , an alternative which may have made sense but would have turned off the film like an electric light switch . On the surface , joint parental custody of children after a divorce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is also misunderstood ( see box ) , controversial and basically untested . This is particularly true when the issue at hand is joint physical custody , an arrangement where the children alternate living with their father and mother . Robert Leclair adamantly argues in favor of joint custody . Why ? " Because sole custody is detrimental to the children , " replies Leclair , the president of Fathers United for Equal Justice , Inc. , a counseling and educational group for divorced fathers . " Under sole custody the children lose one parent . That particular parent becomes disposable , which is bad for the parent and traumatic for the children . " Gerald McLellan counters for those opposed to joint custody . " Joint custody is not in the best interest of the children ; it placates parental ego , " says McClellan , a former Massachusetts probate judge who recently returned to private practice . " I don ' t see enough parents being mature enough to make joint custody work . They ' re too much into the I. ' " The battle lines are thereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the children ' s sense of loss and offers the broadening benefits of two parents and two homes . The Cons argue that the children become a yoyo used by the parents to continue their squabble , and the children lose their sense of continuity and place . The jury , as it were , is still out . In his Waltham office , where he conducts business as the personnel manager for a pump manufacturing firm , 40- year-old Jim Nolan displays a pair of color photographs of his three children . There is Kevin , 10 ; Christopher , 7 ; and Kerry , 5 . For the past 14 months the children have been spending an average of three nights a week with their father in a two-bedroom apartment in Foxboro . On the other nights they live a mile or so away in an eight-room garrison home with their mother Kathleen , 31 . Jim and Kathleen Nolan ' s divorce become final in May of this year after 11 years of marriage . " The judge was not too thrilled about our idea for joint custody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time waitress and bartender in Braintree . She is sitting in her well-kept modern kitchen as she talks , keeping one eye on her daughter ' s idea of a good time : Taping small pieces of paper to the side of the refrigerator . " But I just can ' t see how a woman can take the kids if the husband is a good father , " she says . " And Jim is a fantastic father . The kids need his help and I need his help . I can ' t raise my children by myself . " Jim Nolan knew he did not want the more traditional " visitation rights " arrangement . " I ' ve known fathers who had that kind of thing and stopped it , " he says , adjusting his gold colored , wire frame glasses and leaning across his desk . " It was just too painful for them to see their kids for a very limited period of time . You ' ve heard the cliche but I believe in it : When a guy gets divorced from his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Nolans have obviously undergone an amicable divorce . They speak with disarming confidence about the custody arrangement they have worked out . The only questions seem to revolve around minor logistical problems ( the kids keep most of their belongings at the house , so an athletic bag travels with them to their father ' s apartment ) and slight differences in style ( " I let them get away with murder when it comes to bedtime , " Jim Nolan admits ) . " If they go to Jim about something , he always supports me , " notes Kathleen . " One day a while ago Kevin told me he was going to call his father and say I wasn ' t being nice to him and that he wanted to go live with his father . Jim told him to settle down . " " We all want this to work , " says her former husband , offering that as an explanation for why it apparently does . As to why the arrangement should work while their marriage didn ' t , he shrugs . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What we do not have here is a landslide . It is more like a few pebbles beginning to roll down a hill , propelled by an emphasis on fathers ' rights and the increasing number of women in the work force . Joint custody of any type is more common than it was five years ago , but is still rare . Massachusetts probate judges almost always rubber-stamp such an arrangement if it is agreed upon by the parents . A contested divorce - one which goes to trial - almost never results in joint custody , on the theory that feuders can ' t be friends . In Massachusetts - where the growing divorce rate is still considerably less than the national rate - statutes do not , as do those in a handful of states , specifically allow joint custody . Neither do they prohibit it , which is the reason several bills legalizing it have quietly died over the past few years . What the commonwealth did 159 years ago was declare the custodial rights of the parents to be equal in the absence of misconduct , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ custody agreements favor the mother . ( The opposite was true when the law was written . Now there is the feeling in legal circles that the pendulum is beginning to swing ever-so- slightly back in the direction of the father . ) The thing to remember about joint physical custody is that it means different things to different families . Block time coparenting arrangements may include split weeks , alternate months , taking turns by year or almost anything else . No one knows which setup works best , or even if what seems to be the best arrangement for a particular family will work out in the long run . There is even " bird ' s nest " custody , whereby the children stay put and the parents move in and out . Susan Horn-Moo , 40 , a lawyer living in Brookline , says she did not get what she wanted . Speaking evenly but firmly , she states her case . " I wanted my children to have a primary residence with me , " she says . " I think children need a sense of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a primary sense of values and sensibility . I wanted sole legal custody , and joint physical custody with my children spending 70 percent of their time with me and 30 percent with their father . " What Susan Horn-Moo and her former husband Charles Moo - a 44 year-old geophysicist who also lives in Brookline - ended up with was 50-50 physical custody of their two children , Lauren , 13 and David , 9 . The arrangement was reached after each originally filed suit for sole custody in 1977 . Lauren and David now live with each parent during the school year for alternating three month periods . There is also overnight visitation every other weekend and one weekday per week . Vacations are split equally between their father ' s three- bedroom apartment and their mother ' s four-bedroom house , which are in the same school district about three-quarters of a mile apart . The kids have their own rooms in each home . There is a sharp difference of opinion here . Susan Horn-Moo obviously does not care for this complicated arrangement . She says she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mounting legal bills and the prospect of continued litigation while the family was still living under one roof . Charles Moo thinks it is working just fine even though the only thing he and his wife communicate about is their children . " I wanted to be integrally connected with my children , not derivatively connected , " Moo says . " I think children need both parents for affection , for approval and for seeing more adults in their lives . As for the parents , they don ' t even need to be able to sit down together to work out something like this . They don ' t have to agree on anything as long as they can be good parents . " His former wife does not concur . She worries about her children being exposed to two different value systems . She says her son exhibits confusion as to just where he is living . " And the fact of the matter is , " she contends , " that if you don ' t get along with your ex-spouse this type of situation can produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not that I don ' t believe it ' s important for children to have a close relationship with both parents . And clearly both our children love us . But couldn ' t that have been achieved in another context ? Wasn ' t 30 percent enough ? " Susan Horn-Moo and Charles Moo notwithstanding , the prevailing theory is that cooperation , communication and shared values are required in order to make joint physical custody work . Also needed is geographic proximity . If any such arrangement has a boiling point , it usually occurs when one of the parents moves away and wants to continue the status quo or even acquire sole custody . " It ' s the last thing in the world they think about when they ' re making arrangements , " says attorney Jane Cohen . " And when these things blow up it ' s the nastiest thing I ' ve ever seen . "                     