@@669892

WASHINGTON  --  The Environmental Protection Agency proposed tighter air-pollution control standards for small and heavy-duty trucks and buses to comply with a federal court order . The regulations would require , for the first time , large diesel-powered trucks and buses to control the tiny unburned particles in the exhaust that pose health hazards , reduce visibility and contribute to other air pollution problems . By the 1992 model year , EPA officials said about half of all such vehicles probably will be required to use traps to capture and burn the particles before they are spewed into the atmosphere . Nearly all buses operating in inner cities would be required to use so-called trap oxidizers under one of the alternatives spelled out in the proposal . Overall , the cost to consumers by 1992 is estimated at as much as $1. 9 billion . The proposed rules are expected to become final next spring or summer . Details depend on comments the agency receives from truck manufacturers , health experts and environmentalists ; environmental groups took the EPA to court for failing to propose standards for heavy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standards for trucks and buses , depending on weight , engine type and whether they are used primarily in urban or rural areas . The EPA ' s proposal also appears to set the stage for tightening particulate standards for diesel-powered cars in the late 1980s . The agency has been wrestling with that problem since 1981 , but the current move to crack down on big diesel engines is likely to provide the EPA with additional legal and technical justification to issue stricter pollution rules for smaller diesel models in the future . Trucks and bus makers have indicated they wouldn ' t have much trouble meeting the interim standards proposed by the EPA for the 1987 model year . But the industry is likely to object to tougher standards slated to go into effect in 1990 . The EPA estimated that the standard will boost the price of an average light-duty truck , for example , by about $74 in 1987 . The cost of an average heavy-duty diesel truck , by comparison , is expected to increase more than $40 by 1987 and $715 by 1990 . EPA @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between different truck models , which is expected to help reduce the overall cost of compliance . The EPA first drafted the proposed rules in 1980 and 1981 , but they were delayed as part of the Reagan administration ' s effort to scale back environmental regulation of the then-financially strapped U.S. car and truck industry . The EPA projects that makers of light-duty trucks will have to pay between $612 million and $1. 08 billion by 1992 to comply with the proposed standards . Almost all the other costs will be borne by makers of large diesel-powered trucks . Under the proposal , light-duty trucks weighing less than 6 , 000 pounds will have to cut nitrogen oxide emissions roughly in half by 1987 and the largest trucks will have to demonstrate a roughly 60% reduction of such pollution by 1990 . The proposed standard for particles spewed out by big diesel-powered trucks is comparable to the preliminary standard for diesel-powered cars that agency officials are leaning toward issuing for 1987 . But a final decision on the car standard , which would run into more widespread industry opposition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until next year , according to agency officials . General Motors Corp. said , " The ultimate ( pollution ) standards of today will require further developments of technology , with particular emphasis on increasing the durability of the emission systems that will be required . " Chrysler Corp. previously has said only its light trucks would be affected by changes in pollution-control regulations , but Chrysler officials weren ' t available for comment on the EPA proposals . Ford Motor Co. said it " expects to comment on the EPA proposals at one of the November hearings , but our initial reaction is that the proposed 1987 standards don ' t adequately take into account the industry ' s lead-time requirements . The proposed 1990 standards for heavy trucks mightn ' t be feasible . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     