@@668205

CAPE CANAVERAL , Fla. - An unexpected , unexplained computer problem kept America ' s space shuttle grounded yesterday , disappointing scientists and spectators alike . Engineers and computer scientists , including teams from Draper Laboratories in Cambridge , Mass. , were hard at work on the problem yesterday , after liftoff of the shuttle was postponed until at least tomorrow when another attempt to launch the complex craft will be made at 6:50 a.m . The attempt to launch the orbiter spacecraft , Columbia , carrying two huge booster rockets and a large fuel tank , was called off after frantic efforts to correct the computer problem failed . ( According to Reuters , Mission Control officials said last night the cause of the computer hitch in the shuttle is in the programming of the main computers aboard the craft. * The two astronauts who were to ride Columbia into earth orbit , John Young and Robert Crippen , spent about five hours in the craft yesterday while computer specialists worked on the problem . At about 10 a.m. , 3 1/2 hours after scheduled takeoff , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to launch was made because a backup computer was unable to communicate properly with the spacecraft ' s four primary computers . These computers are responsible for controlling the spacecraft and doing the navigation through most of its mission . In essence , the one back-up computer was unable to " hear " the messages sent to it by the main units . According to Neil Hutchinson , the program ' s ascent flight director , the maiden flight was postponed because , " like anything we do for the first time , we don ' t like to have all our eggs in one basket . " He said that project controllers were worried that the computer problem might be something built into the five computer systems or into their programs , " and we wanted to avoid any chance that some generic error could wipe out all the data in all the machines . " He added that as many as 100 people were working on the system trying to find and correct the problem . The computers were designed and built by the IBM Corp. , which also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the project , however , were scientists from the Draper Laboratories , which is well known for its design and construction of space navigation systems . A representative of the laboratory , reached by telephone , said : " Draper Laboratory is a participating subcontractor providing support for the design , development and verification of various elements of both the primary and backup space shuttle flight computer programs . " The laboratory provides real-time mission support both at its Cambridge facility and at the Mission Control Center at the Johnson Space Flight Center ( JSFC ) in Houston . " The Draper staff at the mission evaluation room in Houston is in communication with the staff at Cambridge . The laboratory is assisting in evaluation of the communication difficulties between the four primary computers and the back-up flight computer which is causing this delay . " When it is finally launched , the shuttle is expected to become America ' s space workhorse for the 1980s and 1990s . It is designed so that the orbiter part , which resembles a large airplane , can be reused . Its mission would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so repairs can be made . In order to be able to accomplish this mission , the Columbia - which is two years behind schedule - is the most complex space vehicle ever developed . The shuttle program has cost $9 billion . It has been almost six years since Americans last put a manned flight into space . Interest in the shuttle in this region of Florida is so intense that more people than have ever watched a space launch from here before gathered yesterday on the beaches , long roads and in grandstands to watch the flight . Spokesmen for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration ( NASA ) said they believed more than 1.5 million spectators turned out to see the show . Many began leaving after it fizzled.                     