@@668300

The capacity crowd of 15,429 at the Civic Center got its money ' s worth , and much , much more as the Celtics outran the lovable Detroit Pistons by a 134-124 score last night . Boston was forced into an uptempo game for three periods , scoring 40 of its first 92 points via the fast-break route . After building up a 20-point lead at 104-84 , the Celts faltered a bit behind the Kelly Tripucka-led burst that reduced the big Boston lead to 11 on five occasions in the fourth period when there still was time to think about a miracle comeback . But when things really got sticky , Larry Bird went to work . This was a true virtuoso effort by Bird , who rebounded from two sub-par games with a magnificent all-around effort that included a quiet 40 points , 16 tough rebounds , 7 assists and four steals . He capped his night ' s work with a steal of a Detroit outlet and a left- corner jumper ( he was 18-for-28 from the floor ) that gave the Celtics a 132-121 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had a very noisy 28 that included 13 in the fourth period . His Baryshnikovian reputation was not harmed by two sensational acrobatic shots in the last period . The Celtics were tied at 54-all before M.L. Carr came into the game with 5:07 left in the half . Mighty Loose came up with three steals in conjunction with backcourt partner Gerald Henderson as the Celtics moved to a 72-65 halftime lead . They expanded the lead in the third quarter behind some assiduous board- banging . Boston would finish with 30 points on second shots , and that , combined with 42 fast-break points , was enough to hold off the enthusiastic , aggressive Pistons . The key third-quarter spurt was a run of 18-6 that featured the ballhawking of Bird and Tiny Archibald . Bird ' s followup of a Chris Ford three- point miss and Bird ' s sneakaway dunk made the score 90- 73 and forced Scotty Robertson into a time out . The triumph gave the Celtics undisputed possession of first place in the Atlantic Division , and it closed out their Hartford schedule with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Denver intrasquad game in the first half , as the Celtics carved out an amazing 72-65 intermission advantage . The Pistons had hit the world champs with a 38-point first quarter that included 20 fast-break points ( on 10-for-12 running ) , but the Celtics came right back in the second quarter to pick up 19 fast-break points of their own . Thus a Detroit lead that had twice peaked at eight in the first quarter ( 28-20 , 30-22 ) was turned into a pair of 10-point Boston leads , each one answered by Kelly Tripucka , whose three-point play with six seconds left created the halftime score . Considering that in their previous game the Celtics had been involved in a 41-37 affair at halftime , this track meet was rather startling to behold . But Detroit had come here in a running groove , having dropped a 130-127 decision to the Lakers on Saturday in Pontiac . They forced the tempo upon the Celtics , and made Boston sweat Thomas picked the Celts apart in the opning period , scoring 8 points and handing out 8 assists . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bench to score 10 quickies , and , of course , Tripucka . The Celts were able to force some turnovers in the second quarter , especially when M.L. Carr entered the game with 5:07 left in the half and the score tied at 54 . Carr and Gerry Henderson were scurrying all over the place , combining to create three easy Boston baskets as the Celtics enjoyed their best spurt of the game , moving from a 59-58 lead to their first 10-point lead , at 70-60 , with exactly a minute to play in the half . But Tripucka answered that with a jumper , and following a Bird sneakaway dunk of a Carr gim me feed , Tripucka came back again with a baseline drive , one of his specialties . The pace of the game was positively relentless . At the six minute mark of the first quarter , the score was 20-16 , Detroit , and the clubs practically maintained that scoring pace for the remainder of the half . The fast break efficiency was impressive , as well , as people weren ' t @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been running well at all , converted 10 of 11 second-period running chances , for example . There wasn ' t much in the way of strategy ; this was the NBA of Denver and San Antonio , in which offensive might rules . Fortunately for the Celticx , Bird , a 10-for-35 shooter in his two previous games , had his touch back and was able to lead all first-half scorers with 19 points .                     