@@735822

txt The notice was posted in Green Beret units in 1965 in Vietnam . " WANTED : Volunteers for Project DELTA . Will guarantee you a medal , a body bag , or both . " Citizens of what has been called our " effemmized " society might be surprised to hear that then Special Forces Maj. Charlie Beckwith , who was to train and lead this new super-elite unit , was absolutely swamped with volunteers . President Carter was surprised himself on visiting Maj. Beckwith 's Delta Force at Fort Bragg after its abortive raid on Iran to free the Tehran hostages  --  a mission that did n't fail for lack of daring . " I did n't know we still had people like this , " Mr. Bookshelf " Delta Force " Bu Charlie Beckwith and Donald Knox Carter told Maj. Beckwith . " I am very proud of these men . " Back in Vietnam , Charlie Beckwith had made his first attempt to create from within the Green Berets a unit modeled on Britain 's celebrated SAS ( Special Air Services ) , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ told , retains for service only 2 , ' , of the volunteers who complete its harrowing training course . Michael Herr , in his brilliant " Dispatches , " has given us an awed picture of the Army 's " Lurps " ( Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol ) that coincides with the kind of men Charlie Beckwith and Donald Knox describe in " Delta Force " ( Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. 310 pages , $14.95 ) , loners , a little paranoid , completely self-reliant . capable of prodigies of endurance ? and of killing without hesitation . At the massacre of the Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics of 1972 , the West Germans had learned the hard way . German marksmen had Black September terrorists in the hairlines of their telescopic sights , but had frozen , unable to fire . Bonn 's answer was to form , also on the model of the SAS , Germany 's now-famous GSG-9 ( Grenzschatzgruppe ) , which in midOctober 1977 conducted a spectacular raid freeing a plane load of hostages held by terrorists in Mogadishu in Somalia . Immediately after Mogadishu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. Joint Chiefs : " Do we have the same capability ? " The bitter truth was that we did not . Wounded and almost killed in Vietnam  --  after which his Project Delta seemed to melt away  --  Charlie Beckwith had been fighting for 14 years for the creation of such a unit . Britain , West Germany . France , Italy and Israel all had highly trained military antiterrorist units . Mogadishu finally gave Charlie Beckwith his green light . As a former member of a vaguely elite military unit , I can only say I have never even heard of training like that Charlie Beckwith gave his Delta Force . Men dropped off singly in rough terrain with weapons , a compass , a rough hand-drawn map and a 70-pound pack , running all night . Men firing weapons at special moving targets or In darkened rooms for threeto four hours daily . In an evaluation test , Delta approached a large isolated house , stealthily placed padded aluminum ladders against its sides and , at the command . " Take it down ! " charged up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rims , stormed inside with maximum violence and speed  --  and put two .45 slugs Into the head of every " terrorist " without touching a hair of a single " hostage . " Time : 7 seconds . The call came when the U.S. Embassy in Tehran " went down " on Nov. 4 , 1979 . Delta trained and trained , and trained some more . Air Force pilots flying C-130s at 400 feet to stay under enemy radar . Marine pilots in Navy Sea Stallion helicopters , a company of Army Rangers and Delta Force  --  they all rehearsed Operation Eagle Claw seven times in the Arizona desert , staged it once in Egypt , and then , for the last time , at Masirah Island near Oman . Everyone now knows what happened to Operation Eagle Claw in the Iranian desert . The sandstorm , the failed helicopters , the crash , the burning 0130 , the dead , the mission aborted . When a mission fails . as they say , there 's always enough blame to go around  --  the most common criticism being inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem had always been the prodigiously difficult task of " getting Delta there . " After a careful reading of Col. Beckwith 's absolutely compelling book , I now believe that if Delta had ever reached the Tehran Embassy . the chances of the mission 's success would have been very high . Col. Beckwith is clearly not fond of his fellow Georgian Jimmy Carter . But giving Mr. Carter the benefit of all doubts , we still had people like Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher , who , at a White House briefing before the operation , asked Col. Beckwith what he intended to do with the Iranian guards . " Take them out , " said Col. Beckwith . " What do you mean ? " asked Mr. Christopher . " Will you shoot them In the shoulder ? " No , answered Col. Beckwith , they would each get two .45 caliber rounds between the eyes . " You mean you 're going to shoot to kill ? " said Mr. Christopher , obviously unsettled . But in these times I would prefer to think of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , desperate to go into action , afraid only that at the last minute President Carter would call off the raid . The Warren Christophers come and go . But if our country ever ceases to produce men like those in Col. Beckwith 's Delta Force , and all the others who volunteered for Eagle Claw , we will go under . Nations without men like this simply do n't survive . As I write , the Pentagon has just disclosed that the first U.S. unit to land on Grenada during the recent invasion was a secret , elite commando team called " Delta Blue Light . " So Delta lives . Mr. Greiner is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy . His recent novel , " The Marrakesh One-Two " ( Houghton Mifflin ) , has been nominated for the National Book Critic 's Circle Award .                     