@@668182

Atty . Neil L. Lynch , chief counsel to Gov . Edward J. King , has formallyapplied to the Judicial Nominating Committee for the vacancy on the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court that will occur Feb. 18 when Associate Justice Francis J. Quirico reaches the mandatory retirement age of 70 . Lynch , who served King as counsel for Massport when the governor was executive director there , is expectcd to get the nod for the high court from King after the JNC goes through the motions and recommends him . Later this year , the governor will get another opening on the SJC and this is expected to go to State Appeals Court Associate Justice Joseph Nolan , according to informed sources in the governor ' s office . The real reason Gov . Edward J. King was unable to deliver the state auditor post to Joyce L. Hampers , his commissioner of revenue , was a problem over establishing that Hampers has been a resident of the Commonwealth for the past five years . She and her husband , Dr. Constantine Hampers , also maintain a home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secretary of administration and finance who was pushing Hampers for the post held by Thaddeus Buczko for the past 16 years , were unaware of the residency tangle at the time they persuaded Buczko to take a probate judgeship and open the door for putting Hampers on the state ticket in 1982 . State law requires constitutional officers to be residents of the state for at least five years . Former IRS Intelligence Division Chief Richard Reale , who worked on the staff of the Special Commission on State and County Buildings , has been retained by the State Ethics Commission to do investigatory work for the watchdog agency . Reale was a natural for the staff of the new Office of Inspector General until Gov . Edward J. King and the Legislature amended the IG bill last year to prohibit any employee of the Ward Commission from ever being able to work for the IG . Det . Lt. Edward Schofield , one of the top investigators of the Massachusetts State Police for the past two decades , retired Dec. 31 . In recent years Schofield , who did outstanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. ) during the 1960s and 1970s , has been used by several governors to probe the backgrounds of individuals under consideration for appointment to judgeships and other sensitive state posts . Gov . Edward J. King has asked real estate man George Frattaroli to handle the organization of his 1982 campaign for re-election . Frattaroli , who organzed King ' s 1978 campaigns in the Democratic primary and the November election , had a falling out with King after serving several months as patronage chief for the new administration . King then paid Frattaroli $32,000 as compensation for his loss of income during the 1978 campaign . Although the governor refused to appoint Frattaroli to the Mass . Turnpike Commission last July , the two men have reached accord again , as the request from King that Frattaroli handle his re-election bid indicates . Gov . Edward J. King and his longtime friend , architectural firm president David R. ( Dick ) Thissen , came down with heavy colds during their annual Christmas vacation in Florida . Some state officials are getting the impression that Charley Buffone , former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as superintendent of state buildings after the latter became secretary of public safety for the King administration , is allowing games to be played with some of the parking spaces in the Saltonstall and McCormack State Office Buildings . Of particular interest is the fact that members of the State Appellate Tax Board lost their spaces following reports that the board was not going to look favorably on Wonderland Dog Track ' s appeal for a three-year abatement of the taxes the track pays the city of Revere . The son of one of the track owners is in charge of allotting spaces in the garage . Norfolk County Dist . Atty . William D. Delahunt is one of several politicians who will participate in racquetball exhibitions at the Ridge Racquet Club , Braintree , next weekend when the club presents its annual open house . John Kerry , former first assistant district attorney of Middlesex County , will run for the Democratic nomination for lieutenant governor . The Kerry decision is a further indication that Lt. Gov . Thomas P. O ' Neill 3d plans to go all the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gov . Edward J. King and former Gov . Michael S. Dukakis . Mass . Citizens for Life , Inc. will hold its annual commemoration of the US Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion next Sunday at 1 p.m. at Boston ' s Faneuil Hall . A City Hall reception will follow the memorial service for the fetuses aborted since the 1973 high court ruling . The Special Commission on State and County Buildings ran out of time Dec. 31 and , as a result , was unable to include a section it had planned concerning the Norfolk County recreation area at Wollaston . The county project , which was built on the site of the old Wollaston Golf Club , was authorized in a special bill passed by the Legislature and signed by former Gov . Francis W. Sargent seven years ago . The commission looked into several aspects of the reconstruction of the golf links situated off Granite avenue and West Squantum street . Some amateur cartoonists continue to try to make a buck at the expense of Gov . Edward J. King . The latest offering to come across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off the number of days remaining in the governor ' s current term . Rep. Joseph Moakley of South Boston and Francis O ' Connor , regional director of the US Dept. of Commerce , will present Massport officials with President Carter ' s " E " Award for Export Service in recognition of the Port Authority ' s Small Business Export Program . The presentation will be made at 6 p.m. tomorrow at the Museum of Transportation , 300 Congress st . Sen. Paul Tsongas will observe his 40th birthday on St. Valentine ' s Day with another $100-per-person dinner at the Boston Park Plaza Hotel . Former sportswriter D. Leo Monahan of the Herald-American is the new sports publicist for the University of Massachusetts . Rep. Richard R. Silva of Gloucester has been awarded the annual Pilgrim Award for Community Service by the state Amvets.                     