@@668398

The Massachusetts man indicted last week for failing to register for thedraft said yesterday he had written to the government a year ago telling them he wouldn ' t register . " I wanted to express my solidarity with the people they ( the government were threatening , " Edward Hasbrouck , 22 , said in a telephone interview from Pennsylvania , where he was hitchhiking and visiting friends . No arraignment date has yet been set for his case . Hasbrouck , who has been staying with various friends in Boston , said he will appear when notified by authorities . " I wanted to make it clear they were not going to succeed in intimidating an entire movement and by threatening a few people . " Hasbrouck , 22 , a commercial artist who has been active in the antidraft movement since leaving the University of Chicago in January 1980 , said that he expected to be convicted and sent to prison for failing to register " My hope at the start was that if enough people didn ' t register we ' d be able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " We ' ve succeeded . My other hope , now , is that we will force the US government in the future to base its policies on the realization that we can ' t have a draft , that we are not willing to fight their wars . " Approximately 500,000 men or 6 percent of those required to do so have not registered for the draft , according to the Selective Service System . In August , the government sent out 33,000 letters warning men who had failed to register that they faced possible prosecution . An additional 175,000 warning letters are scheduled to be sent out in the near future . Legislation has also been introduced in Congress that would prevent men who have failed to register from receving government-backed student loans . In a statement , Hasbrouck ' s mother , Marguerite Hasbrouck of Elmwood road in Wellesley , said the government was indicting " active , open and vocal " opponents of draft registration in an attempt to " intimidate those who have not registered or who soon will be due to register . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all men born after Jan. 1 , 1960 , must register their name , address , Social Security number and phone number with the Selective Service within 30 days of their 18th birthday . Late registration is also accepted . Approximately 8.7 million men have registered for the draft so far , according to Selective Service figures . Hasbrouck , who grew up in Wellesley , said he became involved in the antidraft registration movement in part because of political- science courses he took at at the University of Chicago . " I grew up with the idea that democracy meant something along the lines of a town meeting , that people decided things collectively , " Hasbrouck said . " But the essential idea of government in the US does not involve people meeting to decide things . It ' s a group of people deciding what they want another group to do and then making them do it . " Hasbrouck said he left the University of Chicago in 1980 after three yearsbecause he wanted to become more involved in politics . In August , Hasbrouck was arrested for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A friend of Hasbrouck was being charged with failing to register for the draft and during the court proceeding Hasbrouck embraced the man and refused to let go . Hasbrouck was sent briefly to Danbury federal prison in Connecticut when he was unable to meet $15,000 bail . The case , friends of Hasbrouck said yesterday , is still pending . The US Attorney ' s Office in Massachusetts is investigating other cases of men who may have failed to register for the draft . US Atty . William Weld said a decision on these cases would be made " at the conclusion of each investigation . "                     