@@668121

Shortly before noon Thursday , Rev. Timothy Fergusen bowed his head , placed a stole around his neck , and prayed , " Bless this place of business , help it thrive . . . " Completing his brief prayer , Fr . Fergusen sprinkled holy water , the drops landing on several large jars of jelly beans and other confections sold by Cardoos Sweets . Cardoos is one of 39 shops and restaurants housed in The Arcade , an enclosed shopping center built 152 years ago and reopened Thursday after nearly a year-long restoration . Its owner did not regard the blessing lightly , even though the sight of Fr . Fergusen praying over the candies did raise a fewchuckles . The sweets shop and Providence itself are hoping that the same kind of marketing idea that has transformed the Faneuil Hall Marketplace in Boston into a thriving business center and popular tourist attraction also will help bring prosperity to The Arcade and the city ' s long-struggling downtown area . " We are trying to avoid giving the impression that a miracle will happen and create @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ director of the Providence Foundation , a branch of the Chamber of Commerce that began the push to restore the building . " But for the first time in a long time , developers have been looking at the city as a viable place . And that ' s a good sign . " Considered one of the best examples of 19th century American architecture , The Arcade resembles a Greek temple , with six 22-foot Ionic granite columns at each of its two entrances . More recently , it has been little more than a convenient shortcut between Westminster and Weybosset streets , its distinction as the nation ' s oldest covered mall long forgotten and its wares largely ignored . Following a brief dedication ceremony Thursday , however , large crowds roamed excitedly through the building as if they had never seen it before , examining shops , several of which are branches of successful enterprises in Boston ' s Faneuil Hall Marketplace , including Pizzeria Regina ' s and the lounge Casablanca as well as Cardoos . Unlike Quincy Market , The Arcade has three open tiers bordered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of its roof . The first tier is occupied by restaurants , the second by clothing shops and the third by specialty shops . In all , The Arcade shops , each fronted by French doors , take up 40,000 square feet , a miniscule area compared to Quincy Market , but big by Providence standards . " This is what we need , " said Mae Robbins , who admitted she had never paid much attention to the building during the 23 years she worked downtown . After making several tours of The Arcade Thursday , she said " I think this is going to be something good for us . " For years , Providence has had a reputation as a dying industrial city - a drab stop on the train from Boston to New York - with a smattering of college students and pockets of well-to-do residents who descended from the banking and shipping families that once dominated the thriving urban center . Few residents would have disputed this impression until recently . The city ' s population , which peaked at 250,000 in the 1920s , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . City officials say more will leave before the number levels off . The downtown area , once a busy shopping district , has lost business to large suburban malls . During most nights , it is largely deserted , save for those who stop for a late meal at Haven Brothers , a mobile diner parked each evening next to City Hall that remains an attraction to residents here . But in recent years , the city and its financial community have tried to change Providence ' s tarnished image by restoring buildings , symbols of its former prosperity , and have slowly been attracting more people back to the city . Motorists passing the city on Interstate 95 south can now watch a glass elevator operate on the outside of the Biltmore Plaza Hotel , which reopened in 1978 after being vacant for years . Nearby , the Ocean State Performing Arts Center attracts large crowds and major acts and next week will celebrate the second anniversary of its restoration and reopening . " There is a tendency to blame the poor condition of a city on its old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He is an architect who grew up in New York and Connecticut and settled in Providence 10 years ago . " But those buildings were active at one time , and many cities are finding out that they can become active again , " he said . Providence has never undertaken a major urban renewal project ; much of its architecture remains intact , from the colonial houses lining Benefit street near Brown University on the east side to 19th century architecture downtown , where The Arcade has survived the bad times . The building nearly faced the wrecking ball in 1944 , when a utility sought to buy it , but John Nicholas Brown , heir of one of New England ' s wealthiestfamilies and the city ' s patriarch , bought it for the Rhode Island Assn. for the Blind . The association made no changes , and The Arcade limped on , evolving from a shopping center into mostly a hodgepodge of offices occupied in recent years by a disparate group of tenants , including a fortune teller and the Womens Christian Temperance Union . Last year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revived market area had become an instant success and searching for more ways to restore its downtown , took another look at The Arcade . " Here we had this great building , but it was going to waste , " said Orenstein . " The association didn ' t really know what it had on its hand , so we did the feasibility study to see if we couldn ' t generate interest in restoring it . " Gilbane Properties Inc. , an old Providence firm , and the Evans Development Company of Baltimore , took the cue from the Providence Foundation , spending $3 million , some of it in the form of municipal and state grants , to renovate The Arcade . The developers say the city ' s 36,000 professionals , none of whom work more than a few blocks from The Arcade in the center of the small downtownfinancial district , will insure its day-to-day survival . But they are also hopeful that people outside the city will be curious enough to venture again into Providence . Even those living in areas farthest from the tiny @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hour ' s drive away . And they think The Arcade , which will be open nights , may serve as a late- hour attraction for those who , in the past , have come into the city to attend the theater or see a concert or athletic event at the Providence Civic Center and then left immediately for home . " This is just like Quincy Market , " Providence Mayor Vincent ( Buddy ) Cianci told a reporter after Thursday ' s ceremony , at which he shared the stage - and some of the credit for the restoration - with Gov . Joseph Garrahy . Cianci , a Republican , is seeking to unseat Garrahy in next month ' s gubernatorial election , but neither man used the occasion to press his candidacy , putting politics aside to extol the virtues of Providence and what they believe will be its rebirth . Some were not so sure . Ray Charves , a Providence firefighter , remembers a time " when everybody used to go downtown to shop . There wasn ' t anywhere else . Now , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one is coming down here that much . " This thing is a novelty right now , " he continued , " and it ' s probably going to go strong for awhile , but I don ' t think you ' re going to get a lot of people from outside the city in here . Providence isn ' t that great an attraction , especially at night . Boston is different , it ' s got other things going for it , but this isn ' t Boston . "                     