@@668442

The Reagan Administration wants to certify Chile for military aid . This brings the traditional means of measuring human rights into question . For while detentions and even killings have declined , repression has become legalized , and therefore is far more serious . " The repression is worse now because it is institutionalized , " a human rights lawyer in Chile told me . " Before 1977 , they could just make people disappear ; then their image had to be revamped for human rights . So although it appears that the situation has improved , it is now legally possible to limit people to certain localities and to routinely torture them for up to 20 days in clandestine hideouts in the name of national security . ' Repression is well-planned in Chile and it is very difficult to defend a prisoner ' s civil and human rights against such repression . " Although the right of habeas corpus is guaranteed in the 1981 constitution , the Penal Code allows prisoners to be legally detained for 20 days . During states of emergencies - which have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . According to a supreme court ruling in August , the state itself in Chile may not be questioned about its " clandestine " detention centers ( though salaries of physicians who administer electric shock are part of public expenditures and torture is legally recognized by the courts ) . This judicial protection amounts to a license for legal repression and makes human rights violations much more difficult to demonstrate . Cloaked by such a legal system , violations can now continue in Chile without publicity . While the number of political prisoners charged with security violations has dropped ( one measure by which the State Department certified Chile ' s " improvement " in 1981 ) , the number of people temporarily detained , tortured and released has grown . " There are about 1000 people arrested each month in Chile now , with people picked up from their homes , off the streets , and at work . This causes tremendous fear in the population , " one human rights official said . Over 1600 were arrested one evening this June in Santiago ; during the first five months @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while repression may appear to ease , violations have not ceased nor has repression lessened . This new kind of repression may signify a change in police tactics . One new tactic is the staged shootout in which soldiers surround a victim in a public place and gun down that person . This is listed as an " armed shootout with a terrorist " - a legal device which avoids detection as a human rights violation . " These are no accident . These are well- planned , " a human rights official said . Similarly , " desconocidos , " or security forces out of uniform , carry out other methods of systematic intimidation , often allegedly for revenge of a colleague ' s death . " It is power without limits or control , " the official said . Legalizing state violence does not eliminate these extralegal violations . But even if Chile were to stop all clandestine activities , people would still be repressed . " It is a vigilant violence , " one top human rights official , who has himself been threatened , said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ population with secret agents , threatens and assassinates workers and union leaders , and then permits two or three exiles to return to Chile as objects of propaganda to demonstrate how free Chile is . " This legalized environment of fear must be incorporated into a new way of evaluating human rights . Although increasing and decreasing numbers of arrests , detentions and disappearances are extremely important to document , they do not by themselves measure significant deterioration or improvement of human rights . They represent the more dramatic examples of a general environment of fear . The overwhelming characteristic of the present military regime in Chile is its institutionalized repressive nature . It is a system which requires torturers and public executioners . The logic of brute power calls for a systematic climate of intimidation , a continuum of repression , in order to survive . The difference now is that this repression is legal . With the Reagan Administration ' s strictly political evaluation of Chile ' s " progress " in human rights on the basis of no new disappearances since 1977 ( totally ignoring torture and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the definition of human rights be expanded beyond the counting of deaths and detentions to one which exposes the legal mask of repression and takes into account a country ' s overall record . Loopholes in the human rights doctrine which allow both neo-conservatives and military dictators to make a sham of these inalienable rights must be closed . For now , Chile is on a nonstop merry-go-round , shifting from horse to horse , but continuing in the same direction of legalized brutal repression . Jennifer G. Schirmer is a postdoctoral fellow at the Center for European Studies at Harvard . She recently spent a month in Chile .                     