@@734624

txt The Illinois House , like the Senate , has succumbed to ? welcome suxge of good se se . For one thing , It voted to hang tough on the Chrysler bailout issue , on the mod free enterprise principle that it a company ca n't get It together and compete successfully in the marketplace , it deserves to fall . The defeated bill would have provided $00 million in loan guarantees for Chrysler 's operallons in Illinois ; the state 's taxpayers would have had to pay off the leans If the automaker went under . Conmem approved 0.5 billion in federal bee go:antess for the ailing company but made the deal contingent on assistance from the states and localities where Chrysler has plants . To their credit , pro-bunnies knee in the Illinois House led the attack on the bailout . Too often , badmen groups oppose government handouts to everyone but themselves . H Chrysler should fail , it does not necessarily follow that weeds would grew in its plants ? as advocates of the bailout seem to think . The plant+ , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auto makers who know bow to make cars that Americans want to buy . A second piece of constructive legislation that the House approved would help the Illinois banking industry out of the Dark Ages . It would let bank holding companies own more than one bank . Banks operated by multibank holding ? ampules would thus be able to pool their resources , enabling them to make bluer loans and to offer full-time or at least part-time trust services . In this way they could help preserve family farms that might otherwise be broken up on the death of an owner . The banking bill would also permit a tiny step forward for branch banking , increasing from two to three the number of branches ? bank may operate . This would be at least a small improvement in convenience for customers . Illinois shares with West Virginia the dubious distinction of prohibiting the full-service , multi-office banking that every other state permits . Neither provision threatens the survival of small neighborhood banks , which have the advantage of easy access and personal attention for Individuals and small businessmen seeking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pass this modest expansion of banking competition in Minois . A third measure that the House approved would temporarily remove the 18 per cent interest ceiling on installment loans and retail charge accounts . This is designed to make more money available to consumers who can afford the higher interest rates ? if indeed rates do go much higher , which is doubtful with the recession setting in . Even If the need for this change has passed , the House seems to have recognized that arbitrary efforts to control economic forces merely distort them and often end up hurting thole they were designed to help . All in all it 's been a good and produetive week for the House . We commend these three measures to the Senate .                     