@@668289

By Eugenia Ginzburg . Translated from the Russian by Ian Boland . Introduction by Heinrich Boll . A Helen and Kurt Wolff book/Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. 423 pp. $17.50 . By Raymond Nadeau Eugenia Ginzburg was , in 1937 , a loyal and optimistic member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union . Falsely accused of " Trotskyite terrorist activity , " she was sent to the notorious Butyrki Prison in Moscow for two years , then shipped off to Siberia , where for 18 more years she suffered the common fate of forced labor and internal exile . During those years she felled trees in sub-zero temperatures , attended the needs of syphilitics , nursed the tubercular , fended off the genuinecriminal element , lost her husband and first-born , longed for her family , recited poetry to her comrades , and fell deeply in love . We have listened to these camp stories before , depressingly often . But Eugenia Ginzburg ' s memoir-begun in " Journey Into The Whirlwind " ( 1967 ) and posthumously concluded here-is quite unlike any other to have emerged from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she ranks with Aleksander Solzhenitsyn and Nadezhda Mandelstam . As a writer , her memoirs approach a level of passionate art reminiscent of Gogol , of Chekhov . Indeed , Dostoyevsky comes to mind . That is because one finishes this narrative with a sigh of relieved conscience , a sense of accomplishment . The way one often feels at the finale of great Russian novels , renewed by an experience that swallowed you whole . But that is not all . On a less rhetorical level , this is one of the few accounts of the Gulag ( maybe the only one ) to have come to us from a woman . This is a distinctly quiet , even graceful picture of Kolyma ( " our remote planet " ) that never dares becoming magisterial , like Solzhenitsyn . Having lost her first son to starvation in Leningrad , separated from her second son for 12 years ( who , it should be noted , is Vasily Aksyonov , the dissident Russian novelist ) , Eugenia Ginzburg offers a prison camp perspective we have not seen before , where women @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the result of bizarre unions , these children of the damned represented new life , regeneration , a tenuous link to the future . It is in these reflections , where the cries of bereaved mothers muffle the noise of the surrounding terror , that Eugenia Ginzburg ' s memoir is elevated to the level of literature . Individualizing a collective torture , she enables us to feel the relief in the release of a single forbidden tear . And unlike other Soviet prison memoirs , the ties that bind here are between women . The sense of desperate abiding friendship that Eugenia Ginzburg relates here is not unique to our century of camps and mass murder , but it is expressed with extraordinary sensitivity , with a novelist ' s eye for description and nuance . But what really distinguishes this book is its love story . Fellow prisoner Anton Walter was Catholic , German , and a doctor of homeopathic medicine . Though he was distrusted by his jailers as something of a sorcerer with his herbal mixtures and potions , his treatments were , given the condition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ talents were very much in demand . For Ginzburg , his devotion and sense of humor made him " the bearer of all that is good , of forbearance , and of brotherly love toward his fellow men . " His affection for Ginzburg , their devotion to one another ' s survival , this country of their love , is the stuff of great literature . Camouflaging their feelings in coded language or in Ginzburg ' s beautiful " homemade verse , " they were able to sustain their sanity and look to the future , finding eventual peace in the years following Stalin ' s death . In one splendid scene after her " rehabilitation , " Ginzburg finds a piece of chocolate at the bottom of her purse and , standing on a crowded Moscow street corner , surrounded by a busy mass of free men and women , she tastes the sweetness of liberty , the thrill of having survived . Though still serving out his sentence in Siberia , Anton Walter ' s presence is felt , clearly the bridge over which Eugenia Ginzburg passed from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nobel Prize winner Heinrich Boll calls Eugenia Ginzburg " a female Lazarus , a female Job , a female Ulysses ... thrown into the chaotically organized ocean of limitless bureaucratic absurdity in which the cruelty of the system too often becomes intensified in the cruelty of an individual one is at the mercy of . " Eugenia Ginzburg was at the mercy of countless individuals corrupted by their national pride , their hero-worship , their fear . Indeed , she is surprisingly reserved on the subject of Joseph Stalin . But she is , in her retelling , compassionate , always eager to reveal moments of tenderness , decency , heroism , humanity . As she says at the end , " Whatever happens , I consider it my duty to finish the book . Not so much because I want to record the facts about my later years in camp and exile as to reveal to the reader the heroine ' s spiritual evolution , the gradual transformation of a naive young Communist idealist into someone who has tasted unforgettably the fruits of the tree of the knowledge of good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ setbacks and suffering also had moments ( however brief ) of fresh insight in her search for truth . It is this cruel journey of the soul and not just the chronology of my sufferings that I want to bring home to the reader . " That , she has bravely done . Her memoir is a magnificent achievement . Raymond Nadeau is a free-lance writer . B07862043                     