@@735419

txt A federal appeals court here has ruled that the Interior secretary ca n't sell 29 offshore tracts for oil exploration until he determines that the sale is consistent , " to the maximum extent practicable , " with California 's coastal zone management plan . But if California disagrees with the Interior secretary 's determination , the law provides for mediation procedures that may be invoked by the secretary of Commerce , the court ruled . The court held that Interior Secretary James Watt had violated the federal Coastal Zone Management Act by selling leases without determining consistency with California 's plan . However , the court said the law " clearly precludes an irreversible state veto of outer continental shelf activity at the exploration , development and production stages . " The decision came in an appeal from a July 1981 ruling by a federal judge in Los Angeles . The appeals court said the secretary of Commerce is given the final say as to whether oil exploration activity is consistent with the objectives of the U.S. act , and , if not , " whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The prior ruling indicated that California 's view ultimately would be controlling . But the appellate court said the law does n't provide that a state 's plan take precedence . rather " it only provides that the activity be consistent to the maximum extent practicable . " The lawsuit to block the sale was filed by the state of California , a number of local governments and environmental groups . The 29 tracts are in the Santa Maria Basin off central California . The suit charged , among other things , that the environmental impact statement prepared for the lease sale " used outdated and erroneous evidence in determining the hazards of oil drilling . " The lower court 's action voiding the bids for the tracts and ordering the return of deposits to bidders was stayed by the appeals court , which agreed with the oil companies and the government " that such drastic measures should be deferred at least until it is finally decided whether the lease of the 29 tracts can go forward in its present form . " The court said it was retaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not completed within a reasonable time , " it will " entertain a notion to " cancel its stay of the lower court 's ruling .                     