@@735834

txt A highly virulent strain of avian influenza has infected 18 poultry farms in southeastern Pennsylvania , and the Agriculture Department says 967,000 birds on those farms will be destroyed in an effort to contain the virus The total number of infected flocks could rise as suspected outbreaks are confirmed . The flu strain is n't harmful to humans but kills chickens . The Agriculture Department has been allocated $12.5 million to compensate farmers for birds killed in its program to contain the flu . A spokesman for the Pennsylvania Poultry Federation , a trade group , said the disease has caused " severe financial hardship " because of lost egg production and birds that died before the government began its payment plan . Individual farmers also are n't compensated for chickens that die before the disease is confirmed on their farms . He said an estimate of the disease 's financial toll wo n't be available until later this week . Three outbreaks of the disease have been reported outside a 1,125-square-mile quarantine area established Nov. 4 , but all are within Pennsylvania . As a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ quarantine area in the state . Because the disease has a 14-day incubation period , it is possible that the flu was carried outside the quarantine area before it was established . An Agriculture Department spokesman said one of the infected flocks outside the quarantine area might have gotten the disease from used egg cartons that had n't been properly disinfected . The Agriculture Department spokesman said that the disease is n't expected to affect the supply or price of chicken . Nevertheless . cash prices for broilers have risen slightly to 60.39 cents a pound yesterday from 56.8 cents a pound a weex earlier . Egg cash prices have risen to between 90 cents and 92 cents a dozen yesterday from between 83 cents and 85 cents a week earlier . The flu strain was first discovered about three weeks ago and is more lethal than originally thought . " Our ( inspectors ) will check a chicken house in the evening and by morning , half the birds will be dead , " said Karen Darling , assistant secretary for marketing and inspection at the Agriculture Department . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strains or could have been carried by migrating water birds . Poultry farmers on the Delmarva Peninsula , which includes Delaware and the Eastern Shore of Virginia and Maryland , are taking precautions to keep the flu strain from spreading to their region . They have stopped shipments and curtailed travel between their farms , which produce about 11% of the nation 's chickens , and the Pennsylvania poultry region . Delmarva Poultry Industry Inc. , a trade group , also has asked local schools to avoid field trips to Pennsylvania . particularly the Amish country , which includes the area of the flu outbreak .                     