@@735553

txt Running more than 2,000 miles from Maine to Georgia , the Appalachian Trail is the first love of East Coast outdoorsmen . Thousands of volunteers help maintain it ; the federal government has made it the first unit in the National Scenic Trails System . and Congress in the recent lame-duck session voted it the largest single chunk of money in the appropriation for National Park Service land acquisition . Unfortunately , the trail also shows how things can go wrong when Washington takes over a good thing . The trail was established and maintained for four decades as a private , volunteer operation supported by a host of local hiking clubs . But in the late 1960s its sponsors decided they no longer had the resources to keep it in shape . They persuaded Washington to step in . In 1968 , Congress set up the National Trail System . It subsequently authorized $90 million for land acquisition , half of which has been appropriated . It may seem strange that so many millions are needed to preserve a trail already in existence , but that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project has n't shown as heavy a hand as some other National Park projects . That is , nobody 's home has been taken . But the bloating effect of federal money is everywhere evident . Much of the original trail ran across private land , with the cooperation of the landowners . The government wants to put as much of the trail as possible on state-owned property , and so it 's become involved in a land purchase program that has raised hackles and escalated costs . The original trail was a modest footpath that used roads when it had to . The federal plans call for a right of way averaging 1,000 feet in width , and Washington has a mandate to move the route when it runs too close to houses , roads or other poor locations . Backed by federal money , the Dartmouth Outing Club , for instance , has been able to relocate two-thirds of the trail in its bailiwick . The irony of this quest for a " wilderness experience " is that the northern stretches of the trail run through areas that have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries . And long-time landowners are fuming at the pressure to give up the use of their land . Pro-trail propaganda claims , sometimes with great exaggeration , that the path is constantly threatened by real estate development . ( In one bizarre case , a witness in Congressional hearings said the purchase of Moose Mountain in New Hampshire had thwarted the owner 's plan to install a heliport for a summer home . The owner . Stanley Olsen , was baffled by the charge until he recalled giving permission 10 years earlier to an airline to clear a temporary landing site to rescue victims of an air crash . ) Some of the most angry opposition to the trail , though , is coming from its conflict with traditional farming and grazing . Farmers say Washington is running the 1,000-foot right of way smack through the middle of their fields and meadows , rather than along boundaries , so they ca n't even work the segments they have left . Even with the most benign of purposes ? we certainly have nothing in the world against the outdoors  --  Washington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frictions , the federal government can point to a great surge in Appalachian Trail use since it took over . In recent ye ? rs it 's been counting more than four million hikers annually . But this leads to new problems for Washington to solve . The government recently extended Endangered Species protection to the Potentilla robbinsiano , a wildflower found only along the Appalachian Trail in New Hampshire . Thanks to the surge in hikers , it 's now threatened with extinction by trampling.                     