@@669845

BALIKPAPAN , Indonesia  --  The coffee shop at the Benakuti Hotel , once a favorite hangout for oil traders , coal miners and journalists , is half empty at midday . The former antiques and electronics shops on the main drag are vacant . Even the brothels , frequented by oil-rig workers and lumberjacks on weekends , are shadows of their former selves . Slow times have come to the east coast of Kalimantan . After a decade of unbridled growth , Indonesia ' s " gold coast " has lost some of its glitter . And Balikpapan , a city halfway up the coast , reflects the sting of recession that has followed the throb of boom times . Balikpapan ' s fortunes , inseparably tied to oil , timber and coal , follow the ups and downs of the world commodity markets . The city took the brunt of Indonesia ' s loss of oil revenue as demand and prices fell internationally . And , adding insult to injury , a national policy change has substantially limited the cutting and exporting of logs , another source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s largest employers , Total Petroleum Co. of France , Union Oil Co. of the U.S. , Roy F. Huffington Co. of the U.S. , and the Indonesian national oil company , Pertamina , to stop hiring . Thousands of workers have been laid off . Rising unemployment has been accompanied by a sharp jump in crime . Thirty years ago , Balikpapan was just another sleepy fishing village . Its 600 inhabitants fished the Strait of Makassar . Being good Moslems , all lived from day to day and left the future to Allah . Little remains of that life . The opening of oilfields along the coast in the late 1950s and the scramble for timber and coal transformed Balikpapan into Indonesia ' s quintessential boom town . The imagined riches drew hundreds of once-feared Dayak tribesmen out of the thick Borneo jungle . Thousands more people flocked from other parts of Indonesia and from neighboring Southeast Asian countries in search of wealth . Balikpapan ' s per capita annual income of $1 , 800 is more than triple the national average . Even in slow times , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far higher than the nationwide 2. 3% . City officials say its contribution to the Indonesian national budget , a whopping 20% , is the highest of any Indonesian city . Prosperity brought schools , movie theaters , banks , shopping centers , a four-star hotel and several bars and discos . Recession has hurt many of them but closed few . Owners say they ' ll wait out the recession . Despite the slowdown , Balikpapan ' s airport remains Indonesia ' s second busiest after Jakarta , the capital , as oil workers and their families shuttle to and from homes in Southeast Asia . But city fathers admit that Balikpapan ' s fast-buck image has taken its toll . The promise of jobs in the oilfields still lures thousands of workers from poorer parts of Indonesia and from neighboring countries . The jobs have run out , but still they come . The city ' s water supply and other utilities barely keep up with demand . Growth has also come at the expense of traditional values and a partial breakdown of the established order . The increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Long-haired Indonesian youths wearing cowboy hats and large brass belt buckles , Dayaks on motorcycles and swarms of young girls fresh from the villages and looking for fast cash , are speeding along the breakdown of traditional values . City officials , not surprisingly , blame the newcomers for most of Balikpapan ' s problems . And they blame foreigners most of all . They say the American , Australian and European " oilies " who prop themselves up at local watering holes night after night corrupt the Indonesian youths who also frequent the places . Officials say they are counting on the strong family and religious ties of the population , nine out of 10 of whom are Moslem , to keep the modernization process from destroying Balikpapan.                     