@@734815

txt WASHINGTON API  --  The Air Force has agreed to pay $160,000 to Leonard Matlovich in return for his dropping efforts for reinstatement after being kicked out five years ago when he admitted being a homosexual . The Justice Department released a copy Monday of the proposed settlement , which includes Matlovich 's agree . ment not to seek re-enlistment in the armed services . Justice Department officials said the settlement would be filed later with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia . It was anticipated that the court would approve the settlement and the agreement to dismiss Matlovich 's case and also a lower-court order that the Air Force reinstate him . AIR FORCE Secretary Hans Mark said : " The Air Force agreed to the settlement because we continue to regard homosexuality as fundamentally inconsistent with military service and wanted to avoid returning Matlovich to active duty . " Mark explained that the Air Force would have been forced under the lower court order to take Matlovich back by Dec. 5 and he would have been allowed to serve in the Air @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . , Air Force officials said the settlement with Matlovich leaves their policy on homosexuals intact and the case is not expected to have any effect on the dis- . charges of other service members who have been kicked out for homosexuality . Interviewed by telephone from . San Francisco , where he now sells automobiles , Matlovich said : " This is a great victory . The fact that they are willing to pay $160,000 shows they feel they did discriminate , because they do n't just give that kind of money away . " Matlovich , 37 , had said he wanted . in return to the Air Force to - " set an example " for other homosexuals : MATLOVICII WAS a teehnical sergeant at Langley Air Force Base , Va .. in 1975 when he sent a letter to then-Air Force Secretary John revealing his homosexuality and saying he wanted his case to become a test of Air Force rules on the subject . Even though he was a 12-year veteran who had won several medals for service in Viet Nam , he was immediately discharged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordered Matlovich reinstated with back pay on grounds that the Air Force had confusing standards for dealing with homosexual servicemen . The Justice Department had filed a notice of intent to appeal , but the settlement was reached before the government filed its appeal arguments . The settlement says that Matlovich 's loss of pay and allowances for the period from Oct. 22 , 1975 , when he was dismissed until Sept. 10 , 1980 , when Gesell ruled in his favor is estmated to be $62,000.                     