@@670356

CHICAGO  --  Forecasts of unseasonably cool , wet weather in important farming regions dissolved traders ' drought worries , sending corn and soybean futures plunging . The selloff , spurred by sluggish export demand , swept several broad commodity indexes lower and wiped out almost all of the gains of the past week , when drought fears fired a powerful rally . " It was a perfect example of a weather scare in the market , with no follow-through , " said Walter Spilka , analyst with Smith Barney , Harris Upham &; Co . , New York . " It was a very , very typical type of action . " After last week ' s forecasts of persistent dryness in parts of the Midwest , " everybody got on board as early as they could to try to make money , " Mr. Spilka said . By yesterday , after a series of increasingly bearish forecasts from the National Weather Service and private forecasters , " it didn ' t take long for people to bail out , " he said . At issue was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ midsection . After blocking cool air and rainfall from large parts of the Midwest for several days , the ridge now is expected to move westward , opening the way for a weather shift and more precipitation , meteorologists said . The expected result : abnormally cool , wet weather in Iowa , Indiana , Illinois and other important farm states . " Most traders don ' t expect to see something like that at this time of year , " Mr. Spilka said . The latest forecast from the National Weather Service , released yesterday after the futures markets closed , reinforced expectations of mild , wet weather next week . On the Chicago Board of Trade , soybean futures led other commodities lower , dropping 22. 75 cents a bushel to $7. 4375 for July delivery  --  just a few cents above the previous Monday ' s close , before the drought scare . July corn tumbled 10. 5 cents to $2. 635 . Wheat fell as well , losing 5. 25 cents a bushel to close at $3. 995 for July delivery , as mounting harvest-time supplies continued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was exaggerated . " The market overdid it somewhat , " said Katharina Zimmer , analyst with Merrill Lynch &; Co . , New York . Based on the uncertain accuracy of the weather forecasts , " it was strange to see how far and how fast " prices fell , she said . Nevertheless , the weather is becoming more important to the young corn and soybean crops with each passing day . Corn will soon enter its delicate pollination phase , when cool , moist weather is needed for maximum yields . Slack demand for U.S. grain and soybeans on world markets is giving traders little else to consider . " There is just nothing working here of consequence , " said Dale Gustafson , analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . , Chicago . An Agriculture Department report on the past week ' s export shipments , released after the futures markets closed yesterday , reflected little improvement in demand . In other commodity markets yesterday : ENERGY : Petroleum prices were mostly lower as world oil markets suffered from the summer doldrums . In lethargic trading , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barrel on European spot markets and then fell even more on the New York Mercantile Exchange . In U.S. futures trading , West Texas Intermediate crude for August delivery was down 39 cents a barrel to close at $20. 36 . September and October crude contracts declined by 15 cents and 14 cents , respectively . Futures prices of petroleum products generally were modestly lower . Mainly technical factors were cited by traders for the slump . There was little news to affect oil markets , although traders generally viewed as bearish the diminishing threat of labor troubles in the North Sea oil fields. or October delivery fell 0. 19 cent to 12. 89 cents a pound . Judith Ganes , sugar analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton , said there was some follow-through selling by speculators as well as by sugar-trade firms . However , Erik Dunlaevy , who follows sugar for Balfour Maclaine International Ltd. in New York , says that he thought some of the selling came from traders who watch price charts . These traders were betting that the five-day moving average of prices will fall below the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sell . ( Moving price averages are calculated by summing the closing prices for so many days and dividing by that number of days . Each day the newest price is added to the sum and the oldest is deleted . Some technical traders believe it ' s prudent to sell when the average using fewer days becomes less than the average using a largeridn ' t react favorably to the news of a lowered prime rate that some banks posted . " I think some traders were looking for the dollar to fall further on the news of the prime rate cut , which would have spurred the metals more , " he said . He added that he expects most metals traders to keep a fairly low profile pending the release of four major government reports Friday  --  producer price index , retail sales , industrial production and capacity utilization . Silver also had a narrow range for the day . Mr. Tierney said that even though Comex silver stocks posted a new high at 209 million ounces , most traders took the news with a yawn . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on further declines " with silver at these prices , " he said . " There seems to be more upside potential than downside . " Betty Raptopoulos , senior metals analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities , said that the precious metals , on balance , followed the dollar ' s movement  --  as the dollar firmed , the metals eased . She also thought the precious metals were affected by falling crude oil prices , which would indicate a cooling of inflationary pressures . SUGAR : The futures contract for October delivery fell 0. 19 cent to 12. 89 cents a pound . Judith Ganes , sugar analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton , said there was some follow-through selling by speculators as well as by sugar-trade firms . However , Erik Dunlaevy , who follows sugar for Balfour Maclaine International Ltd. in New York , says that he thought some of the selling came from traders who watch price charts . These traders were betting that the five-day moving average of prices will fall below the 20-day moving average today , which might prompt other traders to sell . ( Moving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many days and dividing by that number of days . Each day the newest price is added to the sum and the oldest is deleted . Some technical traders believe it ' s prudent to sell when the average using fewer days becomes less than the average using a larger number of days . Buy signals are generated when the average using a fewer number of days exceeds the one using a larger number of days . The five and 20-day moving averages are a widely-followed combination . ) Mr. Dunlaevy also noted that over the weekend Sri Lanka and Pakistan both bought sugar in the world market and that buying tenders from Malta and Syria are expected this week . He added that he expects the bull market in refined sugar to continue regardless of moving averages . " The raw sugar , which trades in New York , just gets dragged along , " he said . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     