@@668290

By John F. Cunningham John Cunningham is executive vice president of Field Operations , Wang Laboratories , Inc . In developed societies the pushing of paper and general handling of information involves the generating of money just as surely as food and energy . Ask your local banker or broker about it . Ask Uncle Sam . Ask lawyers , consultants , publishers , architects , engineers , scientists . Indeed , it is through the intelligent accruing and application of information that developed societies became developed in the first place . Knowledge and information processing is now the nation ' s biggest employer . Approaching 50% of our gross national product comes from what might be called the white collar information industry . The so-called future shock of an information barrage has been upon us for quite some time , and it is getting more intense . The office is swamped with information to process , and the costs of doing it have doubled in the last ten years . Yet office productivity has increased by only about 4% , compared to as much as a 90% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to automation . If something is not done about the productivity of the office in the next ten years , the cost of the office could exceed a trillion dollars by 1990 . We at Wang believe that office automation , if applied properly , can help prevent the office from becoming the expensive , unorganized , overburdened place it is evolving to be . To further meet the challenge of making the office more productive , we at Wang are now entering another phase in our on-going definition of the technology areas within the office automation marketplace . Our major strategy is now focused on automating individual departments within the overall corporate hierarchy . We believe that the most effective approach ultimately to automating an entire corporate office structure begins by focusing on each individual department , where it is easier to quantify and qualify a department ' s tasks , missions , objectives and personality . Each individual department takes responsibility for the efficient workings of its own area . And we believe it is ultimately the department manager and the office worker who make it happen . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we have identified a real need for the utilization of six key technology areas - word processing , data processing , image processing , audio processing , networking , and human factors . The first two key technology areas of word processing and data processing have been established for several years . A great many vendors , just as ourselves , are involved in innovating and marketing products in these two technology areas for both the small , first- time user and Fortune 500 companies . The trend seems to be toward developing cheaper , more compactly powerful hardware and a greater array of software applications pertaining to specific industry operations . But we believe that all such developments should take place with a view towards the other four key technology areas , for we believe that the office of the future will leverage innovations in all six technology areas to achieve maximum efficiency and effectiveness . The third key technology of image processing includes everything from mono to multi-color graphics , high speed facsimile transmission , image printing , business modeling , and video conferencing . This technology is young @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advanced decision support functions in the future . The fourth technology of the office is audio processing . We see the audio processing market as including areas like voice synthesis , voice store and forward , digital compression , voice recognition , and telephony . Though not a new concept , telephony is important to our overall integration systems approach for all standard and future products , because alongside the typewriter , the telephone is the most widely used instrument in today ' s office environment and its limitations are impacting the productivity of today ' s office workers . The fifth area that needs addressing is networking - the key element within the overall office automation technology area . Networking is the backbone supporting all the technologies and requires special elaboration later in this paper . The sixth technology and the one that directly impacts the department manager and office worker is the human factors element . Our experience has made us pioneers in ergonomics , with the reputation of being an end-user driven organization with the simplest to use and friendliest systems in the industry . These six technologies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ audio processing , networking , and human factors - are meaningless unless we understand how departments and office workers can extract benefitfrom each . These six technology areas have to be explored for the ways in which they can lend aid to clerical , administrative , and professional sectors within an organization . We have found that the best way to understand the procedures and dynamics within the office is to listen to our customers . Thus we conduct annual users conferences . For they are a prime forum for sharing views concerning office automation and increasing worker productivity . It is through such feedback mechanisms that we can better understand the best courses to take in product development and overall corporate orientation . The office of the future is no one ' s copyright . But it is being defined by those industries who are paying the most attention to real-life office needs and are innovating accordingly . The office of the future will use products from the six key technology areas in a total network . We think of networking in three aspects . The first and most important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communicating to other Wang products within one building or site . We are giving the most attention to this aspect of networking , and will expand upon our concept in this paper . But we are also pursuing development in remote networking , which is defined as Wang products communicating to each other from site to site . Our electronic mail concept , MAILWAY is probably the most significant development in this area . The third aspect of networking we are pursuing concerns Wang products communicating to non-Wang products , which we define in terms of gateways . We have installed several communicating protocols on our systems for this prupose . The importance of local networking is confirmed by studies which indicate that the majority of information generated from a given location is destined for other points within that same location . Memos you send four floors away often take the same amount of time to arrive as another you send across the country by the US postal service . This need not be the rule . So , we at Wang are actively purusing development of a digitally encoded broadband @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using their own dedicated wires , resulting in incompatibilities , physical installation problems , lots of wire , and increasing difficulty in getting systems to communicate with one another . Our local network , however , will use only one cable to provide multiple services for each department . We are capitalizing on the lessons learned from the CATV industry , including their manufacturing concepts and economies . Broadband cabling allows for multiple communications to be simultaneously transmitted , allowing systems to be upwardly expandable from individual departments of 50 to 100 people to total " system " size in excess of 5000 workstations . Most importantly , we will be implementing this technology right down at the department level . We will provide a modular , configurable local network segmented to serve the individual missions and personality of each departmental organization . We realize this effort involves developing networking technologies that can accommodate word processing , data processing , audio processing , and image processing . We believe that three to five yearsfrom now will prove that a local network with such capabilities will be the backbone of office automation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scope of automated information processing to more of those who can most benefit by it . We believe that fundamental to this effort is involving managers and executives in the use of office automation . This could very well be one of the biggest office automation challenges of the ' 80 ' s . The manager is the one extremely important player in the office who has not become involved in the use of office automation tools . But before the CRT will become a commonplace item on his or her desk , we must provide more functionality that will draw them to it and make it essential for the efficient and effective conducting of daily activities . Examples of such capabilities close at hand are : - Calendar management which enables a manager to record and recall their schedule of activities and commitments . - Conference scheduling which automatically verifies availability of all attendees of a meeting against their electronic calendar and suggests alternative times and dates . - Personnel directory management where the names and phone numbers of all company employees are maintained . - And Roladex directories where the name , address @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These definitions describe these functions in their most simplistic form . After all , you probably could look up a name on a regular Roladex more quickly than type it on a CRT . However , if you add automatic dialing , automatic re- dial for a busy or no-answer signal , and the ability to store , forward and receive messages - all from the same workstation - the Roladex directory capability can suddenly be seen in a much more interesting light . It has been estimated that 70% of a manager ' s time is spent on non- decision-making activities such as phone calls , memo writing , information retrieval , and the like . So the manager is very much in need of electronic capabilities that help lighten such burdens . And office automation at its best addresses the whole span of such routine daily activities . We believe that as such capabilities emerge , and the CRT ' S become more user friendly , the executive terminal will pass from a myth to a reality . When managers can coordinate their schedule for an entire week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immediately if any conflicts exist and automatically make new adjustments - and when they no longer associate using a CRT as a secretarial function , then we will be well on the way toward realizing the full possibilities of office automation . Looking further into the future , many other key office tasks will be facilitated by enhancement capabilities for managers and secretaries alike . Building upon the current array of computer and office systems , we will start with the familiar , the tried and true , and move into more sophisticated functions of benefit . Overall , as these systems combine data processing , word processing , and diverse printing and communications capabilities , they come nearer to realizing the total office automation concept . A range of peripherals and software are shared and accessed by multiple systems . Networks created by electronic mail and inter- system exchange facilities route information among and within sites , respectively . These systems meet the requirements for management tools which distribute processing capabilities , yet retain the ability to coordinate , consolidate and share . They are completely flexible and modular , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some other specific capabilities available in the early eighties might include action processing capabilities that will permit us to route tasks or projects electronically through the appropriate channels for input , approvals , and so forth . These capabilities will also track the progress of our paperwork , time-stamp it for efficiency monitoring , and alert us to delays . Think of the benefits of quickly and easily moving routine electronic " paperwork , " like personnel status changes , through our respective bureaucracies . The generation and tracking of information will be easier and more precise than ever before . The next step will be employing these and other " value added " capabilities on systems which are more personalized and flexible . You will see increased graphic and image support facilities , and the development of voice- related products , like voice recognition , PBX , TDX , and so on . By experiencing the great leverage of these aides in handling time and information , managers will involve themselves more and more in the automated office system - receiving from the system critical information when they need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the early to mid 80 ' s , we will witness other trends rooted in today ' s technology . Systems will be more fully developed , more finely tuned . Whilephysically smaller , they will provide far greater power and versatility . Automation will continue to inch up through the organization , providing assistance where appropriate and welcome . By the mid 1980 ' s , workstations of various types will be common at the middle management level of most organizations . By the middle of the 80 ' s , we will all have access to systems which use an assortment of displays , tailored to individual job types . We will see systems which will continue to be menu-driven , but will be tailored by the individual user to best leverage the procedures inherent to his or her job . Decision support systems will perform " what if " modeling , and system features will perform sophisticated proofreading , editing , and translation chores for individual authors . You can anticipate systems which will surpass today ' s straightforward dictionary function . Because of the simultaneous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may offer systems to correct the spelling , grammar , punctuation , format , and structure of information on an individual basis . As we pass through the mid 1980 ' s , we will rely on systems which are forgiving and sensitive to the specific user . The systems will be highly self- teaching and adaptive . In addition , they will offer enriched language management capabilities , building on the editing and proofreading functions of earlier systems . You may even see , for example , devices which translate material from the native tongue of the originator into the language of our international peers . At that point , information will be regarded as a resource , a measurable entity not unlike today ' s inventory items . And just as we assess the value of retaining , producing , and supporting various products , we will begin to be able to measure and control information . During the second half of the 1980 ' s , the use of automation by diverse groups in our organizations will set the stage for new challenges . We will have transparent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its source . And it will be commonly available to us in a variety of forms , including combinations of hard copy and soft copy , such as voice and three- dimensional displays . Information librarian functions will keep track of the information we need to perform effectively , and automatically advise us of new information pertaining to our particular responsibilities . The office of the late 1980 ' s will provide the information appropriate to discrete and collective decisions . It will aid us by assimilating , manipulating , and presenting the information which is critical in business and industry , particularly in the establishment of action plans . Also , the office of the late 1980 ' s will be more dependent on software and support than on hardware . Overall , the office is ripe for leveraging state-of-the-art equipment to achieve superior efficiency and effectiveness at all levels of the organization . The future possibilities are truly exciting . Office automation on a global scale would allow an entity like the federal government to link many of its vital national and international operations . So too a multinational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their operations with office automation . An international science foundation could go on-line on a global scale . At various levels of organizational activity , we now have the ability to approximate electronically a Mind of the Species , the collective and organized fund of information that H.G. Wells thought mankind should establish to keep the global nest in order . Of course the tools of office automation can be abused . Infringements can be made on privacy and livelihood . Personal gain can be made through the fraudulent manipulation of data . But computers , and related products , really can do what we ' ve always hoped and imagined they could do - i.e. , make life easier and further progress . Fears of computers are not without justification . But , for good and evil , revolutionary new developments in the means of production usually transform society . People once feared that the new-fangled railroad would cause incredible havoc by displacing the canal systems lacing the United States . The railroad did indeed displace canals , but overall the new-fangled device opened up greater vistas . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our handling of information . In the long run , the substantial but finite number of volumes of data our brains store can be vastly enhanced by interactive electronic nervous systems that record anything and everything our culture has thought and said and are responsive to any manipulations and applications we wish to bring to bear . But big-picture futures aside , the foremost question and difficulty for managers overwhelmed by the information explosion must be , " What do I do ? " Certainly there is an urgency to do something . An organization overwhelmed by information and slipping in productivity is a bleeding beast - it can die . Although office automation has worked for many , each manager initially experiences the dilemma of having to buy intelligently or suffer the consequence of expensive failure . But there is failure in not acting . Probably the best way to start is by acquiring word processing or data processing equipment that is systems- oriented and flexible . You are fundamentally looking for the best solution , in both hardware and software , and the best return , from a strong @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expandable , modular , and compatible . Expandable so you can grow into a larger-sized system . Modular so you can increase your system size step by step as you grow , assuring the best price/ performance ratio . Compatible so the operational procedures of the other systems offered by your vendor are similar , minimizing the cost and inconvenience of retraining your staff . The state of the art offers such equipment . There are a number of vendors with a range of electronics experience and a record for service and support . The manager must simply seek information on the range of possibilities offered by the state of the art and enter into a relationship with a vendor that best suits the needs of the department and overall organization . B07862061                     