@@668074

The Minnesota North Stars are putting the Toronto Maple Leafs ' tumultuous season to rest in a relentless hail of rubber . Behind a barrage of 104 shots on goal , the North Stars have built a 2-0 advantage going into Game 3 of their best-of-five series with the Leafs and seem ready to put their exhausted opponents away when the series resumes tonight at Maple Leaf Gardens . The North Stars blitzed Czech goalie Jiri Crha for 61 shots in Tuesday ' s 6-3 win , then hammered Mike Palmateer for 43 shots while coasting to Wednesday ' s 7-2 shellacking . The tremors of shell shock were still evident yesterday as the Leafs labored through a quiet , tense practice session . Borje Salming , the superlative defenseman , shattered his stick over a railing in a fit of frustration . " I am so tired , I don ' t feel like standing up , " he said . Palmateer put an embargo on the interviews with the press , " because I don ' t feel like it ( talking ) , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the North Stars , who have moved swiftly and at will against the Leafs , rested in Minnesota before taking a late flight to Toronto . Minnesota coach Glen Sonmor said his team ' s spectacular play during Games 1 and 2 had enabled the North Stars to overcome their Toronto jinx . Before the playoff barrage , they had but one win in 24 games at the Gardens . " We have been dreadful in Toronto for a long time now , but our last game there ( a 2-1 regular-season loss Saturday ) was our best ever since I became coach , " said Sonmor . The North Stars have been putting the Leafs away early , and both teams are vowing to play another wide-open contest . Both Sonmor and Leaf bench boss Joe Crozier want the first goal . " It ' s amazing how many times the team that gets the first goal wins the game , " Sonmor said . " I don ' t think we will need a whip for Friday . We know what to expect now . " High-scoring Minnesota @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assists Wednesday , said the North Stars remained cool and confident despite the Leafs ' persistent attempts to employ a stiff checking game . " It really doesn ' t take that long to get used to playoff pressure , " he said . " I expect a good skating , checking game Friday . They ( the Maple Leafs ) can ' t win any other way . " Leaf winger Pat Hickey admitted the Leafs were facing a team that is " red hot . " " The North Stars remind me of the way the Rangers were last year when I was with them , " said Hickey , referring to a playoff streak that carried New York to the Stanley Cup final . " The momentum is clearly there , and they have the feeling they can do no wrong . We have to score early and not let up . " The Leafs have failed to thwart the North Stars ' speed with a combination of erratic chippy , forechecking . Decimated by verbal warfare between players and management , feuds , veteran Daryl Sittler ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Floyd Smith ( incapacitated by an auto accident ) , the team appears ready to harvest the fruits of a discontented season . After practice , Palmateer sauntered to the dressing room and held forth briefly before announcing he would muzzle himself for the rest of the Leafs ' season . " Minnesota is a very well-coached team , very disciplined , " he said . " They seem to know where they are all the time . We ( the Leafs ) . . . well , sometimes we still seem to be learning . " I am not speaking to the press until the playoffs are over , " he added . " Why ? Because I don ' t feel like it . " Unless the North Stars abandon the wide-open attack of the first two games , Palmateer will be talking to the press again tonight .                     