@@670292

What ' s a judge to do when a case gets too complicated or the paperwork too time-consuming ? Increasingly , the answer is to appoint someone else to do the heavy lifting . This surrogate  --  called a special master  --  might review documents and report on his results , manage the pre-trial fact-finding process , act as a settlement manager , or even dismiss cases . There is no question that special masters have sometimes provided relief for the nation ' s congested court dockets by moving cases to trial more quickly and freeing up judges ' schedules . Some have accomplished seemingly miraculous feats . Law professor Francis McGovern of the University of Alabama , for example , helped settle 500 asbestos cases in four years , saving an estimated $5 million in legal fees . But some legal educators , judges and attorneys are skeptical of the trend . They are troubled , among other things , by the dangers in delegating too much judicial authority to non-judges . " A special master ' s role can be as important as presiding over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professor at Yale University . Others worry that judges resort to special masters , who are often paid high hourly rates , all too casually . " There are too many examples of judges reflexively handing things over to the special master , " says Linda Silberman , a New York University law professor . " It ' s on the edge of becoming a cottage industry within the legal profession . " Compensation for special masters is usually divided among litigants , but the bill can be paid out of any fund that the court controls , such as an estate of a firm in bankruptcy-law proceedings . When the government is a party in a case  --  as it frequently is  --  the taxpayer may end up paying part of the tab . Although no one keeps statistics on special masters , Ms. Silberman says her studies indicate " an extensive increase in their use over the last few years . " In one recent example , when a federal judge in a national-security case was faced with reviewing 14 , 000 pages of " highly sensitive " Defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special master to do the job . The government protested , taking the issue to a U.S. appeals court . But the court ruled the special master " would make life easier . " The opinion said : " Where a massive number of classified documents exists such that the judge and his law clerk simply can not examine them all . . . a master to structure the judge ' s review is appropriate . " Product-liability cases with thousands of claimants are also breeding grounds for special masters . " As the complexity of litigation and the problems of discovery are dramatically increasing , the courts are responding by bringing in more judicial surrogates , " says Sol Schreiber , a lawyer at the New York law firm of Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie &; Lerach , who was a special master in the Agent Orange litigation . Ms. Silberman sees the trend partly as an indication of inadequacy in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure . The Rules , enacted in 1938 , lack provisions for managing increasingly complex litigation , she says . The rule that allows for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules , a judge has the power to appoint anyone as a special master and to determine how the master will be paid . There is no provision saying both sides in the suit have to agree on the appointment . " You may object to the choice , but the judge is trying your case after all  --  not exactly an incentive for speaking up against him , " says Ms. Silberman . Some critics point to the danger of cronyism in the choice of masters . In a recent case in the District of Columbia Superior Court , a defense attorney challenged the appointments of six different special masters during five years in one case . He called it " a form of the judge ' s patronage . " They were charging huge fees , he argued , but hadn ' t produced the required reports on the case . An additional worry is that , while many special masters are law professors or former judges , some are attorneys in active private practice who may have conflicts of interest . In another District of Columbia case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stemming from the breakup of the Detroit law firm , Jenkins , Nystrom &; Sterlacci . But , at the same time , the special master was litigating in a separate case against Cole &; Groner , the law firm representing Michael Sterlacci  --  a partner in the Detroit firm involved in the break-up dispute . One indication that the debate over special masters is heating up , say lawyers , is an increase in appeals of the appointments and the lengthy discourses in opinions coming out of the courts . Judge Kenneth Starr , of the U.S. Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia , disagreed with the approval of a special master in a case last summer and wrote an extensive dissent . The courts shouldn ' t be so quick to sanction such extraordinary remedies , he said . He ended his opinion , " The yellow light is flashing . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     