@@668976

A bitter combination of heartbreak and confusion overwhelmed the Maine West girls basketball team after the final horn sounded Monday night . In the middle of the gym , New Trier fans who had hurdled an improvised rope barrier at courtside were mobbing their players . Security guards tried to pull celebrants away by the shoulders . Television reporters scurried around trying to get interviews with the coaches , and photographers moved in around the Maine West bench to capture the inevitable images of grief . The young women in the light-blue jerseys walked first one way and then the other along the sidelines . Several of them tried to reach their opponents for a last , sportsmanlike handshake , met a mob and turned around , still looking for something to do , wondering what to say , unfamiliar with the protocol of defeat . The stark reality of 53-46 shone in red lights from scoreboards at either end of the gym . The Maine West girls , whose 65-game winning streak turned them into the darlings of the Chicago media , had finally lost . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hotshots whose names had become almost household words in recent weeks as the Warriors smashed the state record for consecutive wins and marched into the state tournament , reluctantly left the floor together for the last time . " It was a terrible feeling , the worst , " Moira said Tuesday at an after-school reception for the team in the Maine West cafeteria . " We felt like we let a lot of people down . " " We tried to hold off crying until we got to the locker room , " said Tasia , holding a flower . " It was hard . " But their pain was so great only because their achievement was so much greater . In the magnitude of their loss , which made every 10 p. m. newscast and led the sports sections of both The Tribune and Sun-Times , was an even more important victory. - - - Maine West ' s senior cocaptain Mary Spielman woke up Tuesday morning hoping to discover that Monday night was all a bad dream . News reports on her clock radio told her otherwise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . But on reflection , things did not seem so bad . " We ' re not ashamed , " she said . " We really feel like we did a lot for women ' s sports . " To be sure , Monday may have been the finest hour yet for high school girls athletics in Illinois . Those arriving to the Class AA Niles West sectional in Skokie 45 minutes before tipoff had to park more than five blocks away from the school and shoulder a seat in the stands , stuffed with a reported 3 , 600 fans . Two radio stations and local cable TV covered the game along with mini-cams from all the major broadcast television stations and print reporters from throughout the metropolitan area . Fans included students , parents , alumni and a number of nonpartisans who turned out just for a look at the seemingly indestructible state champion Maine West team as it played the biggest game of the year against its biggest rival . A contingent of some 50 boys from Maine West in Hawaiian attire yelled noisily for attention from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a party . An equally large if less rowdy concentration of New Trier students sat in the lower section opposite the Maine West fans , yelling and chanting for the Trevians warming up at the east basket . It was February Madness-not just a girls basketball sideshow , but an authentic sporting spectacle . The game had everything you could want-the seesaw score , the fans chanting oaths at the referees to express their displeasure , the big star in foul trouble , the dramatic three-point shot rattling home down the clutch and , in the end , the countdown , the jubilation and the tears . And the only reason it mattered so much to so many-the reason we were all perched on the edge of our seats as Tasia turned arabesques down the lane to throw in layups and New Trier star Trish Andrew answered with smart , 5-foot swishes-was because the Maine West girls with their brilliant streak had made it matter . Coach Derril Kipp told the girls that in the gloomy locker room after it was all over . " I said , If this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you ' ll be lucky , ' " he said . The bus ride back to school was quiet , Mary Spielman said . " It was an empty feeling . I went home and cried , and that was about it . " School Tuesday was " like a morgue , " said Maine West Assistant Principal Eldon Burk . " The girls were walking around with some long faces . They feel they ' ve disappointed us . But we ' re just proud of them and everything they ' ve done . I almost get choked up thinking about it . " The girls got ice cream , roses and carnations at the afternoon reception . A sign on the wall said , " Thanks for a good season . " " But what could we say that would make them feel good ? " Burk asked . Well , we could say this : The public agony the Warriors felt at their defeat Monday night seemed so terrible only because of how far girls high school sports have come and because of the important role Maine West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . Anyone who ever once sat in a crowd of 15 to watch a girls game after school or who ever once had a patronizing thought about female athletes should only have been there when Moira Kennelly canned the trey to put Maine West back in the lead for the last time this year , and the roof of the gym shook from the screaming . It was one small loss against a fabulous triumph . Illustration PHOTO ; Caption : PHOTO : Tribune photo by Charles Cherney . Maine West basketball star Tasia Georganas gets a rose from her coach Derril Kipp , while Traci Bergles looks on at an after-school reception for the team after Monday ' s sectional defeat. <>                     