@@669820

I am writing in response to Stephen J. Morris ' Dec. 20 editorial-page article on the PBS series " Vietnam : A Television History . " Mr. Morris ' review , which claims to show errors of fact and historical analysis in the series , is itself filled with both these kinds of mistakes . The first and underlying error is the charge that The Vietnam Project " had to allocate nearly half the episodes to French and British producers . " The Vietnam Project in Boston shared film research with the French partners , but we agreed we would make no attempt to share historical research or narrative conclusions . I did not " re-edit " French programs ; I was the producer and writer of the first two programs . Mr. Morris is wrong in claiming we whitewashed the Vietnamese communists ' assassinations of rival nationalists . In fact , the first program discusses the " purging ( of ) rival nationalists " by Ho ' s " followers , " and the second program repeats that " the Vietminh ' s brutal tactics alienated other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morris makes it , " Vietnamese Communist Party-line history . " Mr. Morris is also wrong in saying we ignored the complex reasons for the flow of refugees from North to South Vietnam in 1955 , blaming it entirely on CIA propaganda . In fact , the narrative in that program states that many of the refugees " had worked with the French and they feared communist reprisals " and they were responding to " propaganda from both sides . " And Mr. Morris is wrong in his charge that we " slander " the fighting record of the U.S. Army in Vietnam . In fact , throughout the series a number of participants support this record , including a veteran who says , in the last program , " The perception that hurts the Vietnam veteran more than anything else in America is that we lost the war , we being the soldiers . We never lost one major conflict in Southeast Asia , including Tet . We kicked their butts . " " Vietnam : A Television History " never claimed to be the " definitive guide " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Our aim was to present the most complete and balanced television history of this period that could be done at this time , given the limitations of the current historical record and the limitations ( and advantages ) of television history itself . Judith Vecchione WGBH Educational Foundation Boston  --  - I agree with most of Mr. Morris ' s view , except when he wrote : " Under Thieu ' s regime , South Vietnam enjoyed more rights to freedom of the press , trade union activities , political parties and public demonstrations than Vietnam had ever enjoyed in its history . " Right ; in the past we did not have institutions such as the press , general elections and political parties ; but that did not mean that we did not have freedom or that we had less freedom than under Thieu . At least since 1735 , the Vietnam villagers had the right to choose their mayor and police chief . Each village had an elder-statesman committee to advise and supervise the mayor and police chief . The teacher was chosen by the villagers and paid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ families of the village . The village even had the right , under certain conditions , not to obey the central goverment ( the king ) . Every problem of the village had to be told to everyone and everyone had the right to participate in the discussion . Then the collective decision was carried out by the officers of the village . None of that happened under Thieu ' s regime . I am wondering what American people would think if the national government appointed every public officer and teacher down to the district level . That was exactly what did happen under Thieu ' s regime . And that was not in our tradition when Vietnam was an independent nation . Ha Duong Duc Huntington Beach , Calif.                     