@@734855

txt WHILE MOST governments keep growing , the . Elk . Grove Rural Fire Protection District finds itself getting smaller , right , , , along with the unincorporated area in the northwest suburbs that it serves . Annexations by Des Plaines , Elk Grove Village , Arlington Heights , and other suburbs have nibbled away at Elk Grove Township 's unincorporated territory over the years with little objection . But the fire protection district says the annexations have taken so much of its territory ? and its real estate tax base ? that continued adequate funding of firefighting and ambulance services is in jeopardy . The district has filed suits in Cook County Circuit Court against three suburbs ? Elk Grove Village , Mount Prospect , and Arlington Heights ? to reverse 10 annexations that took place in 1979 and 1980 . SCOTT PETERS , attorney for the district , has asked Judge Joseph Schneider to consolidate the suits so they can be argued at the same time . A hearing on the request is scheduled for Jan. 26 . ? James Sheldon is treasurer of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the district go out of existence ? as long as something else were ready to take its place in fighting fires . " If there was any way we could sit down with the surrounding communities and divide up the unincorporated area in a fair manner , I would n't object , " Sheldon said . THE UNINCORPORATED area eventually will consist of property with . low assessments and low taxes ? too low to support adequate fire and ambulance services , Sheldon argued . " The trailer parks around Touhy Avenue and Busse Road , for instance , would n't be incorporated by anybody , he said . " Well , why should they be deprived of reliable fire protection ? Why should they have to pay $75 to get a private ambulance that does n't even have a paramedic on it ? " The district 's finances have remained at an adequate level in the past in spite of the annexations because constant new construction and property development have kept assessments high , according to Sheldon . He said the district 's assessment totals have remained between $72 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shrinkage of the untocorporated portion of the township . ANNEXATION . MUST stop , however , because property tax revenue is just high enough to meet the department 's annual budget , which now approaches $500,000 a year , Sheldon. argued . And since most land in the district is now developed there will be no way for assessments to keep rising enough to compensate for loss of land through annexation . Sheldon said the district is taking its stand with the 10 cases now before the Circuit Court even though they represent only about 5 per cent of the district 's territory . Meanwhile , owners of property involved in the dispute have to pay real estate taxes both to the municipality that annexed them and to the fire protection district , which this year has a tax rate of 60 cents per $100 assessed value . Charles Willis , Elk Grove Village manager , said municipal officials there have turned down some requests from district property owners to annex their land . But he says the decision is based on a judgment of whether village servwes van be provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in tax revenues . FOREMOST AMONG these services , Sheldon conceded , is police protection , which unincorporated areas get only from the Cook County sheriff 's pollee . , If past court cases are any indication , the future does nut look good for the Elk Grove Rural Fire Protection District . In 1978 the Illinois Appellate Court permitted the village of Niles to annex a shopping center that had been within the North Maine Township Fire Protection District . Late last year the Appellate Court also let stand a lower court order that froze the assets of the Leyden Township Pao Protection District . The order came in a suit by property owners who discovered they had been paying taxes to the district ' and to the village of Franklin Park ever since a 1972 auneXation.                     