@@670259

WASHINGTON ( AP )  --  The federal government ' s computers should be " a model for security and reliability , " officials participating in a program aimed at safeguarding sensitive information were told . About 700 officials from agencies throughout the government gathered at National Bureau of Standards headquarters in suburban Gaithersburg , Md. , to receive formal guidelines for implementing the program , which is being undertaken despite budgetary uncertainties . James Burrows , director of the bureau ' s Institute for Computer Sciences and Technology , told the meeting Friday that " we must make the federal government ' s computers a model for security and reliability . " Charged with overseeing the computer security program are the National Bureau of Standards , part of the Commerce Department , and the Pentagon ' s National Security Agency , which for years has issued regulations for protecting classified information . Other lead agencies for the program are the White House Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management . The effort is mandated by a law President Reagan signed early this year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , identify sensitive computer systems , prepare security plans for each system and submit those plans to the National Bureau of Standards and the National Security Agency for advice and comment . The plans are due by Jan. 1 , 1989 . Stuart Katzke , chief of standards bureau ' s computer security division , said the security plans should help deal with unauthorized computer system break-ins by " hackers , " as well as the threat posed by so-called computer viruses  --  small strings of computer code that can cause computer programs to go haywire . " I think that if the planning activity is done properly and the agencies look at the threats , the risks and so forth , they should look at things like viruses and hackers , " he said . The computer security program faces a possible budget squeeze , because Congress has been unwilling to vote the additional $3 million for the standards bureau , requested by the Reagan administration , to pay for implementing the program . A fiscal 1989 bill passed by the House doesn ' t include extra money for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ panel would provide only $1 million . Capitol Hill proponents of the computer security program are expected to press for full funding on the Senate floor and in a Senate-House conference . Dennis Steinauer , another standards bureau official , said the computer security program eventually would involve tens of thousands of computer users throughout the federal government , reached by establishing new training programs or upgrading existing ones . The objective , he said , is " to make sure that users of computer systems , in particular those that handle sensitive information , understand what the threats and vulnerabilities are , and what the things are that they need to do and can do in order to provide protection . " " It ' s long been contended by most people in the computer and information security business that the No. 1 problem is that people simply aren ' t aware that there is a problem  --  and those that are aren ' t sure what to do about it , " Mr. Steinauer said . The computer security program was the focus of a Washington symposium convened last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attended by more than 30 leading security experts in industry and government from the U.S. , Canada and Britain . John M. Richardson , chairman of the engineering institute ' s committee on communications and information policy , said that at the June 21 meeting , there was " general agreement that the National Bureau of Standards is better matched to deal with the civilian agencies and the private sector than the National Security Agency is . " He noted that " the business of dealing with a different plan for each computer system in the civilian side of government is a massive job . . . . It will be hard to do by next January . " Mr. Richardson said that in identifying sensitive information in their computer systems , " Agency heads should exercise extreme restraint and should make the designation according to publicly disclosed criteria . " Such restraint , he said , would help avoid problems comparable to the " overclassification " of national security information . " Whenever you protect something , you abridge access to it , " Mr. Richardson said . " It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that you want to abridge access as little as possible. "                     