@@668417

Little more than two years ago , Windham Hill Records was a mere upstart in the recording industry . Based in Stanford , Calif. , it was led by a young building contractor , Will Ackerman , who changed careers to become a guitarist with his own label . Windham Hill was marked by a common denominator : music that appealed to all ages and demographics , defied classification and was generally acoustic in presentation . In Boston WGBH-FM broadcaster Eric Jackson ignited the local popularity of the Windham Hill artists when he gave an early- morning spin to George Winston ' s meditative solo on " Autumn . " The result was a deluge of telephone calls of inquiry and approbation . Station colleague Ron Della Chiesa also became enamored of the mesmerizing music , made mostly by guitarists and pianists . Five of the albums were represented in the Harvard Coop ' s Top 10 last week , another contributing factor to this modern phenomenon in the record business . Major sales impetus and burgeoning of the business can be traceable to pianist George Winston ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contemplatively lovely compositions lush with imagery . His LP has already achieved sales of 150 , 000 , and acoustic guitar albums by Windham Hill chief Will Ackerman and Alex de Grassi are selling between 40,000-50,000 . On its first group visit to Boston Saturday night for two performances at Berklee Performance Center , the Windham Hill sampler sold out the early show and anticipated a respectable turnout for the later program , notwithstanding the worst weather of the fall . Inasmuch as it was being videotaped for the " Today Show " and cable television and recorded live , the Evening With Windham Hill Records had been transformed into a major cultural event . The artists introduced each other with easy , ingratiating whimsy and performed brief selections from their albums . True , a program weighted toward guitaristss and pianists could have proved wearing on the attention span but these performers played with such dexterity , sensitivity and obvious dedication , such ennui was never confronted . If anyone was the " star , " it was , of course , Winston who participated during the second-half of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he took us along an impressionistic journey through mounds of crisp , rusted leaves on " Colors " and raised the level of self- identification and introspection on " Reflection . " Michael Hedges , a guitarist who believes that the instrument ' s limits have yet to be fully explored , opened the program with " Rickover ' s Dream , " which he described as " submarine music . " He plumbed the lower keyboard and also surfaced to upper-register chords , alternately slapping and pinching off frets and marvelously fashioned counter-melodies simultaneously . Tattooing the same left- hand chord coursing throughout the piece like a strummed rhythm guitar , Liz Story gave a strong two-handed interpretation of a classical blues.Assisted by Mike Manring on fretless bass , Hedges joined Story on " Spare Change . " Ackerman ' s rendition of " the Impending Death of The Virgin Spirit , " a lovely folk ballad , employed the guitarist ' s full-bodied tone on the acoustic instrument . On " Kinsa , " Alex de Grassi ' s guitar was wed in unison to Scott Cossu ' slocked-han @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s performance evoked the dynamism of McCoy Tyner ' s playing . Darol Anger , a regular violinist with Dave Grisman ' s Dawg musicians , bowed an octave violin to a Latinish dance tempo on " Wind Dance " embellished with rich , dense lines . Chuck Greenberg on soprano sax played linear , sustained phrases , accompanying de Grassi on " Two-Colored Dream , " and switched to the flute-like Lyricon on " Clockwork " as the ensemble - Anger , de Grassi , percussionist Eddie Wood and Manring - added multilayered melodies . Probably the evening ' s show-stopper was de Grassi ' s sitar-like fingerings as he soloed magnificently off a recurring figure on " Turning/Turning Back . " As one listener succinctly summed up : " Good stuff . "                     