@@668956

The U.S. Supreme Court refused Monday to consider the issue of a father ' s rights in an abortion dispute . In an unsigned order the court unanimously denied a hearing in a test case from Indiana . Erin Andrew Conn had appealed an Indiana Supreme Court ruling that a woman ' s right to an abortion is absolute and outweighs the father ' s interests . In June , the Elkhart man obtained an injunction from a county court that temporarily blocked his wife from obtaining an abortion . Conn ' s appeal is the first of a series of recent cases to reach the U.S. Supreme Court in which the father of an unborn child has challenged the mother ' s abortion decision . The court ' s decision not to hear the case drew mixed reactions Monday from lawyers representing activists on both sides of the abortion issue . James Bopp Jr. of Terre Haute , who represented Conn , insisted " it did not signal anything . " Bopp is counsel to the National Right to Life Committee and has been involved in 16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office had provided about 50 " Fathers ' Rights Litigation Kits " to men embroiled in abortion disputes . In New York , Aurie Hall , a representative of the American Civil Liberties Union , said the court appeared " unwilling to disturb prior rulings recognizing a woman ' s right to choose an abortion . " She said any restrictions of this right would likely come in cases concerning " when and where " abortions are to be performed and fetal rights . Conn ' s appeal provided the court with an opportunity to cut back on its landmark 1973 decision in Roe vs . Wade , which recognized for the first time a woman ' s constitutional right to an abortion . In a 1976 ruling , Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri vs . Danforth , the court struck down a state law that gave fathers the right to veto an abortion decision . Conn argued in his appeal that the court " has not settled the extent to which a father ' s rights and interests may be weighed by a court with the right of the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said , state courts have the authority to consider these competing rights and issue injunctions affecting an abortion decision . Conn ' s wife , Jennifer , informed him in June that she was filing for divorce and planned to abort their child unless he agreed to adoption by a third party . Conn ' s attorney told the Supreme Court he tried to prevent the abortion because of " the grave loss he would suffer-the loss of a potential opportunity to raise , nurture and enjoy the companionship-comparable to cutting off of his own arms and legs . " According to Conn ' s attorney , the wife had the abortion in August . The husband , an assistant manager of a toy store , has custody of their only child . In urging the court to reject the appeal , Jennifer Conn said her husband had failed to raise a constitutional issue in the Indiana courts . She also emphasized that prior court rulings had declared that " every adult woman has the right to decide to have an abortion . . . without government interference , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reveal those reasons . " Supporting the wife ' s appeal were the National Abortion Rights Action League , the Indiana Civil Liberties Union and the ACLU ' s Reproductive Freedom Project . In a case with ramfications for a suit challenging the racial makeup of the judiciary in Cook County , the court let stand a ruling that the federal Voting Rights Act , which was designed to prevent racial discrimination , applies to state judicial elections . The court , without comment , rejected an appeal by Louisiana officials who said the law is not intended to cover the judicial branch and could impair the independence of judges . Black voters had argued that their voting power was diluted unlawfully by a system in which two Louisiana Supreme Court justices are elected at-large from a district made up of four parishes . A similar voting rights suit has been filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago , challenging county-wide elections for the Illinois Supreme Court , appellate and circuit courts . The plaintiffs want the voting districts reduced so that the vote of minority populations would count more in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , still face a difficult chore in factually proving that the makeup of the judicial districts actually prevented minorities from voting for the candidates of their choice . Joseph R. Tybor contributed to this report from Chicago.                     