@@670312

The Japanese government ' s decision to keep a cap on car exports to the U.S. pleased Detroit ' s auto makers , who will keep the benefit of trade restraint even though they may report record profits for 1988 . Detroit ' s gain , however , is likely to come at the expense of U.S. consumers . For them , Japan ' s decision announced yesterday to maintain a 2. 3 million-car limit on annual exports to the U.S. means the most popular Japanese cars probably will remain expensive and in short supply . " The impact of the quotas is quite heavy on the consumer , " said a spokesman for Toyota Motor Corp. ' s U.S. sales arm . " You ' re just making people pay more for products , and the extra money is going into Detroit ' s pocket , and ours . " Some experts maintain that the voluntary export restraints don ' t mean much to American consumers or American auto makers . Because the dollar ' s decline has pushed up the prices of Japanese cars , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won ' t hit the total export quota in the year ending in March , which would be the second year in a row . " If the Japanese are selling 2. 1 million up against a 2. 3 million quota , ( the restraints ) have no effect at all " on prices , argues Brookings Institution economist Robert Crandall . " The quotas are becoming irrelevant . " That ' s also the view of the largest U.S. auto maker , General Motors Corp. , which yesterday called the quota extension " mostly symbolic . " But the export quota , some experts note , isn ' t simply an overall figure . Each Japanese auto maker has its own export cap . While the weaker ones , notably Nissan Motor Co. , haven ' t met their allocation because of sluggish sales , the strongest ones , Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. , have never fallen below their quotas . Thus the supply of many of their models continues to be artificially low . " They ( quotas ) really hurt only the companies that can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Toyota spokesman said . " We haven ' t got ( U.S. ) production up to steam . We ' re kind of between a rock and a hard place . " Toyota , which recently started building cars at a new assembly plant in Kentucky , is one of a half-dozen Japanese auto makers trying to sidestep the whole problem of export restraints by building more cars in the U.S. Honda is by far the leader in this movement . About 48% of the cars Honda sold in the U.S. last year were built in Ohio . And Honda plans to boost its U.S. capacity by an additional 150 , 000 cars by the end of this year . While Honda officially opposes the export restraints , a company spokesman says , " our increased sales in the U.S. will come from increased U.S. production , not increased imports . " The quotas were first established in 1981 as a device to give U.S. auto makers time to recover from the nation ' s deep recession . Detroit ' s Big Three , however , have earned near-record profits in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using different arguments to press for continued quotas . Chief among them : the overall U.S. trade deficit is so bad that almost any measure is justified to reduce it . Both Chrysler Corp. and Ford Motor Co. struck that theme yesterday in hailing the Japanese decision . Said Ford : " We ' re pleased the Japanese government has recognized that some form of restraint is necessary until the serious imbalance in U.S.-Japan trade is corrected . " Chrysler added in a statement that Japan should continue to limit car shipments " until there is a major reduction in the automotive trade imbalance . " The United Auto Workers union also applauded the decision , and argued that it is time to go a step further and cut Japan ' s export allotment to reflect the increased number of cars built in the U.S. with largely imported parts . Until last year , the renewal of Japan ' s voluntary export restraints was a relatively routine matter . Fearful of a protectionist backlash in the U.S. , Japanese industry and trade officials decided it was better to limit exports themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But the status quo changed abruptly in the year that ended last March . For the first time since the export restrictions were begun in 1981 , Japanese auto makers didn ' t export to the quota limit , shipping only 2. 21 million cars instead of the 2. 3 million allowed . The Reagan administration , which publicly has refused to support export restraints and other protectionist initiatives favored by U.S. auto makers , nevertheless privately encouraged Japanese officials to renew the car export quotas for another year . The U.S. Trade Representative ' s Office said in a statement yesterday , " We had no role in this matter . It was purely a Japanese decision . " But one senior U.S. official said Japanese government representatives had taken soundings in Washington on the issue before Christmas , and " some people privately suggested that maybe they should leave things in place , if they weren ' t really planning more exports . " American officials had passed the word to Tokyo informally in recent months that removing the ceiling could cause a new wave of anti-Japanese feeling in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " If I were a ( Japanese government ) official , I ' d think long and hard before I told my auto industry to let it rip . " U.S. officials also suggested that Tokyo might have decided to leave the quota in place to ensure a large supply of cars for its domestic market , where recent tax changes are expected to boost auto sales this coming spring.  --  - Walter S. Mossberg contributed to this article . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     