@@735597

txt Two years ago companies were scurrying to soak up information on the latest import from Japan : quality circles . By early 1982 , according to a recent survey , there were 6,300 sites with quality circles . Suddenly , but predictably for anyone who has studied the fate of similar management fads , the " movement " has stalled . Management seminars on quality circles are undersubscribed , and the more Manager 's Journal by Robert E. Cole than 100 consultant firms offering services installing circles are scurrying for work . Program coordinators report that they are increasingly on the defensive vis a vis their superiors . More significantly , quality circles have become a dirty word in many companies , including many of those which were recently patting themselves on the back for their innovative approaches . There are some obvious but only partial explanations for the drop in interest . Managers and workers tire of being told how the Japanese do everything better . Unions such as the Union of Electrical Workers and the International Association of Machinists have become more outspoken in their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cycle of the economy , with its spreading rip- ples of layoffs , has curtailed many innovative efforts . One often hears from managers that once you label an innovative activity of this nature , you are , in fact , insuring its demise . Surely the overselling of circles as a panacea for worker-related and quality problems contributed to the cynicism of many managers . Middle managers , their prerogatives threatened by quality circles , seize upon potential weak points to attack circles for loss of operating time , useless meetings , disruption of normal routine and higher administrative costs . One program coordinator plaintively asked for help in responding to his vice president 's claim that " Why , it takes the circles three weeks to solve something I could do in three hours . " The circles are becoming a symbol for " weak management . " Such attacks on quality circles have been used to sidestep the real issue of sharing of power and decentralization of decision-making . For some unions , quality circles have become the label attached to short quickfix activities designed to involve workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ life " - ( QWL ) was the label attached to more thoroughgoing efforts involving the union . One union official confided that his union needed the label " quality circle " in order to attack the " bad version " of small-group problemsolving teams . If it was n't " quality circle , " they would have had to invent another term to designate the target . Quality circles are presented as nice clean packages . This has been their source of strength but also their weakness . As a source of strength , they appeared to management as a self-contained package with known costs and limits . They could , or so it seemed , be treated as a new machine which could be plugged into operations with a minimum of disruption in the organizational hierarchy . The weakness was that this image of a nice clean package left management ill-prepared for the changes in reward systems and middle management 's operating style that are necessary for circles to take hold and survive . If the issue is , as I suggest , one of sharing of power and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overcome the above problems ? First , there needs to be a transition from the narrow focus of quality circles to more broad gauged participation on the shop and office floor . There are a variety of ways in which workers can be involved in everyday decision-making which go well beyond quality circles . Circles must be part of the effort to build cooperative action in the organization but ca n't be the sole driving force . In unionized firms , the union must be brought in as a full partner to give credence to the decentralization effort . Second , the circles will make more valuable contributions if they are linked tightly with current management objectives . This is more likely to happen if circles become a line responsibility rather than remaining a staff assignment . In some manufacturing companies , the circles are being tied closely to the installation of justin-time delivery systems  --  still another Japanese import ; to avoid the disruptions arising from reduced in-process inventories , the circles are involved in solving the problems creating the bottlenecks . In still other companies , the circles are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one company , this takes the form of preventive problemsolving groups . Such linkages can be effective in broadening , reinvigorating and deepening the commitment of all parties . A third element critical to the long-term success of circles is information sharing . Shop and office employees need raw data if they are to solve problems ; information sharing also encourages trust among employees . It is significant , in this regard , that relatively few of the Japanese firms operating in the U.S. have adopted quality circles . Matsushita Electric , which has run the Quasar plant in Chicago for several years , only recently introduced circles . The Japanese managers make clear that they need lengthy preparation to lay a firm foundation based , to a great extent , on information sharing . Yet many U.S. firms have adopted circles without any thought to the matter . Warranty data , production data and scrap data are typically available in a manufacturing plant . But how often are they made available in a timely fashion and in a form usable for shop floor workers ? Many firms will end up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fail to grasp the significance of the full utilization of human resources that is so much at the heart of the Japanese decentralization effort . The answer to the vice president who says he can solve the problem in three hours instead of three weeks : " Your solution will be gone in three months but the circle 's solution will endure ! " Mr. Cole is professor of sociology and project director of the Joint U.S.-Japan Automotive Study at the University of Michigan .                     