@@668116

THE MOOD OF NEW ENGLAND , PAST AND PRESENT - Works by New England artists , at The Copley Society and the Federal Reserve Bank , through July 31 . A peaceful scene of waterlily pads ; a city warehouse done in photorealist style ; a highly traditional portrait of a salty old character ; a drawing which could be a scene from " The Scarlet Letter " ; and two strangely poetic piles of ceramic books , are the five prize winning works in this juried show open to all New England artists . The prizes were awarded at ceremonies last night at the Copley Society , where all the winning works are on view ; because of the Society ' s limited space , however , more than half of the show ' s 209 works are being exhibited downtown at the Federal Reserve Bank . Winner of the $1000 first prize is Dover artist Virginia Precourt ' s " July , " a large , mixed-media scene of lily pads floating on a ground of serene yet vivid blue which is pale at the top @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s medium is a large part of her message . On a base of ground stone - white marble here - she applies layers of a pigment and chemical mixture . She then scratches through some of the layers to let the colors underneath glow through , a technique which adds luminosity and depth . The process is similar to Oriental lacquer work , and " July ' s " calm mood and selective simplicity , with just one white bud opening , also have an Oriental quality . " July " inevitably calls to mind Monet ' s waterlilies , but although Precourt uses the same subject in a similar composition , her version is less dreamy , due to its strong color and rough texture . The $750 second prize went to Bernard Hamel ' s acrylic " New England Landscape , " a meticulously realistic view of a seedy , perhaps abandoned , warehouse built of salmon pink brick . Constance Flavell Pratt ' s " Auntie , " a pastel portrait of an old woman with a sensible , unsentimental New England mien , won the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chief virtue of both is solid technique and straightforwar d , unglamorous presentation of the subject . Both fourth and fifth prizes went to more original and challenging works . Steven Brown Robie , a master draughtsman , won the $250 fourth prize with " The Witch of Simsbury , " a pencil drawing whose intricacy and consciously historical subject are reminiscent of Pre-Raphaelite versions of Arthurian legends . Robie ' s beautiful witch stands near a marsh , surrounded by a tangle of brush and trees and a bestiary including a spider , a frog and a duck . Across the water are three stern men , who are perhaps hunting her . The drawing might well be a particularly fine illustration of the climactic moment of some 19th century novel . Fifth prize of $200 went to Warren Mather ' s ceramic sculpture , " Study II , " two piles of extremely life-like books which look worn and loved , but also , with their faded bindings and warped pages , as if they ' d been left in some attic for a hundred years . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that there is no such thing as a New England style . The range is from son of Andrew Wyeth to a soft sculpture of limp nails . But , as the many seascapes and old barns testify , there certainly is a New England subject matter . As a rule the works shown are conservative , well-crafted , but unprovocative . Perhaps this reflects the taste of the jurors , who were Charles B. Ferguson , director of the New Britain Museum of American Art in Connecticut ; Bartlett Harding Hayes , director emeritus of the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover ; and Theodore Stebbins , curator of American Paintings at the Museum of Fine Arts , Boston . Perhaps it also reflects the fact that much of the most exciting recent art is either on too large a scale to be included here , or is environmental or outdoor work which is also unsuitable for this traditional gallery setting .                     