@@670184

TAKE SOME COMMON methane , otherwise known as swamp gas . Add a little treated hydrogen , pop it in the microwave and heat in a near vacuum to about 800 degrees . What do you get ? A mist of diamond droplets that can be used to coat the surface of anything from scissors to microchips . In the pink glow of a laboratory furnace , the superheated methane ' s carbon molecules precipitate onto a target surface much like dew forms on a windshield in the morning . Using this new technique , scientists hope to bring radical changes to fields such as electronics , laser optics , communications and machine tools . In the past year , more than a score of American companies have joined the rush to commercialize the so-called thin-film diamond technology . And because diamond films could pave the way for new space weapons or faster computer chips able to withstand the radiation of a nuclear blast , defense funding is fueling efforts to perfect the thin-film procedure , which was initially developed in the Soviet Union several years ago and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it works . CRYSTALLUME , a tiny 1984 start-up in Palo Alto , Calif. , was the first U.S. company to adopt the technology . " The joke around here is that we wanted to turn lead into gold , but the profit margin wasn ' t as good , " says Thomas A. Schultz , Crystallume president . Crystallume expects to introduce soon its first commercial product  --  a diamond-coated window that will improve the sensitivity of X-ray machines . The technology needs fine-tuning , Mr. Schultz says . If the chemical bonding involved in the procedure isn ' t just right , he says , the film can be contaminated with graphite . And it takes hours to lay down a film half the thickness of a human hair , which is now about the technique ' s limit for U.S. researchers . Synthetic diamonds have been made commercially for decades through a high-temperature , high-pressure process . The new diamond films , produced with a simpler and potentially much cheaper method , have far fewer impurities in their crystal structure . Just as important , says William E. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research and development center in Schenectady , N.Y. , the film technique means that " in principle you can put diamonds in a lot of places you couldn ' t before . " IF IT CAN BE produced in cheap , flexible form , diamond ' s attributes make it attractive for many applications . It has unmatched hardness , is as slippery as Teflon , carries heat better than gold or copper , and can be made to conduct electricity . Ball bearings coated with a thin layer of slick diamond could outlast conventional bearings , for example , and would work in high-temperature settings where lubricants break down . Industrial machining tools protected with a diamond film would perform better and last longer than current tools tipped with flecks of industrial diamond . Diamond-coated cutting devices , such as scalpels or scissors , could be brought to a finer edge and stay sharp for a lifetime . Computer memory disks coated with diamond film would be much less prone to the disastrous " head crashes " that wipe out files  --  that is , if the heat required to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' t damage the magnetic surface beneath the coating . Diamond ' s optical properties suggest to some researchers that it would permit a new class of high-energy lasers that use ultraviolet wavelengths . Such lasers are of great interest to the Reagan administration ' s Strategic Defense Initiative . It ' s in the field of electronics , however , that diamond films have created the greatest excitement . Standard integrated circuits made of silicon generate a lot of heat when they ' re operating . To prevent failure from excess heat , computers or other devices that use many microchips have to space them relatively far apart . That makes a longer trip for the electrons traveling between them and slows computation time . But scientists are attempting to develop a chip made of diamond laid down in superthin layers . Diamond sheds heat so well that , in theory , chips could be packed closely together in devices , making computers that work much faster . MAX YODER , an electronics engineer at the Office of Naval Research in Washington , expects to see diamond chips filling niches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Hardy diamond chips , he says , could help monitor extremely hot environments where silicon won ' t work , such as in nuclear reactors or jet engines . In microwave communications , where the voltage is too high for conventional chips , diamond chips could finally replace the vacuum tubes that the advent of silicon made obsolete in other applications . Mr. Yoder says the greater speed at which electrons can move through diamond would also expand the range of microwave frequencies . Moreover , diamond semiconductors are expected to be " radiation-hard , " remaining operable if exposed to heavy radiation in space or during nuclear attack , according to Michael Geis of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ' s Lincoln Laboratory . Closer at hand is a diamond-film " heat sink , " the tiny core of a microchip designed to bleed built-up heat away from the circuit . Japan ' s Sumitomo Electric Industries Inc. sells a heat sink made of synthetic diamond , although it ' s not made of the more flexible thin-film material . Sumitomo also markets the only current commercial thin-film diamond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s rigidity to improve sound reproduction . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     