@@669038

A Du Page County Circuit Court judge ordered the owners of a Wheaton apartment complex Monday to keep two two-bedroom units vacant until a state agency can decide if two unmarried couples are entitled to rent them . The landlords are refusing to rent to the couples , contending that it is against their religious ethics to foster cohabitation by unmarried couples . After hearing arguments Monday about how different parts of state law view such cohabitation , Judge John Teschner issued a temporary restraining order against A.R.K. Partnership , which operates the LeClaire Apartments in Wheaton . The order forces the owners to hold open the two apartments until the Illinois Department of Human Rights determines whether barring the two couples violates state law . That determination could take a year or longer , the attorney for the couples said . " The thought running through my mind is whether or not , in today ' s society , this ( cohabitation ) is accepted ; whether or not the state Human Rights Act allows it , whether or not our legislature intended that to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the complex is a commercial enterprise . Thomas Appel , the attorney for the company , which operates out of Naperville , told Teschner on Monday that renting the apartments to unmarried couples was against the landlords ' " religious beliefs . " He previously said that it is the owners ' belief that " such cohabitation is against God ' s and state law . " The two couples , Mary Mister , 23 , and Robert Keene , 29 , of West Chicago , and Steven Dunn and Becki Rhodes , both 24 , of St. Charles , sought the order to prevent anyone else from renting the units while they pursue their legal challenges . In arguing against the order , Appel told Teschner that " there are numerous apartments all over the area for the couples " and that neither couple is suffering any hardship from the refusal to rent . But Miriam Geraghty , the attorney for both couples , said , " The complex is convenient , they like the layout , and without a court order it is likely the units would not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the couples ' favor . Teschner also ordered each couple to put up a bond equal to two months ' rent . The two-bedroom units each rent for $675 a month , so the bond for each couple is $1 , 350 . The units , located at 1330 Lorraine Rd. in Wheaton , are owned by A.R.K. Partnership . Appel has declined to identify the people involved in the partnership . He said Monday that the partners are out of town until at least the end of the month . " Illinois disfavors common-law marriages as a matter of public policy ( and ) has a law against fornication by unmarried persons , " Appel has said , adding that the dispute may clarify for the first time what marital status is under state law . The couples said they received letters rejecting their applications from property managers for A.R.K. after they put down a deposit . Mister said she and Keene are engaged but have not set a wedding date , though it is likely to be in March . They have been living together in West Chicago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . To get the restraining order from Teschner , Geraghty said Monday that she had to get an order from the Illinois Human Rights Commission stating there was " prima facie " evidence of violation . Now the Department of Human Rights is to investigate the charges , determine if there is enough to warrant a hearing by the Human Rights Commission , and then render its decision , Geraghty said.                     