@@734935

txt WASHINGTON ? The excuse given by UN Representative Jeane Kirkpatrick for her notorious blind date with the South African generals was that it was an ex. pression of her personal policy of " being open to people and being willing to listen to almost any point of view . " But " almost any point of view " does not include that of the relatives of the four U.S. women missionaries who were murdered last December in El Salvador . Michael Donovan of Connecticut , whose 27-year-old sister , Jean , a lay worker , was one of those murdered , reports two attempts to talk to the " accessible " diplomat . Recognizing Mrs. Kirkpatrick on a flight to JFK Airport in February , he approached her and told her he wished to Bob Wiedrich is taking the day off and Vernon Jarrett is on special assignment . " talk to her about some comments you made about my sister . " Mrs. Kirkpatrick told him to resume-his seat . He had made an earlier attempt , on Jan. 22 . On that try , he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victim , Sister Its Ford . They'telephoned ahead to the U.S. mission in New York and made an appointment . When they arrived , they were informed that the ambassador was busy . MRS . KIRKPATRICK has explained her South African encounter by saying that she had no idea that one of the generals was the head of the country 's military intelligence . Her hazy information about the generals contrasts stunningly with the rock certainty she displayed about the nuns . Although she had never met them , she unhesitatingly identified the four murdered women as guerrilla agents ( in a Tampa Tribune interview published Christmas Day ) . " We ought to be a little more clear cut about this than we usually are , " she told the paper . " The nuns were not just nuns ? they were political activists . . . on behalf of the Frente . " ( The Frente is the revolutionary left-wing organization of El Salvador . ) She was equally sure , although the slow-motion investigation of the murders had scarcely begun , that the government was " not responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dead were infuriated . Mrs. Patricia Donovan ' of Sarasota , mother of Jean Donovan , wrote to Mrs. Kirkpatrick to protest that her daughter went to El Salvador to help the victims without regard to their loyalties in the bloody struggle . She has yet to receive a reply . They were even more outraged ; of course , when Secretary of State Alexander Haig , at House Foreign Affairs Committee hearings March 20 , advanced the slander with a suggestion that the women were running a roadblock and might have been slain in an " exchange of gunfire . " Ford , Donovan and members of the Maryknoll Order to which two of the nuns belonged , held a press conference . They charged the secretary with a " smear ? campaign " and demanded a retraction . The following day , in Senate testimony , the secretary explained that he had merely meant to say that the women were " perceived " as having run a roadblock . " Not at all . My heavens , " he said when asked if he was trying to discredit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " program , Mrs. Kirkpatrick explained that her point was that " the nuns in question were perceived by a good many people as actors in that political contest . " " Perceived " is plainly a favorite State Department cleansing agent for mud that has been thrown . Mrs. Kirkpatrick echoed Boss Haig again in her pious " Goodness gracious , no , " rejoinder when asked if it is administration policy to discredit the murdered missionaries . During the program , she also said that " it had never occurred " to her that her meeting with the South African generals " would offend black Americans or black Africans " any more , obviously , than she thought the families and friends of the missionaries would take exception to . her libel .                     