@@668846

Every bird in the poultry tent at the Illinois State Fair , it seemed , had something to cackle about Friday morning . All , that is , except for most of the 12 prize roosters that lined up for the daily crowing jamboree . The birds ' owners blew on the cages , jumped up and down and waved their prettiest hens in front of the taciturn roosters . Some owners were rewarded with an occasional outburst as a rooster threw his head back and " cockle-doodle-doed , " but most of the birds followed the example set by a barrel-chested white rooster named No Crow , and did exactly that . One blond teenager , too shy to give his name , even threatened to serve the bird for Sunday supper if the animal refused to crow . The bird , a rather slight Rhode Island red rooster , didn ' t scare easy and cackled only 11 times during the one-hour event . " This is about as much fun as watching the grass grow , " said George Thompson , a spectator . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birds ) . That would get them excited . " Frank Nordike , a poultry farmer from Carlyle had more luck than most . Running his fingers up and down the cage and showing off an unnamed prize hen was enough to get his rooster Dusty riled up enough to crow 55 times and win second place to the advance to the semifinals on Tuesday . Jennifer Koons , whose bird Collin took first prize , had a more subdued approach . She cooed and whistled softly at her bird to prompt 71 ear-splitting squawks . Collin ' s 71 crows , however , is far below the record 153 , set in 1972 . The daily rooster crowing jamboree is one of the more popular contests at the fair , which continues through Sunday , Aug. 23 . Fair officials expect this year ' s attendance to top last year ' s 1 , 059 , 464 , despite predictions for rain . A brief shower Friday morning sent fairgoers running for cover . " It ' s too bad it has to rain , but it is probably good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normally get a lot of foot traffic , " said Mia Jazo , fair information director . One of the indoor exhibits that benefited from the downpour was the Great All-Illinois Food Co. , a showcase of more than 1 , 000 food products produced in the state . Organizers say the new exhibit is one of the most popular at the fair . About 30 , 000 people have walked through the building near the main gate to view elaborate displays featuring such products as roses , raviola , Eli ' s cheesecake and Dove Bar International . " It ' s always packed , " said Douglas Levine , who designed the exhibit . " Especially upstairs in the food-sampling area . You can ' t even walk up there . " The exhibit includes more than 300 samples of products manufactured in Illinois . " For people in the food industry this is a major exhibit , " Levine said . " But for the typical fair-goer , it ' s probably the free food that brings them in . " FAIR HIGHLIGHTS FOR SUNDAY Program highlights for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a. m.  --  Judging of open-class steers . Pork cookout contest. 8 a. m.  --  Start of daylong drum and bugle corps competitions by military service organizations . Dog obedience show. 9 a. m.  --  Judging of Limousin beef cattle. 11 a. m.  --  Rooster-crowing. 1 p. m.  --  Free circus ; also at 3 p. m. and 5 : 30 p. m. 2 p. m.  --  Hog-calling contest. 2 : 30 p. m.  --  Husband-calling. 3 : 30 p. m.  --  Ladies ' lead class of sheep show. 4 p. m.  --  Judging of draft-horse hitches. 7 p. m.  --  Finals of veterans ' drum and bugle competition.                     