@@735231

txt The AFL-CIO 's ruling executive council , m a sharp policy reversal . challenged President Reagan 's budget request to increase defense spending $33 billion in fiscal 1983 . The council created an eight-member committee to take a skeptical look at proposed federal defense outlays for the first time . The council also urged Congress to finance " any increases found necessary " by a progressive surtax on corporations and individuals . The proposed boost in spending for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 " may be too much , " Lane Kirkland. president of the federation , said at a news conference . " How much defense does the country need ? " he asked , especially when Reagan administration officials intend to take the increase " out of the hides of the poor " without properly explaining the nation 's defense needs . The labor federation 's leaders , who are holding their winter meeting here , previously have rarely questioned the level of defense expenditures , although they have expressed concern that such spending might rise unchecked and at the expense of social programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ few areas in which the AFL-CIO agreed with the Reagan administration . The move to set up the committee reflects intensified pressures from some liberal members of the council , several of whom were named to the panel . Even a selfconfessed " superhawk , " Albert Shanker , president of the American Federation of Teachers , said he was distressed by the administration 's inconsistent foreign policy . " The most important element in national defense is national will , " he said , " and the Reagan administration has demonstrated a lack of will " in its dealings with the Soviet Union . The Executive Council also elected a new member , Gerald , 46-year-old president of the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employes union . Mr. , who succeeds the late Jerry Wurf , expressed the feelings of many union leaders here , when he declared : " It 's the right time to get our people much more aggressively involved " in politics . One of his union 's top bargaining priorities this year , he said , will be to persuade @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions through payroll deductions . In another development , the major building trades unions announced plans to invest $500 million more of their pension funds in unionized construction projects this year . Currently , the unions invest about $2.5 billion a year in construction . The total eventually could reach as much as $5 billion annually . Fifteen unions agreed to try to coordinate investments in " job-creating vehicles " to help curb the construction industry 's high unemployment rate , said Robert Georgine , head of the AFL-CIO 's Building and Construction Trade Department . Mr. Georgine emphasized that the new program would n't violate federal pension law . Labor Department officials have expressed concern about the legality of such so-called social investing . Building trades pension funds control about S50 billion of the $600 billion in U.S. retirement fund assets . " The vast majority is in securities , " Mr. Georgine said .                     