@@668517

Not that it really matters , but : If Ronald Reagan actually read the stolen Carter briefing book it has to be the first book he ' s ever read . The Gipper ' s attention span is weaker than the bridge that collapsed in Connecticut . Freddy Langone is one of Boston ' s great natural resources , but it would be the ultimate test of a Timex to attach it to his tongue . Sal DiMasi does not know the meaning of the word fear . However , that ' s only one of about 2300 words that Sal doesn ' t know the meaning of . The Callahan Tunnel at rush hour brings out the absolute worst in drivers . I miss Rick Burleson . Never trust a man who wears cufflinked shirts in the summer . Chuck Klein had better lifetime stats than half the ballplayers in the Hall of Fame . Boston ' s streets are the most poorly marked of any major city in the country . And Logan Airport is like a bad jigsaw puzzle . Cats get used to places @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a bigger bore of a story than " Debategate ? " If the Reagan people had not read Carter ' s papers , their guy would have carried all 50 states . Tip O ' Neill is the greatest . How can we have " expert " opinions on the most humane form of capital punishment when nobody who has been executed has ever come back to testify ? I will not go into mourning if the Breakers leave town . What do you suppose it means when more cops are assigned to the Auto Squad than to the Rape Unit ? The President ' s voice reminds me of an air conditioner . There ' s more than hair missing from James Watt ' s head . Good reading : " The Price of Power : Kissinger in the Nixon White House , " by Sy Hersh . " Marie , " by Peter Maas . " Eleni , " by Nick Gage . Norman Mailer is still the heavyweight champion of the typewriter . Movies are better than ever now that Ryan O ' Neil isn ' t making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part for Lee Majors : Playing Mount Rushmore . What laughs Morgan Fairchild ' s mother must have when she reads reviews that take her daughter seriously . Prince Charles is the world ' s most famous welfare client . Hagler and Duran will be a great fight . If Dave Winfield is an All-Star , Dwight Evans is All-World . Next to David Letterman even Mike Douglas sounds funny . But Eddie Murphy is a genuine comic . Yet Fred Allen is still the most original comedian ever . Eddie King thinks a nuclear freeze is a dessert . When Nightline went to an hour , Ted Koppel went from being the best interviewer on TV to being the Ed Sullivan of electronic journalism . Who could ever take Peter Jennings seriously ? There ' s nothing wrong with John McEnroe that a good spanking wouldn ' t cure . Is there a better college president around than Fr . Monan at BC ? Do you suppose Wade Boggs ' glove was made by the McNamara Cement Co. ? Rebecca ' s on Charles street is holding its own in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s on Parmenter street , though , is one of the best . It would be cheaper to raise the city than to lower the Central Artery . Listening to a dial tone is more exciting than watching golf on TV . Tell me it ' s not a great country when Jerry Falwell can make a good livingfrom his Holy Roller hustle . Compared to Ayer , New Bedford looks like Beverly Hills . Fritz Mondale is Ed Muskie minus the accent . Reagan ' s idea of a tough time is no room service . Why do people in Manchester-by-the-Sea act like descendants of the Hapsburgs just waiting to take back the throne ? Summer weekends in the city are great . Liz Taylor looks like three dozen Twiggys . I ' ve had quite enough of Bill Cosby . And I ' d bet that Meryl Streep ' s waist size is larger than Brooke Shields ' IQ.                     