@@668308

LANDOVER , Md. - With finely tuned moves worthy of a place in the Shot Blocking Hall of Fame , Patrick Ewing , absent in the first half , came out the second half against Boston College last night and demonstrated why his condor- like wing span and graceful rejections have catapulted the Hoyas to No. 13 in the nation . Georgetown ( 13-2 , 12 straight ) beat Boston College ( 5-5 ) , 67-51 , but didn ' t have the game in control until the start of the second half when three plays of the condor made the difference . On BC ' s first three possession of the second half , Ewing blocked each effort , including the third opportunity , which fell to John Bagley . Even Bagley , after a nice move and a seemingly easy jumper , fell prey . After Georgetown reeled off six unanswered points and took a 38- 29 lead , BC coach Tom Davis called timeout . It marked no change . BC had made its only challenge in the opening minutes of the game . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mostly from the bench . The freshman who is shooting 70 percent from the field ( fifth best in the nation ) scored exactly one free throw against Boston College . From the start , this game bore little resemblence to the Georgetown-St . John ' s matchup which the Hoyas led , 41-9 , after 15 minutes . This half ended Georgetown 32 , BC 29 . Bagley ' s lefthanded layin started the game , though he was blocked by Ewing on the next trip down the lane . Burnett Adams didn ' t fear the 7-foot condor ; he slam dunked the ball to pull BC within two , 8- 6 , then turned and pointed at Ewing . Georgetown , a team that appears to have two men on offense ( Sleepy Floyd , averaging 16 points a game and Ewing , averaging 13 ) but looks as if it has nine men on defense . Two turnovers in a row led to a 14-11 Georgetown lead ( Floyd had five first-half steals ) , but BC ' s offense pulled Ewing outside and scored within , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jay Murphy free throws . It didn ' t figure to be this close . Boston College , winless in the Big East , against Georgetown , made up of such athletic corporations as Ewing , Floyd and Anthony Jones . BC starts a 6-9 scepter in Jay Murphy at center and little-used Tim O ' Shea at guard . Georgetown ' s offense took off for a slight spell when Mike Hancock hit inside and Floyd hit from the corner while Adams picked up his third foul on Ewing . Ewing hit his lone basket of the first half and Georgetown led , 23-18 , its largest lead of the half . From there , Georgetown ' s offense took leave of the Capital Centre . Only Floyd remained remarkably able from the field , scoring 15 first-half points in addition to Mike Hancock ' s eight . Anthony Jones was held to two points and Ewing ' s stats read one point , two fouls and four rebounds . Georgetown missed the front ends of three consecutive one and ones and Bagley heated up . Scoring 10 straight BC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then tied the game at 3:16 with two free throws . The free throws were set up by an O ' Shea steal . The foul , by Ewing , left him watching the rest of the action from the bench . By the end of the half , in which Georgetown offered BC 16 free throws , John Thompson was looking down the end of the bench for someone to play . A three-point play by Floyd gave Georgetown the lead again at 27- 26 , BC regained it on two John Garris free throws , but a Bil Martin corner jumper and a Floyd steal handed the lead back to Georgetown . Floyd ' s one-handed running banker in the lane with 30 seconds left gave the Hoyas their three-point halftime lead .                     