@@668061

Western European nations told their Tehran ambassadors yesterday to " demand " that Iran release the 50 US embassy hostages . The toughly worded declaration by the nine Common Market nations stopped short of joining in US sanctions against Iran , but it hinted that some action might be taken later . In Tehran , meanwhile , the Moslem militants holding the embassy made a new death threat against the American prisoners they have held since Nov. 4 . The hostages will be " destroyed " if Iraq invades Iran , a militant identified only as " Habib " told NBC-TV in an interview . Iran and Iraq are engaged in a fresh round of border hostility and each has accused the other of acting on behalf of US " imperialists . " The Iranian military said yesterday the border region had been quiet since artillery and small-arms skirmishing in Iran ' s Kermanshah province Wednesday , but it ordered Iranian naval units to leave the ports of Abadan Khorramshahr and cruise the northern Persian Gulf to " counter any aggression " by the Iraqis . " Habib @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we mean if the American government directly intervenes in Iran or if its puppets in the region , like Egypt , Iraq and Israel , intervene in Iran . " In Washington , a top White House official who did not want to be quoted by name told reporters , " If they should kill any of our people , a border spat with Iraq would be the least of their problems . " Carter on Monday broke diplomatic relations with Iran and imposed an almost total US economic embargo against it . He also said " other actions " might become necessary to win the hostages ' freedom , and US officials were reported considering a naval blockade or mining of Iranian ports . The United States asked NATO countries , Japan and other US allies to join in sanctions against Iran , including reductions in trade and diplomatic ties . The Iranians threatened to cut off oil exports to any nation that cooperates with the United States - a cutoff that specialists say could seriously affect Japan , at least . Besides the oil question , the allies would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Iran . The nine Common Market foreign ministers discussed the crisis yesterday in Lisbon and afterward issued a statement saying their ambassadors in Tehran would " demand " of Iranian President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr that the hostages be freed , and that he outline plans for their release and set a date for it . The European ministers said their countries ' policies toward Iran would be " frozen " until they received a response from Bani-Sadr , and they would then define their new positions . Their statement called the Tehran hostage-holding " contrary to the basic principles of international society " and it " strongly deplored " Iran ' s disregard of UN Security Council resolutions calling for the hostages ' release . In a hint that they may be prepared to take action against Iran , they mentioned a January resolution in the Security Council that threatened economic sanctions . That resolution was supported by the West Europeans on the Council but vetoed by the Soviet Union . The foreign ministers set no deadline for Iran to respond , but US officials had said they expected to know by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( President Jimmy Carter disclosed yesterday that he had spoken on the telephone with European leaders and urged them to impose economic sanctions against Iran and break diplomatic relations with that country , Reuters reported . He said he had been disappointed by the weak response from some countries to his appeal for support of the sanctions . Carter discussed the matter in reply to a question after telling the American Society of Newspaper Editors ( ASNE ) that some countries had failed to live up to their obligations to the United States while expecting its protection . ( In Bonn , a foreign ministry spokesman said West Germany would recall its ambassador from Iran for consultations because of the continued detention of American hostages in Tehran. * In Tokyo , the foreign ministry said Japan would make no " hasty decisions " on whether to act against Iran . The Japanese are in an " extremly serious spot , " Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Ita said . Americans got another glimpse yesterday of some of the embassy hostages . In a film made by the militants and broadcast by CBS @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged his family , " Hold on , we ' ll be making it . " Air Force Lt. Col. David Roeder , 40 , said he was well " and I will remain strong . " He is a Wisconsin native whose family resides in Alexandria , Va . ( Meanwhile , in Tehran , Western diplomats said US political and economic sanctions against Iran now make it more likely that the captives eventually would be tried , the Washington Post reported . ( One diplomat said , " I should think there ' s a good chance " that trials would eventually be staged for at least some of the captives . ( As distasteful as such trials would be to the United States , some diplomats said , they may prove to be a way for the government of President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr to assume control of the hostages and extract itself from the stultifying crisis with the United States. *                     