@@668299

Two major groups representing business and labor in Massachusetts have agreed to back legislation seeking a comprehensive look at the failings of the state ' s worker compensation system . The groups , the Massachusetts State Labor Council , AFL-CIO , and the Associated Industries of Massachusetts ( AIM ) , have joined in supporting a bill to be heard early this legislative session to form a blue-ribbon commission to study the worker compensation system , which covers more than two million workers in the state against work- related injuries and illnesses . The 25-member commission would study the " equity , efficiency and expense " of the worker compensation system , as well as its benefit structure and the administration of the system by the state ' s Industrial Accident Board . If established , the commission would conduct hearings throughout the state and issue its final report and recommendations on changing the present system by June 1983 . Rep. Timothy A. Bassett ( D-Lynn ) , who as House chairman of the legislative committee on Commerce and Labor officially filed the bill , said the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " long overdue . " There is no question that we need a substantive look at our entire system . I think the best way to address the need is for a broad-basedcommission , looking at all issues in the spectrum . We all share common goals . We all want a system that is humane and economically feasible , " Bassett said . The worker compensation system in Massachusetts currently pays two-thirds of a worker ' s salary up to a maximum of $269 a week during the time he is disabled from a work-related injury or illness . In 1980 more than 45,000 workers were paid approximately $272 million in salary and medical expenses under the program . All Massachusetts employers are required to purchase worker compensation insurance to cover their employees against disabling injuries . The premium rates for the insurance policies are set according to the peril of different jobs and the frequency of accidents . In a five-part series last October , The Globe Spotlight team focused on the system ' s failings , particularly as they relate to the 5000 or so workers who are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them , the series found , the system is rife with problems , including the following : The benefit structure of the Massachusetts system is so restrictive that many seriously disabled workers must take a lump- sum award from the insurance company instead of allowing them to continue to receive their weekly compensation checks until they can return to work . By accepting a lump sum award , the worker loses his rights to future medical and rehabilitation benefits . Although the system was created in 1911 to operate without the need of lawyers , it has evolved over the years into a highly lucrative legal practice for private attorneys in Massachusetts . Many seriously disabled workers are forced to hire private lawyers in order to receive their benefits because insurance companies contest a greater percentage of worker compensation claims in Massachusetts than in most other states . The Massachusetts system allows lawyers a flat 20 percent of the worker ' s settlement , while many other states restrict the lawyer ' s percentage to the amount he negotiated over the insurance company ' s offer . According to estimates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from worker compensation cases in 1980 . A lack of staff and an overwhelming amount of paperwork has resulted some long delays at the Industrial Accident Board , which administers the system in Massachusetts and rules on contested claims for compensation . It usually takes five months for the board to hold informal hearings on contested claims , and formal hearings take up to an additional six months . Rehabilitation of seriously injured workers , an integral part of the disability system in other states , is seriously flawed in Massachusetts . Only 10-12 percent of all seriously disabled workers referred to the state for vocational rehabilitation get placed in jobs , the lowest rate of 10 states surveyed . In recent interviews , the heads of both AIM and the Massachusetts State Labor Council , said the best way to correct the problems in the system was through a special commission set up by the Legislature and approved by Gov . Edward J. King . " We ' re trying to bring all the parties together to see what can be done to give everyone touched by the system a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the roof , " said Walter P. Muther , president of AIM , which represents approximately 2600 businesses throughout the state . Muther said that one major reason motivating AIM to seek reforms in the system was cost-related : The insurance industry has filed a a request with the state to increase worker compensation insurance premium rates by 30.6 percent , the largest increase in memory . If granted , the increase would cost Massachusetts employers an additional $122 million in insurance costs this year . Gov . King and members of the insurance industry already have stated they would support any legislative attempt to establish a comprehensive studycommission . Arthur Osborne , president of the Massachusetts State Labor Council , said the union was committed to " top to bottom reform " of the system , to ensure quick and adequate benefits and limit the need for workers to hire private lawyers to " only the exceptional cases . " The Council has directed each of its 1000 member unions to form " worker compensation committees " to determine what workers felt the major problems of the system were , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has scheduled a worker compensation seminar for union leaders throughout the state to be held at the University of Massachusetts Boston campus on January 28 . Osborne said that while he would cooperate with the proposed blue- ribboncommission , the Council would also be drafting a " model bill " to be considered by the 1983 Legislature . " We ' ve got to act as soon as possible , " he said . " Iwent on a few talk shows throughout the state right after I took over as president , and I got more calls on worker compensation than ( Proposition* 2 1/ 2 . "                     