@@670180

To add some perspective to the swirling passions of the moment , we publish here the full text of a Sept. 25 letter from former presidential counsel Leonard Garment to Sen. Arlen Specter ( R. , Pa . ) : During the Judiciary Committee hearings on Judge Robert Bork ' s nomination to the Supreme Court , witnesses have made many claims about his real attitude toward civil rights and suggested that he has changed his public positions on the issues in order to be confirmed by the Senate . I have some firsthand evidence that bears on these questions and hope the committee will weigh it in the balance . I am presenting it to the committee through you because I know you and because your much-noted colloquy with Judge Bork the other day on the subject of civil rights and constitutional philosophy made quite clear that you know what the real issues are and take them with utter seriousness . The Bork debate has gotten so full of accusations about bad motives and bad faith that I must ask you to bear with me while I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the civil-rights field . I worked in the White House from 1969 to 1974 , and my responsibilities lay largely in the area of civil rights . I played a central role in the Nixon administration ' s support of affirmative-action programs for minorities and women ( including the Philadelphia Plan , the 4-Agency Agreement , and the initiation of remedial race and gender litigation by the Department of Justice ) ; the 1970 program for school desegregation in the South , including both the Emergency School Aid Act to help desegregating school districts and the critical work of the President ' s Committee on School Desegregation ; the administration ' s role in the creation of the Legal Services Corporation , the development of the Indian Reform Act and the reorganization of the Bureau of Indian Affairs bureaucracy , and numerous other specific civil-rights actions such as President Nixon ' s Executive Order directing the IRS to deny tax exemptions to segregated private schools . I was the administration ' s liaison to the U.S. Civil Rights Commission and the leadership of the civil-rights community , and formed close and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I served under President Gerald Ford as U.S. Representative to the United Nations Human Rights Commission . Since 1976 I have been chairman of the judicial selection committee of Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan of New York ; we have interviewed hundreds of men and women for the positions of federal district court judge and United States Attorney . In 1977 , President Carter named me to his judicial selection panel for the Second Circuit Court of Appeals , where I served as vice chairman . On our recommendation , President Carter appointed Amalya Kearse of New York and Jon Newman of Connecticut to the appeals bench , where I am proud to say both have served with distinction . In 1970 , as the result of a letter of recommendation dated May 15 , 1970 , from the late Prof. Alexander Bickel of the Yale Law School , I introduced Judge Bork to the administration . In 1973 he became solicitor general . I dealt with him mainly on the important civil-rights cases in which the government was involved during those years . I was usually on the sparsely populated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and during the brief period when our government service overlapped , I usually found that Judge Bork was my ally . I particularly remember our discussions in his office and his personal decision not to intervene on the side of the plaintiff in the controversial De Funis v. Idegaard reverse-discrimination case , in the face of strong arguments from anti-quota lobbying organizations , the White House and his own staff . I became his friend , and found that he was a thoughtful , conscientious , sensitive , and witty human being . He was and is open to ideas . He is devoid of cant , pomposity and prejudice . I could never have come to this opinion of him , nor indeed would I write to you about it , if he were a crank , a zealot or a manipulator , or if I had not found in him a natural respect for other human beings , their interests , and their needs . This friendship has deepened considerably since my return to Washington in 1980 . I have been listening to critics of Judge Bork analyze his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ without the social and philosophical sensitivities that are required in a judge . They say they see in Judge Bork ' s words a man who may sound moderate now , but who will reveal his callousness once you give him his judicial freedom . I know , in the most definite and concrete way an individual can know these things , that those critics are saying untrue things about Judge Bork ' s character and temperament . The opinions and qualities I found admirable in him were there more than a decade ago , well in advance of these hearings . The committee ' s deliberations should not be based on a falsified picture of him . Judge Bork has taken some positions that do not agree with my social philosophy . When he has done so , though , it is clearly not because he is socially uncaring but because the central enthusiasm of his life is and has been the law  --  learning it , teaching it , speculating , writing and debating about it , and applying it as a judge . He has given his energies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought through carefully and evolving slowly over the full span of his career . The law  --  it is embarrassing to repeat such an obvious truth  --  is the centerpiece of all civilized human activity , and particularly of the life of a democratic society . For an individual to devote himself to the law as Judge Bork has done should need no defense . When we in this country reach the point in our political debate at which social philosophy leaves no room for judges who have such a love , and who do not always deliver the correct answers , we have started down the road to tragedy.                     