@@668370

A caisson , followed by a riderless horse , yesterday bore the body of Otis M. Whitney to Sleepy Hollow Cemetery after church services attended by a crowd estimated at between 1600 and 1800 persons . Gen. Whitney , a former judge , a Massachusetts state official and Massachusetts National Guard general , died Monday in a South Pasadena , Fla. , hospital of a heart ailment . He was 73 . Yesterday , many of the people with whom he had shared his public life were among the mourners in Trinity Episcopal Church and at the burial , carried out with full military honors . They included Gov . Edward J. King ; former governors John A. Volpe and Foster Furcolo ; Polly Logan , Republican national committeewoman for Massachusetts ; John Schofield , vice consul of Great Britain ; George Luciano , secretary of public safety ; Frank Trabucco , commissioner of public safety ; Richard McLaughlin , registrar of motor vehicles ; Maj. Gen. Vahan Vartanian , adjutant general of Massachusetts ; Maj. Gen. Joseph Hegarty , commanding general of the 26th Infantry Division ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and two former commanders of the 26th , Maj. Gen. Raymond Wilkinson and Maj. Gen. Edward Logan ; and state representatives John Loring , Andrew Card and Andrew Natsios . The funeral cortege was a veritable military procession as it slowly wound down its mile-long route from the church to the cemetery with a muffled drum sounding a slow cadence . The line of march included a drum and bugle corps from the 26th ( Yankee ) Division , massed colors and representatives from the American Legion , Veterans of Foreign Wars , State Police , Massachusetts Military Academy , Concord Independent Battery , Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company of Massachusetts , Concord Minutemen , World War II Veterans of the 182d Regiment , the 182d Infantry Assn. and the National Lancers on mounts . Col. John C. Dolan Jr . of Acton was master of ceremonies . Pall bearers flanking the caisson with its flag-draped coffin were members of Co . C of the 110th Armored Battalion and the Concord Independent Battery , a quasi-military organization . Gen. Whitney ' s flag , which had been presented to him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the procession by James Lane , a 35-year veteran of the 182d who served with Gen. Whitney in the early ' 50s . The riderless horse with a boot riding backward on the stirrup was tended by Douglas Macone , also a military man . Concord Police Chief William J. Costello , who estimated the number of people at the funeral , said 14 officers from his 35- person force volunteered their services to handle traffic and crowd control at the funeral . The 30-minute church service was conducted by the Rev. David M. Varney , assisted by the Revs . James Rogers , Paul McEntee and John Cannon , all of St. Bernard ' s Catholic Church in Concord , and the Rev. Robert H. Barber of the Congregational Church of Peabody . The ushers were Judge John Eaton of Concord District Court ; Judges Arthur Williams and David Williams , both of Ayer District Court ; Edward Chase and John Sheehan , both attorneys ; Arthur Tropanier , a court administrator , and George Rohan , a Concord businessman . Gen. Whitney had served the 26th Division as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Concord District Court from 1962 until 1968 when he moved from his native Concord to St. Petersburg , Fla . Before that , he was the state ' s commissioner of public safety from 1953 to 1959 and for three years after that was the state insurance commissioner . A Republican long active in politics , he was a state representative from 1973 to 1942 and an executive councilor from 1946 to 1953 after returning from World War II duty in the Pacific , where he won the Silver Star for gallantry in action . He also had been a delegate to the Republican national conventions in 1948 and 1952 from Massachusetts and in 1976 from Florida . Gen. Whitney was a graduate of Browne and Nichols School , Harvard College in 1930 and Harvard Law School in 1933.                     