@@735406

txt The great-grand nephew of Leo Tolstoy by an English mother , born in England and the product of British schooling . Nikolai Tolstoy writes about Russia with a vengeance , specializing in the complicity between Western democracy and Soviet communism . An earlier book of his , " The Secret Betrayal , " deals with the agreements made at Yalta by the wartime allies for the post-war period , particularly the sections on the repatriation of Soviet citizens in the West . His most recent book . " Stalin 's Secret War " ( Holt , Rinehart &; Winston , 463 pages . $18.50 ) details the war waged by Stalin against the Soviet peoples . In the late 1940s , George Kennan pointed out that the Soviet Union is " a society stripped for combat . " Mr. Tolstoy makes the point and makes it well that Soviet society under Stalin was stripped for combat against itself . Instead of opposing the invading Germans , Stalin 's secret army , the NKVD ( now the MVD and the KGB ) , with perhaps as many as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ otherwise disposed of their own Soviet peoples ( in some cases newly acquired , as in the Baltic states ) . By the beginning of World War II , approximately 10% of the entire population of the Soviet Union was incarcerated in the slave labor camps of the Gulag . Mr. Tolstoy estimates that " casualties directly attributable to the Germans account for only a third , or at most half " of the 30 million Soviet citizens killed during World War II . The best of Mr. Tolstoy 's exposition is his delineation of the similarities between Stalin 's " Socialism in one country " and Hitler 's National Socialism . In Germany . former Communists made the best Nazis before the war just as former Nazis made the best Communists after the war . Both movements had many of the same goals , such as the destruction of Poland . Both had suffered dismemberment at the hands of the Western Allies at the end of World War I and pariandom thereafter . Both were revolutionary movements whose ideological linchpins were ultimately interchangeable , positing collectives to absorb the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other submerging class considerations in the race . The Soviet  --  German alliance of 1939 was the virtually Inevitable result of the paral- lel development of the two movements . The pact made World War II possible . Without the Soviet Union 's raw materials and access to foreign markets ( enabling Germany to circumvent a British blockade ) , Hitler could not have provoked war with France and Britain . Moreover , the Communist parties of continental Europe provided ideal fifth columns in the service of the Nazi invaders : By widespread and intensive psychological warfare and sabotage in munitions factories , the French Communist Party played a major role in the fall of France . Mr. Tolstoy also writes of the forcible repatriation of over 2 million Soviet men , women and children by the Allies from 1945 to 1947 . As a result of intensive research and his own investigations , he singles out an operation in which six White Guard generals , who led anti-Bolshevik forces in the Russian civil war after World War I. were returned to the Soviets . Five of the six were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agreement , which provided for the repatriation only of Soviet citizens . Mr. Tolstoy imputes bad faith and skulduggery to some of the Allied officers at regimental and divisional level and even in high places  --  for example , Harold Macmillan . But this is to ignore the tenor of the times . Though there is no excuse , there is an explanation . The Soviet Union had been our ally , heralded , hymned and celebrated for its war effort and human sacrifice by the mightiest propaganda machine ever assembled in Washington , New York and Hollywood . War has its own momentum that carries everything before it well into the aftermath of the war itself . The betrayal of 2 million Russians was a tragedy . But the betrayal of Poland preceded it , and so did the betrayal of hundreds of thousands if not millions of Jews during the war by the failure to shift priorities and bomb the Auschwitz extermination camp ? all in the name of war-time expediency . And yet Mr. Tolstoy points to a larger truth . Western complicity before the war , pinnacling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rise of Hitler as Western complicity , pinnacling at Yalta , was to the survival and flourishing of Stalin during and after the war . Until the Nazis turned on the Soviets , support for the one was support for the other . As a parting shot Mr. Tolstoy quotes Lenin : " As long as capitalism and socialism exist we can not live in peace . " Which brings us to the question of how much the Soviet Union and the world at large have changed since the Stalin era . The Soviets have made a mess of their empire and concentrated on armament . Internationally they are beggars with bayonets , blackmailing the West for credits at low interest by holding peace hostage The greater their internal problems , the more prone they are to external adventure as the only means of solving those problems , as witness the blatancy of their use of the KGB to suborn cooperation in the international peace and disarmament movement . Mr. Tolstoy 's central thesis of the secret war of the regime against the people has been borne out . The Soviet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dumping dissidents by deportation to the West has merely given this opposition voice and added to the Soviet Union 's growing ideological isolation . Finally , the secret war has been forced into the open in the declaration of martial law in Poland . Western complicity with the Soviet government against the Polish people , specifically against the basic Western institution of independent trade unions freely espoused by the Poles , is out of the question . We have come to the end of the line . Mr. Bailey , who lives in Paris , is editor of " Germans " ( Avon ) and coordinating editor of Kontinent , a periodical that publishes East European and Russian emigre and dissident writing .                     