@@670022

The rapidly changing U.S. economy is becoming more service-oriented , computerized and internationalized , but the nation ' s economic statistics aren ' t keeping pace . As a result , critics say the government ' s measurements frequently give a distorted picture of the economy ' s health . Gone are the days when the output of most American businesses consisted of easy-to-count items such as tons of pig iron , bushels of wheat or yards of fabric . More than seven of every 10 workers now hold jobs in the service sector . " High tech " has become an increasingly important part of manufacturing . And international trade now absorbs 22% of the nation ' s economy , compared with just 13% as recently as 1972 . All of these trends have overtaken a statistical system that produces reams of data in reports with titles like " Fats and Oils  --  Oil-seed Crushings , " but comparatively little on the nation ' s most vibrant sectors . " Every blip of manufacturing is followed in exquisite detail , and we ignore the service industries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Commerce Department . Meanwhile , gaps and gyrations in the foreign-trade data have twisted the overall measures of the economy . " This is one of the things that has made the process of economic forecasting and decision-making more complex , " says Lyle Gramley , a former member of the Federal Reserve Board . " It doesn ' t cripple you ; it ' s sort of like having a sore knee  --  you don ' t run as fast . " Part of the trouble reflects the sheer difficulty of measuring output , prices and productivity in many new sectors . Alan Greenspan observes wryly that one of the problems bedeviling federal statistical agencies is the growth of businesses such as his own  --  an economic consulting firm . " I defy anyone to set an indicator of physical volume for this business , " Mr. Greenspan says . The men and women running the statistical agencies agree that problems have emerged , and they blame budget cuts for frustrating their efforts to modernize . " Unfortunately , the data system has not kept up " with the growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Labor Statistics , said in a recent speech . Moreover , she added , " The increasing dependence of the country on foreign trade " means that the nation needs " far more detailed information than is currently available on export and import prices . " Because of delays in the Customs Service ' s reports on imports , the international trade statistics have been particularly erratic over the last two years . Figures that Customs counted for September , for example , really reflected imports that arrived in July and August . Such delays are hardly surprising , considering the antiquated way import data are gathered : First , they ' re tabulated manually by Customs agents at U.S. ports . Then they ' re sent to a Census Bureau processing center in Jeffersonville , Ind. , where they are keyed in to Census computers . As information is updated , the trade deficit is adjusted up and down . These changes contributed to massive revisions in the government ' s estimates of gross national product  --  the overall measure of the nation ' s output of goods and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use to gauge the economy ' s strength . Last month the Commerce Department released revised GNP figures showing that growth in the fourth quarter of 1984  --  which , at the time , appeared to be moving along briskly at a 4. 3% inflation-adjusted annual rate  --  was actually crawling at an anemic 0. 6% rate . And GNP growth in the first quarter of 1985 turned out to be 3. 7% instead of the previously reported 0. 3% . This false signal of economic strength in 1984 ' s fourth quarter " played a role in the spurt of the dollar to astronomical levels " that took place in early 1985 , says Robert Barbera , an economist with E.F. Hutton &; Co . The faulty data , he contends , even fooled the Fed into limiting monetary expansion early last year . " Before you sit down to make a decision , you want to have the clearest possible assessment of where you are  --  whether you ' re an economist , entrepreneur or riverboat gambler , " Mr. Barbera says . " We didn ' t have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ figures were unreliable and based their policy on other factors . Still , most experts agree that for all its flaws , the U.S. statistical system ranks among the best in the world , and federal officials are taking some steps to correct its defects . The Customs Service , for example , plans to start using a fully automated system in a few months to record import data . The Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) recently started collecting detailed figures on service-industry employment . And the GNP revisions released by the Commerce Department last month reflect a five-year updating of the numbers that included new calculations of computer prices and the underground economy . " It ' s not that we ' re sitting still just complaining , " says Mrs. Norwood , who heads the BLS . " But the world is changing , and we need to keep up . " Budgetary constraints have forced statistical agencies like BLS to forgo research and postpone many steps that critics say are needed to improve economic data . The agencies are channeling their scarce resources into their most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The drive to curb government regulation is also having an impact . The Office of Management and Budget recently blocked a Commerce Department project to measure international trade in services because , according to the budget office , the department ' s survey imposed too great a burden on respondent companies . Precisely what damage has resulted from all this is impossible to determine . But evidence abounds that there are growing gaps in the data :  --  The Standard Industrial Classification , which the Census Bureau uses to categorize companies , is " woefully out of date , " says Joseph Duncan , economist and chief statistician at Dun &; Bradstreet Corp . " Two-thirds of the economy is in the service sector , but only one-third of the SIC codes are . " The SIC was last updated in 1972 ; a revision was nearly completed in 1981 , but budget cuts that year forced its postponement . No SIC codes exist for many new types of businesses , and in one such case  --  computer stores  --  the lack of a separate code is making it difficult for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ says Carol Carson , a department official . Ms. Carson explains that with the burgeoning of personal computers  --  which are purchased by both individuals and businesses  --  the department can ' t always sort out what should be counted as personal consumption and what should be counted as producers ' durable equipment . " If we had a classification within retail trade that picked up computer stores , we could do a better job , " she says.  --  The data on orders for non-defense capital goods  --  an important harbinger of corporate spending plans  --  has lost considerable reliability as an indicator . The reason is that many of the orders are placed with foreign firms , and the Census Bureau gathers the data by surveying firms receiving the orders , not placing them . The orders placed abroad simply aren ' t picked up in the figures.  --  Price and productivity statistics reflect scant information about the fast-growing service economy , and efforts to redress the situation have run afoul of fiscal priorities . BLS has long sought to expand the producer price index into the service sector @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices currently excludes services . But the Reagan administration ' s 1981 budget cuts delayed a program to improve the PPI . Later , in 1984 , Congress appropriated funds for BLS to improve its coverage of services . BLS had already started collecting more figures on service-industry employment . But the Labor Department ended up using much of the new money for a pay increase instead . " Congress put the money back in for this fiscal year , and we assume it will stay in , " says Mrs. Norwood . But now a new worry looms  --  the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction law . Many talented young statisticians " aren ' t interested in working here anymore , " sighs Mrs. Norwood , " and across-the-board cutting will make things worse . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     