@@670170

A House subcommittee investigating the accounting profession will begin pressing the internal auditors of U.S. companies to uncover more corporate fraud and improprieties . The Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee , chaired by John D. Dingell ( D. , Mich. ) , since early 1986 has been criticizing the outside auditors of major companies for failing to blow the whistle on companies that fail to disclose business problems . Now the subcommittee , which resumes hearings today , will turn its spotlight on the internal auditors of U.S. companies and why they may not have enough clout within their organizations to stop fraud , waste and other business problems . " There ' s little evidence that internal auditors that work for the major corporations are raising enough red flags to the audit committees of company boards to stop such improprieties , " asserts Rep. Ron Wyden ( D. , Ore. ) , a subcommittee member . " If the voice of the internal auditor who works with the outside independent auditors is muffled , no wonder investors and the public aren ' t protected . " " Internal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " says Ronald L. Bell , chairman of the Institute of Internal Auditors , which has 30 , 000 members . Mr. Bell , a director of audit for General Motors Corp. , estimates that only half of the public companies traded on the New York Stock Exchange give their internal auditing staffs enough clout . " For all public companies , that portion would likely drop to a third , " he says . As evidence of the failure of internal auditors to stop corporate misbehaving , the subcommittee will cite examples of defense contractors accused of improperly inflating contract costs . The Pratt &; Whitney division of Hartford , Conn. - based United Technologies Corp. , for example , in the early 1980s overcharged the government " thousands of dollars " by adding to contracts the costs of strolling minstrels and for health club dues for wives of executives , according to the subcommittee ' s staff . A spokesman for Pratt &; Whitney says that the company " complied with government regulations and policies at that time . " Since then , he noted that following a 44-month @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined to prosecute the company last August . He declined to comment on specific charges . Earlier this year the subcommittee asked the General Accounting Office to see whether internal auditors have installed proper checking systems at TRW Inc. , a Cleveland-based defense contractor , to stop overcharging of the government . Subcommittee staff members say that TRW from 1979 to 1984 inflated research and development costs and padded work schedules on contracts for airplane and engine parts . A TRW spokesman says that the company told government authorities about these improprieties and offered repayment . The overcharges are " still being settled , " he adds . The House subcommittee also will note that overcharges in 1983 by St. Louis-based General Dynamics Corp. included charges to government contracts for kenneling a company executive ' s dog , for company executives ' country club dues and to take the children of executives on a ski trip to Aspen , Colo . A General Dynamics spokesman says that the company " has drastically revised the way we do business " since these improprieties were uncovered . " We ' ve installed new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have strengthened our internal controls , " the spokesman adds . The subcommittee also will maintain that the supersecret or " black programs " of defense contractors such as Lockheed Corp . , Calabasas , Calif. , aren ' t subjected to sufficient auditing oversight by internal or outside auditors . A Lockheed spokesman says that under current contract rules the government agency ordering these programs specifies how many internal and outside auditors have " security clearance " to look at program details . " Those are the rules and Mr. Dingell apparently wants to change them , " the spokesman declares . Members of the special panel on corporate fraud testifying before the subcommittee today will represent five organizations . They are the Institute of Internal Auditors , the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants , the American Accounting Association , the Financial Executives Institute and the National Association of Accountants . One of the scheduled witnesses at a later hearing , the internal auditors institute ' s Mr. Bell , insists that most internal auditors are " properly doing their job . " But , he adds , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' auditing with more personnel and computer resources . " Internal auditors should be leaders of keeping companies ' internal controls sound , " he says . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     