@@668999

Rev. John J. Paris is professor of medical ethics at Holy Cross College , Worcester , Mass. , and Tufts Medical School , Boston . He has been an expert witness in several major right-to-die cases . A desperate parent in a desperate situation forcefully removed his irreversibly comatose infant son from a respirator , all the while holding off the medical staff with a . 357 Magnum until the child died . The act surely violated criminal trespass or gun-control statutes , but is it murder ? The physicians at Rush-Presbyterian-St . Luke ' s Medical Center , where the child had been maintained in a vegetative condition without hope of recovery for eight months , refused the father ' s request to remove life-sustaining machinery . The doctors , it was reported , said they could not take Samuel Linares off life-support because to do so " would kill him . " The physicians ' stand was taken , not because of any medical or moral opposition to the father ' s request , but because the hospital ' s lawyer had informed them that " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patients who have no brain activity , there is no precedent governing those who have minimal brain activity even if they have virtually no prospect of regaining consciousness . " To protect the physicians and staff from potential criminal charges , the hospital attorney told the infant ' s parents that they , the parents , should seek a court order for removal of the respirator . It is more than a dozen years since the landmark Quinlan opinion in which the New Jersey Supreme Court unanimously ruled that an irreversibly comatose patient had the right to be free of an " extraordinary " medical intervention . More than 80 state and federal courts have issued similar rulings . It is difficult to believe that the legal status of withdrawing a respirator from someone in a vegetative state could be in doubt . As a California court ruled in dismissing murder charges against two doctors for withdrawing life-sustaining treatment from a comatose patient , " we conclude that the cessation of heroic ' life-support measures is not an affirmative act ( of killing ) but rather a withdrawal or omission of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. District Court of Rhode Island when , in authorizing the removal of artificial nutrition and fluid from a 49-year-old woman in a persistent vegetative condition , the court observed , " The issues presented do not essentially involve death , but essentially relate to life and its circumstances . " And as the court noted , " The right to control medical decisions affecting one ' s body is deeply rooted in our country ' s history and tradition . " Even with such legal precedents , a report on NBC ' s " Today Show " indicated that the physicians at Rush Presbyterian insisted that " for them to disconnect life-support would have amounted to at least child abuse under Illinois law . " This despite the fact that the federal Baby Doe Regulations of 1984 , the basis of child abuse concerns , explicitly state that " withholding treatment is not medical neglect when the infant is chronically and irreversibly comatose . " Decisions to end life-sustaining treatment , including the removal of ventilator support from irreversibly comatose patients , are made routinely in hospitals without recourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1983 , a presidential commission ' s authoritative report , " Deciding to Forgo Life-Sustaining Treatment , " recommended , " Good decision making regarding patients who have permanently lost consciousness ( is ) possible without changes in law or other public policy . " And in 1986 the Judicial Council of the American Medical Association established as policy the position that " even if death is not imminent but a patient ' s coma is beyond doubt irreversible . . . it is not unethical to discontinue all means of life-prolonging medical treatment including respirators . " What the commission and the AMA recognized and what Rush Presbyterian ' s lawyer apparently failed to understand is the wisdom and insight of noted English constitutional theorist and statesman Edmund Burke : " It is not what a lawyer tells me I may do , but what humanity , reason and justice tell me I ought to do . " When the patient ' s condition is beyond hope , no further medical interventions are warranted . To remove them is , in the words of the Vatican ' s 1980 " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suicide . . . ( but ) the acceptance of the human condition . " And that is not murder.                     