@@668681

The Environmental Protection Agency Thursday approved the first intentional release outside a laboratory of a genetically altered organism , opening the door to what many consider a new age of science . EPA officials said that after much review they approved testing on a strawberry field in California of two strains of bacteria that have been genetically altered to inhibit the formation of frost . The testing by Advanced Genetic Sciences Inc. , of Oakland , Calif. , initially would be limited to less than an acre . The experiment is " very unlikely to pose unreasonable hazards to man or the environment , " the agency said . The move is expected to meet a swift legal challenge from Jeremy Rifkin , an activist who has successfully sued in the past to stop such testing . EPA officials and industry spokesmen say , however , that this case probably will be different . In this case , these officials say , the EPA has conducted extensive tests to determine the safety of the new bacteria and has plans for monitoring the testing as it proceeds . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demonstrate that after a long , hard look , EPA is willing to let it go forward , " said Harvey Price , executive director of the Industrial Biotechnology Association , which represents 44 biotechnology companies . " The industry is watching carefully , " Price said . " There are many other projects ready to be submitted . " Price , Rifkin and the EPA agree the case is a milestone for the fledgling biotechnology industry , which some scientists say has the potential to change life as much or more than the petrochemical revolution or the coming of the nuclear age . The field of biotechnology covers a broad area from the creation of new bacteria to cloning . The moment of release has been building for more than two decades since James Watson , a geneticist at Indiana University , and a British colleague , Francis Crick , discovered in 1953 the genetic building block of life , deoxyribonucleic acid , or DNA as it commonly is known . Since then , genetic engineering has become a multibillion-dollar research industry . But even as the industry has grown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Critics , Rifkin among them , acknowledge that the new science will bring a shower of benefits such as hardier plants , more efficient animals and useful microrganisms . Rifkin has led and organized opposition to genetic engineering on grounds that it also poses moral and practical risks . He has rowed against the tide in the general scientific community , particularly in relation to such small applications as the present one being decided by the EPA . Many in the scientific community consider Rifkin an obstructionist who mixes bad science with excessive anxiety . Rifkin heads the Foundation on Economic Trends , which puts together coalitions to address various genetic questions . He is the author of " Who Should Play God ? " and " Algeny , " a term coined to describe the creation of new life forms by splicing together bits of DNA . " Whenever a genetically engineered organism is released there is always a small chance that it will run amok , " Rifkin said . " The long-term damage could easily cancel out the cornucopia of benefits . " Rifkin and others say @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faced from various " exotic " species or diseases introduced from afar . They include the gypsy moth , Kudzu vines and Dutch Elm disease , among others . Rifkin won a significant victory when U.S. District Court Judge John Sirica in April , 1984 , blocked the spraying of genetically modified bacteria over a potato patch in Oregon . Rifkin had filed suit to halt the experiment on grounds that the government researchers had failed to assess the dangers . That ruling halted all tests as private industry voluntarily decided to hold up until the legal dust settled . A study by the General Accounting Office last month reported that the U.S. Agriculture Department is funding 87 research projects that involve the planned release of genetically altered organisms . Overall , the Agriculture Department is spending $40. 5 million for 778 biotechnology projects this year and last. wait until they develop that before going ahead ? "                     