@@734638

txt WASHINGTON ? If you believe , with the Carter administration , that inflation can be cured by creating a recession that curtails production and throWSpeople out of work , what follows , wo n't make much sense . to YOU . But . if you believe that what America needs is more people geinfully employed , more people producing goods and services , then you might be interested in the Urban Jobs and Enterprise Zone Act introduced by Rep. Jack Kemp ( R. , N.Y. ) . " Enterprise zones " are not Kemp 's brainchild . Rather , the idea comes from two Englishmen : Prof. Peter Hall and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Geoffrey Howe . But as Arthur Leifer ( he of the " Lefler Curve " ) might tell you , Kemp is n't adverse to borrowing a good Idea . The point of the present idea Is to halt the spread of urban decay by turning the most depressed areas of the cities into " enterprise zones " ? economic free-fire areas ? in which nearly all zoning and other governmental controls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially abated . The changes would make the blighted areas attractive to businesses and that , in turn , would foster an economic reversal , making the areas viable once again . NEW BUSINESSES ( mostly small and marginal ) would take root , and unemployment would go down ? and in pre , cisely the areas most in need of it . Stuart Butler , a Britisher now a permanent resident here , has written about the British version of enterprise zones in the winter issue of the Lincoln Review . He begins by recalling the reasons for urban decline : the shift from heavy city-based industries to high-technology factories in the suburbs and the improved ? Bob Wledrich is on special assignment . transportation and communications systems which make suburban locations more attractive . One result : " In the South Bronx , for example , 66 per cent of the inhabitants were black or Hispanic by 1970 , and 90 per cent were below 18 . One-third of the . population is now dependent on welfare , and although the South Bronx has lost 20 per cent of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cent of its welfare cases . " The effect on the city 's overall tax base is , of course , devastating . Converting the South Statutes of America into enterprise zones would make them attractive to small entrepreneurs , whom Butler describes as " a different breed " from executives of major corporations . " They are generally people with a saleable skill or idea but little capital , who are quite willing to devote long hours in poor working , conditions to build up their businesses . " And the good effects spread . " The man with the skill utilizes the labor of his family or neighbors to establish and conduct his enterprise . Normally , these people will have , very little knowledge of business skills when they begin , and mistakes are made . But the whole process - serves as an apprenticeship ; and as the business grows , it draws more and mote local help . These employes may commence with low-paid , unskilled work , but they can acquire skills and responsibilities as the company develops . " SO WHY HAVE N'T entail @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or Washington 's Anacostia , or-the blighted areas of other cities ? The reasons , says Butler , are those repeatedly cited by businessmen : regulation , inflation , taxes , and government paperwork . The enterprise zone concept would eliminate most of these inhibitors . Zoning laws , beyond the most elemental safety and pollution requirements , would be suspended , as would the regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration ( OSHA ) , rent controls , most business and property taxes , minimum wage standards , and other " obstacles to the operation of market forces . " ( The Kemp bill would leave the minimum-wage laws unchanged but reduce the employers ' Social Security liability . ) Because the special concessions would be abandoned after businesses reached a certain level of turnover and profitability , there would be small chance that already established businesses would relocate to the enterprise zones . Most of the businesses attracted by the legislation would be new businesses , backers of the idea predict . FOR THE IDEA to work , It would of course be necessary for local jurisdictions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enterprise zones . Butler calls the concept " a bold departure from the traditional and unsuccessful " solutions " normally offered to inner-city problems . " " Unlike most of these , " be says , " it would not set up a new welfare and urban planning bureaucracy , and it would not be the beginning of yet another ever-expanding flow of federal dollars . " Instead , it would allow the innovative genius of the small entrepreneur to be turned to the issue , resulting in private money being risked and real , productive jobs being created . It would provide a genuine opportunity for inner-city minorities and other residents to turn the central metropolitan areas once more into growth centers ' of the economy . " It certainly seems a more hopeful cure than a deliberately generated recession .                     