@@668457

For months , we have been awaiting hints of the Republican strategy for the 1984 presidential campaign . Finally , we have them . The decision by Interior Secretary James Watt to invite Wayne Newton to Washington for the Fourth of July celebration was music to the ears of political observers . When Watt said that rock musicians such as the Beach Boys would bring " the wrong element " to the Washington Mall , he was appealing to all the right elements , sometimes known as the elements of the right . The Republican strategy for 1984 will be to bring the party together again . For months we have known the Democratic campaign strategy . The Democrats are parading dozens of boring candidates around the country in hopes that , sooner or later , even Ted Kennedy will seem interesting . The Democrats want us to become so desperate that we will plead with Kennedy to run . The Republicans , for the first time ever , are not boring . They are bickering . The Wayne Newton announcement by Watt was actually the second step @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first occurred about a week ago when the President ordered huge tariff increases designed to protect the Harley- Davidson Motor Co . Harley-Davidson makes motorcycles , the choppers most preferred by motorcycle gangs , and America ' s motorcycle gangs are among the traditional organizations that comprise the Old Right . The Old Right has supported the President through most of his career but is distressed because the President will not give ICBMs to Taiwan . Motorcycle gangs believe in the same basic values as the President , such as exclusion of minorities and subservience of women . Like the President , they have a warm spot for America ' s small towns . Where would a motorcycle gang be without a small town to terrorize ? In banning the Beach Boys in favor of Newton , Watt said , " It is imperative that we get entertainment that will point to the glories of America in a patriotic and inspirational way that will attract the families . " This was a call to the New Right , the Republican constituency that feels the President has abandoned the family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The appearance in Washington by Newton will bring together the people from the Moral Majority who believe conception is a game of chance and the people from Las Vegas who believe existence is a game of chance . The widening schism in the party has been caused partly by philosophical differences . There are those who believe we should nuke Moscow and those who believe we should nuke everybody . The debate has been so devisive that even Jesse Helms is in trouble . But why should we dwell on the good news ? In the year and a half remaining before the election , the Administration will make a number of significant changes in the American Way of Life , all designed to unify the party . We will no longer honor Martin Luther King , the inspirational leader of the ' 60s . That day will be set aside to honor the King Family , the inspirational singers of the ' 60s . The Traditional Values wing of the party should be mollified . Several religious holidays require revitalization to please the Embattled Fundamentalist wing . Jerry Falwell recently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enough for him . A new holiday , Unplanned Parenthood Day , will be announced . Columbus Day will become Knights of Columbus Day , and The Tomb of The Unknown Soldier will become The Tomb of The Unknown Junta . Our commitment to national security will be intensified with a program of lie detector tests for children who tell Santa Claus they were good . These measures are certain to wake up the conservatives of our nation . Providing we can wake up the President first .                     