@@668834

Caulking compound is one of the least expensive yet most effective materials to protect the house against the weather and to save energy . Properly applied , a good compound will keep water from seeping in and causing paint to peel or wood to rot . Even in masonry , water that seeps into joints or cracks can cause structures to deteriorate faster , particularly when freezing alternates with thawing . All seams and joints in a house move slightly due to expansion and contraction of the materials used in building , so caulking must be flexible . There is less movement when both pieces are of the same material  --  for example , where wood meets wood  --  because both pieces expand and contract at about the same rate . However , where dissimilar materials meet  --  for example , where a wood post rests on a concrete slab  --  movement may be much greater because of the differences in expansion and contraction rates . That is why all good caulking compounds are formulated to remain slightly flexible and why it is so important to replace them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They can protect properly only as long they can " give " without cracking . In addition , good caulking must be able to stick or bond easily to the surfaces on each side of the joint . Caulking compounds are usually sold in cartridges that fit into a standard , half-barrel caulking gun . Some also come in pressurized , aerosol- type dispensers . The silicone and acrylic latex types are also available in small squeeze tubes that are usually used for small indoor jobs . Caulking used around the outside of the house generally falls into one of these categories : oil base , latex base , butyl or silicone . Oil-base compounds are the cheapest but also the shortest lived and are messy . They also are slow-drying and tend to attract and hold dirt . Many crack more readily than the other types of sealants . Latex-base compounds  --  usually acrylic , but sometimes vinyl  --  are much easier to work with and can be smoothed with less mess than oil-base compounds . Because they are water-soluble , you can wipe off the excess , clean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finger or wet rag to smooth it . Such compounds also adhere better than oil-base caulkings to most structural materials and they won ' t " bleed through " when latex paints are applied over them . Most aerosol caulking compounds are latex-base . Butyl ( or butyl rubber ) sealants are tougher and longer lasting than the two mentioned above , but they cost more . Some can not withstand long exposure to sunlight , so they should be used only where sunlight will not reach them or where they will be painted over . Butyl remains flexible and springy longer than latex- or oil-base sealants , so it will usually last much longer . It also sticks better to difficult surfaces . Silicone caulking compounds cost more than the others but also often last longer and may be worth the extra expense on difficult jobs  --  for example , when caulking around brick , tile , glass and similar materials where a really permanent sealant is needed . Until recently , most silicones could not be painted over , but in recent years many large producers have developed varieties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Silicone compounds are also used as adhesives for such difficult-to-bond materials as glass , ceramic tile and metal because they have excellent adhesive qualities and remain flexible many years . They are often used around tubs , sinks and shower stalls , as well as outside the house . They allow a lot of movement without cracking or separating . ( For indoor use , select one that contains a fungicide to prevent mildew . It will be labeled for kitchen and bathroom use . ) Caulking should be applied to every joint around the outside of the house where different materials meet or where pieces come together to form a seam or joint  --  anywhere that water or cold air can enter , or where heat can escape from the inside during the winter ( or hot air can enter when air-conditioning is on ) . It also includes anyplace where water can seep in to cause wood rotting or paint peeling  --  for example , where pipes or utility lines enter through outside siding or trim , where wood trim comes up against siding or stucco , where wood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or where corner joints are formed in siding . When applying the caulking compound , remember that a good bond can be achieved only if the surfaces are clean and dry and if all the old , dried-out caulking has been scraped out . Apply the caulking in a smooth , even bead by squeezing the trigger slowly with constant pressure . Avoid surges or explosive bursts of compound that will leave a rough surface . The longest lasting results will be achieved if the bead of compound has a slightly convex surface rather than a concave one . If you have to smooth the compound with a finger or rag , apply only slight pressure to avoid pressing it in too far . Pressing down to form a concave curve at the surface will make the bead much more likely to crack later as it dries . Caulking will not adhere properly or last as long as it should if it is applied to joints or seams that are very narrow . In narrow joints the caulking merely bridges the gap while most of it stays on the surface @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more as surfaces move closer together and most of the compound gets squeezed out . Wider joints of at least a quarter inch minimize this problem.                     