@@668515

Having exhausted themselves finally with disputations over socialism , fall fashions , the decline of night life and the best place to go on holiday this year , French spirits were rekindled last week with the controversy that has as much promise as the imposition of confiscatory taxes to engage the attention of the nation . After months of planning and hoping , the World ' s Fair - what the French call L ' Exposition Universelle - that was scheduled to be held here in 1989 was canceled for lack of enthusiasm by local officials . Since the announcement Tuesday , the newspapers and television have been filled with charges from the Left , which is in power , that the Right , which is challenging for power , sabotaged the Exposition . Naturally the Right , in the person of Jacques Chirac , the formidable mayor of Paris , and Michel Giraud , president of the Ile de France regional council , have denied sabotage . But the feeling here is that it is only the Left that wants the Exposition - and money from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown hot and sultry . Tempers , already close- cropped by the lack of money and an invasion of non-French-speaking people , are dangerously combustible . The other day , a cab driver challenged another motorist at an unregulated intersection near the Latin Quarter , and the motorist deliberately ran his car into the cab ' s door . Then he drove off . Evidently , fistfights between motorists are now common in the streets . Although , to an American tourist , prices seem more reasonable than they have been in more than a decade , to the French , prices are abominably high . A simple one-room flat in a section like the Marais , for instance , can cost $100,000 or more to buy . To a Bostonian , the apartments in the Marais , where buildings date back to the early 17th century and which was home to literary notables like Victor Hugo , prices seem a lot more reasonable than the charmless renovations of the South End or the stridently suburban condominiums of Chestnut Hill . But , to the French , the prices are totally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diverting attention from the hard life that ' s come to so many , and rivetingconcern on an oblique issue that can be resolved one way or another without doing much good or much harm to anyone . But in this resilient capital of a great country and grand culture , a hard life may be bearable , at least for a year or two more . What seems insupportable is the increasingly anemic night life that once drew high society like moths to flames . Regine ' s may as well be in Riyadh for all the newly wealthy young Arabs that nightly fill its salon ; Castelle ' s on the Left Bank has grown inward , clubby for the French who have always gone there , but not entirely accessible to visitors . " I think the people are tired of the culture of the ' 70s " remarked Claude Aurensan , who manages the Salon Privilege , the only club left in Paris that can claim a congenial atmosphere and a truly chic following . Clubs here , except for Privilege , have one or the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going out and looking at the fashions and dancing , " said Aurensan . " They are looking for - I don ' t know how you would say - l ' art de la vie . They are looking for the depth of a person or a situation or an atmosphere . They are more interested now in having important conversation at dinner . There is an emphasis on quality in both the atmosphere and the people that surround you . " From his exquisite apartment on the Rue de Rivoli overlooking the Tuileries Gardens near the Louvre , Phillippe Guiborge , the respected and most- loved French designer , personified the quality Aurensan , a friend , had in mind . No stranger to night life despite a reputation as a workaholic for such couture houses as Dior and Chanel , for whom he started the ready-to-wear line , Guiborge announces simply that taxes and prices have deprived people of their spirit of fun . On a jaunt around the boites , after a perfect and convivial dinner at the restaurant Moulin de Village near the Madeleine , Guiborge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and unwashed look that is increasingly the style , or antistyle , of the culture here today . " It ' s awful , " he said , shaking his head . " I voted for him ( Francois Mitterrand , the Socialist president of the republic ) , but I don ' t know what will happen . It ' s awful . " So the controversy over the Exposition might do some good over the next few months . Nothing more invigorates the French than a controversy that crosses cultural , political and economic lines and makes a synthesis of varying interests . Paris does not need an Exposition ; it is a perpetual exposition itself . But the French very much need a diversion , and the yes-or- no issue of an Exposition six years hence serves everyone ' s needs .                     