@@670206

MOUNTAIN VIEW , Calif.  --  Claris Corp. , the new company Apple Computer Inc. formed last April to take over much of its personal computer software business , is finally stepping out on its own . This week Claris will start shipping , under its own label , updated versions of several well-known personal computer programs it inherited from Cupertino , Calif. - based Apple . Claris , which recently set up shop in its own brand-new building five miles from Apple ' s rambling campus headquarters , also will announce two new programs it has developed on its own . Hardly a conventional startup , Claris is opening for business with 107 employees , one-fifth of whom formerly worked for Apple . To help it get off the mark , Apple handed over rights to five existing programs for Apple computers that will produce first-year revenue of about $35 million . " Apple has given us a revenue stream and it was up to us to build an infrastructure to support it , " said William V. Campbell , the 47-year-old former college football coach and Apple exeuctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We ' re on our own now . " Apple formed Claris last year in part to appease independent software developers who had begun to complain about having to compete against Apple in the applications software business  --  programs such as word-processors , spreadsheets and databases . When Claris was first announced , Apple Chairman John Sculley said that within 18 months to two years , Claris would be spun off into an independent , publicly traded company . That timetable , which would indicate Claris will go public later this year , still holds , Mr. Campbell said , although the stock market crash " drove home how vulnerable we all can be . " While Claris will maintain close ties to Apple , the new company is trying to establish its own identity . It won ' t use the distinctive rainbow-colored Apple logo on its packaging . And it is trying to put behind it Apple ' s reputation for providing poor support for software customers . " We ' re putting a lot of effort into customer service , rather than just pretend " customer problems aren @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of marketing , another former Apple executive . To that end , Claris hired Robert D. Gafford , former vice president of support and services at Ashton-Tate Co. , one of the biggest personal computer software companies , to be its director of support . Claris ' s first products , to be shipped later this week , are updated versions of Apple ' s MacWrite word processing and MacPaint graphics programs for the Macintosh personal computer , both to be priced at $125 ; MacProject II , a completely redesigned version of Apple ' s project management software priced at $495 ; and a slightly revised version of AppleWorks for Apple II computers , priced at $249 . During the second quarter , Claris will ship MacDraw II , a completely redesigned version of the drafting and graphics program priced at $395 . Late in the second quarter Claris will begin shipping two programs , SmartForm Design and SmartForm Manager , for designing and using business forms on Macintosh computers . The company doesn ' t intend to sell programs for International Business Machines Corp. and compatible personal computers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Claris will offer discounted software upgrades  --  as cheap as $25 for MacWrite and MacPaint  --  to owners of previous versions of the former Apple programs . The move is not merely to win customer goodwill . When Apple itself handled the marketing and support chores for the programs it didn ' t bother to keep returned warranty cards from its software customers , much less lists of their names . Claris ' s discounted upgrade " will help us identify those customers , " said Mr. Zeisler , who contends that successful software companies cultivate repeat customers . " We really wish we knew their names already . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     