@@668364

Gov . Edward J. King yesterday ended a 25-year quest for this lower Cape Cod town when he signed into law a bill allowing the commonwealth to acquire more than 400 acres of prime beach land for use as a state park . The unspoiled , three-mile South Cape Beach will become the only state-owned beach on the Cape . Standing in the parking lot on the edge of the beach , King praised the selectmen and citizens of Mashpee , who have worked since 1958 to see that the state would someday purchase the secluded South Cape Beach from its current private owners . " The acquisition of this area means that all of Massachusetts ' people will be able to enjoy a unique area , " King said . " We want all our people who labor up in Winthrop and Needham to be able to come down here . " He also predicted the state park will attract nonresidents to the Cape , saying that " by preserving the economic integrity of the area , we will provide an important stimulus to tourism . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beach " a dream come true , " Jeanne Thomas , chairman of the Mashpee Board of Selectmen , thanked King for " making this moment and sharing it with us . " Other accolades from state and local officials as well as the dozen " Thank you , Gov . King " signs and repeated cheers from the 200 or so onlookers at the signing ceremony belied , however , the controversy that has surrounded South Cape Beach for well over a decade . Some 90 percent of the land is owned by the New Seabury Corp. , a development firm which had planned to build 750 condominiums on the uplands portion of the parcel that the state will now acquire by eminent domain . The corporation had tried to block state purchase of the land , offering to set aside the beach and wetlands portions of the property for town use while retaining the uplands area for its development . The corporation argued that such a compromise would increase the town ' s tax base while still allowing public use of the beach . But Selectman Thomas said in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Mashpee rejected that proposal because the New Seabury Corp . would have retained the access roads to the beach and because local people wanted the whole area to remain " open and available to the public . " Officials from the New Seabury Corp . refused last week to comment on the state ' s pending acquisition of South Cape Beach , referring all calls to company attorney George A. McLaughlin of Boston . McLaughlin could not be reached for comment yesterday or Friday . While the New Seabury Corp . and other owners of the property can not contest the state ' s taking of the land , they may take the commonwealth to court over the price of the parcel . State Rep. Jeremiah F. Cahir ( D-Bourne ) , who sponsored the acquisition bill , said yesterday that the state is prepared to spend up to $7.2 million , money available from state bond issues and from federal land and conservationfunds , to purchase the land . The New Seabury Corp. , however , has told Cape Cod papers that it estimates the value of the 432-acre @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of more controversy over these figures , the officials and citizens who had worked actively for well over a decade considered King ' s signing of the so-called South Cape Beach bill a total victory . " This is probably the most memorable , momentous day that , in my memory , has occurred in Mashpee , " said Morris Kirschbaum , chairman of the South Cape Beach Advisory Committee . Even after the festive signing ceremony , which took place on one of this summer ' s best beach days so far , King was optimistic about the state ' s ability to find additional funds for purchasing South Cape Beach , if that money is needed . " It ' ll have to be made , " he said , " one way or another . "                     