@@670249

First there was " Iacocca , " the autobiography as told to William Novak . Some 6. 5 million copies were sold . Now , four years later , comes " Talking Straight " ( with Sonny Kleinfield , Bantam , 324 pages , $21. 95 ) , the sequel . The publisher , who ' s run off a first printing of 750 , 000 , is betting that a lot of you will buy this one , too . " Talking Straight " is an unusual sort of product . It looks like a book , is priced like a book , targets an audience like a book . But it lacks an essential ingredient  --  communication . At first glance it seems almost daringly forthcoming . The volume is a report on Lee Iacocca ' s experiences and thoughts since his last book , and it ' s written in the Chrysler chief executive ' s inimitable locker-room style . It covers Mr. Iacocca ' s close relationships with his daughters , his brief remarriage , his views on Ronald Reagan , the Japanese and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including a funny Winston Churchill story , and a number of interesting observations . The personal side of the book is the good part . The reason America loves Lido isn ' t that he ' s smart or authoritative , but because he ' s a rags-to-riches hero-celebrity , the Italian immigrants ' son who climbed to the top of a giant corporation , got fired for no reason by a blue-blooded boss , and bounced back to bigger success as chairman of a rival company . But Mr. Iacocca ' s patter conceals more than it reveals , and the book becomes muddled when it turns to serious subjects . Here is Iacocca on executive perks at Chrysler : " As a rule , I usually don ' t even bother going to the ( executive ) dining room , " Mr. Iacocca writes . " I have a sandwich at my desk . When I do drop by , everyone inevitably ends up talking business . That banter drives me nuts , because I ' m trying to swallow my food and relax . So I reached the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a perk than having a parking spot in the garage . ( Now that ' s a perk , especially in the middle of a snowstorm in Michigan . ) " These twisting sentences are a defensive admission that the dining room is a perk , coupled with Mr. Iacocca ' s denial that he gets any pleasure or benefit from it . But to pull this off , he has to take the position  --  mystifying in a chief executive  --  that he wishes people wouldn ' t talk business in a company lunchroom . Soon there ' s more confusion . " The real problem is not the existence of perks ; it ' s the abuse of them . When you see guys traveling to golfing matches in company planes , you really have to wonder if the company is keeping records and billing everybody , as it ought to . " This sensible sentiment is a travesty in Lee Iacocca ' s mouth . In 1981 , when the U.S. government was guaranteeing Chrysler debt , Donald Regan ' s Treasury Department forced Chrysler , over Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after The Wall Street Journal reported that the plane was seen at a baseball spring training site in Florida . Mr. Iacocca doesn ' t mention this fact in a book that goes to some trouble to express his personal dislike for Mr. Regan . Anyway , Mr. Iacocca continues , the perks aren ' t excessive at Chrysler , which " is a tight and lean outfit . We ' re never going to live high off the hog , because we ' re Depression babies . " Oh ? Wasn ' t Mr. Iacocca already a Depression baby back in the 1970s , when under his management Ford operated what he writes was a luxurious executive dining room ? In this book , as in the last one , Lee Iacocca is a veritable mother lode of charming self-contradiction , corporate shaggy dog stories , misinformation and mystification . Among other things : Mr. Iacocca has become alarmingly hostile to the Japanese , whom he puts down throughout the book . He is equally outraged by corporate takeovers , which , against the evidence , he says are directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He is an inveterate employer of ghostwriters , yet he chastises American school children for not writing enough . He believes the U.S. Constitution expresses no political philosophy  --  only pragmatism . He likes public policies that limit competition and allow centralized bureaucracies to impose solutions . But the reader would be ill-advised to take these thoughts very seriously . In his pitchman fervor , Mr. Iacocca will apparently say anything . Go ahead and buy the book and take it to the beach . You ' re going to anyway  --  manipulative phoniness and all , Lee Iacocca fascinates us  --  and I guess it won ' t hurt . But be clear about the experience that awaits you . " Talking Straight " is chief-executive porn : synthetic intimacy in search of ego gratification and a quick buck.  --  - Mr. Weaver , a former communications director at Ford Motor Co. , is John M. Olin Media Fellow at the Hoover Institution , Stanford University.                     