@@670353

U.S. Memories at first glance sounds like a nostalgia movie or an unpublished Beatles piece . It is neither , but it is something equally interesting : a new effort to test the waters  --  both economic and legal  --  for corporate cooperation . Readers who have been following the news carefully will know that U.S. Memories is the consortium set up by IBM and six other companies last month to make DRAMs , the semiconductors that give computers their memory capabilities . It will be headed by Sanford L. Kane , formerly vice president of IBM ' s General Technology Division . The other partners are Advanced Micro Devices , DEC , Hewlett-Packard , Intel , LSI Logic and National Semiconductor . USM initially will make an advanced four-megabit DRAM chip under license from IBM . Four million bits is state of the art . Not so long ago , 256 , 000 bits were considered to be a technical marvel . It is a measure of how rapidly DRAM technology is advancing that IBM already has moved on to development of a 16-megabit DRAM and is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , when USM gets rolling , four megs will be barely enough . Given the highly competitive DRAM business , Mr. Kane needs several things in a hurry . He needs a plant site . He needs to negotiate his licensing agreement with IBM . He needs firm commitments to invest equity from all seven partners . He needs financing . Most of all , he needs legal assurance that this venture will not run afoul of the antitrust laws . As to the latter , Mr. Kane says , " We ' ve had a lot of discussion on that subject . It ' s a thorny issue . There are no laws on the books that specifically say it ' s OK to have a manufacturing joint venture . There are three bills in various stages of the House to let us do this . Also , there is a recommendation coming from the Commerce Department for a fourth one . God willing they ' ll all end up as one bill . " But U.S. Memories has a time problem . " No matter how confident the congressmen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to take a long time . Some senators are opposed . At minimum it will take six months . If we sit back and wait , we will lose our window of opportunity . If we wait six months it would be stupid to try to build four-meg memory . We ' d just be too late . We ' ll never be able to recover our investment . " The goal is to have the consortium organized by the end of this year , with half a billion dollars in equity financing from its members and prospects for a further half-billion in borrowing . Because of the time pressures , U.S. Memories will try to get a legal opinion saying that this type of combination does not violate antitrust laws . It will argue that competition is not endangered , because the Japanese dominate the world DRAM market and there are three other DRAM producers in the U.S. , Texas Instruments , Motorola and Micron Technology . Finally , it will argue that American companies have been reluctant to make the large investments needed to produce DRAMs , so USM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Kane says he would sleep a lot easier at night if a law on the books explicitly exempted the consortium from antitrust restrictions . His concern is understandable given the problems IBM itself has had with the antitrust division over the years . The risk of getting hit with a treble damage award in some future antitrust suit is not something IBM or other prospective members of the consortium can afford to take lightly . Some of this wariness may derive from the fact that the concept of U.S. Memories was hatched in the board room of the Semiconductor Industry Association ( SIA ) , a trade group . Few industries have been more vocal in recent years in demanding special treatment from government . The general level of annoyance over the SIA ' s pushiness well may be rising . Even the protectionist-minded steel industry would be hard-put to match SIA ' s stridency . The most notable previous example was the SIA ' s success three years ago in persuading the Reagan Commerce Department to negotiate a microchip trade agreement with Japan , a deal that can only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Several things happened after that and readers can draw their own conclusions about whether the microchip deal was a factor . First of all , semiconductor prices in the spot market doubled . Then a severe shortage developed in the U.S. , with Japanese producers reserving their own production for their own needs . And , as is usually true with cartels , competition began to develop outside the cartel . The Koreans have been moving into the semiconductor business . And some 100 European companies hope to organize a chip-producing consortium of their own , called JESSI . As it happens , the U.S. is not as badly off in the chips business as the SIA likes to claim . Industry assessments of world DRAM market share often conveniently ignore IBM on grounds that IBM doesn ' t sell in the spot market , since it uses all the chips it makes , and more . Second , the focus on DRAMs ignores the dominant U.S. role in customized chips designed to perform specific functions , matching up with similarly customized software . To be sure , memory chips @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as operating systems require ever-larger memories , the share is expected to rise to some 25% over the next several years . But in strategic terms , dominance of software and microprocessor technology is the high ground . Yes , U.S. producers respond , but DRAMs drive technology for the entire chips industry . Since the race to crowd more circuitry onto a chip is fierce in the highly competitive DRAM business , there may be some truth to this . IBM , for example , is experimenting with " trenching " chips to give them additional facets for laying down circuitry . Mr. Kane makes a rather abstruse argument that the redundancy built into DRAMs to allow for imperfections aids in microprocessor design . But he admits that not all SIA board members agree that DRAMs are the No. 1 technology driver . While the SIA ' s special pleading sometimes can be annoying , Mr. Kane is probably correct in arguing that U.S. Memories is not a serious threat to competitiveness in the DRAM market . One even might argue that the presence of another strong producer in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IBM technology to a company that intends to compete in the open market . At least it can be said of U.S. Memories that it is asking no special government support other than exemption from the antitrust laws . That was not true of the SIA in the microchip deal . Nor was it true of another consortium , Sematech , formed by Uncle Sam and the industry two years ago to do research and development on better means of producing microchips . U.S. Memories will join Sematech as a member . The big question with Sematech is whether cooperative R &; is a viable substitute for competitive R &; Indeed , that is the key question for all industry as the U.S. drifts toward what euphemistically is called " industrial policy . " Rep. Harris Fawell ( R. , Ill. ) recently was quoted in Business Week to wit : " Cooperation is one of the buzzwords for competitiveness . " Some might call that doublespeak.                     