@@735590

txt The AFL-CIO 's executive council begins its winter meeting in Bat Harbour , Fla. , this weekend a step closer to making a pre-primary endorsement of a Democratic presidential hopeful . When the policyrnaking executive council approved the ground rules for the endorsement plan at a meeting last summer , there was talk that the federation would n't be able to muster the two-thirds membership vote needed for endorsement . Some union officials argued that it would be self-defeating for labor to make an early choice among several friends . Previously , the AFL-CIO withheld its formal endorsement until after the primaries . But Sen : Edward Kennedy 's withdrawal from the 1984 presidential race has altered the picture , and should quiet any sentiment against the early endorsement idea in the council 's private sessions this week . In the view of several top AFL-CIO officials , if former Vice President Walter Mondale , who officially announces his candidacy next week , can build an early and substantial lead , he will win the early labor endorsement next fall . In fact , one AFL-CIO official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its planned early-endorsement session to October 1983 from December . " The absence of Ted ( Kennedy ) removes a great deal of divisiveness in the labor movement over who to support , " says one AFL-CIO official , who previously had n't favored the early-endorsement plan . Nevertheless , other presidential hopefuls will continue working actively for labor 's support  --  or for enough support to block the two-thirds membership vote needed for endorsement . The 35-member executive council has invited two presidential hopefuls to next week 's meetings , Sen. Alan Cranston ( D. , Calif. ) and Sen. Ernest Hollings ( D. , S.C. ) . Other potential candidates were invited to earlier meetings . Sen. Cranston has a busy schedule planned for courting labor support in Bal Harbour . He is scheduled to begin his activities today with a series of meetings with labor groups and end his efforts at a reception next Wednesday night . " If there are two people together in a room anywhere in Bal Harbour . Cranston will be the third , " declared Victor Kamber , who heads the Kamber group @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cranston 's printed schedule even includes a " run on the beach with union officials and reporters . " Sen. Hollings has a far less ambitious schedule . He plans to arrive in Florida Wednesday night , address the executive council Thursday and depart . " I do n't think we 're going to particularly be one of their favorites , " says a Hollings aide . " But we 're going to go and give them our message . " Despite the politicking , the AFL-CIO 's first order of business next week will be economics . The council will present its economic report and alternative program . It is expected to include a call for federal funding for state and local jobs , a public-works program and federal loan guarantees to aid the housing industry . The price tag for these three measures would be $15 billion during the current year and $30 billion next year . The council also has invited Secretary of State George Shultz to address its meeting next Friday , but its overall frigid relations with the Reagan administration are n't likely to improve . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretary Raymond Donovan . Mr. Donovan did get an invitation , however , to attend an International Longshoreman 's Association luncheon and to address several other smaller AFL-CIO groups in Bal Harbour next week . But the Labor secretary wo n't be staying at the Sheraton Bal Harbour , headquarters for the meeting . His request for a reservation automatically was turned over to the AFLCIO. which occupies the entire hotel next week . The labor federation did n't have a snare room for Mr. Donovan .                     