@@735596

txt The AFL-CIO 's Executive Council called for annual defense spending increases of 5% to 7% beyond inflation , despite grumbling from some of its major unions that such rises were too high . The labor group was able to resolve the internal debate yesterday only by adding a sentence to its interim defense report stating that " a number of members of the executive council have expressed a strong opinion that the increase should be held at the lower end of the range or below . " Some critics of the defense spending levels privately expressed concern that the federation 's recommendation put it above the level advocated by many Democrats who oppose the Reagan administration 's defense buildup . These unions also criticize the federation 's support of such defense spending at a time when it is challenging the administration 's proposed cuts in social programs . The administration has proposed an inflation-adjusted increase of 10% in defense spending , to $239 billion , for next year . Some congressional Democrats are calling for a 5% " real " increase . The AFL-CIO in the pas% @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , last year , the labor group Questioned Mr. Reagan 's defense budget and created a special committee to review defense spending . The committee issued its interim report yesterday at the start of the council 's winter meeting here . The reports recommendation was challenged by about half a dozen unions including the United Auto Workers , the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees , the United Food and Commercial Workers union and the Machinists union . Some of these officials privately criticized the federation 's proposal to levy a surtax on corporations and wealthy individuals to pay for defense spending increases , asserting that it was politically unrealistic and merely an attempt to separate the defense-spending increase from the issue of cuts in social programs . Lane Kirkland , president of the AFL-CIO and an advocate of strong national defense , contended that both defense and social needs could be served if the nation had a properly balanced economic policy mix . He said at a news conference yesterday that the nation 's ballooning budget deficits are n't caused by defense spending . Rather , he said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recession and widespread unemployment and from the package of cuts in individual and business tax rates enacted in 1981. which he referred to as the " irresponsible ruinist tax giveaway of 1981 . " Yesterday , the council also approved its alternative economic program . The plan , which the federation has proposed previously , calls for additional spending of $22.5 billion during the current fiscal year and about $46 billion in spending in the year beginning next Oct. 1 . The program includes federally funded jobs programs and federal housing subsidies . The administration and Congress are talking about spending $4.3 billion for additional jobs programs in the current year . Mr. Kirkland also used yesterday 's news conference here to attack the administration 's economic program again . He said the poor and those " least privileged " have been " singled out by the administration 's program for the sacrifices and austerity " while the rich have received " an enormous tax cut . " The result , he said , has been " a net di . Saster for the country . " Presidential politics also is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meeting here . Democratic presidential hopefuls have been courting labor leaders since the federation , in a break with the past , decided last year to consider endorsing a candidate before the primary season . During this meeting . the council will hear from Sen. Alan Cranston ( D. , Calif. ) and Sen. Ernest Hollings ( D. , S.C. ) . With the withdrawal from the 1984 race of Sen. Edward Kennedy ( D. , Mass. ) , former Vice President Walter Mondale has emerged as the early favorite to win this endorsement . The federation plans to consider endorsing a candidate in special session next December . Yesterday however , Mr. Kirkland confirmed reports that the endorsement might be moved up to the AFL-CIO 's October convention " if it becomes clear that some sort of real consensus is emerging . "                     