@@734694

txt THE DISCOVERY of an array of historically significant medical photographs in a vault at Boston 's 169-year-old Massachusetts General Hospital offers new insights into the early days of medical practice in the Hinted States . The photographs , in the form of daguerreotypes , include what may be the first pictures ever taken of surgical procedure  --  and the introduction of anesthesia  --  and of Patients afflicted with disease . A team assigned to recatalog and centralize the hospital 's many priceless artifacts discovered and assembled more than two dozen of the unique original photographs during an 18-month period . The original plates have been restored and made into an exhibit for Harvard University 's Fogg Art Museum . David Pratt , curator of the print room at the museum , calls the items " marvelous examples of early documentary photography , " and he cites the significance of the ' full plate " daguerreotypes , as being among the largest pictures of their kind . Light sensitive and silver coated , daguerreotypes copied a likeness or the scene of an event , and mercury vapor then @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three pictures that de-pint events in the hospital 's Ether Dome when it served as a surgical amphitheater . Anesthesia in surgery was introduced at the hospital on Oct. 16 , 1848 , and one of the photographs shows a re-enactment of the first operation performed using ether In a glass inhaler . The photo was taken a few days after the actual event . The other two daguerreotypes , made some time after March , 1847 , illustrate the use of ether in two actual operations . Two years before the historic . breakthrough of anesthesia , a dentist from Hartford , Conn. , approached Dr. John Collins Warren , chief of surgery at the hospital , asking if he could demonstrate " painless " dentistry on one of Warren 's patients . The doctor agreed to let thedentist , Horace Wells , administer nitrous oxide , or laughing gas , to a patient before Warren 's class of Harvard Medical School students . On the day of the experiment , a spectator volunteered to have a problem tooth extracted . Unfortunately , Wells mistook nervousness for unconsciousness and yanked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ' students , but to a horrendous scream from the volunteer . Back to the drawing board . In 1846 , another dentist approached Warren with a different gas , sulphuric ether , after Successfully  --  and painlessly  --  extracting a patient 's tooth in his Boston office . Warren , undaunted by the memory of the earlier fiasco , agreed to allow a similar test by Dr. William Morton at 10 a.m. on Oct. 10 , 1846 . AS THE OPERATING theater filled with spectators and medical personnel that morning , a 21-year-old printer named Gilbert Abbott , who suffered from . a large growth under the left side of his Jaw , nervously awaited ? his fling with destiny . The hour neared and Morton was not in sight . The punctual Warren prepared to perform the operation himself , sans ' anesthesia . . But Morton did arrive , and gave the knockout punch to Abbott via an ether inhaler . Morton then made a tentative 3-inch incision and , hearing no scream , gave the scalpel to an astonished Warren , for the surgery . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and said : " Gentlemen , this is no humbug . " The photograph found in the hospital 's archives is a reenactment of that historic occasion . The archives also yielded Dr. Henry J. Bigelow 's long-forgotten collection of photographs illustrating diseases in patients and photos of doctors . When discovered , the daguerreotypes varied in condition because of atmospheric effects over a long period of time . The hospital has had the material painstakingly restored . Patients often arrived by boat at the Bulfinch Building of the hospital when it opened in.1821 ( above ) . BelOw , patients recuperate in the Bulfinch Ward . which continued in operation  --  mostly unchanged from this photograph taken in the 19th Century  --  until 1977.                     