@@668297

A United Auto Workers official told Congress today the auto industry faces a " catastrophe of unprecedented proportions " unless rescue steps are taken . Sheldon Friedman , UAW research director , said Reagan Administration cutbacks in extended unemployment and job retraining benefits have hurt tens of thousands of workers . His statement was read at a hearing by the Senate employment and productivity subcommittee . Friedman called for a " local content law " that would require significant US automotive investment by US and foreign-based companies . Without it , he said , " we envision an industrial catastrophe of unprecedented proportions . " Friedman said 235,000 workers have fallen off the active rolls at five U.S. auto assembly plants and another 650,000 workers have been cut loose by anufacturers . " It is unlikely that many of these will return , unless the local content law is in place to reduce both import penetration and foreign sourcing , " he said . Friedman also called for a " scrappage bounty " to encourage Americans to get rid of some of the 23 million cars at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ billion in bounty , the government could induce 4 million Americans to turn in scrap cars . Friedman said minorities are bearing a disproportionate share of the job loss because black workers tend to be employed in the older , inner-city plants most subject to shutdown . He also said that rather than junk the present worker adjustment assistance program as the administration wants to do , Congress ought to improve it . He cited a Michigan state survey that 78 percent of laid off Chrysler workers were interested in retraining and 38 percent would be willing to relocate for a job . " Unfortunately , the government lacked the funds and willingness to develop programs to accomplish this , " Friedman said . Business economist Dilip Pendse , in testimony prepared for the hearing , noted the suffering caused by a 1980 automotive layoff in Kokomo , Ind . He said the federal government should help this and other devastated cities survive . Pendse , chairman of business economics at Indiana University at Kokomo , sketched a bleak picture of what has happened in Kokomo , where General Motors and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the massive layoffs , reaching 22 percent in 1980 , had caused 1,000 people to move out , retail sales to drop by 15 percent drop and the number of home mortgage loans to fall by 50 percent drop . Food stamps tripled . " The people of Kokomo are struggling hard to survive , " Pendse said . Pendse said Kokomo is going through reindustrialization , seeking industries that depend on high technology . He said it needs funds for high- tech education , temporary relief for the Jobless people " and hope for the future . " " Some modifications in the Urban Development Action Grant program could help the city get more funds under the program , " Pendse said , pointing out the current UDAG rules work against high-technology industries . " Federal assistance is needed to help speed up the process to grant the enterprise zone funds to Kokomo . Further extension of unemployment benefits could provide relief to many jobless people . " Freda Rutherford and Kathy Alessandro , of the Downriver Community Conference , a public non-profit corporation founded by 15 cities " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group is doing to provide jobs . In prepared testimony , they said the " automotive crash of 1979 " hit the downriver area with both fists . This year , they said , the 16 largest downriver employers will be at only 53 percent of their 1979 levels .  - -   - -   - -   - -  - upi 01-11-82 12:20 pes                     