@@735167

txt We 've felt a bit lonely in the attention we 've devoted to " yellow rain . " The Soviet-backed and treaty-shattering use of biological weapons in Southeast Asia seems to us one of the most dramatic and most significant news stories of the year , but it was n't treated that way by either our media colleagues or the U.S. government . In our view of this matter , however , we are about to acquire some spectacular company . On Monday night , ABC News will broadcast an hour-long documentary , " Rain of Terror , " reporting on its own investigation . On the basis of an advance screening , we can report that it is quite simply the best piece of television journalism we 've ever witnessed . It uses the camera 's unique ability to bring home to the viewer both the horror of chemical and biological warfare and the desperate plight of the Hmong tribesmen of Laos in the face of a campaign of genocide being waged by the Soviet-supplied Vietnamese . And ABC backs the drama with solid new evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. government released its findings that the poisons were mycotoxins , a product of fungus , a few scientific experts rushed to find excuses for the Soviets . The samples were not controlled , the mycotoxins might have been produced by nature , the evidence was not gathered in compliance with the Miranda rule . We hope , perhaps optimistically , that ABC 's revelations will end this kind of dispute . For the network 's reporters have obtained their own sample of " yellow rain , " and chartered their own scientific analysis . Joseph Rosen of Rutgers University confirmed that the sample contained three mycotoxins listed by the government , plus another not previously identified by government analysts . Most significantly , Dr. Rosen also found a man-made chemical , a derivative of polyethyleneglycol , which is used in aerosols and herbicides to spread other ingredients . It is not even barely conceivable that the polyethyleneglycol could have the kind of natural explanation some have claimed for the mycotoxins . So we know beyond any reasonable doubt that " yellow rain " is being produced somewhere in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence on its origins . It found , for example , film footage by a Dutch journalist of Soviet helicopters circling in a gas attack in Afghanistan . A Communist Pathet Lao pilot , who defected to Thailand , describes flying missions armed with rockets that produce red and yellow smoke . A Thai officer describes radio intercepts about Soviet officers inspecting chemical equipment in Laos . Another defector , a Vietnamese army radio operator , describes two Russian officers in Vietnamese uniforms loading and shooting a chemical rocket in an attack that killed 400 to 500 troops , including Vietnamese soldiers . He reports that the dead had " powder all over them . " The defector , who draws a picture of the rocket , says , " It was a Soviet weapon . I remember only the writing in Russian . " Perhaps the most chilling part of the whole tale is the indifference of the U.S. government . Congressman Jim Leach , a former State Department delegate to the Geneva biological warfare conference , describes how the Pentagon lost a " yellow rain " sample that had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raised the issue , but has said nothing further about it for three months . During the interval the U.S. started new disarmament negotiations with the Soviets , though their biological warfare activities are already outlawed by two treaties signed by both the U.S. and USSR . Asked why Washington has n't done more , Richard Burt , the State Department 's director of Politico-Military Affairs and recently its chief spokesman on " yellow rain , " replies that making an issue of the treaty violations would make the Soviets dig in their heels and make the attacks harder to stop . We doubt that Mr. Burt believes any such thing , and ABC is clearly not impressed . After showing the horror of biological warfare and the plight of the Hmong , it shows a beaming President Carter exchanging kisses with Chairman Brezhnev at the initialing of the now defunct SALT-II agreement . The ABC documentary makes chilling viewing , especially in this holiday season , and especially in the wake of the Soviet-backed reimposition of totalitarian rule in Poland . But some kind of shock must be in order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a ghastly new step in warfare , of genocide waged against primitive and far-off hill people , of calculated and blatant violations of international law by people with whom we pretend to believe we can negotiate disarmament agreements .                     