@@734637

txt Moscow correspondent Chinese Tribune Press Swine MOSCOW  --  The government of Afghan . istan Wednesday called for a comprehensive settlement of the crisis there , which would include American guarantees not to support subversive actions against R. It " ithdrawal of Soviet troops would h The Soviet-Installed government also called upon the two super powers to guarantee peaceful relations with neighboring Pakistan and Iran . In a statement released Wednesday by the Bakhtar news agency in Kabul and reprinted by the Taos news agency here , the Afghan government proposed bilateral negotiations with both of its neighbors , which would , in effect , require them to recognize the controversial regime . In a move obviously aimed at making the proposals more appealing to Iran , it implied that a political settlement of the 5-month-old crisis would have to include restraints on American military forces in the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf . DESPITE SOME additional elements , the proposed settlement is very Phillip ! ' to one put forward at the end of February by Soviet President Leonid Brezhnev . The Brezhnev proposal earned little @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to de facto acceptance of the Afghan regime installed by a Soviet invasion force right after Christmas . Western observers were skeptical whether these latest proposals would be any more appealing , since most Western and Third-World nations still have not recognized the Kabul regime and public . ly still support a neutral governmentthere . But Moslem sources here said they were primarily intended to defuse anti-Afghan sentiment at the Islamic conference that convenes later this week . The Soviets are hopeful , sources said , that the conference will take a less hostile stance toward the Afghan regime than it did at its emergency session right after the invasion . IN RECENT WEEKS , the sources said , the Kremlin has been conducting a far-flung diplomatic offensive in the Islamic world aimed at convincing confer . once members that the only solution to the Afghan affair is recognition of the Marxist Babrak Karmal regime , followed by a swift withdrawal of Soviet troops . Soviet diplomats , aided by diplomats from India and Cuba , are arguing that a drawn-out crisis on the Afghan question will work to the advantage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impose a settlement on the Palestinians in the Middle East . Some Moslem observers here believe the effort has borne fruit and that the conference will make at least a preliminary move toward coming to terms with Karmal . Such a development would constitute a diplomatic coup for the Kremlin , sources said , since it would effectively defuse the bitter worldwide reaction to the Karmal regime because the Islamic nations are most immediately involved . " ME HANDWRITING would then he on the wall for the rest of the world to see , " a Western analyst agreed . Wednesday 's statement , Moslem , sources said , is the latest move in the diplomatic campaign to make the Islamic conference the turning point in the Afghan affair . It included guarantees that the Islamic faith would remain free under the Karmal regime . " The new Afghan society , " Tess quoted from the statement , " is bared on profound respect and observance of national , historical , cultural , and religious traditions of the people and strictest observance of the principles of Islam as the sacred religion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perform religious rights . " THE AFGHAN government said the settlement would have to include guarantees against foreign efforts to topple the Karmal regime , either by the U.S. Pakistan , Iran , or any other nations . Making certain that Pakistan and Iran lived up to its agreements would be the responsibility of both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. , the statement said , As part of the settlement , the statement said , Soviet troops would be withdrawn , but no timetable was given . " The question of withdrawal of Soviet troops , " the statement said , " will depend in concrete terms on the resolution of the question of effective guarantees of the bilateral agreements . The statement implied that attempts to resolve the Afghan controversy could be broadened to include the whole question of military tension in Southwest Asia , and in the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf . The Afghan government " declares that in the process of political settlement , notice shall also be taken of the political military activity in the Indian Ocean and the Persian Gulf area by states which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . PRESUMABLY THE reference was to the American military buildup there in response to the holding of American hostages in Tehran .                     