@@668483

The hockey fans of Massachusetts can feel proud today knowing their All-Stars gave Eastern hockey some respectability by crushing the Minnesota All-Stars , 8-0 , yesterday at the University of Lowell ' s Tully Forum to sweep the three-game Superseries 1983 . Domination is the key word to describe the total competition . Minnesota was outscored , 28-5 , and was never in any of the games . " It was a great thrill for me and the coaches ( Ed Burns of Arlington and Roger Richard of Billerica ) to work with such a great group of kids , " said Massachusetts head coach Marty Pierce of Matignon . " They sacrificed a lot for the team . Instead of worrying about individual efforts , they worked as a team . " As expected , the game was physical and 21 penalties were called ( 11 Massachusetts , 10 Minnesota ) , but the referees let a lot of things go and eventually it came to a head as Minnesota ' s Bill Claviter and Massachusetts goalie Tom Barrasso , from Acton-Boxboro , got into a stick-swinging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the second period . It didn ' t end there because , at 9:35 of the third period , Dave Lundmark of Minnesota and Harold Duvall of Belmont Hill got into a shoving match in which Lundmark then cross-checked Duvall after the whistle . Pierce was called for a bench minor when he jumped onto the ice and tried to calm Duvall , who also was given a 10-minute misconduct . On the positive side , one of the stars of the game was Bill Kopecky of Austin Prep , who scored two goals and had two assists . Duvall also scored twice while St. John ' s Prep defenseman Scott Shaunessy had three assists . As in the previous games , outstanding team defense was one of the keys to the Massachusetts win as Barrasso was tested more in this game than the others . But the majority of the shots were from far out " They tended to look for the pass , to be too fine , " Barrasso said . " Their shot total was down because they fired a lot of shots wide . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Five goals in three games showed that we had great goaltending . Tommy made the big saves when he had to . " Minnesota coach Jim Knapp was impressed with the team defense and the coaching job Burns and Richard did with the defense . " Their defense was well prepared , " he said . " It is very unusual to have team defense in an All-Star game . It ' s a credit to the fine coaching staff that Massachusetts had . " Massachusetts took a 2-0 lead after the first period on goals by Neil Hernberg and Duvall . It added two more in the second before exploding for four in the final period . The Massachusetts players had pretty much the same views on the three-game series and its implications . " We were a lot quicker than they were , " Kopecky said . " We wanted to send them back saying that they had no excuses . " " I thought that they ' d be better than this , " Arlington defenseman Mario Cutone said . " They used the stick a lot @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ squad . " I really enjoyed the series , " he said . " As a recruiter ( he is the coach for Minnesota- Duluth ) , it ' s good to see this style of play . We would have liked to represent Minnesota better but I ' m proud of my kids . " Globe Division 1 Player of the Year Allen Bourbeau , who was the high scorer in the series with four goals and six assists , gave a clear message : " I think that Massachusetts will get more respect . I mean , the games weren ' t even close . "                     