@@668504

Never trust anyone who claims to know what is happening in the Politburo . Even highly placed Soviet officials are usually at a loss as to what ex-actly is happening . That doesn ' t mean they won ' t pass on a rumor - but the rumors are only that . The present power balance in the Politburo is particularly hard for foreign observers to interpret . Is Yuri Andropov as powerful as he initially seemed or is he weaker , both politically and physically , than we think ? Questions of this sort are more than academic exercises . If he is strong , then maybe he will be able to move decisively to remedy the Soviet Union ' s many domestic and international problems . If he is weak , then he may not even be able to attend a summit meeting should President Ronald Reagan ever decide that he is ready to attend one . In the first days after his assumption of power , Andropov certainly moved as if he had full command . Most observers accepted that at best there would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the sole leader . He did not need nor did he seem to want to cling to the dead Brezhnev ' s coattails as his source of authority . Politically he called for a new beginning , new candor , and if anything he sought to disassociate himself from the Brezhnev regime . Many of Brezhnev ' s cronies were fired ; there was no mention of Brezhnev in the 1982 year-end roundup shown on Soviet television . Economically , he called for the restoration of discipline . He cracked down on corruption and alcoholism . As befits the former head of the KGB , he authorized a series of raids on drinking halls to discourage drinking during the day . He himself showed up to work at an early hour and his example served to encourage others to do the same . Four days after President Reagan paid a visit to the Digital Equipment plant in Roxbury , Andropov decided to make a similar call on the Ordzhonikidzhe Machine Tool plant in Moscow . Like Reagan , Andropov warned the workers that there could be no increase in wages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than Reagan to warn that the workers must " increase their discipline . " Even more impressive , Andropov went on to say that the need for increased discipline " applies to everyone , starting with the ( Council of* Ministers . " Even Reagan isn ' t powerful enough or brave enough to say that about his own Cabinet . There is no doubt that this initial flurry of action was impressive and seemed to establish Andropov as a supreme leader . But doubts are rising again . Can he take the bold leadership steps that are required to reorganize the Soviet economy in a meaningful way and at the same time move decisively to address the country ' s international problems ? Will the Soviet Union ' s bureaucracy respond as readily to an enfeebled leader , as it did to what initially seemed to be a strong leader ? Last month ' s meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist party and of the Supreme Soviet ( ostensibly the Soviet parliament ) can hardly be considered as a demonstration of Andropov ' s strength . Admittedly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Supreme Soviet , which is equivalent to being president of the country . Thus he now combines the post of party secretary general , the head of the Defense Council ( the head of the military forces ) and the head of the government . But given what should be his power , it was striking that there were no new members appointed to the Politburo . For that matter there seemed to be very little change in personnel among the leadership . Nor , despite expectations , Andropov did not announce any really new or meaningful economic reforms . What was new was a demonstration of Andropov ' s political weakness . In a society which carefully controls the image it transmits to the world , it was shocking to see how enfeebled Andropov had become . He was shown being held up by two Mafialike brutes . The comparison with the last days of Brezhnev was inescapable , especially since one of his aides was the same person I saw doing the same thing for Brezhnev in late 1978 ; he is , so to speak , the official @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What does Andropov ' s health portray about conditions in the Politburo , especially since the ranks have become so thinned by many recent deaths and a forced resignation ? Who decided to authorize the taking of such a picture ? Although Andropov ' s mind seems to be as computer-sharp as ever , isn ' t it demoralizing to find that the new leader who was expected to seize the reins after years of directionless guidance , seems to be just as enfeebled as his predecessor ? Is this the man to transform the economy or even to meet with Reagan ? Now there is likely to be as much attention paid to who will be Andropov ' s successor as to Andropov ' s success . This hardly seems to be the man the Soviet Union needs now . Marshall Goldman is professor of economics at Wellesley College and an associate director of the Russian Research Center at Harvard University .                     