@@668936

Decisions , decisions . Everybody makes them every day , but George Bush has either just made or ( more likely ) is just about to make a big one . Or maybe a big two . When he chooses the person who will be the Republican candidate for vice president , Bush also will be choosing the strategy that he and his running mate will use against Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen . Bush ' s selection will indicate whether he plans to run to the ideological Right or the center , whether his outlook is daring or cautious , whether his plan is to target a state , region or voting bloc or to appeal across the board . According to several Republican strategists , Bush ' s decision is a hard one because none of the prospective running mates clearly helps him in either a region or a segment of the electorate where he needs help . " If there were some wildly popular Republican from New York or a big Midwestern state , that person would be an easy choice , " said one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have a Bentsen . " The Republican was referring to Texas Sen. Lloyd Bentsen , running mate to the Democratic nominee , Dukakis . By choosing a popular senator from a different region of the country and from a big state that Bush is counting on winning , Dukakis made himself at least competitive in Texas and improved his chances throughout the South and West . Absent such a clear prospect , Bush has several options , strategic as well as personal , as follows : - Go for a big state . Though there is no exact Republican analogue to Bentsen , there are such popular governors as George Deukmejian of California , James Thompson of Illinois and Thomas Kean of New Jersey , as well as ex-Gov . Richard Thornburgh of Pennsylvania , each of whom could help carry his own state . But each one has problems . Kean , whose family has been wealthy since before the American Revolution , presents an image even " preppier " than Bush ' s and is unacceptable to the Republican party ' s ever-vocal right wing . Thornburgh just became @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Meese , and putting him on the ticket might be awkward . As for Deukmejian and Thompson , both men have declared their unavailability , but this is not considered a problem because almost no Republican doubts that either man would take the job should Bush ask him . The real problem is that public and private polls indicate that neither man would be certain to carry his own state for the Republican ticket . Both governors proposed tax increases this year , risking popularity and rendering it slightly more complicated for Bush to run with either one of them while campaigning on his pledge not to raise taxes . Still , some of Bush ' s senior advisers think Deukmejian can help in California , which looms as virtually a must-win state for Bush . Their theory is that if Bush can get close in the largest state , Deukmejian ' s presence on the ticket might provide the two or three percentage points of the vote needed to carry the state and its 47 electoral votes. - Go to the Right . Republican conservatives have been lobbying for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick or Rep. Jack Kemp of New York . Kirkpatrick ' s name has never been mentioned by Bush ' s inner circle , but Kemp ' s has , and by choosing him or another conservative Bush would avoid the " anti-establishment " protests being discussed by the conservatives and their threats to withhold their enthusiasm from the campaign. - Go for broke . Always the cautious politician , Bush could show boldness by picking : a woman , such as former Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole or Sen. Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas ; a black , such as National Security Adviser Colin Powell ; a political moderate , such as former White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker ; or someone whose name has never even been on any of the many lists submitted to him . Such a selection might help Bush where he is weak , but it would also entail some risk . It might look bold , or it might look desperate , and most Republicans assume the vice president will stick with his essentially conventional temperament. - Go for a friend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorite among the possibilities is Sen. Alan Simpson of Wyoming . But though Simpson is generally conservative , he is pro-choice on abortion , and said just Sunday that a tax increase would be needed , a statement that seemed designed to eliminate himself. - Go for youth . The name most frequently mentioned here is Sen. Dan Quayle of Indiana , who is 41 years old and brings matinee-idol handsomeness but who is untested in national campaigns. - Go West . Sen. Pete Domenici of New Mexico is Western , ethnic , Catholic , Spanish-speaking and moderate . Conservatives don ' t like him because as Senate Budget Committee chairman he proposed higher taxes. - Go to the middle . From both the middle of the country and the middle of the Republican political establishment is Kansas Sen. Bob Dole , Bush ' s leading , if not very formidable , opponent for the Republican nomination . Dole is the best known of the vice presidential mentionees , and his selection would probably be the least controversial . It would also add to the ticket ' s strength in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He guarantees no state except his own , which ought to be safely Republican in any case . In two presidential campaigns and one race for the vice presidency as Gerald Ford ' s running mate in 1976 , Dole performed poorly . His acerbic wit sometimes comes across as meanness , and , as he showed after he lost the New Hampshire primary to Bush last winter , one outburst of his temper can be politically damaging , if not fatal.                     