@@668600

With the rigors of its latest European tour now safely behind it , and a crowded concert agenda to be faced at home between now and mid-June , the Chicago Symphony may be excused for taking things relatively easy at its program Thursday night in Orchestra Hall . The program marked the beginning of Claudio Abbado ' s three-week winter term as principal guest conductor , a title he is relinquishing at the end of the present season . The important Abbado programs , devoted to anniversary celebrations of J. S. Bach and Alban Berg , respectively , will follow , but this weekend concert proved something of a celebration in its own right , with Tchaikovsky being the honoree . What saved the evening from pops-concert predictability , however , was the conductor ' s decision to pair a familiar Tchaikovsky work , the Fifth Symphony of 1888 , with an all-but-unknown tone poem written three years later , " The Voyevoda , " Op. 78 . No one is going to hail this slight " symphonic ballad " as an unjustly neglected masterpiece . Theodore Thomas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the orchestra hasn ' t touched it since . The plain fact is that " Voyevoda " adds no significant details to our understanding of Tchaikovsky . Of more than passing interest , however , is the colorful scoring , complete with a rather prominent part for celesta that sounds rather like a study for the Sugar Plum Fairy music of " The Nutcracker , " which followed right on the heels of " Voyevoda . " In any case , the tragic events depicted in " Voyevoda " were underlined with vivid dramatic force . Abbado stirred up quite a bit of galloping excitement in the opening pages , holding back just enough so that the dark , brassy fatefulness of the music did not coarsen or curdle . It was just a few weeks ago that our orchestra treated European audiences to Georg Solti ' s galvanic account of the Tchaikovsky Fourth Symphony . Now here was Abbado with the more somberly introspective Fifth , on the whole a less powerful interpretation , though it was invested with enough persuasive detail to reaffirm Abbado ' s skill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were extremely well judged , and Abbado was able to secure a natural rubato that allowed one tempo to flow into the other without any stripping of musical gears , which brings so many conductors to grief in Tchaikovsky ' s music . The slow movement , its famous horn solo beautifully modulated by Dale Clevenger , was all tender lyrical expansion , and the waltz was shaped with gracious inflections . Until the finale , Abbado managed to secure a relatively light , springy sound , not ponderous or overbearing . Thus it came as a great disappointment when he allowed the high brasses virtually to run away with the Allegro vivace , upsetting balances , lending harshness to the climaxes and ultimately making the finale a triumph of rhetoric instead of feeling . For genuine emotional involvement , one had to turn to the sensitive reading of Schumann ' s Cello Concerto that served as the downtown CSO debut of the young American cellist , Carter Brey . He played the score as a long , impassioned arioso , as it deserves to be played . If this meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one could accuse him of breaking the thread of Schumann ' s lyrical argument , or for compromising his precise , if not overly luscious , tone . Nor was spontaneous drama missing from this performance , either . Midway through the opening movement , Brey broke a string . Barely missing a beat , he exchanged instruments with principal cellist Leonard Chausow and resumed his lieder-singer-like meditation . Usually such accidents occasion more than a few nervous scrambles from soloists , but not here . So unruffled did Brey appear , in fact , that a latecomer would not have known anything unusual had ever taken place . An altogether fine performance , with orchestral support of similar distinction.                     