@@668470

The tough Walpole sentences given two Dorchester men by Superior Court Judge Roger Donahue in the Atkinson manslaughter case may well serve as a deterrent against the ugly racial overtones which triggered the events that led to William F. Atkinson ' s death last year . Judge Donahue himself expressed as much when he said deterrence was part of his thinking in imposing the lengthy sentences . Dist . Atty . Newman Flanagan , whose office did a thorough job investigating and prosecuting the case , believes some good will come out of the unfortunate incident at the Savin Hill MBTA Station a year ago . But for Flanagan , his prosecution of the case has been a no- win political proposition . Several attorneys and some residents of the Savin Hill section contend that the evidence presented during the trial last month was insufficient to warrant the manslaughter convictions . They argue that Flanagan overreacted to pressure from the liberal media and the black community . Flanagan also has been criticized by some blacks for not charging Francis Devin and William Joyce with second degree murder , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But a district attorney has to go with the best available evidence and with what the grand jury decides . In this case Flanagan did not have enough to win a conviction on second degree charges . One group that was pleased with one aspect of the outcome was the probation office at Dorchester District Court , which has had its fill of Joyce . He was involved in a previous assault on a black youth on an MBTA rapid transit car a couple of years ago and was placed on probation for this crime . The 19-year-old Joyce is no stranger to trouble . He ' s been heading in that direction for years . In the seventies he was tough to handle at the local swimming pool off Dorchester avenue , according to one prosecutor who worked there as a lifeguard at the time . " He would never pay any attention to authority , " said the assistant district attorney , who had no connection with the Atkinson case . " It wasn ' t hard to predict that he ' d get into serious trouble as he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a racial bully . " The Atkinson case raises a sensitive issue which many parents do not want to address : racial hatred , which is behind incidents such as the Atkinson death , isn ' t born in a baby . It starts in childhood and develops from the many environmental and personal factors surrounding everyone in a given community . The main arena for curbing adverse , outside influences which children bring home is the family itself . While no one outside the their families can be sure what happened in the Devin and Joyce cases , it ' s often true that if parents or guardians - and this applies to blacks and other minorities as well - take steps to curb prejudice the moment it surfaces in a child , then it will not flourish . This is a solemn obligation of parents , as important as instructing children about respect for authority and the evils of stealing , lying , adultery , etc . Unfortunately many parents find it too much of hassle and can ' t be bothered . More unfortunate is the fact that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they listen to parents or older sisters and brothers sprinkle the dinner conversation with racial remarks . Joyce and Devin undoubtedly never intended to cause Atkinson ' s death . But that was the end result of their bullying spree and they now will have much time to ponder the gravity of events they set in motion in March 1982 . For the people of Savin Hill , the tragedy has left a stain on a neighborhood that was always regarded as one of the finer small sections of the city . Dominated by the so-called woods and the huge rock formations which overlook the area and provide an excellent view of Boston Harbor and all of its islands , Savin Hill always has been well maintained by its home owners who regarded it as a good place to rear their families .                     