@@670222

NEW DELHI  --  India ' s recent drought illustrates the fragility of that country ' s centrally planned economy . The cost of daily necessities has grown astronomically , if the supply of food is even available . India is about to import grain , which belies the country ' s alleged self-sufficiency in agricultural production . Whereas many government officials are relieved that India has survived a little better than it did during the 1979-1980 drought , the country could prevent the deleterious effects of future droughts if its leaders challenged the basic premises underlying its entire economy and implemented major policy changes . The tragic flaw in India ' s economy is the staggering assumption that government officials can plan the production and distribution of goods and services for nearly 800 million people . Since independence in 1947 , India ' s economic growth has been lethargic , stifled by a maze of government interventions that preclude the efficient functioning of the market . The government ' s recent economic liberalization policies do not go nearly far enough to eliminate state ownership and control over capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have stalled progress and nurtured corruption . In 1985 Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi began a period of liberalization of India ' s economy . Trade and foreign investment have been made a little easier , especially in high-technology areas . Some industries have greater flexibility to vary their output , and ceilings on firms ' capital and output have been selectively lifted . These reforms are considered a departure from the economic planning and protectionism that have been the staple of the Indian economy ' s diet . Protectionist currents are strong and are often mistakenly viewed as rooted in the swadeshi , or " buy India , " movement that began in 1907 , sparked by disaffection for British rule and fueled by Mahatma Gandhi ' s boycotts of British goods . These early movements toward self-sufficiency were motivated by the thirst for independence . The current protectionist climate , by contrast , is the result of anti-competitive forces tightly woven in a web of corruption , whereby immunity from competition is literally purchased from politicians . The prime minister has waffled on liberalization under pressure from those who have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1985-1986 budget India lowered tariffs on imports of some electronic and capital goods , the 1986-1987 budget raised tariffs on many other capital goods . Tinkering allows quotas and tariffs to be reshuffled among different goods and services while bureaucratic snafus remain . Frequent modification of the rules discourages even the most ambitious entrepreneur . Imports of many consumer goods are banned . To the extent that quantitative limits have been relaxed , the primary criterion has been the absence of domestic production . Some initiatives  --  e. g. , bringing business leaders into top positions of public-sector enterprises  --  are steps in the right direction , but they don ' t address the root problem . This is the lack of competition , which could be set right by bold privatization efforts , such as the selling or closing down of some state firms . In making industry more efficient , privatization would also stimulate India ' s currently inert labor force  --  where tenure is now the plum of public-sector employment . Critics of privatization argue that India is capital poor . In fact , government policy has driven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ barriers , high tax rates on business , and the lack of a buoyant economic base fed by market incentives have spurred capital flight overseas . This in turn has crippled India ' s investment potential . Many Indian industries are undercapitalized , operating with obsolete technology and equipment . Paralleling the need for privatization is the need for the government to decentralize . Its pervasive role in state and local financial and administrative affairs has virtually paralyzed states and localities . If otherwise empowered with autonomy to raise and expend resources , states and localities could develop an infrastructure responsive to the varying local demands . At the same time , making local officials accountable would be a large discouragement to the corruption , next to impossible to do in a highly centralized bureaucracy . Other domestic reforms should remove limits on industrial capacity , licensing and diversification , so that the market can respond to its internally generated signals rather than administrative fiat . Today , only larger firms or those with political ties can bear the costs of regulatory barriers , with the result that growth is virtually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whom the socialist palliatives are supposed to help the most . Higher prices mean fewer resources for investment in productive economic activity that increases employment and the standard of living . The absence of innovation retards the quality of goods and services and in turn lowers the rate of investment , which impedes development . Limited foreign-exchange reserves and the need to allow infant industries to develop are the mainstays of India ' s protectionist arguments . Foreign-exchange reserves , however , are more limited by poor export performance than by too many imports . By limiting imports , particularly those that are cheaper than indigenous inputs , exports and foreign-exchange potential are severely circumscribed . And lack of competition makes the infant-industries argument a self-fulfilling prophecy . Entrenched in economic isolation , India will forgo the benefits of international trade . What relaxation of import restrictions has occurred  --  an apparent gesture of good will toward market forces  --  may be a back door to stave off budget deficits with higher tariff revenues rather than to encourage free enterprise . Whatever the motives , economic liberalization that tries to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a protected economy to one that relies on market forces is a painful process . Businesses flail about to survive under new rules or otherwise lobby to reinvoke the old rules of tariffs or other barriers to competition . But even nations such as the Soviet Union and China now are beginning to realize that they simply can not develop in an international economy without opening up their economies at least somewhat . As yet another drought plagues India , an enlightened debate could trigger reform of the country ' s economic system . Of course India can not prevent droughts . But it can shore up its economic resilience to ameliorate and even prevent the misery , starvation and death that come in the wake of natural disasters . Starvation need not be a fact of life , if only India could unleash its human and financial capital to harness the country ' s tremendous potential . Indeed , its labor force is a sleeping giant , whose awakening would have implications for the rest of the developing world . India ' s rich culture is too precious for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Singh is a research associate with the American Enterprise Institute . Ms. Gibson is a research associate at New Directions for Policy , also in Washington.                     