@@734895

txt Thanks to King Juan Carlos , the Emetic Spanish democracy has come well out of an ** siege in which Civil Guard personnel held the national parliament hostage and demanded its replacement by a military junta . King Juan Carlos immediately broadcast orders to the Spanish army ( of which he is constitutionally commander-in-chief ) " to restore the constitutional order , " and said that " the crown can not tolerate any kind of action or attitude of persons intending to disrupt the democratic process by force . " The army proved to be loyal to the king . The one regional commander who backed the coup , Lt. Gen. Jaime Milans del Bosch in Valencia , backed down and professed loyalty to the king . Now that the happy ending is assured . the comic-opera aspects of the attempted coup can be enjoyed . Its leader , Lt. Col. Antonio Tejero Molina , told his captives as he surrendered , " The only thing happening here is that I 'm going to land 30 to 40 years in jail . " He had declined an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dizzy . When he had the civilian leadership of the country at gunpoint , the only shots fired were aimed at the ceiling ; the only injuries were minor ones from falling debris . And some of the Civil Guards who stormed the chamber of deputies , it is said , thought they were going to rescue the legislators from a gun-toting Basque nationalist . In 1978 , when Col. Tejero was attempt- ? ing an earlier coup , a report at the time said " it was unclear whether the allegedplotters had support within the security forces or their scheme was simply a hare-brained play for power . " Though Cul . Tejero 's prosecutors asked for a six-year sentence , he drew only seven months , with no reduction in rank . Surely this time the sentence will be severe enough to deny him any third chance to try to overthrow the government . As one observer of the recent coup attempt said , " Given the popular reaction against the rebels , our democratic institutions will come out of this strengthened . " King Juan Carlos decisively supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as by a big majority of votes ) . The army stayed loyal . Yet complacency is not in order . Many powerful Spaniards want a return to authoritarian government . Basque nationalists continue their terrorism , stimulating impatience with a regime unable to end their murders . Parliament has still to prove that it can choose and support a successor to caretaker Premier Adolfo Suarez , who has resigned the leadership in frustration . But no recurrence of Spain 's bloody civil war in the ' 305 appears likely . Gen. Francisco Franco 's choice of Juan Carlos to succeed him as head of state has proved far more fortunate than Gen. Franco probably intended and expected . The recent coup attempt can be considered " simply a hare-brained play fur power " that had no chance of succeeding . Happily it is over without any bloodshed .                     