@@668123

( The success of the new PBS series " Cosmos " has spawned ideas for similar programs , among them , it appears , " Fructose , " a comprehensive , 23- part series that explores the many mysteries of fruit . A copy of one projected episode has fallen into my hands . ) Hello . We are here ( pause , gesture expansively with both hands ) in the center of a gigantic prune , a gigantic pitted prune , to begin our long journey back and forth , hither and yon , here and there , into time and space as we try to understand the history , the nature , the essence , the meaning of this remarkable fruit and its unique place in the universe . You may find it difficult to believe that the familiar prune ( stroll around , smile engagingly ) is a relative newcomer to the fruit family . But it ' s true . ( Camera pans slowly around dark , shiny , interior of prune . ) Let us begin to unravel its skein of secrets . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cut to shot of plum at sunrise , bedewed , shining . ) A prune begins life as a royal-purple plum with a heart of gold . Drying turns the purple skin to a glistening , dark , dark purple ( pause , pregnantly ) and the fleshy center to rich amber . ( Cut to halved prune . ) And in this form we know it as ( pause dramatically ) a prune . Prunes have an exotic foreign background . Prune legend has it that prune- plum trees were native to Persia . ( Cut to shot of ruins of Persepolis , zoom in on ratty-looking tree that may or may not be a plum . ) It is said that Alexander the Great brought the trees to Europe after his Persian conquests about 331 BC . ( Cut to bronze statue of Alexander on horseback . ) A few centuries later Greece , Hungary and France had flourishing orchards of this delectable fruit . ( " Hungarian Rhapsody " up . ) To the Hungarians belongs the honor of the discovery of the prune . A story , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that an Hungarian scientist , whose name has been lost in the mists of time , was seated one day in his garden contemplating the mysteries of the universe , ( sit in chair , muse ) when suddenly something fell on his head . ( Leap from chair dramatically , one hand on head . ) It was a plum , dried by the sun . Since it was almost lunchtime and he was hungry , ( smile ingratiatingly ) this anonymous pioneer decided to taste the fallen fruit , thereby passing up a chance to discover gravity and instead discovering the prune . Debate still rages in certain circles over which discovery was more important . The Hungarians discovered the prune , but it was the French who refined it and made it an integral part of their cuisine . ( Cut to still of Gertrude Stein serving Alice B. Toklas ' special prune compote to F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway . ) Appropriately it was a Frenchman who brought the fruit to America , thus ushering in the golden age of the prune . ( " Fanfare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Statue of Liberty . ) Louis Pellier and his brother , Pierre , came to America to make their fortunes in the California gold rush of 1849 . ( Banjo strains of " She ' ll Be Comin ' Round the Mountain " accompany stills of miners at work and play . ) When gold prospecting proved futile , Louis Pellier decided to settle in the warm Santa Clara valley of California and raise prunes . Pierre , on the other hand , decided to return to France to seek a wife . Louis feverishly importuned his brother to send him prune cuttings . Pierre started for home in 1853 . For three long years Louis Pellier waited ( cut to riffling calendar pages , thence to male figure in silhouette , looking out to sea ) until finally in the last days of 1856 , two trunks arrived with cuttings imbedded in potatoes for moisture and surrounded by sawdust . With loving skill and high hopes Louis grafted the shoots of the precious d ' Agen prunes to American wild plum trees and waited anxiously . ( Theme from " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold ! The trees grew and flourished . The rest is prune history . California , prune basket to the world , has made prunes accessible to the millions . And prune technology never ceases . ( Cut to shot of laboratory , men and women in white coats studying , dissecting prunes . ) Even as you read this , scientists are hard at work improving , once again , on nature , developing the self-pitting prune . ( This column was made possible , in part , by a press release from the California Prune Advisory Board. )                     