@@734721

txt The Agriculture Department moved to dismiss two top managers of the Federal Crop Insurance Program after department investigators charged them with violating personnel policies . The managers , W. Otto Johnson and Roy L. Alton , engaged in " unlawful personnel management actions " to reward and punish employes , said an investigative report by the department 's Inspector General 's Office . In one case , the report said , employes alleged that Mr. Johnson , the No. 2 officer in the 560-employe Federal Crop Insurance Corp. , created a plum job for a female employe with whom he had sexual relations . In response to the study , the department said , it told the two managers it plans to dismiss them . The report also asserted that the agency 's top official , James D. Deal , broke personnel rules . But disciplinary action against him has been postponed " pending a ruling on his application for disability retirement , " the department said . Mr. Deal is a friend of Agriculture Secretary Bob Bergland , a spokesman said . The spokesman , Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results were referred to the Justice Department for possible criminal prosecution , but the department has n't acted on them . The disciplinary actions and the release of a two-inch-thick investigative report is likely to clear the way for Congress to approve legislation to expand greatly the cropinsurance program , which insures 52.7 billion in crops against weather damage . Key Congressmen have been holding up action on the administration-backed bill until the agency investigation was completed . Under the administration of Messrs . Deal , Alton and Johnson , another report by the department 's personnel office said , it appeared that " stewardship of the corporation was viewed as a personal right rather than a public trust . " For instance , employes told department investigators that the agency maintained a " bonepile " in a Nebraska office , where the officials transferred employes they did n't like . The three men de nied , that charge and said they were trying to " decentralize " the agency 's operations . Furthermore , the employes asserted that Mr. Johnson demanded that a job be created in the agency 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then ordered subordinates to destroy records pertaining to the action . The employes charged Mr. Johnson had a sexual relation with the worker . Mr. Johnson denied this to investigators . And the worker , when questioned , said : " I do n't kiss and tell . " Mr. Johnson , the report said , denied any personal improprieties.                     