@@669918

WASHINGTON  --  New York Rep. Frank Horton is a rare fish indeed : a Sun Belter who migrated to the chilly waters of the Frost Belt to make his career . Now he ' s swimming against the stream again . Although he ' s the dean of New York ' s Republican delegation to the House , the independent-minded Mr. Horton is anything but a cheerleader for the Treasury ' s sweeping tax-simplification plan . That ' s because he wears another hat : He ' s a co-chairman of the Northeast-Midwest Congressional Coalition , a bipartisan group dedicated to protecting Frost Belt interests in Congress . " New York probably would be hit harder by this than any other state in the union , " protests Rep. Horton . " Just because they want to reform the tax system doesn ' t mean we have to set ourselves adrift in the ocean . " Pennsylvania Democratic Rep. Bob Edgar , like Mr. Horton , a coalition co-founder in 1976 , isn ' t cheerleading either . The liberal Mr. Edgar , a former college chaplain , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " That included tax revision , at least until recently . But now , he admits , " reality is setting in . . . . Can our region survive without using the tax code as a stimulus ? " That ' s the central question  --  and the political dilemma  --  for the 196 coalition members as Congress begins what could be a session of monumental tax and budget decisions . Many coalition members fear the Reagan administration ' s tax and budget proposals will strike hardest at their vast Maine-to-Minnesota region , which is still struggling to move from the smokestack to the microchip , from urban decay to urban revitalization . Yet the region is so diverse , its representatives so cross-pressured , that it ' s doubtful the coalition can forge a common front . " We ' ll be split all over the map , " predicts Rep. Edgar . As a House Democratic leadership aide observes , " The coalition ' s greatest strength , its bipartisan nature , is also its greatest weakness . " The coalition has chalked up some successes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as early as 1981 . It fought for the generous tax credits for rehabilitation of old and historic buildings , spurring redevelopment in older cities . The credits , which range from 15% to 25% , were contained in the 1981 tax bill . Coalition members also helped push through an accelerated depreciation proposal , a boon to heavy industries . And behind coalition leadership , Congress in 1980 modified an obscure law that once barred the Defense Department from targeting contracts to high-unemployment areas . But the coalition ' s fundamental weakness , a tendency to split along geographic and partisan lines , doomed efforts during the last Congress to devise a common approach to acid rain . That issue pitted the industrial Midwest , whose smokestacks contribute mightily to the problem , against the Northeast , where much of the damage is concentrated . Similarly , the coalition ' s GOP members have so far backed President Reagan ' s budget cuts more often than they ' ve opposed them . " On the whole , the coalition probably does better on its blocking agenda than its affirmative agenda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may provide the sharpest test yet of that blocking power . The tentative Treasury tax plan  --  portrayed recently by New York Gov . Mario Cuomo as a " regional death sentence "  --  would eliminate the federal income-tax deduction for state and local taxes , thus indirectly penalizing states with high income taxes while indirectly rewarding Sun Belt states that depend instead upon taxing energy extraction . It also would end the rehabilitation tax credits , the investment tax credit and the accelerated depreciation system . Meanwhile , the coming Reagan budget is expected to round up the usual suspects  --  urban-development action grants and mass-transit operating grants , for example  --  targeted in the past . But glittering urban-redevelopment projects such as Baltimore ' s Harborplace " aren ' t going to happen if you don ' t have this mix of tools , " argues Maryland Rep. Barbara Mikulski , a Democrat and former Baltimore councilwoman . " This could lead to a no-growth economy in our region . " Similarly , Iowa Democratic Rep. Berkley Bedell worries that an intensifying agricultural-debt problem now " borders on catastrophe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ farm programs . " If we ' re going to propose cutting out the Soil Conservation Service , for God ' s sake , we ought to be taking a close look at the Reagan defense budget , " he asserts . Yet there isn ' t any inclination to try to weld the coalition into something more than a study and discussion forum . One reason , cited by Rep. Horton , is that an attempt to unite its members into a more disciplined voting bloc could set off a kind of arms race with rival regional groups . " If we throw down the gauntlet , we invite retaliation , " he says . But an even better reason is that it ' s impossible . " How are you going to enforce discipline , expel members from the Northeast ? " demands the irrepressible Barney Frank , a Massachusetts Democrat . The truth is that the coalition ' s unifying theme , a shared belief that federal intervention is needed to revive these two regions , masks individual perceptions as different as blue-collar Baltimore is from the courthouse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acid-rain deliberations showed that , even when coalition members recognize a problem exists , they can disagree sharply on solutions . Sometimes even that basic recognition is lacking : Rep. Bedell doubts that urban legislators realize the full dimensions of the rural-debt crisis . On a deeper level , some of the coalition ' s most thoughtful members seem profoundly ambivalent about just what kind of long-term economic policies make the most sense . A case in point is Pennsylvania ' s Rep. Edgar . He ' s apprehensive about the still-evolving administration tax-revision plan . Yet , as a co-sponsor of the Democratic Bradley-Gephardt " Fair Tax " proposal , he remains convinced that sweeping tax revision is needed . He thinks the Treasury plan would accelerate existing economic trends away from the old smokestack industries , exacerbating regional problems in the short run . Yet , with the regions themselves trying to de-emphasize heavy industry in the longer run , is short-term pain inevitable ? " Would we know a good tax plan if we saw one ? " worries Mr. Edgar . " And do we want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these trends ? Maybe we do , maybe we don ' t . But these are fundamental questions we ' re going to have to face . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     