@@734903

txt Thomas C. Reed , a prominent San Rafael , Calif. , businessman whose father is a director of Amax Inc .. purchased : ) 00 Amax call options the day before Standard Oil Co. of California 's 54 billion offer to acquire Amax . In a statement issued in response to inquiries by this newspaper . Mr. Reed said Quaker Hill Development Corp .. a San Rafael real estate development concern owned by him and his children , bought the 500 Amax option contracts on March 4 . In addition . Quaker Hill also purchased an aggregate of : - .00 Amax options on : Ian . 30 and Feb. 2 , Mr. Reed said in the statement . which was released through his attorney . David Balabaman . " The company believes that there should be no rnystern surrounding its transactions in Amax stock or options which were made manly and in its own name , " the statement said . Mr. Reed and other members of his family have been investors in the stock of Amax since 1%4 and his lather , Gordon W. Reed . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a predecessor company since the 1440s . Mr. Gordon Reed could n't be reached immediately for comment . Earlier this week it was learned that the San Rafael office of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. has become a focal point in an investigation by the securities firm of trading in max call options . Accolding to one teport. account officers it various West Coast Dean Witter offices . including at least one at the firm 's San Rafael office , /tact purchased 535 Amax call options the day before the Socal offer . They paid 53,750 tor the options . which g.o e them the right to purchase Amax shares at S ' 45. according to the report At that time Amax shares were trading , at about , , ? . ( S a share . The next day , when Socal offered to buy Amax shares for S75.50 each , the price of the Amax options snared and circling to the report , the partnership sold the options for more than 5500.000 . Dean Witter Reynolds and the American Stock hinge have begun investigations to determine whether inside information about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ esters A Chicago options trading him , ( ) Connor &; Associates , has sued in Nev , fork federal court charging that certain investors attempted to profit from confidential knowledge of the Socal offer , and it alleged that clients of Dean Witter and A. G. Becker Inc. bought large amounts of Amax call options just before the takeover offer was announced . Temporary orders had barred both firms from distributing profits to clients who traded the options , but a New York federal judge lifted the order on A G. Becker yesterday . Mr. Reed 's attorney declined to cor ment when asked if Mr. Reed had inside information from his father about the pending offer . He also declined to comment about whether Quaker Hill Development still holds the options it purchased . At this time there is n't any evidence that Thomas Reed had ad ' . ance knowledge of the proposed Socal offer . Mr. Reed 's statement said that ? Quaker Hill is in no way affiliated with Dean Witter Reynolds , A G Becker . Standard Oil Co. of California . Amax or any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said that " no official of any of those companies has participated in any of Quaker Hill 's Investment decisions . " Mr. Balabanian said that . arocaig other activities , Quaker Hill was involved in ownership of a ski resort , restoration of historic buildings in Virginia and vineyard development . He declined to say how ownership of the company was divided among Mr. Reed and his children . Mr Reed . 47 years old . served with the Defense Department from 1974 to ** and was Secretary of the Air Force in 1976 and 1977 . The statement further identified Mr. Reed as a " well-known Bay Area businessman who ho has been active in public affairs . " In response to a query , a spokesman for Socal said that " as far as we know no officer or director engaged in any trading in Amax options , nor are we aware that any officer or director is a partner in Quaker Hill Development . "                     