@@668551

It could have been billed as a love-in , so amiable was yesterday ' s meeting at Holy Cross between the state ' s political and academic leadership when each group presented its own action agenda . Gov . Michael S. Dukakis urged the 70 presidents of the state ' s public and private colleges and universities to join in an effort to reform the state ' s public elementary and secondary schools . Sen. William Bulger ( D-South Boston ) called for increased efforts to help the single-parent , the working mother and those students who do not have the resources to attend college . And , in turn , the college presidents strongly backed a proposal that would increase the flow of public dollars for scholarship aid from the present $34 million to $100 million over the next three years . Dukakis also urged key officials of the colleges and universities to encourage their students to enter teaching , reduce student dropout rates and to improve the physical facilities of their institutions . The governor outlined a blueprint for educational reform similar in thrust to those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Texas , Mississippi , Tennessee and Florida . He asked the help of the Massachusetts institutions in developing reform strategies that could be incorporated in legislative and regulatory changes now under study by the Joint Education Committee . Cochairmen Sen. Gerard D ' Amico ( D-Worcester ) and Rep. James Collins ( D-Amherst ) expect to complete a $100,000 survey with a package of recommendations in early December . A cooperative effort by all of the public and independent colleges and universities in Massachusetts would allow the state to " set , pursue and achieve a goal of educational excellence unlike this state or any state has ever seen , " said Dukakis . He added he hopes the state ' s college and university presidents become " deeply involved " in the effort because they set the tone of public discussion about public education . Dukakis also said that , although he had no supporting data , he suspected the gap was widening between such " have " communities as Brookline and Newton , where the schools were getting stronger , and " have not " school districts such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were getting weaker . The governor also said that any reform proposal should consider the length of school year and should look at community service as a possible part of the curriculum . D ' Amico noted that the legislative commission is considering mandatory school reforms that will need state funding because of Proposition 2 1/2 . At the same time , he assured the presidents that he would fight for $20 million more in state funds for scholarships for Massachusetts students . Joseph Cronin , president of the Mass . Higher Education Assistance Program , warned that without more scholarship aid Massachusetts could lose prospective students to several other competing states . He also said that the lack of state aid and the drop of federal loans from $600 million in 1979 , nationally , to $400 million last year , has deprived at least 10,000 Massachusetts residents from an opportunity to enroll in college , even on a part-time basis . Cronin cited New York as having enlightened educational policies . " With a $300 million state scholarship plan , New York is three times the size of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Cronin said . In addition to raising the amount of state aid , Cronin also proposed the evaluation of several pilot aid programs , including work study , adult and graduate grants , that begin in January 1984 . He also asked for a computer system to help develop financial aid packages . Cronin ' s appeal to the presidents was the latest step in a long running effort to improve financial aid . " Last December , in an unprecedented move , 70 Massachusetts colleges and university presidents joined forces and successfully appealed to the Legislature for an 80 percent increase in state scholarship funds , said John B. Duff , Massachusetts chancellor of higher education . The Board of Regents joined with the Assn. of Independent Colleges and Universities in sponsoring yesterday ' s meeting . Association chairman Jill K. Conway , president of Smith College , said , " The meeting today demonstrates that while healthy competition between the higher education sectors continues , ties of mutual interest between public and independent colleges are strengthening . " One speaker , Howard Bowen , noted educational economist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in higher education are in place . " At the same time , he said that such a catastrophe was not " preordained " and that he was optimistic about higher education . Bowen , professor of economics at Claremont Graduate School and former chancellor of the Claremont University Center , told the presidents that three developments could " occur simulataneously ; in combination , they could have a devastating impact . " These developments include the decline of the traditional college age population ; political pressure to keep taxes down ; and the attempts by the federal government to reduce appropriations for student aid , research and other educational purposes . But Bowen said those problems may not be catastrophic , adding that his optimism was " based on its ( higher education* intrinsic value to our society and on the affection and respect it commands among the American people . "                     