@@669011

Larry Krystkowiak made a gallant try to inspire his Milwaukee Bucks teammates Sunday when he was carried off the floor with the torn-up knee that ended his season . The game was less than 30 seconds old when Krystkowiak , strapped to a stretcher , worked free his arms , clapped his hands twice , and pumped one fist toward the roof of the Bradley Center . The crippled Bucks gave it all they had , but they just didn ' t have enough . The gesture forced Isiah Thomas to elevate his game as the Detroit Pistons rolled to a 110-90 romp and a 3-0 lead in their Eastern Conference semifinal series . Thomas scored 26 points in the first three quarters . He hit 11 of 19 shots and dished off nine assists in the best game he ' s played since breaking his left hand April 7 against the Bulls . " I can squeeze the ball better with my left hand , " Thomas said . " My shooting execution has picked up . I can go back to shooting the ball my normal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points ( 11 points and 7 assists ) as the Pistons took a 47-38 halftime lead . He scored 15 points in the third quarter when the Pistons wrapped up the game 85-63 . Thomas and teammate Bill Laimbeer each suspected that Krystkowiak ' s injury might fire up the Bucks in front of the sellout crowd of 18 , 633 . " I heard Larry cry , I ' m done . I am done , ' said Bucks forward Fred Roberts . " It motivated us to play harder , but we ended up forcing a lot of shots . " Isiah said that " we thought before the game that their emotion was something we ' d have to combat for the first five minutes . But the injury made me feel they ' d be so emotional , we ' d have to fight it the whole first half . " Laimbeer noted that the Bucks , playing without injured Paul Mokeski and Paul Pressey , may have run out of healthy bodies . " Sometimes the other players pick up the slack , and the team @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . " But the next player they went to , Terry Cummings , had a bad ankle and hasn ' t been playing in the playoffs . " Cummings gave it a game try . But limited by his injury , he contributed only 4 points and 2 rebounds in 17 minutes . Away from Detroit , fans regard the 6-foot-11-inch , 260-pound Laimbeer as a villain because of his roughhouse style . The crowd booed Laimbeer and blamed him for Krystkowiak ' s injury after he was whistled for a foul for apparently pushing the Buck forward . Laimbeer denied he had even brushed Krystkowiak . " Krystkowiak ' s knee just buckled on the play , " Laimbeer said . " I never touched him . But with my reputation , I was just the wrong player at the wrong place at the wrong time . " Bucks coach Del Harris viewed the play differently . He blamed Laimbeer . " We won ' t know until ( Monday ) if Terry Cummings can play , " Harris said . " Larry ' s injury was shocking . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For Larry , it ' s a career-threatening injury . " Krystkowiak will undergo surgery Monday . He said he was open and was going for a dunk when he felt his knee " explode . " " I remember going in as strong as I could and feeling my knee as if it exploded . " Asked if he blamed Laimbeer , Krystkowiak said , " No , I think the play caught them by surprise . I wouldn ' t want to point any fingers . " As for his clapping and pumping his arm while on the stretcher , Krystkowiak said : " The thought going through my mind was to get the crowd going . Basically , that was the last contribution I could make. "                     