@@670252

WASHINGTON  --  Unisys Corp. last year launched an internal investigation into some of the same consultants and questionable lobbying activities that currently are at the center of the government ' s sweeping inquiry into Pentagon corruption . A federal grand jury in Alexandria , Va. , where the fraud inquiry is based , is demanding documents from the company about that preliminary fact-finding investigation of a Unisys unit in Great Neck , N.Y. , law-enforcement and defense-industry officials said . Investigators said the documents should shed light on how some Unisys executives and defense consultants entertained or provided favors to U.S. lawmakers and Defense Department officials in efforts to influence them . The internal study reportedly prompted Unisys to clamp down on expense-account abuses and to monitor its consultants ' activities more closely . According to a person familiar with the internal investigation , the study focused on suspicions of inflated expenses and excessive use of consultants by Charles Gardner , the veteran head of the company ' s surveillance and fire-control division in Great Neck until he resigned from Unisys last March . Mr. Gardner wasn ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was urged to retire , and the company retained him as a consultant on the same defense projects , the person said . Mr. Gardner , who had the same job when the unit was part of Sperry Corp. , set up a network of consultants and lobbyists who frequently reported directly to him , law-enforcement and industry officials said . Mr. Gardner ' s home and office were searched by federal agents last month , and law-enforcement officials have called him an important subject of their investigation because of his ties to many of the other individuals and several weapons programs under scrutiny . Meanwhile , a search warrant made public Friday in Alexandria federal court shows that federal investigators are reviewing whether Melvyn Paisley , as assistant Navy secretary , helped steer contracts valued at billions of dollars to defense contractors in return for bribes or gratuities . The warrant , executed at Mr. Paisley ' s suburban Virginia house last month , sought information on any payments or gifts received by Mr. Paisely or his wife , Vicki , a defense consultant , from McDonnell Douglas Corp. and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any payments to Mr. Paisley while in his Navy position from employees of the Pratt &; Whitney engine-making unit of United Technologies Corp . Mr. Paisley left the Navy post in March 1987 to become a high-paid defense consultant , and is a central figure in the massive criminal inquiry . Investigators are looking at Mr. Paisley ' s role in helping McDonnell Douglas and General Dynamics win a multibillion-dollar contract to build the Navy ' s advanced tactical aircraft . The so-called ATA project , awarded in late 1987 , is one of the Navy ' s largest procurements for the next decade and is projected to cost $35 billion . Before leaving the Navy , Mr. Paisley paired McDonnell and General Dynamics as a contracting team for the ATA job . In a statement yesterday , McDonnell Douglas said it wasn ' t aware of any company payments " made or promised " to Mr. Paisley before it hired him as a consultant after he left the Navy . General Dynamics , which said it wasn ' t a target of the inquiry , said it could " state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Paisley or his wife . The company denied acting improperly with regard to the ATA program . A Pratt &; Whitney spokesman in Washington said officials of the engine-builder hadn ' t seen the search warrant and couldn ' t comment . He said the company is cooperating with federal investigators . A previously disclosed search warrant , executed at the Washington offices of Pratt &; Whitney , indicated that investigators believed Pratt &; Whitney officials managed to obtain internal bidding documents of rival engine-builder General Electric Co . The Paisley search warrant sought any General Electric bidding information he held on the F-404 engine project , which was awarded to General Electric last year , with Pratt &; Whitney getting some of the business as a second source . Federal investigators also suspect , the Paisley search warrant shows , that Mr. Paisley or a former business associate , William Galvin , another Washington consultant , provided gifts and money to a deputy assistant Navy secretary , James Gaines . Mr. Gaines , who was reassigned after his office was searched last month in the fraud inquiry , worked for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been close friends for more than two decades . Messrs . Paisley , Gaines and Galvin haven ' t been available for comment since the scandal erupted in mid-June . The search warrant and a three-page list of items seized by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents also disclosed that :  --  The government sought any contractual arrangements between Mr. Paisley and 10 defense contractors , including McDonnell Douglas ; Martin Marietta Corp . ; BDM International Inc. , a Washington area defense-consulting firm ; United Technologies and its Norden Systems unit ; and Unisys . Mr. Paisley was known to charge at a rate of about $200 , 000 a year for his services.  --  Agents are pursuing information on possible foreign holdings or dealings of Mr. Paisley . They seized a consulting agreement between an entity called Lorena Overseas S.A. and an Israeli company known as Mazlat . Mr. Paisley ' s links , if any , to Lorena and Mazlat aren ' t known . Mazlat reportedly holds a contract to supply the Navy with unmanned surveillance aircraft known as drones.  --  Agents seized an agreement between BDM and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Investigators believe Mr. Galvin got many of his clients by selling his access to Mr. Paisley when the latter was in the Navy . The agreement was the first indication that Mr. Galvin , a big-spending consultant for at least nine defense contractors , had business dealings with BDM.  --  Agents seized letters and other documents relating to BDM and Vamo Inc. , a Virginia company owned by Mrs. Paisley , including " Vamo-BDM contractual documents " and invoices from Vamo to BDM . Mrs. Paisley worked as an employee of BDM , beginning in 1983 while her husband was in the Navy , and became a BDM consultant in 1986 . Mr. Paisley became a highpaid consultant to BDM after leaving the Navy . The links between BDM and the Paisleys are under scrutiny.  --  Investigators obtained personal and corporate income-tax returns of Mr. Paisley and his two companies , Paisley Associates Inc. and Cue International . They also obtained a report to Unisys on unidentified " black "  --  or highly classified  --  programs from Mr. Paisley ' s files , as well as a contract between him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Navy , Mr. Paisley helped push through changes in bidding procedures that effectively guaranteed Unisys a large portion of lucrative electronics-related work on the Navy ' s Aegis cruiser . But Unisys has said his later work as a consultant didn ' t involve the Aegis program . Unisys ' s Mr. Gardner , the principal subject of the company ' s internal probe , was a driving force behind its efforts to win Aegis-related work . He had close ties to lawmakers and to some of the consultants implicated in the current scandal , including Mr. Galvin , the one-time Paisley confidant . A defense industry official said Mr. Gardner ' s independent , free-wheeling style , which benefited the company in Washington , created friction with his Unisys superiors . Mr. Gardner spent " more time around Washington than the lobbyists he used , " said the official , adding that Mr. Gardner " had great access " to lawmakers . One defense industry source said the government has subpoenaed documents from the office of Frederick Jenny , president of the Unisys Defense Systems division in McLean @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the hiring of consultants . Mr. Gardner ' s lawyer and a lawyer for Unisys declined to comment . Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal                     