@@668197

Special to The Globe American Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig was unable on his Mideast tour this week to convince even the most moderate Arab nations that , as the source of oil of the West , they should worry about Soviet intervention before their traditional Arab-Israeli problems . Only in Israel was Haig ' s warning applauded . In Egypt , Jordan and Saudi Arabia , he was told repeatedly that the key to stability and security in the Mideast lies first with solving the problem of 1.2 million Palestinians living on Israeli- occupied land . Saudi Arabia ' s foreign minister , Prince Saud , told Haig , " We would put priority on the Israeli conflict here , the basic and main cause of instability in the region . " An Egyptian official who was in on the Haig talks in Cairo said , " The Soviets gained entree in the Middle East because of the Palestinian problem . It is a problem that has forced the superpowers to take sides . The problem must be solved before anyone will abandon the issue . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he apparently saw that he would have a rougher time than he had expected in establishing a permanent American military presence that would act as an anti-Soviet screen in the area . Egypt was the only Arab nation to put out the welcome mat when the US Rapid Deployment Force was seeking a Mideast desert in which to hold practice maneuvers last November . When the issue turned to basing US troops on Egyptian soil , even as part of a peacekeeping force in the Sinai Desert , the Egyptians quickly withdrew their welcome . While Egypt is one of the United States ' closest allies in the Mideast , it is also one of the most sensitive to a foreign military presence . Both the British and the Soviets had , in their turn , dominated Egypt ' s local forces . Also , Egypt is finally starting to mend its relations with the other Arabs after its peace with Israel . Any military pact with the US now could lead to more Arab criticism . Egypt ' s deputy prime minister and foreign minister , Kamal Hassan Ali @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and facilities if it needed to launch a defense of its oil supply in the Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not give bases to the United States for permanent missions . n62 Haig Last Sunday , President Anwar Sadat was asked while he stood beside Haig if the Secretary of State had broached the subject of US bases in Egypt . " For sure , we didn ' t discuss it ... It is not a matter to be discussster , Kamal Hassan Ali , promised that the United States could use Egyptian bases and facilities if it needed to launch a defense of its oil supply in the Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not give bases to the United States for permanent missions . ed , " Sadat said bluntly . Haig did bring up the possibility that the United States would take part in a peacekeeping force to patrol the Sinai border that will separate Egypt and Israel when the Israelis pull out of the area next Aprister , Kamal Hassan Ali , promised that the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to launch a defense of its oil supply in the Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not give bases to the United States for permanent missions . l . The force is called for under the US-sponsored Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty . Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin told reporters after meeting with Haig that he favors having US troops in the force . Sadat , however , said Egypt ster , Kamal Hassan Ali , promised that the United States could use Egyptian bases and facilities if it needed to launch a defense of its oil supply in the Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not give bases to the United States for permanent missions . prefers a UN force that would not include Americans . The Soviet Union , which opposed the Camp David accords , has said it would oppose a UN force if the issue was brought before the UN Security Council . Ali said Egypt and the United Sster , Kamal Hassan Ali , promised that the United States could use Egyptian bases and facilities if it needed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not give bases to the United States for permanent missions . tates are meeting with representatives of the Soviet Union and other nations in the United Nations to discuss their attitudes on the formation of the force . " We feel there is a 50-50 chance the Russians will support a UN force , " saidster , Kamal Hassan Ali , promised that the United States could use Egyptian bases and facilities if it needed to launch a defense of its oil supply in the Arabian Gulf . Nevertheless , he has stressed that Egypt will not gi B07916904                     