@@668994

Richard M. Daley said Tuesday that as mayor he would have a " convincing conversation " with aldermanic allies to change the minds of any still hesitant to embrace a complete package of Chicago City Council reforms . But Daley said that as the Cook County state ' s attorney , his office has not investigated aldermen for illegally pocketing their $18 , 000 a year expense allowances because nobody had ever formally complained about the practice . Daley reiterated his support for council reforms after a campaign stop at a North Side nursing home where he told reporters , " I ' ve been for full disclosure of all expenses by aldermen as well as by chairmen of the committees . I think there should be full disclosure and full accountability . When I get there , we ' re going to reform the whole council . " Daley ' s comments came as a joint meeting of council committees approved an ordinance that would require aldermen to file with the city clerk ' s office , on an annual basis , reports on how they spend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $400 a month in travel expenses . When asked why , as Cook County state ' s attorney , he had not investigated aldermen who previously acknowledged converting the $18 , 000 in annual expense money to personal income , Daley said , " Because there has never been a complaint filed by anybody . " During a 1987 series on the Chicago City Council , The Tribune identified at least six aldermen who acknowledged they pocketed part of the $1 , 500-a-month expense allowance . City Corporation Counsel Judson Miner issued an opinion last November that said aldermen who treat expense money as income could be criminally prosecuted under Illinois law . Miner based his opinion on a similar legal opinion issued during the administration of Daley ' s father , Mayor Richard J. Daley . Under state law , the state ' s attorney has the responsibility for investigating and prosecuting such violations . Daley said Tuesday he has not seen Miner ' s opinion . Daley ' s office has been criticized in the past for not vigorously pursuing political corruption investigations and white collar criminals , leaving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He has maintained such probes are better carried out by federal prosecutors who have more financial resources , manpower and investigative tools . Daley said he would not now begin any kind of investigation of aldermen who might have pocketed expense money because it could mean investigating his mayoral opponents . " At this time , I ' m dealing with three candidates who would really have to disclose that , and I think it would be unfair for me to start investigating ( Ald. Timothy ) Evans , ( Mayor Eugene ) Sawyer , and ( Ald. Lawrence ) Bloom , " he said . Sawyer was an alderman before being chosen acting mayor by the council after the death of Mayor Harold Washington . He and Bloom are opposing Daley in the Feb. 28 Democratic mayoral primary . Evans is an independent party candidate in the April 4 general election . Bloom , the 5th Ward alderman , and Evans , from the 4th Ward , said they never increased their personal income with aldermanic expense funds . On a recent radio talk show , Sawyer said he did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 6th Ward . Daley spent most of his campaign day Tuesday visiting nursing homes and wishing the elderly a Happy Valentine ' s Day . Accompanied by State Sen. William Marovitz , State Rep. Lee Preston and County Treasurer Edward Rosewell , Daley stressed his record as a state senator in sponsoring legislation that removed the sales tax from food and drugs , and bills leading to nursing home reforms . " You have given something to Chicago , " Daley told senior citizens at Chelsea House Retirement Home , 920 W. Wilson Ave . " I want to give to you a better quality of life . " Daley promised to improve health and police services for the elderly as mayor . Many of the nursing home residents greeted Daley by reminding him that they voted for his father . Speaking at a noon luncheon before the Near North Kiwanis , Daley continued with his theme of boosting economic development by strengthening the city ' s workforce . He called for the Chicago public schools to provide computer training for all its students while they are still in high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until after graduation , " he said . Asked where he would get the money to pay for the computers , Daley said , " We ' re going to get money from the business community . I think there are a lot of fine businesses that will come forward and make that civic commitment . " Daley also proposed creating a research and development corridor in the city that would combine the resources of the University of Chicago , the Illinois Institute of Technology and the University of Illinois-Chicago . " There ' s no reason that research funding should only go to the suburbs , " he said . Daley said the possibility of Edward Vrdolyak entering the mayoral race as a write-in candidate in the Republican primary , would have no effect on his campaign . " Don ' t underestimate the public , " he said.                     