@@668259

On the issues of abortion and the proposed equal rights amendment , opposition to the nomination of Judge Sandra O ' Connor to the US Supreme Court appears to have slender foundation in the records of the legislature where she once served . A review of documents from the Arizona state Senate in 1970-74 , when O ' Connor served as one of the nation ' s first female majority leaders , discloses a lawmaker primarily concerned with issues involving law enforcement , care for the disadvantaged and electoral procedures . Carrying banners for the feminist movement on such issues as abortion or equal rights was not her style . " I never heard her express a strong opinion one way or another , " said a fellow appellate judge , Lawrence Wren , who served with her for two years . " I don ' t think she can be stereotyped on those issues at all . " During her five years in the legislature , bills directly involving abortion reached the Senate floor but twice . Once was in 1974 , when she joined a bipartisan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ban abortions at Tucson ' s University of Arizona Hospital . But that abortion ban was appended to an unrelated bill authorizing a bond issue for the university ' s football stadium , and without any explanation on file , it is impossible to discern the reason for her opposition . O ' Connor isn ' t talking , choosing to defer all comments on substantive issues until her Senate confirmation hearing . Another measure came to the floor a year earlier , guaranteeing doctors , nurses and hospitals the right to refuse to perform abortions . It passed unanimously , and according to colleagues at the time , O ' Connor was its chief Senate backer . " She was concerned about justice for everyone , " said Diane McCarthy , now state utility commissioner . " I never saw her as a big ERA or pro-choice person . " O ' Connor joined nine other senators in 1973 in sponsoring a measure to assure all Arizonans the right to " all medically acceptable family-planning methods . " Approved by the Senate health panel , on which O ' Connor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee . Two measures easing the state ' s abortion ban were tossed in the Senate hopper in 1970 , neither with her sponsorship ; both were assigned to the Judiciary Committee on which she sat . Committee minutes from that session show no attempt even to bring the bills up for debate , and both died . That same year , a House measure prescribing conditions for when abortions could be performed was assigned to the judiciary panel , which approved it . But the Senate rules during that period ( since changed ) did not require rollcall votes in committees , so there is no record of how O ' Connor - who attended the meeting - cast her ballot . The measure later died in another committee . Senate records indicate a consistent voting pattern in favor of women ' s rights by O ' Connor , but not necessarily for ERA . ERA came to the Arizona Senate in 1972 , shortly after its passage by Congress . It was assigned to the Judiciary Committee , which did not approve it . Again , O ' Connor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ early days after ERA ' s initial passage , active opposition was sparse . She successfully amended the ratification resolution in a 1973 committee meeting , providing for an advisory referendum by voters on the issue . Later in the same meeting , the measure was tabled ; she abstained from voting on that motion . A year later , she joined another GOP senator in sponsoring a bill calling for an ERA referendum , but it failed in the same committee , where she was one of two proponents . At the same committee meeting , a Democratic-sponsored ratification measure died on a 4-5 , with O ' Connor joining three Democrats in a futile move to get the question to a vote by the whole Senate . Not until a year later did all 30 state senators get a chance to vote on ERA , and then it failed . By then , O ' Connor had become a judge . Arizona has not ratified the proposed amendment , which would make discrimination based on gender unconstitutional . On other women ' s rights issues , she took a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passage a bill deleting Arizona ' s restrictions on the number of hours women should be allowed to work . In 1972 , and again in 1973 she served as the chief Senate advocate for bills aimed at " desexing " a variety of state laws by deleting language that outlined special privileges or restrictions on women . They involved such issues as parental consent , child custody and discriminatory criminal sanctions .                     