@@668785

In 1969 , social scientists buried the myth of the golden Cuban exile . Although this myth is now long dead , a few people still will not let it rest . The comment by a Cuban-American journalist in a recent column on this page regarding Mayor Harold Washington ' s appointment of Natalia Delgado , a Cuban- American , to the Chicago Transit Authority is a case in point . The myth of the golden exile postulates that since Cubans are a white , middle-class , privileged group , they should not be entitled to the governmental assistance programs or protections available to other minorities . These assumptions may be true , but only for a small number of Cubans . Those who perpetuate the myth have done so at the expense of a realistic assessment of the needs of Cubans in the United States . Perhaps even more troubling , it appears that they have perpetuated it in order to keep Cubans from joining with other minorities in the quest for a more equal and just society . Not all Cuban immigrants are white and middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Jewish , Arab and even Irish descent . The many poor Cuban workers who have migrated to the Untied States since the 1800s reflect this diversity . After the 1959 revolution many white , middle-class Cubans did immigrate . But not even all of the 1961 immigrants were true to this stereotype . Since then , Cuban immigrants have had extremely varied class , race and educational backgrounds . Cubans in this country face racism and discrimination because of their racial backgrounds , language and national origin . Even the most privileged white immigrants of 1961 confronted racism in the United States . In Miami in the early 1960s , it was common to find signs posted in apartment buildings that read : " No Pets , No Kids , No Cubans . " In part because of this discrimination and in part because of the deterioration of the quality of life for minorities , the Cuban community faces a growing list of social problems . Cubans as a whole had a tremendous downshift in their economic and social position from Cuba to the United States . Although the income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is still significantly lower than the income average for a white family . Furthermore , since Cuban women have one of the highest rates of incorporation into the workforce , these income figures tend to be inflated . Cuban families also suffer from one of the highest divorce rates in the country , and single females who head households face problems such as the lack of adequate child care and the lack of equal pay . Of all Hispanics , Cubans as a group have the oldest average age . Lack of adequate medical care , inflation and an increasingly hostile environment toward those who do not speak English compound to make life in the United States extremely difficult for elderly Cubans . In the last several years , Cuban youths have suffered the highest increase in the rate of high school dropouts of any Hispanic group . The myth of the golden exile served the political purpose of showing that Cubans were better off in the United States , " the land of opportunities , " than in Cuba . It created a " Horatio Perez " example that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their communities . For some Cubans , it was an attempt to avoid racism by creating a myth of a white and successful community . For others it was a reflection of their own bigotry against other minorities . For years it was taboo to talk about social problems and needs of Cuban- Americans . To those attempting to topple the Cuban government , such talk represented an abandonment of the counterrevolutionary exile cause . For the most part , Cuban-Americans have by now accepted the irreversibility of the Cuban revolution . Many young Cuban-Americans even long for a rapprochement with their homeland . As time has passed , most Cubans have realized that they are here to stay . A realistic evaluation of our social and political status leads us to conclude that we belong on the side of those groups who fight for fair and equal government and social policies . Therefore , Cubans face a clear choice : to accentuate the differences among Hispanics and fall prey to the interests of those who want to prevent strong and unified minority coalitions , or to work together to understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issues that unite Hispanics and blacks . In the last analysis , this is a choice for or against equality , justice and peace . We must not let bigotry , manipulation or self-hatred lead us to the wrong choice.                     