@@735527

txt A Catholic pondering the American bishops ' recent spectacular entry into the nuclear-bomb debate has several reactions . Amazement is the first . It is startling to switch on a late-night TV talk show and find a bunch of bishops holding forth about the morality of U.S. nuclear-arms strategy . I more or less missed exactly what they were saying , transfixed as I was by the scene and by my memories of the myPerspective on Politics by Norman C. Miller country-right-or-wrong approach of some past bishops . A certain parochial pride follows . It 's pretty heady stuff to pick up Time magazine and find Archbishop Joseph Bernardin on the cover with the headline , God and the Bomb . Thank God , the thought occurred , it 's not another cover story about the church and birth control , or about all the priests who have quit . A peculiar mix of respect and alarm develops while scanning the stories about the bishops ' denunciations of the arms race . The bishops surely are acting as courageous religious leaders in forcefully demanding renewed consideration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them sound like demagogic paci- fists ; here is Archbishop James Hunthausen of Seattle denouncing Trident submarines as " the Auschwitz of Puget Sound . " I wondered what a Catholic sailor serving ( ) if a Trident would think of Archbishop Hunthausen 's almost obscene comparison . I wondered , too , if Bishop James Gumbleton of Detroit spoke for many other prelates in preaching , , if I understood him correctly , that we should lay down our arms and rely on the power of prayer to deter the Soviet military threat . Most bishops , according to news accounts , hold less radical views , but nonetheless embrace some highly doubtful theories . For example , a majority of bishops apparently believe that NATO 's defense doctrine is " immoral " because it reserves the right to counter a Soviet attack with nuclear weapons . I wondered how in heaven 's name NATO 's long-standing  --  and successful  --  deterrent strategy had become immoral in the view of the bishops of my church . So the bishops accomplished at least one of their purposes by their provocative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draft of their proposed pastoral letter on " The Challenge of Peace . " I ca n't add anything to the comprehensive news coverage the document has received . But perhaps the reaction of a Catholic layman  --  one who also finds fault with the Reagan administration 's vast arms buildup and dubious arms-control efforts  --  will be of interest . I think the bishops ' draft letter , unless its conclusions are substantially softened , could cause a profound moral dilemma for many Catholics rather than serving its declared ' purpose of providing moral guidance in the formation of one 's conscience . The reason is that the bishops seem headed toward raising their opinions on the morality of nuclear-arms strategies to the level of church doctrine . I believe the result could be an anguishing burden on the consciences of Catholics who sincerely believe the bishops ' moral conclusions are dangerously wrong . Consider the bishops ' view of NATO 's doctrine of first-use of nuclear weapons if necessary to repel a Soviet attack . The bishops , as is the habit of the Catholic hierarchy , are categorical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any situation in which the deliberate initiation of nuclear warfare , on however limited a scale , can be morally justified . Nonnuclear attacks by another state must be resisted by other than nuclear , means . " The bishops ' draft letter is equally categorical in declaring immoral elements of basic U.S. deterrence strategy . " Our condemnation applies especially to the retaliatory use of weapons striking enemy cities after our own have already been struck . Retaliation in such circumstances would serve no rational or moral purpose and might be considered to be only an act of revenge . No Christian can rightfully carry out orders or policies deliberately aimed at killing noncombatants " ( emphasis added ) . In this draft passage , the bishops seem to be commanding military personnel to disobey potential orders based on the stated defense policy of the nation . Lest there be any doubt , the draft letter in its explicit instructions to Catholics makes the moral command unequivocal . " We have spoken clearly against the deliberate use of weapons against civilian populations . Catholic military personnel must observe these prohibitions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral views , the bishops take some no less astonishing positions . Thus , in addressing Catho- ? tics working in defense industries , they declare : " . . . We can not at this.time require Catholics who manufacture nuclear weapons . . . to leave such employment . Should we become convinced that even the temporary possession of such weapons may no longer be morally tolerated , we would logically be required to consider immoral any involvement in their manufacture . " Searching the draft letter for reasons for the bishops ' extreme opinions , one discovers that they suffer from a guilt complex . " We must shape the climate of opinion which will make it possible for our country to express profound sorrow over the atomic bombing in 1945 , " the draft letter declares . I believe that few of the nation 's 50 million Catholics share this feeling of guilt over the atomic bombings that ended World War II and saved the hundreds of thousands of lives that would have been lost in an invasion of Japan . Moreover , if the bishops were to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instructions , it seems certain that many Catholics would reject those instructions as dangerously unrealistic . This would result in a further sad erosion of the teaching authority of the church . Even more important , it could cause anxiety among the faithful schooled in obedience to the moral instructions of the church they love . The bishops have every right to forcefully expound their moral opinions on nuclear  --  arms . But I think it would be a colossal mistake for them to attempt to impose on Catholics moral edicts going beyond what even popes have declared .                     