@@668024

The headmaster of Cambridge Rindge and Latin High School said yesterday that the knife fight in which a student was killed Monday was not the result of a planned encounter between white and black students . Headmaster Edward Sarasin told The Globe that the fight in which 17-year- old Anthony Colosimo died occurred when two groups met by chance in a restricted area of the school . Earlier reports had indicated that the two groups may have met in a planned rematch of an earlier fight . The school , which has been shut since the stabbings , will reopen Mondayfrom 8:15 to 11:30 a.m. amid tight security , Sarasin announced . The decision was made yesterday afternoon after school administrators " determined that it is safe and secure to reopen the school . " " There will be an extended home room period to allow time for the students to discuss the incident . Students will then go to periods two , three and four , " the headmaster said . Sarasin said he was convinced that the fight - although connected with the previous fight - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incident in September in which a white female student had gold necklaces pulled from her neck by a former student who was black . Sarasin said he based his information on interviews with students who had witnessed the fight . Sarasin said that the original fight occurred a week ago Wednesday when Colosimo and three female students were going into the old High and Latin building and two black students blocked their way . " Colosimo walked right by the black students and the girls wouldn ' t go by . Colosimo had words with one of the black students and they fought . Colosimo won the fight and the black student told him he would get even with him , " Sarasin said . Reporting on the Monday morning fight in which Colosimo died , Sarasin said , " I asked the students who were there if it was a planned fight . They told me it wasn ' t . And I believe them . They told me that Anthony and Billy ( William Graham ) were walking towards Cambridge street past the Arts Center and went in to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ off- limits to students ) . The black students were already in there . They saw each other and called each other on . " Anthony and the same black youth that he fought before began to fight , Sarasin said . Colosimo was stabbed to death and Graham was critically injured . ( Last night , Graham ' s condition was reported as fair at Cambridge City Hospital . ) A 16-year-old black youth has been arrested and charged with juvenile delinquency , to wit , murder . Headmaster Sarasin ' s contention that the fights were not connected to an earlier gold necklace incident was supported yesterday by the victim of the theft . Sandra Roberts , a 15-year-old sophomore at the school whose three gold chains and five gold charms were pulled from her neck late in September , told The Globe , " That incident did not begin what happened to Anthony . " The youth who was charged with stealing the necklaces was not attending Rindge and Latin at the time and was later arrested in Boston , Roberts said . Security on Monday will include @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ corridors , and uniformed police outside the school and at nearby MBTA subway and bus stations . Funeral services for Anthony Colosimo will be held this morning at Sacred Heart Church in East Cambridge at 9 a.m . Last night , a busload of black students led by Rindge-Latin basketball coach Mike Jarvis attended Colosimo ' s wake at the John J. Donovan Funeral Home on Otis street in the mostly white , working- class neighborhood where the slain youth was reared . The students , all classmates of Colosimo ' s , paused briefly before the open casket and mingled quietly with the constant stream of young mourners . " They didn ' t stay long . Nobody has stayed long because of the lines , " a spokesman for the East Cambridge funeral home said . " You can ' t get into people ' s minds but I think it eased things . There were no problems whatsoever . "                     