@@734777

txt NEW YORK  --  Racing Commercial Airplane Co. , after a seven-year study , has concluded that , for the foreseeable future , only synthetic jet fuel made from oil shale or coal seems to be worth developing further as a synthetic alternative to conventional jet fuel . In reaching that conclusion , Albert . M. Momenthy , a chemical engineer , and other experts at the Boeing Co. subsidiary , have decided that there are so many disadvantages to liquid hydrogen , liquid methane , and alcohol ? substances that are also frequently mentioned as possibilities ? that there is no use mounting further efforts now to develop them as alternative energy sources for aviation . " We feel that oil shale and coal can be used to make jet fuel with properties the same as the jet fuel , we use today , " said Momenthy , who directed the study , voicing a somewhat more optimistic conclusion than some earlier researchers have reached . But , he added , " We Technology do n't see significant use of them probably until the turn of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fuel developed from shale ill and coal would not be available until then . According to the report , " Synthetic jet fuel produced from oil shale or coal appears to be the most economically attractive alternative ruel . " The report continues , " Its low-energy demand in processing and its relatively low-capital requirements for production facilities ead to the lowest fuel cost . " THAT SORT of thinking is welcome at the United States Department of Energy , where James Bartis , the director of its technology 3ffice , said last week : " The significant message of the Boeing report is the greater awareness within the energy-using community that coal-derived andshale oil-derived synthetics can be produced that are compatible with existing aircraft engines as well as automobile engines , so that there would be a minimal disruption , if any , of the fuel distribution structure that we have in the nation . And we would not need to retool our assembly lines . " Boeing and other companies in the aerospace and airline industries have been thinking about new fuel sources because of the rising price of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from crude oil ? and because there could be jet fuel shortages if the world 's crude oil supply is disrupted . In 1973 , commercial jet fuel cost 12 cents a gallon and represented about 12 per cent of U.S. scheduled airlines ' operating costs . Its cost is now about 90 cents a gallon , and it accounts for about 30 per cent of total operating costs . CONFRONTED WITH those numbers , and with the possibility of shortages , some expertslave argued In recent years that the liquid ' orm of hydrogen ? normally a light , invisible as ? is a promising alternative fuel , particularly because it apparently does not create environmental problems . It becomes a liquid when it is chilled below minus 423 degrees rahrenheit . But Momenthy and the half-dozen other ape:ialists conducting the Boeing study arrived at different view during their research . " At first glance , liquid hydrogen appears to oe the nearly ideal airplane fuel , " the report ' Totes . " It has clean burning characteristics , mnign emissions , and tremendous energy for is weight . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three times the energy of a pound if jet fuel . " " Unfortunately , " it goes on , " for the same energy , the liquid hydrogen tanks would need be more than four times larger than convendonal jet fuel tanks , requiring airplanes to ncrease greatly in size . "                     