@@670148

SAO PAULO , Brazil  --  Brazil ' s three most powerful state governors unequivocally demanded that Finance Minister Dilson Funaro resign and insisted that President Jose Sarney implement a new economic policy and " effectively assume command of the country . " Mr. Funaro , responding to the demand late Wednesday by the three governors and a fourth from a less influential state , yesterday denied that he was resigning . The finance minister , who is in Washington to attend meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank , said he was trying to work out Brazil ' s debt problems . Wellington Moreira Franco , the governor of Rio de Janeiro , said , " We are publicly stating the need for a cabinet reshuffle to create political conditions that favor the execution of a concrete and definite economic policy . " Mr. Moreira Franco added that " the transition to democracy needs to be guaranteed by an economic environment that transmits confidence . We need medium and long-term policies that show what the government ' s position is on the foreign debt negotiations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ investments . The government has to be clear . " Although Mr. Moreira Franco was speaking for all four governors , a spokesman for Mr. Funaro denied that , asserting yesterday that only one governor demanded the resignation . Mr. Funaro has taken a hard line on Brazil ' s debt . He has sought to politicize the international debt problem and has resisted outside supervision of Brazil ' s economic policy . Mr. Funaro has maintained that Brazil will resume paying interest on $67 billion of its $108 billion foreign debt only when " it ' s realized that the debt crisis is not only Brazil ' s , but international . " The other governors calling for the changes are Orestes Quercia of Sao Paulo , Brazil ' s wealthiest and most industrialized state , and Newton Cardoso , of Minas Gerais , a central mining state . Marcelo Miranda , governor of the remote farming state of Mato Grosso do Sul , was also present . They spoke at a news conference after a private meeting in Sao Paulo of which the president had been informed . Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the success of economic policy . Although the governors pledged their support for Mr. Sarney , they promised they would insist on satisfactory results . " We support the president , " said Mr. Quercia , who organized the meeting . But , he added , " We want a president who commands . It is clear that the finance minister has been directing economic policy and that the president lacks command . " The governors , Mr. Sarney and Mr. Funaro all belong to the same ruling Brazilian Democratic Movement Party , known as PMDB . The governors ' offensive is dividing the party because its leadership and congressional rank and file have reaffirmed support for Mr. Funaro . The president made no public comment on the meeting . A presidential official said " the president considers the governors ' concerns to be legitimate and natural . " But the official said Mr. Sarney " took exception to their references to Mr. Funaro , who is his minister , and only he the president can decide whether he Mr. Funaro continues in the government . " The governors ' attack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Funaro . The meeting was apparently timed to coincide with his absence from Brazil . In Washington , Mr. Funaro denied he would seek any solution to Brazil ' s debt problems through an accord with the IMF . In a speech to the IMF interim committee , Mr. Funaro supported a recommendation by 24 ministers that a special committee be set up to deal with external debt , " the most urgent of the developing countries ' problems . " The finance minister ' s tenure has been in doubt since the Cruzado Plan began to collapse last year . He has tried to take the counteroffensive , however . Last week he addressed the ruling PMDB , and he met with 64 leading businessmen who pledged their support for him on the eve of his departure for the U.S. A spokesman for Mr. Quercia said the governors  --  who demanded that Mr. Sarney dismiss other senior ministers  --  didn ' t recommend an alternative economic policy or mention possible future ministers . Nevertheless , the three governors demanded the central bank be given independent status under a new constitution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are concerned about the growing signs of recession in Brazil . Inflation is expected to close this month at 14% , and the declining economy is reducing the states ' meager sales tax revenues , virtually their only source of income.  --  - Peter Truell in Washington contributed to this article . Credit : Special to The Wall Street Journal                     