@@734879

txt The AFL-C10 's ruling Executive Council begins its winter meeting here this weekend in an atmosphere chilled by frustration and discontent . " There 's a lot of grumbling . ana a growing feeling that we 've got to Improve the way we do things . " says one union 's top political operative . " But there just is n't any fresh , creative thinking going on at the top . " he adds . He says the labor federation fails to lead the way boldly toward innovative approaches in organizing , fund raising and political campaigning . Such rumblings from within the labor movement are n't new . But this year these feelings have been exacerbated by last November 's election results and the rising conservative tide that swept scores of labor 's friends out of political office . " The loss of the election only fueled the fires of frustration we already felt , " complains another union official . One union president adds : " We lost an election in November . but the Executive Council has n't met since last August . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had a special meeting . " A good deal of the frustration will be focused at this meeting on Alexander Barkan. 71-year-old head of the federation 's Committee on Political Education . It was widely expected that Mr. Barkan would retire after the election . However . AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland has made known that he wants Mr. Barkan to stay on for another year . allowing Mr. Barkan to announce next week that he will retire at year-end . If Mr. Kirkland does n't change his mind , he will have to ask the council to waive its mandatory retirement age for Mr. Barkan . Several Dissenters Such requests usually are approved routinely . But several union presidents , including the outspoken William Winpisinger of the Machinists union , are expected to object . Although they remain a small minority of the council 's 35 members , the dissenters are determined to use Mr. Barkan to send Mr. Kirkland a signal . They believe that Mr. Barkan is the symbol of the old order . " He 's out of touch with anything that 's happened since 1936 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against Mr. Barkan were rekindled earlier this month following a meeting between union leaders and Los Angeles lawyer Charles ** a contender for Democratic National Chairman . The leaders promised to support Mr. Manatt and , some union officials say , he agreed to propose 15 organized-labor officials for atlarge memberships on the 364-member Democratic National Committee Mr. Barkan summarized the meeting in a widely circulated memo to union leaders . Sonic critics blamed Mr. Barkan when the deal surfaced in the press . " It 's typical heavyhanded Barkan. trying to snatch a big tri umph out of what was a political accommodation , " one union official says . The Executive Council is expected to spend considerable time dealing with its political problems . Its members will try to design a strategy to deal with President Reagan 's budget-cutting plans . which include many social programs long supported by labor . On this subject , though . November 's election results are likely to unify the leadership . " It 's likely to drive people back together and put them in a consensus-building mood . " predicts Glenn Watts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ AFL-CIO spokesman says the overall criticism of the federation is n't justified . As an example of innovation , he says that next week Mr. Kirkland will offer a plan for a pre-primary endorsement of a Democratic presidential c.endidate in 1984 . The AFL-CIO has tradmorially withheld its endorsement until after candidates have been nominated , and usually backs the Democratic candidate . Sen. Baker Is Invited And even though the federation usually is firmly in the Democratic camp , the spokesman noted that the AFL-CIO is trying to improve its lines of communication with Republicans . Thus . after some internal debate and at the urging of sonic council members . the labor group has invited Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker ( R. , Tenn. ) to address the council in an effort to demonstrate its new flexibility . Mr. Kirkland also will hold a series of regional meetings around the country with AFL-CIO members beginning in March . " We 'll present some programs we 've got under consideration . " the spokesman says . " but Kirkland will spend most of the time listening . " The labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if a recent Washington conference of members of the American Federation of State , County and Mumcipat Employes is a barometer of the current discontent . The leadership meeting , held in years when AFSCME does n't have a convention , usually attracts 200 participants . This year about 1,400 members attended . They responded enthusiastically to a speech by Arnold Weber , a labor economist and president of the University of Colorado , that was critical of organized labor . Mr. Weber questioned whether labor would " become just a narrow interest group defending the shrinking perimeter . " He said that because of a lack of direction " it seems to me that the labor movement is threatened by severe ideological obsolescence . " Some labor officials have more specific complaints . A union political operative wonders why the federation does n't provide unions with expertise in how to increase " check-off " political contributions by members ; or why it does n't supply affiliates with good state polling and election data . And he says the AFL-CIO should take a lesson from the " New Right " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complaints were voiced often ? if quietly ? during the long reign of George Meany. the federation 's late president . " The expectation that many people had was that after Meany was gone our problems would be solved . Well , he is and they are n't , " the official said .                     