@@668744

Sharply higher radioactive rain measurements across the nation were reported Wednesday by the Environmental Protection Agency in the wake of a second wave of radioactive iodine fallout from the Chernobyl nuclear accident . In the new report , Montpelier , Vt. , registered the highest radioactivity reading , with 12 , 300 picocuries of radioactive iodine per square meter in a rain sample taken Sunday . This surpasses the 9 , 000 picocuries reported by Boise , Idaho , on Saturday , which had been the previous record . The EPA said these readings are far below the federal action level of 130 , 000 picocuries of radioactive iodine per square meter , and pose no danger to public health . A picocurie is one-trillionth of a curie , the unit used to measure radioactive decay . " In a sense , it is a second wave of radioactivity from the Chernobyl accident , " said Chris Rice , an EPA spokesman . He said it is likely that contaminated air masses will circle the globe and drop radioactive fallout with each pass . Earlier fallout was traced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smoke and debris from the fire that devastated the Chernobyl plant in the April 26 accident . The first Chernobyl fallout was detected in the United States on May 4 . The EPA has been monitoring environmental radioactivity since May 1 at 68 sampling stations across the country , and issues daily reports . The latest fallout , said Rice , is coming from a new low-level air mass that is " probably a little more dense " than the high-altitude jetstream . " It is difficult to say now whether we have seen the highest levels we will see . It ' s certainly coast to coast . " Monitoring indicates that radioactive iodine from Chernobyl " has become widely dispersed and is likely to be present in any rainwater samples collected for the next few days , " said Rice . The half-life of radioactive iodine is eight days , meaning half of its radioactivity decays away every eight days until it disappears . Rice added that " levels of radioactivity from the Chernobyl accident are not expected to pose any significant threat to human health or the environment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , milk and air , but it is finding the highest readings in rain . This is expected , since rain washes airborne radioactive particles and debris to the ground . Though several radioactive substances are being monitored , radioactive iodine is of special concern because it causes thyroid cancer and does not appear naturally in the environment . No milk samples in the United States have been found containing radioactive iodine . Other radioactive rain readings around the country include : Chicago , 190 picocuries of radioactive iodine per square meter ; Olympia , Wash. , 1 , 900 ; Salt Lake City , 1 , 400 ; Spokane , 6 , 090 ; Lincoln , Neb. , 1 , 250 ; Jackson , Miss. , 840 ; Bismarck , N.D. , 590 ; New Orleans , 190 ; Idaho Falls , Idaho , 440 ; Augusta , Me. , 430 ; Helena , Mont. , 220 ; Painesville , Ohio , 530 ; Minneapolis , 310 ; Las Vegas , 180 ; New York , 100 ; and Lansing , Mich. 54 . Portland , Ore. , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May 5 , is the only city known to have taken action because of the elevated radioactivity . The Oregon State Health Divison advised against drinking rainwater until further notice . George Toombs , a state radiation specialist , said the move was a " prcautionary measure " since many people in that part of the country still trap rain for drinking water.                     