@@735034

txt NEVER UNDERESTIMATE the power of style  --  the single . boll stroke that can determine whether one 's aurrouncllngs have character or not . Reflect for a moment on the vivacity with which Lavinia Tackbary approaches the accoutrements of life . Her base of operations , a Jewelry shop in Hinsdale called Eye on Design , mixes exotic ivory and gleaming gold with beads of semi . precious stones and an occasional ( lam .. boyantly vintage silk flapper dress . At home , the elements are equally diverse . Deep-hued , hand-carved Mexican wood furniture and a vast collection of African art intermingle in an interior that is surprising for a house with a " Cotswold cottage " facade . ORIGINALLY BUILT around BM by architect Harold Zook , the dwelling flaunts a thatched roof and surrounding gardens that are as romantic as candlelight with their overgrown greenery and reflecting pool . Interior architectural details  --  scalloped wood and ponderous beams , crannies of all sizes and shapes arrayed throughout 14 separate levels ( " for quiet and privacy , " says Lavinia ? are reminiscent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anticipated melange of cottage-y antiques , Lavinia and interior designer Tony Knuth of Environments 2 in Glen Ellyn opted for earthy , ethnic furnishings to play off her oustanding accumulation of Africann . In the miniscule library , a few steps up from the living room , shelving originally intended just ( or books is shared with , a vast grouping of small African fetish dolls , masks , bronzes , baskets , and People at home drums . Seating Is provided by a pair of hrass and leather arm chairs from ? a hilltop village in Mexico and a small leather sofa , grouped with a chess board used as a cocktail table . The dark , ponderous beams that cap the two-story living room are an appropriate foil for a treasured assemblage of ceremonial masks from many different tribes . " THE NATURE of the architecture required a non-competing collection , " says Tony . " The house itself is so important architecturally  --  and the African art , too  --  that to make a ' design statement ' Continued on'iiage 2 Tuoked away in one of the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered in khakilike fabric . The oversize chess pieces are Mexican , the chair American , the backlit tortoise shell lamps from the Cayman Islands . Above the daybed . a chieftain 's heavy cotton coat is adorned with cowrie shells for good luck and tiny mirrors for detection of lurking Jungle threats . African artifacts become the bold stroke of style // would have been criminal . The collection makes its own statement and just needed organizing and direction . " Primarily West African objects ranging from museum-quality , 400-year-old artifacts to current tribal pieces , the collection was acquired with guidance from Dr. Ousmane Gueye pronounced " ooz-mon gay . " He came here from Arden about 10 years ago , and I met him through the Art Institute . He 's from Senegal , West Africa , and he goes to museums all over the United States , " Lavinia says . " 1 could n't believe all this fabulous art right before my eyes . I started buying from him , and kept buying every time he came to town . His pieces are really special because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down with families and that would otherwise be unavailable . " Among Lavinia 's first acquisitions was a " Dann " tribal mask , black and shiny-faced with silver metal around the eyes , silver teeth , and hair from a lion 's tail . nrIlp FACT that she had so many dramatic pieces determined an all-neutral  --  mostly cream  --  background for the house that would show things to best advantage rather than detract from them , " Tony adds . The juxtaposition of seemingly unrelated items reaches into other rooms of the " cottage " as well . In the dark-walled master bedroom , brown grasscloth inserts in the shutters duplicate the wallcovering , and an antique French white marble mantel serves as display space for East African ebony carvings and as the proscenium for a cluster of plants . Two full-size beds are covered with tightly fitted muslin topped by a zebra rug . Another bedroom , furnished with an antique French brass bed that is dressed in old , lacy linens , is home for an old hoop skirt covered with a frilly organdy petticoat . The ballet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place for wooden canes and more lacy relics . The lanai , a room at the back of the house where a wall of windows overlooks the garden , is floored with cork that Is an intriguing counterpoint for the zebra rugs scattered about . For contrast , seating pieces have a sleek Italian flavor and are covered in black leather . The brick wall opposite the window wall is illuminated by a skylight that promises happy conditions for a crop of jungly greenery interspersed with wall-hung African sculpture . " LAVINIA 'S INTEREST in African art stems from her background in abstract art , " Tony explains . " As a painter , she did very Picassolike things  --  primitive work  --  and Picasso was very much inspired by African art . She is drawn to the honesty of rustic looks . She has hundreds of paintings in her attic , but we used only one of those here , We 'd need another whole house for the rest . " Another house may be a long way off . Lavinia is quite comfortable with the ethnic electicism of her @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wooden furniture , " Lavinia says . " The African pieces were a natural transition , and all the white walls give the sculpture a very dramatic look . " It is all quite easy to live with . You never have to worry about putting a glass down on something . There is ' no upkeep itt all . If these things get dusty , they just look better . "                     