@@669996

The staff of the California Public Utilities Commission will outline today a new approach to electricity pricing that transfers much of the risk of operating an electric utility from ratepayers to investors . Some observers believe the plan could gain favor nationwide . In general , the approach throws out the time-honored principle that an electric utility should have a fixed and guaranteed rate of return on its investment in a power plant . Instead , the return would be pegged to both the operating efficiency of the plant and to the generally prevailing price of electricity in its region , as determined periodically by the state utility commission . Thus , a utility ' s rates could vary widely from year to year depending on unexpected plant outages , changing spot fuel prices and other factors . The new approach is premised on the fact that " the investor , not the ratepayer , has control over a utility ' s decisions which affect rates , " says Ronald L. Knecht , an economist with the California commission . " In the long run , " Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than they would be under traditional regulation . " But some utility executives fear that this new approach could cause dangerous shortages in revenue that might impair their ability to pay dividends and meet scheduled interest payments . In addition , they fear it could preclude construction of big new power plants because potential lenders couldn ' t be guaranteed a long-term fixed rate of return . " There ' s no question that ( a utility ) shareholder takes more risk " under this approach , says Peter Hanschen , an attorney for Pacific Gas &; Electric Co. in San Francisco , which nonetheless is considering accepting the new pricing approach for its Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant . Mr. Hanschen says PG &; simply wants to see whether the new approach  --  generally referred to as value-based or cost-avoided pricing  --  has merit . But others maintain that the company may go along with the changes to avoid being hit with a sizable disallowance because of alleged management incompetence on its expenditures for Diablo Canyon . The commission staff has already proposed a so-called imprudency penalty on PG &; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of other electric utilities with recently built nuclear power plants are in a similar dilemma . In New York , for instance , Long Island Lighting Co. faces a possible $1. 3 billion imprudency penalty on its Shoreham nuclear plant . Partly as a result of current prudency reviews by state utility commissions , Judith Warrick , utility analyst with Morgan Stanley &; Co. , expects value-based pricing to gain favor nationwide . She suggests that while it will save some utilities from big disallowances , it could in the future hurt others whose new power plants are inefficient or simply sustain an unexpected outage . If value-based pricing does catch on nationwide , its immediate impact would be limited because it likely would be applied only to new power plants , and the electric utility industry isn ' t expected to enter another big construction phase until the 1990s . Today ' s presentation by the California commission staff will be in connection with another recently built power plant , Palo Verde , which is partly owned by Southern California Edison Co . The utility opposes imposition of value-based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been done under the assumption that traditional regulation would apply and , the company contends , it ' s unfair to apply new rules retroactively . Donald Vial , head of the California utility commission , says he , too , has " problems " with applying the new pricing concept to Palo Verde . But he adds that the commission is " seriously looking at it " in connection with Diablo Canyon . Mr. Vial adds that , in his opinion , " the other states will get there " in terms of applying this new pricing philosophy . Consequently , he says , electric utilities won ' t be the right kind of investment vehicle in the future for unsophisticated investors seeking primarily a fixed return . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     