@@735579

txt Secretary of State George Shultz played things just about right on his trip to Peking . Stressing the importance of Sino-American dialogue , he worked out an arrangement for limited military contacts between China and the U.S. , and won the agreement of Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang to visit President Reagan . But he also was careful not to exaggerate the possible benefits of Sino-U.S . cooperation . And he does n't appear to have made any further concessions on the U.S. defense commitment to Taiwan . The U.S. has a clear interest in cordial talks with the Chinese . Visits such as Mr. Shultz 's to Peking , and presumably Mr. Zhao 's to Washington , make the Soviets feel a bit less cocksure ; and they make our friends in Japan , South Korea and ASEAN feel a bit more comfortable about Chinese intentions with regard to destabilizing other Asian countries . At least at the moment , China and the U.S. have a common interest in opposing Vietnamese expansionism and Soviet aggression in Afghanistan . There are also some modest gains from trade and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains which would be greater were it not for U.S. protectionism in textiles as veil as the difficult obstacles for Americans working and studying in China . But beyond this , it is n't clear what additional benefits can be expected from our Chinese relationship . China can not be counted on as an anti-Soviet ally ; most likely , it will want to maintain a kind of equidistance between the Soviets and Americans , but it is n't farfetched to imagine a Sino-Soviet rapprochement sometime this decade . Despite recent efforts to liberalize agriculture and small urban enterprises , China remains one of the most totalitarian and closed societies in the world . Its human rights violations make those of , say , Guatemala or Chile , pale by comparison . All of which suggests Mr. Shultz was wise not to cave in to the latest Chinese demand for yet more U.S. concessions on Taiwan . Some U.S. diplomats will be alarmed by the report from Xinhua , the Chinese news agency , that " the Taiwan questionand especially U.S. arms sales to Taiwan " are " obstacles " to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is resolved . . . bilateral relations can not possibly develop on a sound basis . " Unless the Chinese are obliged on Taiwan , the chorus will intone , they will be driven into the arms of the Soviets . Nonsense . The issue of sovereignty ? over Taiwan , to be sure , is deeply emotional for the Chinese ; and the Peking regime understandably considers U.S. support for Taipei a slap in its face . But the Chinese government is smart enough to know that its major foreign policy problem is not Taiwan but the 4,000-mile border with the Soviets ; whether the Chinese choose to address this problem by accommodating the Soviets or playing them off against the U.S. will be based on shrewd calculations of realpolitik and will have little to do with Taiwan . It 's worth remembering , too , that the Taiwan issue was supposed to have been resolved once and for all by a communique last August , in which the U.S. promised to gradually phase out arms sales to Taiwan . On his latest trip , Mr. Shultz promised that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puts Taiwanese security in some jeopardy : Under the agreement , the U.S. wo n't sell Taiwan anything more sophisticated than F-5E fighters , which are not much of a match for the version of the MiG-23 now reportedly being built in China . Now the Chinese say even this concession is n't enough . There seems no point in playing along with this Chinese game . Taiwan is a dependable ally in a strategic position on the sea lanes to Korea and Japan . Twenty million Taiwanese birds in the hand are better than one billion mainlanders in the bush . For the sake of cultivating the kind of dialogue Mr. Shultz has just engaged in in Peking , it may have been sadly necessary to withdraw full diplomatic recognition from Taiwan . But it is hard to imagine any additional gains from our Chinese relationship that would justify further endangering Taiwan 's security .                     