@@668027

The wife and son of a 78 year-old Montague man who has been kept alive for two years by kidney dialysis machines urged the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court yesterday to allow them to end the treatments so that their incapacitated husband and father " may die in peace and dignity . " The court-appointed guardian for Earle N. Spring , however , asked the court to rule that the decision whether the former chemist should die or live must be made by the court rather than the family and their doctor . Chief Justice Edward F. Hennessey and the panel of four associatejustices took the unusual case - probably the first of its kind - under advisement with the promise of an early decision . Spring is in a Holyoke nursing home , where doctors say he is physically and mentally incapacitated as the result of an infection and illness that began in Nov. 1977 . He undergoes dialysis treatments three times a week at a Springfield hospital . These began in Feb. 1978 . In May 1979 , Greenfield Probate Court Judge Sanford Keedy ruled that Blanche @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to consult with their doctor and decide whether the dialysis treatments should continue or end . On Dec. 24 , the state Appeals Court upheld that order . Mark I. Berson , a Greenfield lawyer who was appointed by Keedy to be Spring ' s guardian , appealed the decision to the Supreme Court last week . The high court justices ordered a special hearing in the case on the controversial question as to whether the courts , or the medical profession in conjunction with family or relatives , should say when life-support treatment must be ended for terminally ill patients . Marguerite M. Dolan of Turners Falls , lawyer for Blanche Spring and her son , told the panel of judges sitting in a packed and hushed courtroom that " it is the family ' s belief that they have the right to decide this questionbecause they know Spring better than anyone , they care the most for him and are the ones most concerned with his best interests . " " In their non-legal belief they find it very difficult to understand why people should have to resort to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should be done , " she added . " They are not concerned as to what rule of law should apply , but they are concerned that it has taken so long for the courts to decide the rights of their husband and father . They find it hard to understand why they must now convince a third court as to what they think should be done , " Dolan said . The Appeals Court decision written by Judge Christopher J. Armstrong , noted that Spring ' s wife and her son expressed the view that the treatments should be stopped . He said they believed that would be Spring ' s wish if he could speak for himself . Questioning of Berson and Dolan by Hennessey and Justices Paul J. Liacos and Robert Braucher indicated the court was displeased that Spring ' s case had not been brought sooner to the high court . Berson pointed out that part of the delay was due to a shock suffered by Mrs. Spring as the result of caring for her sick husband . " This case deserves expeditious treatment and you can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Hennessey told the lawyers . The court could , as has been done in similar cases in the past , issue a brief order announcing its decision and then issue a full opinion later . Berson and Dolan agreed that Spring ' s case is unlike any prior cases involving seriously ill patients . In a landmark case in Nov. 1977 , the Supreme Court said treatments could be stopped for Joseph Saikewicz , 67 , a life-long mentally retarded man who was dying of leukemia in the Belchertown State Hospital . On Nov. 19 , 1979 , the Supreme Court ruled that Kenneth Myers , 24 , of Dorchester , a prison inmate at Concord could be forced against his will to accept life-saving kidney treatments . Berson said he felt compelled to ask for further appeal from the Appeals Court ruling in Spring ' s case because that decision left the life-or-death decision up to the family and doctor rather than the court . Berson argued the high court should clarify for doctors and lawyers what should be done in cases like Spring ' s . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with guidelines so we may better understand andserve the public . " Dolan said the decision in Spring ' s case by the Greenfield Probate Court and the Appeals Court " has enlightened families , doctors and lawyers as to what should be done when a life support system no longer provides a benefit . " She asked the court to " uphold the right of the family acting with their doctor to decide the fate of incompetent persons who may be in the same situation as Mr. Spring . " B08049833                     