@@670273

One of the spinoffs of the manufacturing revolution under way in the U.S. is greater consistency . Modern computer-controlled production and processing machines have electronic sensors to reject bad parts or alert operators when a chemical process is out of kilter . The expression often applied to Computer Integrated Manufacturing , or CIM , is that either it works right or it doesn ' t work at all . The percentage of defective products likely to slip through inspection and out onto the market thus declines . Now , of course , this is just one measure of " quality . " It means only that the product is built the way it was engineered . It doesn ' t mean that it was engineered well , or that it will last forever . Engineering is usually a compromise that attempts to keep cost as low as possible while at the same time satisfying a consumer ' s expectations . So " quality " is a subjective or comparative judgment , not an absolute . Despite such ambiguities , Congress by resolution and President Reagan by proclamation again @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this observance occurred at the Vista Hotel in New York last week when top executives of some of America ' s largest companies  --  GM , Ford , IBM and Coca-Cola , for example  --  gathered for a " National Quality Forum . " Quite predictably , the emphasis was on quality improvement as a means of making American-made products more competitive with foreign-made products . The participants got some good cheer in the form of Gallup Poll results showing that 66% of the respondents now favor American products for quality , compared with only 61% three years ago . Those polled indicated a willingness to pay some premium for higher quality . Skeptics will no doubt wonder whether CEOs are really serious about quality or whether such things as the National Quality Forum are mainly grandstanding . Customer satisfaction with American products has had ups and downs , with the downs especially acute in the 1970s when inflation meant easy selling , whether the product was good or bad . But times have indeed changed and a good case can be made that any CEO not making use today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greater possibilities for quality control as it is traditionally defined  --  is courting extinction . Colby H. Chandler , chairman and CEO of Eastman Kodak Co. , is this year ' s chairman of National Quality Month , a fitting role for a man who began his working life as a quality-control engineer . Taking a break from the Vista proceedings , he talked about how today ' s CEOs view the subject . " Quality pays for itself many times over , " he says . " It reduces waste , reduces customer returns , and finally if quality is good enough you increase market share and that really goes to the bottom line . " Compared with his days as an engineer 40 years ago , " the process technology for a manufacturing operation is far more repeatable , reliable , controllable and predictable . We ' ve built quality control into our processes . " Engineers strive for optimum quality , giving the customer as much quality as he wants for a price he is willing to pay . A very high proportion of engineering manhours over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " of products , rather than putting additional quality in . Very often , as when U.S. auto manufacturers were scrambling to match Japanese small-car prices in the 1970s , some of the quality comes out with the cost . Quality-control engineers once felt it necessary to tolerate a certain degree of imperfection to keep manufacturing costs low . The thinking more recently is that it is cheaper to do it right the first time , if you can , even if it takes more time . This is made easier by the way computers and new software have changed engineering , a development perhaps even more significant than what has happened on the factory floor . Engineering productivity has soared , making it more likely that companies will succeed at working that difficult equation balancing quality and price . Mr. Chandler describes how it works at Kodak . " In film making , which is basically a series of chemical processes , maybe we ' ll coat 12 layers , one on top of the other , and that combination is less than the diameter of the human hair . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex reactions are expected to take place when you put light on it and so forth . Years ago , when I was working in development , we would run experiment after experiment , with variations in the chemical levels to explore all of the things that could happen in the normal experience of running a process , knowing these things varied  --  nothing stays constant . Today , we do all that preliminary work by computer . We simulate the process and we can run a few variations and make adjustments and then confirm it with a few experiments . It has totally changed that operation in terms of being able to reliably predict how manufacturing processes will run . " Indeed , R &; productivity drives Kodak ' s corporate strategy . The company ' s recent acquisition of Sterling Drug Inc. was a strategic move to obtain a world-wide marketing operation , and experience in obtaining regulatory approvals , so as to more quickly bring to market the products flowing out of Eastman ' s labs . The company always has produced medical products , such as X-ray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s acquisition program isn ' t a diversification , but a solidification , effort . He expects Eastman ' s research labs to be feeding significant numbers of new products into the Sterling marketing system within two years . One of the effects of engineering productivity is diversity of products . Kodak introduced more than 100 new or improved products last year , a resurgence that helped it recover from the slump it had suffered in 1985 and 1986 . Product quality is itself highly diversified to meet varying consumer wants and needs . Americans , by and large , are more price conscious than most overseas consumers . Kodak , for example , makes a " single-use " camera . The idea had been around for many years but finally found a market in theme parks , where 2% of all pictures are taken in the U.S. People who find themselves at a theme park with no camera can buy a low-cost , all-plastic , preloaded camera , take their pictures and send the whole thing off for film processing . After unloading the camera , Kodak grinds it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ combination of rising engineering productivity and CIM will no doubt mean a continued move toward product diversity . Computerized production lines can be programmed so that they are almost capable of custom manufacturing as they switch from one product to another without interrupting the production stream . Increasingly , manufacturers are designing products to require little or no service during their useful life . Here again , complex equations , based in part on what marketing people feel the consumer wants , are involved . Mr. Chandler agrees that achieving " quality " remains a big challenge . But there no longer seems to be much question about the importance of the effort . In a modern competitive world , the price to be paid for doing otherwise is too high.                     