@@669979

WASHINGTON  --  Japanese Ambassador Nobuo Matsunaga couldn ' t have chosen a worse time to take his new post . Just two days after his arrival here last March , Senate anger over Japan ' s trade practices erupted in a 92-0 vote for U.S. retaliation . He didn ' t have a stable of American friends to mobilize , and for weeks he could do little more than lay his calling card on senators ' desks as a number of protectionist bills gathered momentum . But Washington ' s short attention span has proven to be Mr. Matsunaga ' s ally . As Congress momentarily tires of Japan-bashing and worries about other issues like tax legislation and budget deficits , the new envoy is gaining enough time to rebuild Japan ' s defenses against such outbursts . " There are many frustrations about trade , but everywhere I go I ' m encouraged by hearing Americans say that our relations are too important to be overcome by these , " he says . The 62-year-old career diplomat bases that judgment on his widening contacts with administration officials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George Bush and Secretary of State George Shultz have assured him that the administration is standing by its opposition to quick-fix protectionism . And his coast-to-coast courting of U.S. business leaders also convinces him that the nation hasn ' t turned against Japan . The bill that concerns Japan the most  --  one that would reduce Japanese access to the U.S. telecommunications market if Tokyo doesn ' t give reciprocal privileges to U.S. suppliers  --  isn ' t getting as much attention as its sponsors had hoped . Its main drafter , Sen. John Danforth ( R. , Mo. ) , worries that American credibility could be eroded if Japan concludes that the U.S. threats are hollow . By most accounts , the newcomer is simply exercising his ministry ' s virtues of patience and low-key diplomacy . Clearly , the ambassador ' s style isn ' t to confront opponents . Rather , he wants to reactivate American networks of policymakers and business executives who support free trade . Given the current friction between Washington and Tokyo , Mr. Matsunaga quipped to one American , " At least I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trip to New York , he saw Exxon Corp. chairman C.C. Garvin Jr . , Pfizer Inc. chairman Edmund Pratt Jr . , American Express Co. chairman James Robinson , and PepsiCo Inc. chairman Donald Kendall . " They all showed concern about the trade gap but they didn ' t think it ' s good for the U.S. to react emotionally , " Mr. Matsunaga says . The Japan-American societies that Mr. Matsunaga has chosen for his initial audiences are another bedrock of anti-protectionism . There are 18 of these private international relations groups around the country , from California to Maine , each with strong representation from the local business community . At first glance , Mr. Matsunaga appears ill-suited to succeed the previous Japanese ambassador , Yoshio Okawara . Mr. Okawara spent 20 years studying American affairs even before becoming ambassador , and he enjoyed an easy familiarity with Washington ' s power figures . Mr. Matsunaga is less fluent in English and has fewer American contacts because his previous overseas posts were limited to France and Mexico . But like two earlier ambassadors , Fumihiko Togo and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ministry ' s career administrator before coming to Washington . " That counts for something when it comes to influencing how the Japanese government responds to U.S. problems , " says Shoji Teramura , a former correspondent for the Mainichi newspapers . Mr. Teramura says the ambassador has close ties with Foreign Minister Shintaro Abe and other leaders of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party . The envoy has to work those connections well to assure Tokyo ' s responsiveness to what his embassy advises . Also , for two years before coming to Washington , Mr. Matsunaga had monthly lunches with U.S. Ambassador Mike Mansfield in Tokyo . However , the quirks of Washington politics still cause unpleasant surprises for Mr. Matsunaga . His first important visitor from Tokyo , Defense Minister Koichi Kato , was greeted by a Senate resolution demanding more Japanese defense spending . The ambassador worked to give U.S. Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger a different view of Japan ' s burden-sharing . Mr. Weinberger was a guest at a private dinner he held for Mr. Kato . In the final analysis Japan ' s best asset is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship . Mr. Matsunaga has been quick to grasp Japan ' s need to repay the U.S. administration for fending off protectionism . He urged his government to persuade President Francois Mitterrand of France to cease being the sole Western leader opposed to Mr. Reagan ' s call for another round of multilateral trade talks . " France is now more receptive , " Mr. Matsunaga says . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     