@@735036

txt Aetna Life &; Casualty Co. announced what it called " a major reorganization of the company 's insurance and administrative divisions . " Aetna officials said the new corporate structure is designed to put more emphasis on marketing , but one analyst said he expects any changes in the way the company does business to be " subtle and long term , " while the corporate " pronouncements will be revolutionary . " The Hartford-based company said the reorganization of its life and property-casualty insurance operations , which together account for about 43% of Aetna 's total premium revenue , are " chief among the changes . " Aetna said the operations will be organized along market-segment lines instead of traditional product lines . Stiff Competition Aetna 's first quarter operating profit dropped 21% to $96.5 million , or $1.20 a share , from $122.7 million , or $1.52 a share , a year earlier . The company attributed the slide to property-casualty underwriting losses . Many property-casualty companies face stiff competition . Premiums have been slashed to attract more cash , which the companies can use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pushed up underwriting losses . The reorganization creates two new insurance divisions . The personal financial security division is responsible for the individual insurance market , and the commercial unit is responsible for business-oriented casualty and property insurance products and services . Aetna said it also has changed the name of its group division to the employe benefits division " to more accurately describe its function . " Personnel Changes The reorganization is accompanied by a number of personnel changes , the company said . Matthew A. Jr .. 57 years old , senior vice president of the property-casualty division , will retire , Aetna said . William O. Bailey , president , said Mr. was part of the reorganization discussions and that he will stay with Aetna until the end of the year to help during the transition period . Mr. Bailey said Mr. had planned to retire at age 60 and that " it did n't make sense " for him to " get most of the way through " the reorganization and then turn his job over to someone else . Mr. Bailey said Robert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commercial insurance division . Mr. Bailey said Mr. Clark has headed up " a potpourri of staff operations " and described him as a " strong manager . " The personal financial security unit is headed by senior vice president Dean S. Wolcott , who has been in charge of Aetna 's life insurance division since 1970 . Mr. Bailey said Mr. Wolcott " came up through the marketing side " of the business . Stephen B. Middlebrook was promoted to vice president , general counsel and corporate secretary , Aetna said . The company said he will be in charge of corporate communications . corporate social responsibility and public policy issues analysis . He has been general counsel and corporate secretary since 1978.                     