@@734938

txt Q ? I hope you can Settle a problem for me . It concerns baseball and the five possible ways e hitter out reach first base without maidng minted. with the ball . Could you get ' me the answer ? Bill Zelner , West St. Paul Aienue A ? We checked with The Tribune 's sports ' desk , Quidnunc editor Harry Sheer and a retired major league umpire . All said your questiow has been , aktxj for , yeare . No one has ever come ' Up with more than four ways . They are : No. 1 : The batter is hit by a pitch . No. 2 : A walk . No. 3 : Catcher interference with the batter . No. 4 : The catcher drops a third strike and is not able to get the ball to the first baseman in time for the runner to be tagged or the base touched before the runner gets there . Undaunted , however , Action Line has come up with a fifth way ? a freak one ? but nevertheless a possibility : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first baseman in time far a tagout or to beat the runner , but the first baseman or another player such as the pitcher interferes with the runner . Runner interference then becomes the actual reason he gets the base . Q ? Please help me with a childhood fantasy . I want to go in a lighthouse , a genuine one . We are coming to Chicago in a month and I thought , with your city being on Lake Michigan , you could work this out for me . Judy Johnson , Springfield A ? Chicago can not accommodate you but Evanston , just north of Chicago , can . Evanston 's Grosse Point Lighthouse at 2535 Sherican Rd. was constructed between 1871 and 1873 . In the late 1800s , when the lake schooners plied their trade , it was one of the three major - navigational lights on Lake Michigan . The structure rises 119 feet above sea level and has 141 steps to the top . Tours will start in May on Saturdays and Sum days , on the hour , from I to 4 p.m . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it will open in the fall as a maritime museum and visitors ' center . This is an ambitious project , we are told , and donations are needed . The lighthouse was abandoned by the Coast Guard in the 1940s and now is maintained by the Community as a private aid to navigation . The area around the lighthouse has been developed as a Jens Jensen inspired garden with wood and wildlfowers . Donations are asked for lighthouse toffs . School groups and scouts can arrange for private ones by calling 864-5181 . Sound off I have a response to the plight of Ashok C. ; the native of India who is harassed as he rides his bicycle ( Sound Off , April 9 ) . Not only should respect for race and creed be taught , but the citizens of the United States should else be aware of our debt to India . During the American Revolution , Great Britain extracted untold wealth from India . Had Great Britain not colonized India , it would-have been much More dependent on the American colonies for revenues . In turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigor and with many more troops . The holdings in India made the American colonies expendable . It just may be that we have India to thank for the birth of our nation , James Schwoch , Edgewater Action Line answers questions , solves problems and cuts red tape . We can not , however , appraise or shop Mir items . You may write us at 435 N. Michigan Av. , Chicago , III . 60611 . Include your telephone number and two stamped envelopes , one addressed to the firm involved in your problem and the other to yourself .                     