@@668095

Unofficial US Census Bureau data show that Boston ' s population dropped 12 percent in the past decade , a finding that could jeopardize millions ofdollars in federal aid for the city . The Census Bureau yesterday provided working figures to Boston officials indicating that the population has fallen from 641,000 to 565,000 since 1970 . Mayor Kevin H. White dismissed the finding as " obviously off base . The figures just don ' t make any sense . " City officials noted that while the population purportedly dipped in Boston , the census data seem contradictory in also indicating that housing units in the city increased by 3 percent and households by 2 percent . The population of Boston and other Northeastern cities registered a sharper-than-anticipated drop in 10 years , according to unofficial Census Bureau statistics . " We are not finished counting , but there is a trend that things are down in the cities in the Northeast , " said Roger F. Sullivan , a spokesman for the regional census office . Boston officials say they will provide survey , police census and housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review process in the next two weeks in an effort to correct what they say are errors . After any adjustment , the official preliminary population figures will be released in August . Although the findings confirm trends spotted by public and private surveys in recent years , municipal , county and state officials claim the unofficial figures exaggerate the loss . The Northeast stands to lose up to 14 congressional seats and billions of federal dollars in grant-in-aid programs to the booming Sunbelt states of the South and West where populations have burgeoned in the past 10 years . While no firm figure is available on the amount of funds Boston could lose through an undercount , one indication of the stakes of head count accuracy is that a 50,000 drop in population could cost the city $5 million in Community Development Block Grants alone . CDBG is only one of the more than 100 federal grant-in-aid programs that rely on census data for distribution formulas . Alex Ganz of the Boston Redevelopment Authority said the city estimates the average household size in Boston to be 2.6 persons in contrast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is a big factor , " he said . In addition , the Census Bureau estimated the housing vacancy rate to be 8 percent , double the city estimate of 4 percent , Ganz said . Nationally , about 20,000 communities , or half of the 39,500 counted earlier this year , have received internal working figures from the federal agency for local review in the last two weeks . " We must emphasize these are incomplete numbers , " said Ray Bancroft , a spokesman for the US Census Bureau in Washington . " If local officials can prove to us that we didn ' t enumerate certain households , we ' ll go back and enumerate them . " Approximately half of the communities in New England and upstate New York state , the jurisdiction of the Northeast Census Bureau office , have received their unofficial figures . The region ' s statistics show losses in some communities of up to 25 percent . Some random examples : - In Rochester , N.Y. , the Census Bureau found that the population plummeted 23 percent in ten years , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $10 bounty to neighborhood groups for the identification of each uncounted person . " The figure is at least 20,000 too low , " said Larry Spid , a spokesman for Ryan . - In Cambridge , the Census Bureau estimated that the population declined by about 7 percent from the city projection of 102,000 to 95,000 . City Manager James L. Sullivan commissioned his own census in order to check figures compiled by the federal agency . " The ( federal ) process is deficient , " he declared yesterday . If the final figures put Cambridge ' s population below 100,000 , the city will no longer qualify for a number of federal programs available to cities greater than 100,000. - In Belmont , Census Bureau figures showed population to be 24,921 , nearly 3000 people less than the town count of 27,814 . Town Clerk Ann Cresine Wilson said she went door-to-door in the smallest Census Bureau enumeration district and found two houses and 10 people not included in the federal census . " This is the smallest district they had . It ' s all single houses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miss a house if you tried , " she said . - In Utica , N.Y. , Census Bureau figures put the population at 72,009 , a 22-percent drop from the 1970 count of 92,230 . Dr. James O ' Haire of the City Planning Department said , " We know the figure is too low . The Census Bureau knows it ' s too low . We have talked to Washington and they know it ' s too low . And we know that they are not through counting yet . " - Unofficial figures show the population of New York City may have declined by as much as 20 percent . Mayor Edward Koch has threatened to bring suit to keep the Census Bureau local office open and working past the Aug. 15 shutdown date to recount certain neighborhoods. - Census data indicate the population of Providence , R.I. dropped 15.4 percent , from 179,116 to 151,538 . The city ' s loss of up to 30,000 residents is largely attributable to sweeping demolition programs in neighborhoods where housing was eliminated to make way for new business developments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 347,000 , a 25 percent loss in ten years . " We have filed many challenges . Everybody is disappointed . But naturally we just can ' t go out and create people , " said Robert Krzemian of the Buffalo Planning Department . In some smaller Massachusetts communities , the trend is sustained but is not as drastic . For example , Norwood showed a decline from the town figure of 35,000 to 27,700 . Dedham registered a decline from 25,771 to 24,558.                     