@@670058

ROME  --  Italy ' s president named Giulio Andreotti , a five-time Christian Democratic prime minister , to form the country ' s 45th postwar government , but strong criticism by the Socialists could make that a formidable task . President Francesco Cossiga presented the mandate during a 30-minute meeting at the presidential palace after two weeks of talks failed to revive Socialist Prime Minister Bettino Craxi ' s five-party coalition . The Craxi government , in which Mr. Andreotti served as foreign minister , fell on June 27 after nearly three years in office , longer than any postwar government . The 67-year-old Mr. Andreotti , who once took four months to form a government that lasted only nine days , faces an uphill battle this time because of a bitter dispute between his party and the Socialists . A meeting of Socialist leaders presided over by Mr. Craxi issued a statement criticizing the appointment as a " further aggravation " of the crisis . Sen. Fabio Fabri said he was surprised that Mr. Andreotti took a mandate " that is an expression of an irrational and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another Socialist leader called the mandate " frankly useless . " Political observers had expected Mr. Craxi , who stayed on as caretaker prime minister , to revive his party ' s alliance with the Christian Democrats , Republicans , Social Democrats and Liberals after the coalition lost a key parliamentary vote on a financial matter . But the Christian Democrats , who control about one-third of the national vote , wanted to impose a time limit on Mr. Craxi ' s next reign . The Socialists , who got about 10% of the vote in the last national election , refused . The Christian Democrats , who have led or dominated every postwar government , need the Socialists for a parliamentary majority . Both parties have refused to join forces with the Communists , who control about 30% of the vote . Almost all politicians have said they oppose elections before parliament ' s five-year term ends in 1988 . After failing to heal the rift between the Christian Democrats and the Socialists , Mr. Cossiga gave Senate President Amintore Fanfani an " exploratory mandate " last week to negotiate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 78-year-old Christian Democrat , met with political leaders and then reported to the president Wednesday night . The Christian Democrats , meanwhile , made it clear that if Mr. Craxi did not accept their terms , the post should go to Mr. Andreotti . Mr. Andreotti is one of Italy ' s most durable and controversial politicans , and is often described as wily and inscrutable . During a career that spans four decades , he has survived unscathed several judicial and parliamentary investigations for alleged improprieties . During the Craxi government alone , Mr. Andreotti ' s allies defeated two parliamentary motions calling for his resignation . As foreign minister , Mr. Andreotti has been criticized as being too pro-Soviet and pro-Arab because of his close ties to Libyan leader Col. Moammar Gadhafi and the Palestine Liberation Organization . A devout Roman Catholic with close ties to the Vatican , Mr. Andreotti nonetheless forged strong relations with the Communists . He even arranged a temporary " historic compromise " in the late 1970s that gave the Communists a say in government policy , although no cabinet posts . Since being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Mr. Andreotti has served as head of the ministries of interior , finance , treasury , defense , industry and budget . He formed his first government in 1972 and his most recent in 1979 . Three times in his long career , Mr. Andreotti has been prime minister-designate but failed to form a government . He had been considered a leading candidate to become president last year but lost to Mr. Cossiga . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     