@@734752

txt ARTIS GILMORE called it " amazing . " Reggie Theus said " It gives us a new dimension . " Rod Thorn , swamped with phone calls , sighed happily , " All of a sudden , people believe we 're serious . " These were some of the reactions to the Chicago Bulls ' acquisition of Larry " Call me Mr. K " Kenon last Friday . Xenon , the versatile forward who was priced over San Antonio 's budget but well within the Bulls ' , is expected to make his debut in Monday evening 's practice session at Angel Guardian gym . EXCEPT FOR THOSE fringe players and newcomers whose job opportunities were placed in instant jeopardy by the Bulls ' three-year commitment to Kenon , the response to having Xenon was something close to ecstatic . " I do n't know how the Bulls were able to do that . " said Gilmore , their 7-2 center whose Rock of Gibraltar role will get a new challenge in the midst of built-forspeed lineup this year . " We now have some super rebounders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 've ever had , " Gilmore went on . - " My reaction ? I 'm just plain happy . " GIL310RE  --  WHO SAYS he 's in fine shape physically after last season 's knee problem  --  tried to put Xenon 's addition into perspective . The 27-year-old Xenon , who has led the Spurs over the last fiveyears in rebounds and has averaged close to 20 points per game in the past four seasons , gives the Bulls a new image . in Gilmore 's view . " He 's already a plus , and he 's not even here yet . Everybody used to write us off early , but you ca n't do that anymore . " THU 'S . FLASHING A wide smile , pointed at the turned-up corner of his mouth and said , " That says it all when you ask me about Larry Xenon . " He can add so much to this team . you wo n't believe it . For me , it knocks off all the impressions that I ought to be playing a small forward . I can get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense . I ca n't believe we got him . " Coby Dietrich , the Bulls ' 6.11 backup center and sometimes-forward , was perhaps the best man to ask about Xenon . They were San Antonio teammates for four years . " He can play , " Dietrick said . " Individually . he is a great talent . I suppose the best thing I could say about him is that he is a hard worker , both in games and in practice . " THERE WAS CONCERN Xenon might not adapt readily to Jerry Sloan 's disciplined style of basketball , but Dietrick sees that as no problem . " A good team is a blend of talents , and a coach has to integrate those talents . I 'm sure Jerry has some adjustments in mind . "                     