@@668632

Pope John Paul II , addressing a rally of 2 , 000 Dutch Roman Catholic teenagers here Tuesday evening , said the church would never change its traditional teachings on sexual morality and counseled the youths to guard their virginity until marriage and to avoid " homosexual relations . " The pontiff received scattered applause from the teens , who were screened by Catholic school and church authorities before gaining a permit to attend the meeting . The Dutch Catholic Church is known throughout the world for its generally permissive attitude toward sexual practices . Earlier Tuesday , the final day of the pontiff ' s strife-filled tour of Holland , the Pope received a warm welcome from the largest crowd he has yet seen on his 26th foreign pilgrimage . About 40 , 000 worshipers gathered for an outdoor mass in a cool mist near the city of Maastricht in the overwhelmingly Catholic province of Limburg . In his homily there , the Pope also emphasized the traditional Catholic doctrines governing family life and birth control . Late Tuesday evening , in the final act of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet privately here with the nation ' s 11 bishops . Observers expected the discussions to include the stunning departure by church members from allegiance to a strict personal moral code . In his lengthy homily to the teenagers , the Pope urged them to remain in the church and to continue in their honest criticism . " Sometimes you hurt us and yet we do not want you to stop , " the pontiff said . " You must continue to tell us everything honestly . But you must also listen to our criticism . " We must support one another ( and ) have patience with one another  --  you with our cautious approach , we with your impetuousness , " he added . The Pope warned the blunt-spoken teenagers that he , too , would " speak frankly " of his convictions about sexual behavior . " Are you all really sure that your image of Christ corresponds to the reality ? " he asked . He pointed to a " demanding Christ " depicted in the Bible , whose teaching on sex stressed the " indissoluble nature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in the heart . " " Would it be realistic to imagine a Jesus who is indulgent on marital love , abortion , sexual relations before or outside marriage , or homosexual relations ? " the Pope said . " The words of the Apostles are clear and strict . They are words inspired by God . They remain the standard for the church for all time . " The pontiff ' s lengthy discussion of sexual ethics was prompted by a series of questions prepared for him by the young church members , who told him that they often found " a marked difference between the joy of Jesus ' message and the attention which the church devotes to rules and regulations . " In his homily at the Maastricht mass , John Paul praised the virtues of the traditional family structure and called for the " responsible parenthood " prescribed by the controversial and widely disregarded 1967 papal encyclical that prohibits artificial birth control . " In the present age , the family has been subjected to a good deal of criticism , " the Pope said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it restricts freedom . " But John Paul asserted that the nuclear family " is the environment in which we learn to contend with life ' s problems , to fight against human weakness , and not to choose the easy paths such as divorce . " On Wednesday , the Pope is to leave Holland for a brief stop in Luxembourg before heading on to Belgium the following day.                     