@@735819

txt For 133 years , the Huntsville Item has been reporting the news of this bucolic East Texas town . But this year a group of local businessmen concluded that the newspaper , now owned by a chain in faraway San Antonio . really does n't know how to cover Huntsville . One of the businessmen felt the paper was n't giving enough coverage to his son 's ball team . A doctor found it too sympathetic to death-row inmates at the local prison . Others were annoyed by a report it published on the environmental effects of proposed strip mining in the area . So in May , three dozen local men put up nearly $4 million to start a new Huntsville newspaper , one that would cover the city right . The guiding principle for the Huntsville Morning News , which began publishing Aug. 1 , is explained by Robert Hardy , the president of the First National Bank here : " The news should always be positive . " he says . " We do n't think a newspaper should look under every rock trying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper business are taken aback by the move . " As a newsman for seven decades , " says Norman Isaacs , a senior adviser to the National News Council . " I do n't know of any place where some businessmen have gone to the extreme of starting a town bulletin board just because they did n't like the existing paper . " At least a few of Huntsville 's own businessmen are equally skeptical . George Russell , who owns a real-estate concern here . calls the Morning News " an in-house organ for the Chamber of Commerce . It 's run by a bunch of flag-waving , ribbon-cutting bumpkins who refuse to acknowledge that the world comes with bad news as well as good . " In It to Stay But the Morning News has lured some employees and advertising accounts from the Item , and  --  thanks to its close ties to community newsmakers  --  has an edge over its chain-owned rival in covering local doings . " Only one paper is going to survive this battle . " says the new paper 's publisher , Gary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Neither is the Item . It is owned by HarteHanks Communications Inc .. a company whose $400 million in annual revenue ranks it among the country 's 10 largest newspaper chains . One week before the Morning News began publishing , the Item . previously an afternoon paper , switched to morning publication itself . It also started a Saturday edition , beefing up its editorial staff and opened an ad campaign that splashed its name across the airways , billboards and Tshirts . Suddenly Huntsville , a town of 26,000 known chiefly for the occasional executions at the state prison here , finds itself treated to saturation coverage of local news as the two papers slug it out . The town , which lies close enough to Houston so that many residents read that city 's papers , has apparently become the smallest community in the country with two morning daily newspapers . Huntsville could even be the start of a trend , Mr. Randazzo of the Morning News says . " We 've got businessmen calling us from all over the country wanting to start their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the beginning . " Thirty miles down the road in Conroe , for instance , another business group this week brought out a new paper to compete with an established one . Covering the Home Team The sentiment for a new Huntsville paper built up gradually , and the complaints about the old one are diverse . Mr. Hardy of First National Bank , who is the chairman of the Morning News , traces his disenchantment with the Item to 1978 . First National opened a new six-story building that year , he says , and " the Item all but forgot to write a story about the ribbon-cutting ceremony . " He says his opinion of the paper sank lower when it did n't print much about the football career of his son , who starred at the University of Texas and now plays for the Houston Gamblers of the United States Football League . ( This complaint is n't to be confused with that of retailer J.P . Davis , who says the Item has n't adequately covered his boy 's team in T-ball , a game similar to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which concerned land owned by members of the Gibbs family , prominent local residents who also are major stockholders of First National Bank . Although the 24-page report won the Item an award from the National Coal Association , an Industry group , it did n't sit well with the Gibbses and some other local businessmen . " That report made everyone in the mining business seem greedy , " Mr. Hardy says . The Morning News does n't do anything like that . In its three months of publication it has run at least three articles about Mr. Hardy 's son 's football playing . One day it devoted half its front page to a feature about a safari taken by a member of the Gibbs clan . It has also given a lot of coverage to Little League baseball , ribbon-cutting ceremonies and social events . Touchy Story It steers clear of controversy . For instance , a high state education official recently described Texas teachers ' colleges as " Mickey Mouse " ; Huntsville has a teachers ' college , and the Item ran a story about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morning News ignored it . Officials at Harte-Hanks profess to find all this puzzling . " We do n't know what their purpose in life is , " says Tucker Sutherland , the chain 's president of newspaper operations . But one of the Morning News investors . Raymond Blalock. says it 's simple : " We do n't want to read about the moans and groans of a few long-haired liberals here in town . " he says . " What we need is news about the good things happening in this little old town . " ( It was Dr. Blalock , an ophthalmologist. who objected to the Item 's stories about death-row convicts . " The Item would have us believe that those guys got there by singing too loud in Sunday school , " he says . ) Three months into the fracas , the Item is reporting a slight rise in its paid circulation , to 6,700 a day . The Morning News puts its paid circulation at 3,000. which is a figure it claimed even before it began publishing . The Morning News claims to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Somebody ai n't counting straight , " replies the Item 's director of general services , Steve Balke : he contends his paper carries at least twice as much ad hnage as the new one . Harte-Hanks wo n't disclose the Item 's financial results but says the paper has always been profitable . Morning News owners say they expect the newspaper to be in the black within a year . But many add that making money was n't their chief motivation for getting involved . Blanketing the City The other theater of combat between the papers is local-news coverage , the area in which the Item was accused of being deficient over the years Suddenly it seems as interested in local coverage as the founders of the Morning News . The problem before , says Item Managing Editor Terry Bartling. was that . " we did n't have a big enough staff . " Now , reporters for both papers hang around the courthouse for extended periods , waiting for someone to record a wedding , a birth , an auto registration or whatever . " No tidbit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It 's been real amusing to watch the reporters fight over some piece of news like ' Joe Bob sold his pickup to Jimmy Joe . " Adds Morning News photographer Tony Pilkington , " You ca n't step out of your house or sit in your back yard eating watermelon without getting your picture in one of the papers . " Understandably , then , there was a lot of excitement one day when a local women 's club called a " major press conference " downtown . Reporters and photographers from both papers arrived early to get good seats . And the announcement ? The women were donating a park bench and sundial to the city . Playing Hardball In the battle for local exclusives , the Morning News has an advantage , since its founders often have close ties to Huntsville newsmakers . For instance , one director of Mr. Hardy 's bank was until recently the executive director of the prison system based here , and he once promised the Morning News exclusive coverage the next time the death penalty was applied . " That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Executions are the biggest news in town . " Even when reporters for the Item are onto an exclusive story , they risk tipping off the competition by phoning sources around town . One afternoon , Item reporter David Nunnelee was writing an education piece for which he needed comment from the schoolboard chairman  --  who also happened to be the Morning News advertising director . " If I call him , the Morning News will get the story too , " Mr. Nunnelee fretted . He solved the problem by waiting till the last minute to place the call . As for the reaction of Huntsville newspaper readers to all of this , Mayor William Nash sums It up . " Most residents here are Just sitting back enjoying the battle and enjoying all the local news they 're getting , " he says . " Most of us are n't taking sides . We 're Just reading a lot more . "                     