@@735217

txt In ordinary times , Charles M. Butler would be just another obscure White House appointee , and the littleknown federal agency he heads would rewrite dozens of arcane rules without any nubile fanfare . But the 38-year-old chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission appears determined to have his agency take the lead in authorizing billions of dollars of higher natural-gas prices for homeowners and industries . In doing so , he seems ready to make his five-member commission , an independent arm of the Energy Department , a political lightning rod on the issue of decontrolling natural-gas prices . " Any honest debate over natural-gas policy , " the Texas attorney told a utility group recently , " must begin with the recognition that decades of price controls have created a problem for which there is no easy solution . " Shying away from the controversy by waiting for the White House and Congress to decide whether to speed decontrol , he added , " is likely to create a game in which many will lose and few will win . " Mr. Butler , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic production and prevent future shortages or wide regional disparities . Few people question the commission 's authority to unilaterally loosen price controls on a big chunk of all the natural gas sold in the U.S. But consumer groups and other critics contend that Mr. Butler , formerly an aide to Republican Sen. John Tower of Texas , is going too far and too fast to help producer interests . Questionable Strategy The commission 's strategy , these critics argue , amounts to " backdoor deregulation " of natural-gas prices , calculated to skirt the will of Congress while insulating the White House from the uproar likely to result from higher prices . Some opponents of decontrol see Mr. Butler 's actions as tacit admission that Mr. Reagan 's advisers might want to avoid a legislative fight over the issue . Some White House aides worry , though , that the commission 's moves may backfire . " He 's playing quite a risky game , " says an administration policy maker . " The decision to do whatever can be done administratively may break up the logjam , but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Aides say Mr. Butler has been too busy recently to grant interviews . But since last fall , he has appeared regularly before sympathetic industry groups to describe his philosophy and intentions . Last month Mr. Butler predicted that " longstanding and entrenched opposition " in Congress to any form of gas decontrol could dissuade the White House from introducing legislation to confront the issue head-on . Even if a bill eventually is submitted , he estimated it would have only a " 50-50 chance " of being adopted this year . So Mr. Butler and the rest of the commission majority appointed by President Reagan are quietly finding loopholes in the current law that would allow producers , in some cases , to quickly double the maximum prices they can charge consumers . Targets of Decontrol In the middle of this winter 's intense coldwave , the commission nearly doubled , to more than $5 per 1,000 cubic feet , the price for natural gas produced from deep offshore wells . Mr. Butler also wants to raise substantially the price lid for gas produced from certain onshore wells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would amount to decontrolling at least one-quarter of all the gas sold in the U.S. and a much larger share of total gas reserves . More recently , Mr. Butler has telegraphed his wish to loosen controls on even larger volumes of so-called old gas that was sold through low-cost , long-term contracts before the 1978 price-control law . Mr. Butler also has advocated easing price controls without necessarily determining beforehand the amount of gas affected and the potential extra cost to consumers . " We simply do n't have any estimate of those things at this point , " a commission spokeswoman says . Naturally , many producers and gastransmission companies favor the commission 's initiatives , but the proposed increases face opposition from utilities , numerous state regulators and consumer groups . The commission " is rushing headlong to decontrol gas prices without collecting adequate information , " complains Edwin Rothschild , director of Energy Action , a consumer organization . " It 's one of the most disastrous plans ever conceived against consumers . " Energy Action 's preliminary estimate is that the proposals could raise industrial gas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three years . The group figures that heating bills could climb by more than $50 a year for the more than half of all U.S. homes heated by natural gas . The cost would be substantially higher if the old longterm contracts are revised . Commission officials maintain that their efforts to loosen price controls will benefit consumers in the long run . But some members of Congress want more assurances . Indiana Rep. Philip R. Sharp . the Democrat who heads the House energy subcommittee that would consider any decontrol legislation , recently complained to Mr. Butler about what Mr. Sharp called the commission 's " inadequate knowledge " of the potential effect of its policies on consumers .                     