@@668142

Legislative bodies , whether they sit in state capitals or in Congress , do not have to subject themselves to the traumatic and tense session that the US House of Representatives went through last week when it unseated Rep. Michael E. Myers ( D-Pa. ) , after he was convicted of bribery and extortion . The Massachusetts Senate went through the same kind of exercise two years ago when two members were also convicted of extortion and bribery . One of them chose to resign rather than subject his colleagues to the ordeal . But the other , former Sen. Joseph J. DiCarlo ( D-Revere ) , insisted that he was innocent , the court conviction notwithstanding , and the other members were , therefore , put through a wringer . He finally was ousted , but not withoutabject apologies and a lot of public soul-searching . As a result of that experience , two members of the state Senate have filed a proposal that would amend the state constitution to allow the secretary of state to declare a vacancy in any public office , elective or appointive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The inclusion of elective office holders is significant because the Legislature has a habit of excluding elected officials from laws that deal with wrongdoers in public office . For instance , there is a law that dictates that an appointed official indicted for public wrongdoing must be suspended immediately . If he is found not guilty , he is restored to office , with back pay . But that doesn ' t apply to elective officials . In the constitutional convention two weeks ago , the Massachusetts Legislature gave initial approval to the proposed change . The proposal , which was sponsored by Sen. Robert Hall ( R- Fitchburg ) and Arthur McKinnon ( D-Weymouth ) , was to be given a death by gavel Sept. 24 , when it came up for action . Senate President William Bulger , who presided over the convention , called for ayes and nays and determined that the nays had it . But under convention rules , all measures that have been defeated by a voice vote , must then be put to a roll call . And on the roll call vote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 97 to 88 . It is to hoped that when the convention is back in session Nov. 12 the majority will prevail on a third reading of the bill . It would then be referred to the 1981-82 Legislature for another approval before it is submitted to voters for popular approval on the 1982 ballot . There are , of course , aspects of the Hall-McKinnon amendment that are highly questionable . But they could be corrected It leads off , for instance , with this language : " No person convicted of malfeasance or misfeasance while elected or appointed to public office shall thereafter be eligible for public office . " To mete out that kind of punishment for life borders on the Draconian . Some correction is called for . But on the other hand , neither should an elective official who has just been convicted of wrongdoing and who has been evicted from office be allowed to return after the next election , which could happen next month in the case of Rep. Myers . The idea that the decision in the Myers case should be left to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because he runs his errands and looks after the personal needs of his constituency is no reason why all other voters should be subjected to the actions of a legislator who has been found guilty of using his office to extort money from anyone . The fact is tht adoption of the Hall-McKinnon amendment , with some correction , could relieve legislators of extreme embarrassment . It would be a service to themselves and to all the voters of the commonwealth . Maybe Congress should adopt the same kind of amendment . A. A. Michelson is political editor of the Berkshire Eagle . B07985132                     