@@735240

txt The AFL-CIO 's executive council is ending its winter meeting in an atmosphere of renewed bitterness between the labor federation and the Reagan administration . Administration officials were outraged and shocked last week when AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland , after inviting Vice President George Bush here , publicly attacked the Reagan economic program as " Jonestown economics . " a reference to the mass suicide in Guyana in 1978 . The administration says the remark embarrassed the Vice President and went far beyond responsible criticism . One measure of the administration 's anger is a comment by Labor Undersecretary Malcolm Lovell , a moderate who has pushed hard for harmonious relations between the administration and unions . From his office in Washington , Mr. Lovell sharply criticized the remark , saying that when Mr. Kirkland " is confronted with the choice of being clever or being accurate , he often chooses the former . " Mr. Kirkland , however , asserted that his criticisms were justified , and he indicated that they would continue . The incident is likely to derail for the immediate future recent efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . After ignoring the federation 's leaders for almost a year , Mr. Reagan invited the 35-member executive council to a meeting at the White House last December . Since then , in the words of one top AFLCIO official here , labor leaders have " done business " with Mr. Bush on several occasions . Invitation to Mr. Bush Mr. Kirkland , for his part , also responded by inviting Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Alexander Haig to the federation 's winter meeting , which is scheduled to end either today or tomorrow . Last November . in a break with tradition , the AFL-CIO did n't invite any top administration official to its convention . The labor federation chief maintains that his " Jonestown " remark was n't out of order . " As far as I 'm concerned , if they want to open channels they have to be ready for whatever flak flows through those channels , " he said . " There 's a big difference between them listening to us , and us having some impact . And we do n't have any impact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Mr. Bush arrived here last week with a " laundry list " of gripes against the federation . For example . Mr. Bush complained that the AFL-CIO ignores Labor Secretary Raymond Donovan and that it does n't use " balanced criticism " in its appraisals of administration proposals . Further , Mr. Bush said the AFL-CIO should stop referring to the current economic downturn as the " Reagan recession . " Economic Program Labor leaders also complain that Mr. Bush was n't playing by the rules when he met with reporters here . An AFL-CIO official says , for example , that Mr. Bush told council members privately that he had n't yet had a chance to study their economic program . Later , however , he criticized the program before reporters . So both sides appear for the moment to have written off improving their relations . Last week , the executive council began preparing the federation 's strategy to defeat , in this year ' elections . congressional supporters of Mr. Reagan 's economic program . " This is a government of divided powers . We have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress ... The issue is n't resolved by whether or not Mr. Reagan agrees with us , " Mr. Kirkland said . He added that he hoped " either this year or following the next elections , we 'll have a Congress , at least , that might be more responsive to the needs of the people . " At the same time , those administration officials who have advocated a policy of trying to improve relations with organized labor are beginning to feel pressure from conservatives within the administration and in the business community , who say the White House is getting nothing in return .                     