@@735073

txt To some airline industry observers . C. Edward Acker 's decision to abandon the smooth-sailing Air Flonda to take over the huge , but troubled Pan Amencan World Airways came as a complete surprise . Under Mr. Acker 's innovative guidance , Air Florida has grown in three years from a tiny intrastate carrier operating out of a shopping center to one of the great American corporate success stories . In 1977 , the first year Mr. Acker guided Air Florida , the company recorded $7.8 million in revenue . At the end of 1980 , revenue was up to $161.2 million , with profit of $5.7 million . " I was absolutely flabbergasted . " Lamar Muse , the head of Muse Air , said about Mr. Acker 's move . Mr. Muse and Mr. Acker were competitors when Mr. Acker was head of Braniff International Airways during the fierce airline battles in Texas years ago . " I Just could n't believe it , " Mr. Muse said . The move also left open to question Air Florida 's future , so intimately had the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " I do n't see how anybody can truly say better or worse is going to happen , " said David Kamm , an analyst with Raymond . James &; Associates in St. Petersburg . " I really do n't know what 's going to happen , but the truth is , his people there have been around a guy who is a dynamo . " Mr. Kamm added that the future success of the company may depend on how many of his former associates Mr. Acker lures to Pan Am . Robin Cohn , a spokesman for Air Florida , said the company is sure it can continue the success it has had since Mr. Acker took over . Eli Timoner , who founded Air Florida in 1972 , and who had been serving as president , will take over Mr. Acker 's position . Mr. Acker revitalized the airline , buying new Jets and considerably enhancing the company 's image through a series of marketing gimmicks . On morning flights . for instance , passengers received free orange Juice mixed with champagne . And he ordered the airline 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and blue . " We operate in a warm climate , so our jets had better look cool , " he said on one occasion . It was n't so much the gimmicks that gave Air Florida its boost out of obscurity . but Mr. Acker 's ability to take advantage of airline deregulation in 1978 . In a short time . Air Florida was grabbing short routes that had become unprofitable for the bigger airlines . Buoyed by the airline 's success , Mr. Acker began several takeover campaigns , first against much-larger Piedmont Aviation , and then against Air California and Western Airlines . The first two were blocked , but in July , Air Florida announced it had increased its holdings in Western to 9.9% . Mindful of Mr. Acker 's reputation for aggressiveness , Western Air sought a preliminary injunction to keep Air Florida from purchasing Western stock . That request was denied by a federal judge in August .                     