@@669988

INTEREST RATES may be heading up soon , some economists say . Several factors put upward pressure on rates . The delay in raising the federal debt ceiling means that the Treasury will have to offer high rates to sell a record amount of securities quickly when sales are resumed . Faster economic growth will probably push up rates . So may Treasury efforts to weaken the dollar by curbing foreign demand for U.S. securities . An administration economist predicts that interest rates will rise a half percentage point by year-end . Citicorp ' s John Maher expects rates to increase by one point by then and by two more points by the end of next year . But some economists disagree . They figure that the Fed would intervene to hold down rates . Robert Ortner , the Commerce Department ' s chief economist , jokes , " A lot of economists think rates will go up , so they ' ll probably go down . " PENTAGON LEADERS scramble to hold their own in arms-control talks . Defense Secretary Weinberger and Pentagon hard-liner Richard Perle worry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been taken over by McFarlane and Shultz , " says a congressional ally . Partly to keep a role , Weinberger cancels an October trip to Asia . Perle is in Europe to shore up allies ' shaky support for Reagan ' s Star Wars plan . Pentagon officials fear that some White House advisers are too eager for an arms agreement to establish Reagan as " a man of peace . " Some Reagan advisers view Weinberger as " too unwavering . " He describes the Soviet plan this way : " If we ' ll give up our strategic defense , they ' ll give up for us our offensive strength . " FINAL SHAPING of a tax-overhaul bill slowly begins to emerge . The House Ways and Means Committee ' s bill will probably raise the personal exemption , but not to the $2 , 000 Reagan wants . The top individual tax rate may be lowered to about 38% , rather than the Reagan-proposed 35% . The panel staff recommends eliminating two-thirds of the deductions for state and local taxes , but members will probably end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complexity and controversy . Some 52 groups mount a multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign to keep the deduction for state and local taxes , infuriating Chairman Rostenkowski . The debt-ceiling dispute may also divert the panel from its tax-bill work and places Rostenkowski at odds with the White House . Rostenkowski expects a tax-overhaul bill by November , but other members think it will be longer . " Maybe Christmas , " jokes one Democrat . BILLS TO BAN " cop-killer bullets " that pierce protective armor are opposed by the Gun Owners of America . Its members send lawmakers postcards charging that the ban would affect " commonly used hunting and target-practice ammunition . " The bills specifically exempt bullets used primarily for " sporting purposes . " ENERGY CLASH : Synfuels Corp . Chairman Edward Noble lashes back at Energy Secretary Herrington ' s complaint that the federal corporation is a waste of money and should be closed . Noble accuses the Energy Department of wanting to " build energy empires " by absorbing the Synfuels Corp . The department denies the charge . LOOK OUT ! Jill Lancelot , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of fiscal conservatives and environmentalists to help kill the Clinch River breeder reactor and the Westway highway project , prepares to take on a new target : $46 billion of energy subsidies . GENTLE REMINDER : Urban League President John Jacobs says that in a recent meeting with Bush to complain about a Meese speech comparing job-quota backers with supporters of slavery , a puzzled Bush asked , " What is he talking about ? " To which Jacobs replied : " He ' s not my attorney general , he ' s your attorney general . " REPUBLICANS PUSH to strengthen clout in state legislatures . The GOP wants control of enough state chambers to get a fair shake in reapportionment of congressional districts in 1991 . Republicans currently control only a third of the state legislative bodies . A GOP official claims majorities are within reach in at least 10 more chambers . The party gives campaign aid and trains lawyers in reapportionment law . Reagan and Bush will aid by campaigning for state candidates . More aid will come from GOPAC , a private group that in 1984 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local Republican candidates . The party files court challenges to alleged errymandering : A pending Supreme Court case questions redistricting in Indiana . GOP Rep. Dornan of California says that in some states the carving of districts " is so ugly , so nonsensical " that voters " still sneer in disbelief . " MINOR MEMOS : Colorado Rep. Schroeder ' s remarks charging that a balanced-budget prosposal sounds as fanciful as " Peter Pan " run in the Congressional Record under the headline : " Tinker Bell to the Rescue . " . . . Pennsylvania Sen. Specter bets a case of his wife ' s gourmet chocolate-crunch pecan pies against a case of choice peanuts wagered by Alabama Sen. Denton on tomorrow ' s Penn State-Alabama football game . . . . James Baker says that in his job as Treasury secretary he makes money the old-fashioned way : " I print it. "                     