@@734887

txt After several years of gloomy forecasts , a top state official is predicting that New York City may be on the brink of resolving its six-year-old municipal financial crisis . For the first time since 1975 . New York City can look forward to the prospect of recurring budget balance , State Comptroller Edward V. Regan said . This situation , where city spending and revenues are roughly equal , represents a " fundamental change " in New York 's longterm fiscal outlook , he said . A budget surplus in fiscal 1981 , which ends June 30. and a balanced budget in fiscal 1982 " now appear well within the city 's grasp , and while the city has a difficult task ahead in balancing its fiscal 1983 budget , if that is accomplished , the long-term outlook is the brightest in many years , " the state comptroller added . Reasons for Optimism Mr. Regan made his optimistic forecast as lie released a new report on the city by his special deputy . Sidney Schwartz . It attributes the city 's improved financial outlook to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ booming real-estate market here , and a state takeover in recent years of several costly functions performed by the city . A major gain is a proposed state takeover of New York City 's share of Medicaid costs , which could provide budget savings of S1.5 billion annually by fiscal 1985 , Mr. Schwartz said . A recent state decision to include more current New York City data in calculating real estate values should allow the city to collect more real estate taxes than previously planned , he added . " The numbers are there " to back a sharply revised picture of the city 's financial outlook , concluded Mr. Regan , who cited a " dramatic " growth in New York City 's economy as an important factor . Potential Pitfalls The state comptroller refused to state that New York City 's fiscal crisis is over . His aide 's report outlined several potential " serious " budget pitfalls . They include budget problems in fiscal 1983. the cost of future labor settlements , uncertain levels of federal aid , and " fragile " state of the city 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the city 's transit system . " Perhaps most fundamentally , viable long-term fiscal stability ca n't be accomplished without adequate levels " of city services . the report warned But it was still the brightest picture of New York City painted by an official financial watchdog in recent years . Mayor Edward Koch said he was " delighted " by the report , which could boost the city 's efforts to sell long-term bonds next month , the first time since 1975 . However , some analysts caution that it could be years before New York City can fully meet its heavy borrowing needs in the long-term bond market .                     