@@670174

When Toshiba Corp. ' s top two executives resigned last week , it said a lot about how Japanese managers differ from their U.S. counterparts . The Toshiba executives said they were taking responsibility for a subsidiary ' s sale of militarily sensitive technology to the Soviet Union . Most U.S. executives probably wouldn ' t even consider resigning over an issue like that ; while both American and Japanese managers are responsible for the bottom line , the Japanese corporate chief is expected to make symbolic gestures and , at times , personal sacrifices that most U.S. executives aren ' t . Ritualistic resignations by Japanese chief executives are " almost a feudal way of purging the community of dishonor , " says George Lodge , a professor at Harvard University ' s business school . " This is far different from the Anglo-Saxon legalistic tradition , " he says , where an employee is bound by contract rather than as a member of a corporate community . Toshiba itself noted that the resignations " may be hard to understand in American terms , " but called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese business world . The changes at Toshiba have their limits . The two executives , President and Chief Executive Officer Sugiichiro Watari and Chairman Shoichi Saba , will become consultants to the company-paid roles frequently assigned to past chairmen and presidents of Japanese corporations . As a result , there is " some element of theater " in the resignations , says Herbert Passin , a business consultant and emeritus professor of Columbia University . But he says the resignations are " significant " because the executives are surrendering authority . Toshiba has emphasized that the responsible subsidiary has a separate management . Nevertheless , Mr. Saba said , he and Toshiba ' s president " must take personal responsibility for not creating an atmosphere throughout the Toshiba group that would make such activity unthinkable , even in an independently run subsidiary . " The incident recalls the resignation in 1985 of the president of Kikkoman Corp. after a scandal over tainted wine . Or the resignation that same year of the president of Japan Air Lines , following a jet crash that cost over 500 lives . Then-president Yasumoto @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrangements had been made to bury the dead and assist the bereaved  --  a process that included personal calls on victims ' families . By contrast , never was it seriously suggested in the U.S. that top executives of Boeing Co. step down after the JAL crash , even though the accident has been linked to a faulty repair performed years earlier by Boeing mechanics . No executives of Union Carbide Corp. resigned after the 1984 poison gas leak in Bhopal , India . Nor have any top officials resigned from Morton Thiokol Inc. over the company ' s involvement in the space-shuttle disaster . " If we apply Western standards , ( resignation ) looks like the act of a coward , " says Akira Yamashita , a Boston architect who has advised Japanese companies in the U.S. To most Japanese , he says , shouldering the blame for subordinates " looks honorable . " " Within Japanese corporate culture and social ethics , the whole notion is that the leader can delegate the authority to anyone he or she wishes , but not the responsibility , " says Yoshi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s Baruch business school . " In the U.S. , ( leaders ) delegate authority and responsibility . " The assigning of institutional responsibility to top officials isn ' t confined to the business world . Peter Kamura , U.S. representative for the Japan Center for International Exchange , a private nonprofit organization , notes that Japanese school principals have resigned after major crimes were committed by students  --  even when the crimes were committed outside of school and after school hours . The willingness of some Japanese top executives to serve as a kind of scapegoat in extreme circumstances is more than just a curiosity , management experts say . It ' s one of the many ways that Japanese companies create a sense of community and employee loyalty , in a business culture that demands much of its workers . The assurance that a company will keep them on the payroll at almost any cost makes workers more willing to cooperate in the pursuit of long-term corporate goals . " The messages that management sends are an important part of the relationship that gets built between management and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent Harvard Business School study on global competition in the auto industry . Even seemingly trivial gestures , such as not reserving parking places for managers in factory lots , make workers more likely to cooperate in financially significant measures , he argues . Admirers of the Japanese management style don ' t advocate that American executives begin resigning over subordinates ' misdeeds . That isn ' t likely to correct a problem , they say . Beyond that , the departure of a chief executive in the U.S. is likely to be more disruptive than in Japan , notes Edward Lincoln , a Japanese economy specialist at the Brookings Institution . U.S. companies tend to depend more on individual executives than those in Japan . Nevertheless , many argue that U.S. companies would be better off if top officials made it clear they are at least fighting the same battle as workers . When times are hard , " The first thing a Japanese executive does is cut his own pay , " says Vernon Alden , a director of several U.S. corporations . " Here , the first thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may not do much to reduce a company ' s costs , they do demonstrate to workers that management is sharing the hardship , he says . Some contend that U.S. executives in recent years too often have feathered their own nests while appearing insensitive to the security of employees . Studies have shown that executive salaries on average represent higher multiples of line workers ' wages in the U.S. than in Japan ; recent evidence suggests the gap is growing . Herbert Glazer , associate dean of American University ' s business school , argues that so-called golden parachutes " are the worst abuse of the American management system , where the failures bail out with these multimillion-dollar packages . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     