@@669841

Many of the greatest people I know are calm , thoughtful and compelling speakers on behalf of the nuclear freeze . Although often concerned with the public pronouncements of some members of the Reagan government , they are often apolitical in the sense that they are not anti-right wing or staunch Democrats . Rather , they are frequently men and women of great stature who as teachers , scientists and scholars have had a following of professionals and intellectuals for decades and who now appropriately characterize the escalation in arms and the failure of negotiations as the overriding concerns for mankind . At many social gatherings , these people  --  whether present or not  --  have influenced the topics of conversation . Such meetings are now filled with people who are outspoken against the madness of nuclear war and work for the nuclear-freeze movement by , at the least , wearing a button or writing a congressman . I share in the most heartfelt manner their concerns and hope desperately for their  --  no , our  --  success in eliminating the nuclear threat . However , at one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nuclear escalation might not follow the well-outlined path of a freeze leading to the partial removal of weapons and thence to the total elimination of nuclear arsenals . This idea was immediately characterized as heretical , while I , as its proponent , was portrayed as misguided by some  --  using the most genial term  --  and suspect by others , the more heated devotees of the cause . Once isolated on this point , no amount of protestation on my behalf could convince my associates that I , too , worried quite considerably about nuclear war , recognized that it must be prevented if mankind itself is to survive , and stood squarely with them in opposition to inane utterances about civil defense , limited nuclear war , protracted nuclear war or meaningful life after a missile exchange . I tried to convince those around me that we must recognize that the chances of continued human existence might hinge less on the adoption of a nuclear freeze , for example , than on the development of better technology to prevent the accidental launching of a missile . It seems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a nation ' s leadership to deny its error and " justify " the launching as an intended warning or , more likely , follow it with others in the vain hope of catching the opposition totally by surprise . Since , in truth , there had been no reason for the firing but the failure of a computer or a single human , this policy might be quite compelling once a missile was airborne . Even reference to the destruction of the Korean airliner by the Soviet Union and its immediate denial and subsequent " justification " in the world press by Soviet officials did not convince the crowd . No amount of supporting arguments pointing out that missiles will be with us for the foreseeable future guaranteed me a single vote in support of more , rather than less , research in technology coupled to deterrence capability . Also , I totally failed to convince anyone that negotiations are never successful when predicated upon noble wishes or idealized notions . This is true even when one party does not jail those who support an international peace movement , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatened on a variety of fronts and the other party is not dependent on popular support at least in part from a machismo image . Likewise when I argued that we might in time change the viewpoint of the leadership or even the leadership itself on one side of the confrontation but would never effect a change in the stance of the other side  --  where there is no access to the power structure ' s thought processes by means of a press or effectual intelligentsia . Even the chance of a trivial emotional tie between sides is diminished when the leadership of one has never left the system behind for even a two-week vacation " abroad . " I tried to suggest that efforts should be directed to looking for a point of mutual benefit to the leaders and their progeny , for that , in reality , is the only lasting outcome of any negotiation . Agreements that are forced or are too lopsided in favor of one adversary will simply result in anger and be abrogated or become , a decade later , the battle cry of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent round of defense spending might not be seen as a delayed response to how our Vietnam experience ended . History suggests the dangers of a nuclear holocaust are best averted by understanding the forces that motivate the powers and by looking for the benefits that would accrue from a desired policy  --  in this case , nuclear de-escalation . Having lost out in these discussions , I tried to turn the conversation to what I thought would surely bring my friends back to me . I offered for consideration the plight of the homeless , the need for food in parts of Appalachia and Africa , the importance of medical research to address the tragedies of dementia , and the shameful persistence of discrimination after 20 years of a civil-rights movement . My portrayal of mentally infirm tattered folk lying over gratings , of drooling incontinent elderly with bedsores and no recognition of the family members sitting stoically by their beds , of a single black person on a committee of a dozen people still being asked to speak for the " black viewpoint " ( as if by virtue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain political viewpoint ) all held no sway . I was politely told that the nuclear freeze movement was supreme and that my expressed concern for the infirm , the old and the socially deprived was " nice " but not of any real consequence . I lost out when I suggested that misery and death from exposure , starvation or disease were just as miserable and lethal to the person under consideration as they would be if they were a result of nuclear war . So I wandered away from the crowd or , perhaps more accurately , they moved off from me . I felt a victim of the nuclear freeze . Yet the poorly nourished , sick and dying are suffering much more than I from the fallout of the nuclear freeze movement . The great leaders have had to direct their attention to the real risks of nuclear annihilation ; their absence in the leadership of other humanitarian causes is noted and severely missed . I hope the freeze movement or some other movement is successful in bringing an end to the threat of nuclear war in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement ' s members get on with it , and I pray they have a little time along the way to consider those who will not be here for long  --  regardless of the nuclear threat . The war has not been fought , but there already are many casualties and they are likely to mount.  --  - Dr. Steel is a professor of medicine at Boston University Medical Center.                     