@@668358

Christ is risen ! This Easter affirmation is our hope for now and always . It is the message of love and peace for our present life , precisely because it is God ' s faithful promise of eternal life . This resurrection faith is not a guarantee against the powers of evil in this life . It should not , for instance , generate the quietistic expectation that God will miraculously intervene and prevent human self-annihilation in nuclear war . The Creator ' s gift to humanity is freedom to choose life or death , to be responsible or irresponsible . The resurrection faith is , thus , the invitation to participate in the deliverance from present evils . Our faith in the Risen Lord compels us to testify against the nuclear arms race . Our nuclear arsenals represent a fundamental contradiction of the visions of life , hope , love , and peace which the Easter faith affirms . The horrors of nuclear war are widely known . If an all-out nuclear exchange occurs ( and many authorities are convinced that a " limited " confrontation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ destroyed by blast , fire , and radiation within hours . Millions more will die from global contamination , disease , and starvation . Yet , the nations of this world , especially the United States and the Soviet Union , are tempting fate by expanding the risk of nuclear war . The military budget in the United States is increasing , largely by diverting desperately needed funds from programs which protect and promote the general welfare . Disarmament talks are in a feeble state , and have become forums for competitive propaganda , rather than earnest negotiations . Tne number of nuclear powers grows . Each step forward is movement toward madness , by either accident or intention . Non of us is guiltless in this spiral of regression to annihilation . We are all implicated , by profiting from , being apathetic toward , or otherwise participating in the arms race . We all have a responsibility for changing the directions of the nations from death to life . Each of us , therefore , in our respective communions and in common , will both continue and strengthen our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We call , moreover , upon all our fellow-citizens - those who affirm the Easter faith and all other women and men of reason and good will - to join us in a common appeal to the President of the United States and to Senators and Representatives . Let our appeal be for an immediate , international " freeze " on the development , testing , production , and deployment of nuclear weapons and delivery systems . Let our appeal continue for the rapid reduction of nuclear arms , and the full , international abolition of these demonic powers . Our security as persons and nations - yes , life on this planet - depends on these urgent efforts . Let us choose , therefore , life and hope now , in loyalty to the One who came that we might have life and have it abundantly . SIGNERS Rev. Dr. George W. Bashore , bishop , Southern New England Conference , United Methodist Church ; Rev. Dr. Eugene A. Brodeen , bishop , New England Synod , Lutheran Church in America ; Rt . Rev. John B. Coburn , bishop , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , divisional commander , The Salvation Army , Mass . Divisional Headquarters ; Rev. Harry H. Hoehler , First Parish in Weston , Unitarian Universalist ; Rev. Dr. James A. Nash , executive director , Massachusetts Council of Churches ; Mrs. Sylvia Perry , clerk , New England Yearly Meeting of Friends . Also , Rev. Dr. Roscoe C. Robison , executive minister , The American Baptist Churches of Massachusetts ; Rt . Rev. Alexander Stewart , bishop , Episcopal Diocese of Western Massachusetts ; Rev. Dr. Eugene G. Turner , executive , Synod of the Northeast , United Presbyterian Church , U.S.A. ; Rev. Dr. Alfred E. Williams , minister and president , Mass . Conference , United Church of Christ ; Rev. Cyril M. Wismar , president bishop , Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches ; Rev. Fr . Ilia Katre , vicar general , Albanian Orthodox Diocese of America ; and Bishop Anthimos , Greek Orthodox Diocese of Boston . B07831301                     