@@668066

Massachusetts Education Comr . Gregory R. Anrig yesterday appealed to US District Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr . to loosen his hold on certain areas of the Boston school desegregation case in hopes of averting " a serious breach that appears to be developing . " In a letter hand-delivered to Garrity ' s chambers , Anrig suggested that desegregation of Boston ' s schools could be achieved best if the court , after setting the goals , left the mechanics of achieving them up to the school system . This and other " steps toward normalization of school district administration would serve the court ' s often-expressed hope to reduce its long and courageous involvement in this case , " the four- page letter said . ( In an unrelated action , Garrity yesterday ordered the Boston School Department to prepare by April 22 new assignment plans for elementary pupils in districts 2 , 3 , 5 and 6 , based on projected rather than actual enrollments. * Anrig ' s proposals include : - Reducing the role of court advisers Robert Dentler and Marvin Scott to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the School Department . " - Adopting " a more workable formula " for establishing racial- ethnic percentages at the district schools than the 5-year-old court guidelines , which school officials have said are impossible to achieve at some schools . - Accepting a modified version of the School Department ' s " linkage " student assignment concept , which Garrity rejected two weeks ago in its original form . At the same time , Anrig offered support to Garrity , who is said to be vacationing in Florida for two weeks , for his recent orders to close 13 of Boston ' s 150 schools . Noting that schools are being forced to close across the state and that Boston ' s reported public school enrollment has decreased by 23,000 in the last six years , Anrig wrote : " In short , quite aside from the soundly based legal concerns of the court , Boston . . . can not escape the need to close schools due to declining enrollments . " Anrig ' s letter follows by a week the School Committee ' s unanimous vote to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issued April 2 in explanation of his closing orders . That memorandum was met with cries of protests from committee members and School Supt. Robert C. Wood , who accused the judge of " unwarranted judicial intervention " into school affairs . Contending the stability of the school system was at risk , school officials expressed particular alarm at the order to make plans for a major reassignment of students next September , aimed at bringing all schools into compliance with the court ' s desegregation guidelines . Although the state Board of Education is legally a codefendant with the school system and the city of Boston in the 8-year-old desegregation case , the board has supported the court ' s basic goals in the case from the beginning . Anrig , while noting he was expressing his " personal judgments " rather than Board of Education policy , emphasized that " the state is not retrenching on its commitment to desegregation . " In appealing to Garrity to rely more on the School Committee and the superintendent , Anrig said , " The court and each of the parties have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absence of such normalization . " The " alternative standard " suggested by Anrig to replace the current racial-ethnic guidelines would be based on a district ' s public school population for grades 1 through 5 , excluding students enrolled in citywide magnet programs . School officials have said that basing the guidelines on students in kindergarten through grade 12 , including students who leave the district to attend magnet schools , makes compliance at all district schools impossible . The court ' s guidelines require that district school enrollments broken down according to percentages of black , white and other minority students not deviate from the district ' s total student population by more than 25 percent . Anrig wrote that tests of student assignments based on his proposal suggest it " reduces the number of schools out of compliance and makes more feasible the timely correction of enrollments in the schools which do not conform to the standard . " In commenting on the simulated assignment plan ordered prepared by the court , the state will submit a trial simulation plan based on the alternative proposal , according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the School Department ' s proposal for linkage schools reconsidered by the court , Anrig said . The proposal would have linked two or three underenrolled schools , with parents guaranteed that , in the event of further closings , their children would be guaranteed a place in one of the schools . In rejecting the linkage concept , Garrity concluded the arrangement would be " divisive , confusing and destructive of the very stability which the court has sought to achieve in numerous previous orders . " Anrig ' s letter suggests that , with restructuring to meet Garrity ' s " appropriate " concerns , the linkage concept can be one means of " providing parents some of the predictability they desire regarding student assignments in the future . "                     