@@669973

England has socialist roots dating to the Fabian Society and 19th century writer and critic John Ruskin , for whom the only socialist college at Oxford is named . But even the English , known for their genteel reserve , might go a bit bonkers to learn that a conference of " radical accountants " was held in Manchester this week . Some participants , interviewed by phone , agreed that the words " radical " and " accountant " could qualify as an oxymoron , like " government efficiency " or " runaway glacier . " Tony Tinker , an associate professor of accounting at New York University and a socialist , conceded that the fusty , conservative image of accountants usually doesn ' t jibe with the left-wing , liberal bent of the radical . " But some of us do feel that accounting is being manipulated by the establishment to the detriment of labor unions , the consumer and the public in general , " he said . Some 120 accountants from the U.S. , Canada , Britain , Australia , Denmark and Japan heard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions bargaining with management , how social auditing should be applied to financial statements and how accounting allegedly is used to preserve the status quo . They heard other speakers suggest that the British government has been manipulating accounting to close certain coal mines and that some major auto makers in England have been massaging financial results to justify lower wage increases . The conference was originally slated for Ruskin Hall at Oxford University . But the hall holds only 60 people , so the convention , which ended yesterday , was moved to Dalton and Ellis Halls at the University of Manchester . " It would have been nice meeting in a hall named after the English writer who questioned the operations and motives of free enterprise , " said David Cooper , a conference organizer and an accounting professor at the University of Manchester . " We ' re not just attacking capitalism but questioning all established theory . " As an academic , Prof. Cooper says he worries that people will think radical accountants are a bunch of loonies trying to overthrow their governments . " That ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " We ' re also interested in the thinking of German critical theorists Jurgens Habermas and Claus Offe and French philosophers Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida , who criticized all conventional thinking . " Cheryl Lehman , an assistant professor of accounting at Hofstra University , Hempstead , N.Y. , asserted that " financial information has been misused " to mislead consumers , investors , workers and the public . " As I said in my paper , ' A Semiotic Analysis of the Great Moving Right Show Featuring the Accounting Profession , ' the welfare state had given way to the industrial state in which big companies have the clout . " Anthony Lowe , a professor of accounting at the University of Sheffield , said that " we ' re even looking at how accounting affects every area of society , even the Church of England  --  should the church continue to be a big land owner in England and is the idea of full-time priests a good one ? " Manchester , an industrial center , has a 15% unemployment rate , which troubled some conference participants . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as unkempt as the unemployed , with worn jeans , scruffy jackets and a generally unkempt appearance , " said Prof. Tinker . " You can hardly tell us from the locals . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     