@@668068

WASHINGTON - President Jimmy Carter attacked Ronald Reagan yesterday , saying the Republican candidate ' s criticism of Carter ' s foreign policy " does not help our country . " Addressing the American Society of Newspaper Editors here , Carter was asked about Reagan ' s claim that American " weakness " under Carter had led to the seizure of American hostages in Iran and the Soviet Union ' s military intervention in Afghanistan . " I think the people in the Kremlin would agree completely with what Mr. Reagan has said , " the President replied with a sardonic edge to his voice . " That ' s obviously a ridiculous claim that could only damage our own nation ' s prestige coming from a responsible person and help the Soviets in their claim that they had adequate provocation from this country to take this unwarranted action . " And I ' m sure the same response would come from the terrorists who hold our hostages captive in the American embassy in Tehran , " Carter continued . " I think they would agree with candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fault , but the United States is somehow culpable for this abhorrent and inhumane action . " Reagan responded while campaigning in Greensburg , Pa. , " I ' m going to quote Harry Truman : If you can ' t stand the heat , get out of the kitchen . I don ' t think any criticism of mine gave aid and comfort to the enemy . " Carter ' s attack on Reagan echoed a similar assault on Sen. Edward M. Kennedy Feb. 13 , in which Carter used a press conference forum to say that Kennedy , his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination , made statements about the Iranian situation " very damaging to our country . " Kennedy had accused Carter of conducting a " helter-skelter foreign policy . " The President ' s attack on Reagan seemed like a dress rehearsal for a Carter-Reagan contest in the fall . In recent presidential elections , the only time one candidate suggested the other lacked patriotism was in 1960 , when Richard Nixon said that John F. Kennedy ' s criticisms of US foreign policy " damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sen. Kennedy also addressed the editors . Kennedy lumped Reagan and Carter together , saying , " From both the Republican front-runner and a Democratic incumbent now striving to become a pale carbon copy , we are hearing the incantations of an economic politics that is outworn , irrelevant , and in the end dangerous to the social fabric of the nation . " Kennedy said Reagan and Carter were promoting " an antigovernment mythology that will inevitably pit region against region , the cities against the countryside , the poor against the rich , labor against business . " Kennedy said in response to questions that " I ' m going to the convention . I ' m going to do the best I can to win the nomination . " But his prepared speech indicated that his criticism of Carter ' s economic policies also had a nonpolitical mission . " I am not appealing in this campaign solely for a candidacy , " the senator said , " or even for a program , but for a new social bond that can temper the rancors and rivalries among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ night ' s closing banquet of the editors ' group . His appearance yesterday afternoon allowed Carter ' s remarks to make the evening news programs on network television . The President ' s prepared speech before the luncheon crowd at the Washington Hilton stressed his determination to take " legal actions " to prevent American athletes from competing in the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow . Carter then encountered difficult questioning from a panel of three editors and appeared irritated at several of the questioners . " Anyone who said that I have contrived recent events in foreign policy to gain re-election obviously doesn ' t understand the political process , " Carter said . " If I could contrive international events to help me in the election I would have made several differences in what had actually occurred . " Michael O ' Neill of the New York Daily News asked about " this sense among a lot of world leaders of weak leadership in the White House , " and Carter interjected to say , " Mr. O ' Neill , your interpretation of what they ( other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interesting to me , but I still find it lacking in conviction . " Carter went on to expand his claims of world leadership , saying , " Our efforts toward peace are very sound and progressive and successful . I have no apology at all to make for our country , or for the Administration which I head . " B08025296                     