@@668052

If there were a Hall of Fame honoring those who have involuntarily been the subjects of test cases on the right to refuse life- sustaining medical treatment , it would include Karen Ann Quinlan , Joseph Saikewicz and Chad Green . While his legal legacy remains incomplete , Earle Spring is an inevitable candidate . We all profited by court decisions in these cases , but probably none of the principals involved would have been satisfied either with the ultimate outcome or the procedures employed . Karen Ann Quinlan , who a court determined could be removed from her respirator if there was " no reasonable possibility " she would return to a " cognitive , sapient state , " is still alive four years later . Joseph Saikewicz , a 67-year-old mentally retarded man , had his right to refuse cancer chemotherapy vindicated more than a year after his death . And Chad Green , whose parents fled the state to escape a court order mandating accepted medical treatment , died shortly thereafter . And now Earle Spring has died , more than a year after court @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded . Courts have affirmed the right of a competent adult to refuse treatment , even life-sustaining treatment ; the difficult decisions now involve patients who can not make the decision themselves . Earle Spring was senile , lived in a nursing home and required kidney dialysis to survive . His family and physician wanted to stop dialysis , and they went to court to seek legal immunity for that act . The courts took a long time . But the case was different from Quinlan , Saikewicz or Green . Spring was not in a " persistent vegetative state , " severely retarded , or a child . He was senile , and virtually indistinguishable from millions of others in nursing homes around the country . The courts had to consider the impact of their decision on all those patients . Who should decide , and on what basis ? Can senility alone ever be grounds for discontinuing treatment ? If dialysis can be discontinued , can insulin , antibiotics , intravenous feedings ? The courts have not yet answered these questions , but some lessons have emerged . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; an unenviable experience that only others are likely to profit from . Second , the choice between death and continued treatment with probable suffering and uncertain prognosis is almost always a tragic one ; there are usually no best outcomes , only alternatives that seem less destructive than others . Third , there is no societal consensus on who would decide for incompetents , or on what basis the decision should be made . The family usually knows the person best , the physician is the only onequalified to determine the prognosis and treatment options , and only the courts can speak for society and grant legal immunity from charges of homicide and medical malpractice . Each brings a critical , but incomplete , ingredient . Legal scholars search for decision-making mechanisms that are accurate , efficient and socially acceptable . No such mechanism is ever likely to be found . We will all die , and it is medicine ' s successes , not its failures , that permit some of us to live ( and suffer ) longer than we could have previously . The choice between death @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strongly-held values into conflict . There is no miracle cure for this condition . No legislation can prevent death or make it pleasant ; no family can make societal decisions ; no physician can make legal decisions ; and no judge can make medical decisions . But judges have society ' s mandate to chart the course through this wilderness for all of us . Their task is to develop a method of decision-making that protects those unable to protect themselves , and reaches just decisions as often as possible without destroying important societal values . Neither theQuinlans , Saikewiczs , Greens or Springs nor their doctors will thank them , but we should . George J. Annas is an associate professor of Law and Medicine at the Boston University Schools of Medicine and Public Health . B08025301                     