@@734684

txt Israeli Premier Menachem Begin apparently is not content with a troublesome policy of West Bank settlement that has helped bring the Middle East peace process to a standstill . Now he is adding a new settler who promises to be th. , mnct trniihiricomn of all : himself . Mr. Begin proposes to set up his prime ministerial office in East Jerusalem , on land captured during the 1967 war and later included in the area annexed by Israel to be the national capital . Under his plan the premier , two deputy premiers , and 250 staff members will move into a new office building on the northern edge of Jerusalem as a symbol of the " amity of Jerusalem under Israeli rule , " according to Israeli officials . We have no quarrel with the principle of an undivided Jerusalem . The city is holy to three faiths , the object of pilgrimage and veneration to more than a billion people in all parts of the world . It would be a tragedy for Jerusalem to revert to its pre-1967 status , split in half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ armies . But the way to achieve permanent , **26;28;TOOLONG unity for the holy city is not through the unilateral arrogance of the willful Mr. Begin . It is achievable only through a process of peaceful negotiation with all the parties concerned , and it is just such a process that is being harmed by this action . As the Israeli premier well knows , the very name of the city excites the most profoundly volatile emotions among Moslems and Christians as well as among Jews . Indeed , plans for the move were made public shortly after the Pope had called for a negotiated solution to Jerusalem 's status and shortly before it was to be debated in the United Nations Security Council . Such timing belies the official explanation that the move is to symbolize the " unity " of Jerusalem , It is , Instead , a symbol of the Begin government 's apparent intention not only to dictate the status of Jerusalem on its own terms but to establish permanent Israeli control of all the territories captured in the 1967 war . That intention runs counter to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Israel 's closest friend and ally , the United States . A policy of settlements based on expansionism rather than security has been a barrier to negotiated peace since the 1967 war and has been consistently opposed by The Tribune , as indicated by the accompanying quote from a 1907 editorial . While Israel may have had little reason to limit the movement of settlers during most of the intervening dozen years , the Camp David agreement and the subsequent Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty now provide a reason . There is a chance for peace , a negotiated peace in which the secure future of the state of Israel and the unity of Jerusalem can be guaranteed . It would be one of history 's great tragedies if that chance is squandered for the sake of a handful of zealots , whether they be the militants of Gush Emunim or the leaders of the Israeli government .                     