@@735094

txt WASHINGTON . D.C. -- These days , films are apt to take the viewer just about anywhere , from the Arctic to outer space . Yet for most movie fans , there remains a fascination , and mystique about their own seat of government unsurpassed by more intriguing destine . Hons . ' so , when " First Monday in October ' focuses on the workings of the U.S. Supreme Court and takes viewers behind the scenes there , It turns out to be pretty exciting staff . With Walter Matthau as an outspoken , admittedly eccentric liberal and Jill Clayburgh the first woman justice on the court , the stage Is set for some lively head-on encounters . Happily , they - occur with all Washington as the very photogenic baCkground . First . there is the funeral of a previous justice at Arlington National Cemetery , the historic property of the Custla-Lee family that has been used as a cemetery since 1864 . After the funeral , everyone drives back in their limousines while Mention returns to Georgetown in his little red convertible . The key word here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this writing team Is a walker , the other a rider . The Battle of Bull Run was nearly refought after a lengthy " forced march " from the Smithsonian Institution to the Washington ** ument and down along the reflecting pools to the Lincoln Memorial , then across the bridge and 011 to the entrance of Arlington and up its slopes to the Custis-Lee mansion . When you see the route on screen . it will be easy to understand why almost everyone goes by sightseeing tourniobiles . THE EAVE1.01. , NEVER looked better , definitely impressive , and it 's on view every time one of the stars marches up the steep steps to the court . That 's because they are near neighbors , and along with the adjacent Library of Congress , they form an impressive trip . When Matthatt hauls Clityburgh off to the Smithsonian Institution to prove a Point , it 's not very far . Although they rush in and out of the section devoted to machine engines , past old trains and steamboats , the average traveler will only scratch the surface in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headline attraction since the middle of the 19th Century when English scientist James Smithson bequeathed a half-million dollars to the U.S. " to found an establishment for the increase and diffusion of knowledge among men . " Today , its enormous collection boggles the imagination and many changing exhibits lure repeat visitors . Cooling tip late next January is an exhibit commemorating the centennial of Franklin Itooseveit 's birth , which will contain sal items as aft authentic re-creation of the romn from which lie hroadcast his fireside chats and his 1939 Ford convertible with band controls . But it is the Supreme Court that is the star attraction in this production . The impressive pillared beauty , which looks like a transplant from the Acropolis , is the court of Lost resort , the ultimate decisionmaker , the place where in our judicial system the final plea can he made if the court chooses to listen . This highest court in all the land , based on England 's comtnon law , is ksimprisingly fascinating place to visit . Yet , it is not even mentioned in many guidebooks and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' is in session from the first Monday in October through June , when it recesses for three'tnonths . Normally it Is open from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m . Monday through Friday , with tours from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. every half-hour when a court session is not scheduled . Visitors can get specific information by calling 202.252-3000 . Decisions made here have a profound effect on Mt our lives , and the setting certainty inspires a properly somber moor ! . Bows of white Corinthian pillars crowned by a sculptured pediment seem a fitting background for the nine black . robed justices who file in one-by-one as the clerk intones , " God save the U.S. and this honorable court . " The moat exciting day to visit is Monday , which usually is decision day ; you could be present when history is made . Where to stay ? Local hotels offer a tempting collection of weekend packages with what the Hotel Association labels " Monumental weekends for just a little capital . " ' That 's because business types head home over weekends , leaving hotel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a prestige headliner and landmark site of everything from inaugural balls to society weddings . Only four blocks from the White muse and surrounded by major attractions , restanrants , and entertainment , this traditional glamor spot talent a three-day , two-night " Capital Spin " for $95 a person double occupancy or a " Patriot 's Merry-Go-Round " for four days , three nights at S140 a person double ; with assorted fringe benefits . Washington Hilton , with its resort-like grounds , year-round jogging course , and tennis courts has special packages . So does its sister operation , the Capital Hilton , just a walk away from the White House where " Rainbow Weekends " offer family savings . tied out about others , write to the Hotel Association , Dept . C.T. , ino , 17th St. N.W. , Washington , D.C. 20008 . " First Monday In October " is now playing at neighborhood theaters.                     