@@668501

A large chunk of Boston , which stretches from just beyond Mattapan ' s Cummins highway northward to Dorchester ' s Washington street , has long been thickly-populated , but barren in political representation . " As far as the City Council goes , there has never been a representativefrom that area , " said Councilor Terence P. McDermott . " Joseph Timilty ( now a state senator ) , who lived in Mattapan , came the closest when he served on the council . But since he left in 1971 it has been unrepresented on this legislative body . " Today , that ' s about to change . The area - 82.5 percent black , 13 percent white and 4.5 percent Hispanic - is now known in Boston ' s political representative structure as District 4 , and in November voters from the district will definitely send a black representative to the newly structured City Council of nine district and four at- large members . " One of the guarantees when we drew the district lines was that there would be two minority seats and this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the council committee which carved out the new districts . To ensure two black seats on the council , Dorchester was basically divided along east-west lines . There were some suggestions made to divide Dorchester along north-south lines , but McDermott and others agreed that would have " disenfranchised the black population " since each district would have a potential white majority at the polls . McDermott acknowledged that a portion of the 13 percent white population in District 4 " felt disenfranchised " when the two predominantly black districts were drawn . " But it was never our intent to have all black , all white , or all Hispanic districts . We had to divide the city nine ways and try to be as fair as possible about it , " he said . District 4 , which makes up nearly half of Boston ' s black community , is a district of sharp contrasts . - It is described as a " working class " district , yet it has the second highest unemployment rate - 8.6 percent - among the nine districts . ( Some community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least 20 percent , and as high as 50 percent among young people. ) - Although District 4 encompasses a solid black middle class in Mattapan , it has , among the districts , the second highest percentage - 26.5 percent - of people living in poverty , according to the US Census Bureau . - And , while most of Mattapan has well-maintained homes and lawns , only a few blocks away is the intersection of Morton street and Blue Hill avenue , an area known for its serious crime problem and housing deterioration . - As for Blue Hill avenue , a main artery which runs through the middle of the district , its blight and lack of development differs sharply with the bright , bustling Mattapan Square business district . - While its Codman Square section is often called a " mixed neighborhood , " it also has sharp dividing lines . " To the west of Washington street it ' s 85 percent black , and to the east it ' s 85 percent white , " said William Jones , director of the Codman Square Housing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ residents have white-collar jobs and most black residents have blue-collar jobs . He stressed , however , that " it is not a hostile division . It is just as much an economic division as anything else . Blacks who can afford to live on the east side of Washington street do . Those who can ' t , don ' t . " Yet even with the presence of professionals , District 4 has the second lowest percentage - 3.2 percent - of residents earning an annual salary of $40,000 or more . And it is tied with District 7 , the other predominantly black district , for the lowest number of residents who have completed four or more years ofcollege . But District 4 is the youngest of the nine districts , with 36 percent of its population under 18 years of age . The large number of youths , particularly the unemployed , the high rate of poverty , and the lack of development along the Blue Hill avenue corridor all pose special problems for this district . " The district is hurting for jobs and businesses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an attorney and former congressional aide , and Arthur Williams , a Tufts University student , indicate a growth of political activism in the area . With a new district city councilor , many residents believe that at least they will have a chance of having their problems addressed . " There ' s no question in my mind that a district councilman will have to be more responsive , " Jones said . " We don ' t have much further down to go , " he said . " But we have a long way up to go . "                     