@@734586

txt WITII STOCKS showing a lot of zing , growing numbers of ' value-minded investors are searching the market for undervalued securities . You ca n't argue that strategy , but there 's a danger : putting your bucks in stocks that are going to languish in the bargain basement . Big name bank stocks , notably Citibank , First Chicago , Continental Illinois , and Bank of America , could well be such investment dogs . At first glance , leading banks seem enticing despite rising interest rates and prospect 's of increasing corporate and personal bankruptcies in a slowing business climate . Some top brokerage firms are pushing these stocks . These stocks spurt , low price-earnings ratios 15 and lil ; book values are well below market values ; and they 've trailed the market badly for six or sev en months. , In a recessionary environment , 1980 bank earnings should look good , with gains of rougtly 0 to 9 per cent , reflecting a surge in 1979 loans that will spill over into this year . Does n't sound like too bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stuart 's George Salem , one of Wall Street 's best bank analysts . The performance of bank stocks , he said , hinges on short-te  --  m interest rotes . Bank stocks can not perform well unless interest rates decline significantly , he said . In brief , as Salem explained it , short-term rates represent the cost of money to the banks ; the higher the rates , the higher the cost to banks . About 80 per cent of a bank 's gross revenue depends on the mutant between its money costs and its yield on assets ( mostly loansl ? The wider the spread , the higher the profits . This spread is narrowing because the maturity ( due date of bank liabilities Is shorter than the maturity of assets . In addition , Salem observed that many banks have a high proportion of loans that are at fixed rates for long periods , such as mortgages . " Imagine banks paying 13 to 14 per cent on their certificates of deposits and lending out money long-term at 8 to 9 per ? cent , " Salem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ higher before they come down , Further , he 's worried that rates could remain high longer than expected and that they might not come down us far as anticipated . Re reasons that the long-expected recession will be delayed by surprising strength in the economy . Consequently , the Federal Reserve , in an attempt to temper the stubborn high rale of inflation , will be forced to prolong a tight monetary policy , which would be bud news for bank earnings . Salem hastened to point out that his predictions about interest rates were still tentative , but he 's leaning to the view that money will remain tight . If that 's the cos : and if you 're a short- term investor for the remainder of ' 80 ) , he said , " you 've got to sell the bank stocks because they 'll Le deadbeats . " WHILE SALEM IS wary of bank stocks generally , he sees a number of regional banks bucking the trend because of a stronger economic climate in their territories . lie cited five banks that should show an average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the 7 per cent rise he projects for the banking fraternity . The five whose stocks Salem touted to show a 30 per cent gain over the next 12 months are First International Bancshares , Texas Commerce Bancshares , and Southwest Bancshares fall in Texasl , Barnett Banks of Florida , and Western Bancorp ! Salem 's favorite , based on the West Coast .                     