@@670103

SINGAPORE  --  The saga of Pan-Electric Industries Ltd. , whose collapse reverberated throughout financial markets in Singapore and Malaysia , came to an end yesterday when a judge ordered the company liquidated . Pan-Electric ' s fate is finally sealed , but a debt equivalent to $207 million still remains . The hotel , property and marine-salvage company ' s legacy includes a three-day trading halt last December on the Singapore and Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , stock exchanges . The aftermath was just as dramatic : Affiliated companies collapsed , share prices crashed , international confidence in Singapore weakened , a tangled web of stock-contract agreements was exposed and prominent individuals were imprisoned , including the Malaysian businessman-politician Tan Koon Swan . Mr. Tan had substantial interest in Pan-Electric . Singapore High Court Judge Lai Kew Chai yesterday ordered the ill-fated concern to be liquidated totally . Most of the assets of Pan-Electric , which had been under provisional liquidation since February , already have been sold . Given the hubbub stirred up in the last 11 months by Pan-Electric , the high court hearing , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the company said : " It was merely a confirmation for what ' s already happened since Feb. 6 , " the day the company was ordered into provisional liquidation and the sale of its assets began . Further court cases might shed more light on the reasons for the sudden turnabout of the seemingly healthy Pan-Electric . Moreover , the company ' s shareholders and former employees someday might receive a full explanation of the role played by the Singapore and Malaysian governments in their failed efforts to salvage the concern . But for the time being , " I ' m satisfied the company can not pay its debts , " Justice Lai said . " The evidence of the company ' s insolvency is overwhelming . " Pan-Electric shares probably are worth nothing ; it ' s unlikely that the company ' s shareholders will get a single cent after liquidation . Financiers familiar with the company ' s financial figures say unsecured creditors will be lucky to get 40 Singapore cents for every dollar of debt . Three previous liquidation hearings had been postponed . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ltd. , a financially crippled Singapore company that holds a 22. 3% stake in Pan-Electric . The lawyer , Low Siew Joon , maintained that Mr. Tan , the Malaysian businessman-politician , was forming a plan to soften the financial blow to concerns caught in the collapse . Wednesday , Mr. Low offered only meek resistance and a brief discourse in opposition to the liquidation . Mr. Tan  --  the former president of the Malaysian Chinese Association , Malaysia ' s largest ethnic-Chinese political party  --  never succeeded in implementing a plan . He currently is in Singapore ' s Changi Prison , serving a two-year sentence for his role in the failure of Pan-Electric after pleading guilty to a reduced charge of criminal breach of trust , one of 15 counts charged against him in February . But the postponements of the liquidation hearings didn ' t blunt the zeal with which two shareholders  --  Donald Sinclair and Tay May Leng  --  who were battling to save Pan-Electric , pursued their legal efforts . Mr. Sinclair , in particular , stated that Pan-Electric had been railroaded into liquidation , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that the company was easily able to repay its debt , that creditors and receivers were negligent in their handling of the crippled concern . Those allegations have been denied by all parties concerned . Justice Lai maintained that it was clear to him that Pan-Electric was unable to repay its short-term debt . He appointed Price Waterhouse as the liquidators , the final step in the concern ' s progressive caretaker status , which began last November as receivers and managers of Pan-Electric . If legal snarls occur , financiers close to Pan-Electric said it may take years for the company to be liquidated completely and funds to be distributed to its bank creditors . But they said it probably will take only several months or less to sell the company ' s remaining assets . A financier said essentially what ' s left of Pan-Electric ' s assets are 18 ships from the company ' s marine-salvage business . He said those ships failed to garner a bottom-line price at a recent auction and wound up back in the hands of Price Waterhouse . Also remaining is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tham . His trial on allegations of stock forgery is scheduled to begin Monday . In addition , Mr. Tan is set to appeal his two-year prison sentence Thursday . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     