@@668972

Land that the Chicago White Sox bought four years ago for a new stadium in Addison will become a complex of warehouses , offices and retail businesses under a proposal given preliminary approval Monday by the Village Board . With the promise of commercial development , Addison officials see the parcel as a key element of long-range economic plans for the village . " I really believe that the possibility of commercial development will put us more toward our goal of changing the tax structure of the village , " Village President Anthony Russotto said . But the developer , Hamilton Partners , an Itasca real estate development company , must clear several hurdles before development of the entire tract can occur . Some of the high-quality wetlands on the site , which were an obstacle for the Sox , appear headed for purchase by the Du Page County Forest Preserve District . But the developer also hopes to build on some of the wetland . In addition , the development may be required to play a role in a performing arts and civic center being planned by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the northwestern tip of Addison , south of Lake Street straddling Swift Road . The White Sox lost their bid to build a new ballpark after an advisory referendum proposal in November , 1986 , was defeated by nearby residents . Environmentalists were opposed to destruction of wetlands . Two years later , Hamilton Partners is poised to begin a 15-building business park , starting this spring with three low-rise warehouses , partner John Wauterlek said . Addison officials are looking to the project to boost sales-tax revenue , and they negotiated a commitment from Hamilton Partners to reserve 30 acres along Lake Street for commercial businesses , reducing the amount to 10 acres after five years if interest lags . Village Board members have voiced their hope that a hotel or " higher line " retail establishments will locate there . But as it develops the tract , Hamilton Partners will have to meet federal regulations for the wetlands that dot the property . The first phase of building avoids wetlands , Wauterlek said , so construction can begin without a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wetlands are on a 39-acre portion of the property over which Hamilton Partners is negotiating with the Forest Preserve District , he said . The Forest Preserve District has said it is considering acquiring the land to combine with its 100-acre Swift Meadows tract south of the business park land . Other wetlands on the property would have to make way for buildings . Hamilton Partners will propose to the Corps of Engineers moving the soil and vegetation to another site either on or off the property , Wauterlek said . Such a proposal is one of several options open to developers seeking to build in a wetland , said John Rogner , a biologist with the Corps of Engineers . The potential of retail activity in the business park has caught the eye of a committee that is planning a performing arts and civic center for Addison . A subcommittee of the Addison Cultural Arts Development Commission , working for 2 1/2 years , has selected four possible sites-one of which is 14 acres of village property south of the Hamilton Partners land . If the center is built and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might attempt to strike a deal with Hamilton Partners , said Village Trustee Jo Ann O ' Brien , who is a candidate for village president in the April election . The village might allow Hamilton Partners to use the village land to meet requirements for storm-water control and wetlands preservation . In return , the company would be asked to provide construction assistance , such as excavation or donation of dirt , O ' Brien said . Illustration PHOTO ; Caption : PHOTO : Village President Anthony Russotto sees the site as a key element in Addison plans. <>                     