@@734792

txt WARSAW API  --  A Warsaw court approved a charter for Poland 's largest independent union Friday , but the union 's leader rejected it , saying changes imposed by the judge violated the settlement of the summer strike . Lech " Leszek " Walesa , head of the independent union , Solidarity , told reporters the union would appeal Judge Zdzislaw Koscielniak 's ruling to the Polish Supreme Court . The union has seven days to file the appeal . Walesa told reporters Friday night that charter changes added at the last minute " were against our will and without our approval , and we consider this fact revolting . " Koscielniak approved Solidarity 's charter after a tense four-hour hearing , but inserted Sections recognizing the leading role of the Communist Party and revising the union 's right to call strikes . SOLIDARITY SEEKS to become the first major independent trade union in the Soviet bloc , where Communist parties control labor organizations . The Polish union wants wants the free election of union officials , independent union publications , and negotiating authority for workers . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its system were required under Polish law , lidding that the lack of such a statement was grounds for rejecting the charter . He said he chose instead to make " corrections " and register the union because rejection would " fail to meet the expectations of the community . " The judge deleted sections sanctioning half-day " warning strikes " and " solidarity strikes . " He also added a section to the charter saying strikes can only be called after " all available means " are exhausted and can not " violate the binding legal norms . " There is no legal provision for strikes in Boland , but a parliamentary committee is drafting a labor law . WALESA , A 37-year-old electrician , the judge said , had " scratched out " the charter provisions governing the right to strike , a key concession by the government in ending a widespread summer strike that Walesa helped engineer , He said the union leadership would discuss its next step at a meeting Monday , adding : " I do n't want to elaborate on what we are going to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " He said , " The whole responsibility for tension concerning the registration of Solidarity is on the side of the authori-. ties . " The first reaction to the judge 's approval of the charter was glee , and the shouts in the packed courtroom prompt ed him to call a recess . Thousands more outside the courthouse cheeredriand sang the Polish national anthem when they heard the news . BUT WHEN THE judge returned from a five-minute recess , he disclosed the clfinges and immediately adjommed the hearing . Solidarity officials emphasized during the four-hour hearing in Warsaw civil court that their charter recognized the . Polish constitution . They also agreed to a separate protocol endorsing Communist principles , but said the " nonpolitical " charter should not be cluttered with ideological statements . But the government has said repeatedly in recent days that the charter must include an explicit statement ' of allegiance to the party and the socialist system . Officials have implied they nerd such a statement to calm concerns of oilier communist countries anxious about the concessions to Polish workers . Eight weeks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gdansk on the Baltic coast , coorrinaf.ilr ! massive strikes that virtually paralyzed the country . The government . ta , reed Aug. 31 to allow trade unions Mile/lendent of party control and the right to strike , both firsts in the Soviet bloc .                     