@@668081

The Republican Party will open its nominating convention on Monday with visions of victory dancing in its head . Party leaders believe that the performance of President Carter and of the economy give Ronald Reagan an opportunity to put together the long heralded " new Republican majority , " a coalition of traditional conservatives , loyal Republicans and urban blue- collar workers . It may be so . If it is , the most intriguing question is whether such a coalition is a transitory political situation or whether it represents a more fundamental shift in the American electorate . The GOP convention will be asked to cement the new coalition into the very fabric of the party . One of the first witnesses before the convention ' s rules committee on Sunday will be Josiah Lee Auspitz , a Somerville resident , a member of the Republican National Commmittee ' s Advisory Committee on Outreach and a member of the governing board of the liberal Republican Ripon Society . Auspitz will challenge the convention itself to rewrite the rules governing participation on the Republican National Committee ( RNC @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the current system for selecting their members is striking : " Since their restructuring in 1924 , ( the RNC and the National Convention ) have indirectly but systematically discriminated against Southern Baptists , Roman Catholics , Jews , blacks and ( in later years ) Hispanics - the very groups among whose members the appeal of the GOP is the smallest . " Because it is composed of three members per state , Auspitz argues , the largest states are underrepresented in the national committee ; and because delegates are apportioned through a bonus system that tends to reward the small states and states outside the South with relatively homogeneous white , Protestant populations , larger states are further underrepresented in the convention . Auspitz traces the party ' s exclusionary tendencies back to the 1920s to a time when the GOP " was especially susceptible to nativist presure . It was suspicious of the Catholic Church , and particularly of the parochial schools , which many Republicans saw as a serious obstacle to Americanization . . .. " In addition , the newer immigrants from southern and eastern Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) as less assimilable to American values than Protestant immigrants from northern Europe . " Times may have changed , but - and this is Auspitz ' point - the effect of GOP rules for allocating places in its key policymaking bodies have not . New convention delegate allocation procedures give a heavy advantage to the Southwest and West . Auspitz asserts that " attempts to broaden the GOP into a national majority from its current white , Protestant , northern , upper-income base are undermined " by the structure of the RNC and the National Convention . Because the federal government now underwrites national conventions , courts may soon require more balanced representation at conventions . But Auspitz ' point is not a legal but a political one . It ' s a sure bet that Ronald Reagan , in his acceptance speech , will extol the possibilities of bringing diverse Americans together behind his candidacy . He could demonstrate his commitment to the principle of wide participation by backing the effort at the convention to end what Auspitz says is " the suspicion of many outreach ' voters that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the ballot box . "                     