@@668071

A blast of hot air greets visitors at the entry of 1 McNulty court at the Charlestown Housing Project even though the tenants turned off the heat days before . The Boston-area temperature hit a high of 57 degrees at 1 p.m. yesterday , according to the National Weather Service . The temperature inside many of the three-story brick buildings at the Charlestown development soared 30 degrees higher , residents said . In response , overheated tenants turned on air conditioners and fans , opened windows and shed sweaters in favor of T-shirts and sleeveless dresses . Other projects were affect similarly . Jon Steinberg , district director for the Boston Housing Authority , said the overheating problem rises and falls with the weather . " We have half the development saying turn off the heat ' and the other half complaining they are cold . So we try to make a judgment based on the weather . We literally call the weather bureau for forecasts , but we just can ' t keep everybody happy at the same time , " he said . " This thing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 81 Bunker Hill st. in the Charlestown projct , as she pointed at the radiator in the living room of her three-room apartment . A maintenance man replaced the Barnes &; Jones Model 88 valve on her radiator yesterday , allowing her to turn it off for the first time since the spring thaw heightened the heat problem three weeks ago . " The temperature was 90 when I got up this morning , " said Mary Cochran , who lives in a top-floor apartment at 10 Medford st. , while she played cards at the senior citizen center of the project . " It ' s really too much . I had to get out to get away from the heat . " " The noise in the pipes is terrible . It sounds like somebody with drums , " said Mary Devlin , Santos ' next-door neighbor . The BHA has requested $18 million from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development to modernize and repair six housing projects , including the Charlestown development . Steinberg said authority officials plan to spend $565,000 to repair the steam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . When the project was built , architects put the thermostats for the development on the outside of buildings facing the Mystic River on Medford street . When cold air blows from the river , units facing Medford street need more heat than units facing Bunker Hill street . The elderly and children who live in many of the dry , overheated housing units suffer from severe bronchial problems , according to housing authority officials . " People are just so victimized , " said Rev. Ernest Serino of nearby St. Catherine ' s Church . " They have to live like this for weeks . Even when I visit for just a few brief moments , I have a problem breathing . " A young couple interviewed yesterday at their first-floor apartment on McNulty court had purchased a humidifier to ease their four-year-old son ' s bronchial problems . They turned off the radiator in their living room , but heating pipes running to the second and third stories of the building kept their apartment oppressively hot . " The girl next door sleeps with her fan on . She @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman . The fuel bill for Boston Housing Authority facilities reached $8.3 million last winter . Frank Joyce , manager of the Charlestown development , described current gas bills as " astronomical . " " When you think of the exorbitant fuel bills , it ' s just maddening , " Fr . Serino said . Many mornings , the authority staff arrives at the office at 55 Bunker Hill st. and opens all the windows for relief as the first order of business . " You can stand four feet away from some buildings in the middle of winter and feel the heat , " Joyce said . Contracts will be let within the next three months for system- wide heating plant repairs , Steinberg said . " We won ' t be able to fully treat the problem , but we will be able to solve some problems . "                     