@@734916

txt The Illinois Insurance Department filed a federal court civil suit seeking as much as $500 million in damages from a group of companies and executives accused of concealing the insolvency of defunct Reserve Insurance Co . The suit names as defendants 15 former and present officers and directors of Reserve and of its parent , American Reserve Corp . It claims that the insurance company was insolvent as of Dec. 31. 1974. or about 4,2 years before a finding of insolvency was made in a state court . Among the defendants are two Bermudabased subsidiaries of American Reserve . Guaranty Reinsurance Co. and Reserve Insurance Managers Ltd .. and Reserve 's outside auditors  --  Arthur Andersen &; Co .. Coopers &; Lybrand and Alexander Grant &; Co . Also named as defendants were a French reinsurance concern , Societe Commerciale de Reassurance and its U S. subsidiary , SCOR Reinsurance Co of Dallas . The slate seeks recovery of at least S100 million it said Reserve Insurance lost because it continued operations after it had become insolvent . In addition , the suit seeks punitive damages of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside auditors . The $100 million in compensatory damages can be trebled if the state wins its contention that certain actions violated the Federal Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act . Reserve was ruled insolvent in May 1979 Market Insurance Co ? another American Reserve company . was found to be insoll ent last December , and a third unit . American Reserve Insurance Co. , was ordered liquidated in June 1979 American Reserve itself has been under the prole ( uun of Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy lam for nearly a year . Under Chapter 11. companies seek protection of the federal courts from creditor lawsuits while looking for ways to pay debts . Concealing Financial Status The suit claims that to conceal the company s financial condition . Reserve 's management took several steps Initially , the state said . Reserve entered into an agreement with the French firm that resulted in Reserve giving up " its most profitable and least risky business ' Then , the suit said , a transaction between the French company and Guaranty Reinsurance permitted the return of money to American Reserve . which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from its insurance subsidiaries . The suit also charged that the scheme enhanced Reserve 's appearance of solvency allowing Reserve to report a smaller premium volume , and thus lower its premiumto  --  surplus ratio Subject to Liquidation The suit said Reserve 's management inflated its surplus account by intentionally understating its reserves for claims and claim-administration expenses . In addition , the suit said , a policy was adopted by the company to delay payment of claims and administrative expenses . A November 1975 reorganization by American Reserve of its insurance subsidiaries , the suit said , muted each company to include the surplus of its subsidiary within its own surplus , allegedly to inflate the surplus account , permitting the appearance of solvency . Finally , the state said that Reserve 's au- ditors conspired with officers and directors to conceal the insolvency by issuing unqualified opinion letters for Amencan Reserve and Reserve Insurance between 1974 and 1978 . The state said that if the statements accurately portrayed Reserve 's condition , the company would have been subject to liquidation early in 1975 . Any money recovered would become @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reserve 's policyholders. creditors and shareholders . Wallace J. Stenhouse Jr .. chairman of American Reserve and a defendant , declined detailed comment on the suit . However , he denied that Reserve was insolvent at the end of 1974 . Other defendants include Isadore Brown , director of American Reserve and Reserve ; Roger 0 . Brown , an American Reserve director : Jules Dashow , a member of both boards : Walter Y. Elisha , a member of both boards : Norman M. Gold , a member of both boards : Burton I. Koffman. a director of both companies ; Hugo Uyterhoeven , a director of both companies : Anthony M. Tortoriello. a dual director : Donald J. Clarkin. director and vice president of American Reserve and executiNe vice president of Reserve : Jerrold N. Fine , an American Reserve director : John W. Muldoon . president . chief operating officer and director of American Reserve and president and director of reserve : Stanton I. Subeck , a director and vice president , treasurer and chief financial officer of American Reserve : Michael L. Meyer . American Reserve 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ senior vice president and general counsel . A spokesman for Arthur Andersen said the firm had n't seen the complaint and had n't any comment . In Dallas . a spokesman for SCOR Reinsurance said he had n't seen the suit and could n't comment , but added that its French parent " had a normal reinsurance transaction " in the matter .                     