@@669956

WASHINGTON  --  Mexico used to avoid lobbying the U.S. Congress for fear that the troublesome " Yanquis " would return the favor and meddle in Mexican affairs . " Our curse , " an old Mexican saying goes , " is being too far from God and too close to the United States . " That attitude is changing a bit . Mexico is increasingly the target of protectionist assaults from American firms as its exports to the U.S. swell to more than $18 billion a year . In self-defense , some Mexican firms are retaining Washington lobbyists . In an even sharper break with tradition , Mexican diplomats aren ' t shy any more about calling on congressmen . Among Mexico ' s foes are import-damaged American enterprises like the independent oil refiners . They want to maintain high tariffs against gasoline shipped here by the state oil monopoly Petroleos Mexicanos , or Pemex . This is a " vehement manifestation of protectionism , " complains Mario Ramon Betata , the Pemex director general . Unions and manufacturers also are trying to get back at Mexico for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has blocked Washington ' s efforts to reach a bilateral trade agreement with Mexico out of anger over proposed Mexican curbs on drug manufacturing and sales . The Reagan administration is Mexico ' s only reliable ally in Congress . Last fall , William Brock , the U.S. trade representative , lobbied on the Senate floor to defeat a bill that would have severely penalized Mexican exporters of cement and carbon black for using subsidized feedstock or energy from Pemex . But even the administration sometimes bends to constituent pressure . After Anheuser-Busch Cos. complained that cheap Mexican beer was flooding the Southwest , Mr. Brock ' s office withdrew duty-free privileges from the imported brew . Mario Rodriguez , the Mexican Embassy ' s trade attache , says he was sent here to " change our attitudes and communicate better " with Washington ' s power circles . The University of Texas-trained diplomat has doubled the size of Mexico ' s Washington trade office , computerized his files and keeps in touch with key congressional aides . The traditional Mexican foreign service used to deal only with the State Department @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important members of the House Ways and Means Committee . The stepped-up diplomacy , however , is being done quietly . " It ' s our way of solving problems without creating others for ourselves , " says Mr. Rodriguez . The Mexican government always has to be wary of domestic criticism about pandering too much to the " norte americanos . " Mexico now allows its companies to hire lobbyists at their own expense . Joseph Blatchford , a well-connected Washington lawyer who was an undersecretary of commerce in the Ford administration , is doing battle in Congress for two carbon-black producers , Hules Mexicanos S.A. and Industrias Negromex S.A. Some are urging the Mexican government to take one step further and set up a permanent " consciousness-raising " lobby here , as the Japanese , the South Korean and other governments have done . " We ' re talking about our third-largest trading partner , and people still take Mexico for granted , " argues Jay Van Heuven , executive vice president of the Washington-based U.S.-Mexico Chamber of Commerce . So far , Mexico ' s efforts have had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was beaten by only a single vote , but the threat against Pemex is still alive . U.S. cement manufacturers , who have lost much of their Florida and Texas markets to Mexican imports , want to reintroduce it in some other form . " The industry is more determined than ever to deal with unfair trade and seek appropriate remedies , " asserts David Hunn , a Kaiser Cement Corp. vice president . Mexico created other powerful enemies when it banned U.S. trucking services on the strength of an obscure 1955 presidential decree . The Teamsters Union and the American Trucking Associations retaliated by getting Congress to pass the 1984 Motor Carrier Safety Act , which requires Mexican truckers to meet strict federal standards to operate on U.S. highways . Few Mexican truckers can meet those standards , which start on July 1 . Southern California congressmen made that point when they brought federal officials and television crews to the border city of San Isidro , Calif. , where U.S.-bound Mexican trucks are spot-checked . " Some of those rigs were in awful shape , " a U.S. official recalls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ license and couldn ' t speak any English . " Mexico lost that battle by default because none of its representatives appeared at Senate hearings on the safety bill . " If you don ' t show up , the guy who does wins , " acknowledges Mr. Blatchford . " That ' s the way the system works . " Although Pemex ' s Mr. Betata found Rep. E. ( Kika ) de la Garza ( D. , Texas ) , the chairman of the House Agricultural Committee , sympathetic to Mexico , the southern neighbor has yet to make a concerted effort to lobby the large Mexican-American community and its congressional representatives . " The idea of exploiting ethnic allegiances is just foreign to them , " a State Department aide explains . So far , the 12-man Hispanic caucus and the eight-man border-state caucus are ambivalent on U.S.-Mexico trade issues . Rep. Albert Bustamante ( D. , Texas ) says border towns in his district , such as Eagle Pass and Laredo , need Mexican purchasing power to survive . But he also recognizes that other constituents , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an opposite view of these issues . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     