@@734862

txt BUFFALO API  --  Cynthia Dwyer , held prisoner in Iran since May when she was arrested and accused of being an American spy , was apbarentlY not included in the negotiations to free the 52 , Americans hostages . her husband says . " She 's not a hostage and so she 's not a part of the negotiations , " John F. ' Dwyer said in an interview Sunday with a Buffalo radio station . He said he was told by the U.S. State Department that they were not currently negotiating for his wife 's freedom . Dwyer said he was not optimistic about a quick release for his wife , though he thought her name could come up in later stages of talks between American and Iranian negotiators . Another American being held by the Iranians is Mohi Sobhani , an Iranian who is a naturalized American citizen . He was seized last September for un , known reasons . He reportedly had been operating a business in Iran . An Afghanistan-born American , Zia Nassry , was arrested last March on unspecified charges . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reportedly is from the New York area . STATE DEPARTMENT spokesman Jack Touhey said Friday that Mrs. Dwybit and Sobhani are " separate cases " from the hostage issue .. Touhey said the United States has continued ' to press the Iranians , through Swiss diplomats in Tehran , for an explanation of the other Americans ' imprisonment and to seek their release . Touhey said neither Mrs. Dwyer nor Sobhani has yet been officially charged with any crime . " She 's not a CIA agent . She 's not a spy , " Dwyer reiterated Friday . He said she was sympathetic with the Iranian revolution and flew to Tehran last April 10 to research stories about the changes in that country . Mrs. Dwyer , 49 , left home in April and journeyed to Iran as a free-lance writer and planned to offer stories to Buffalo newspapers or other publications on her return , Dwyer said . ON MAY I , according , to the Iranian Foreign Ministry , she was arrested by revolutionary guards at her hotel and accused of being a spy for the Central ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Prison in Tehran . The Dwyers have two sons and a daughter , aged 9 to 44 . Cynthia Dwyer The Iranian-born Sobhani , whose last U.S. address was in California , was arrested as he tried to leave Tehran with his family . One unconfirmed report said he , too , was accused of being a spy .                     