@@668162

Twenty-two persons , part of a rally protesting registration for the draft , were arrested yesterday in front of the Harvard Square post office and charged with being disorderly persons . Twenty-one of them were anti-draft registration protesters and the 22d person was protesting the protest . He was Joseph Mlot-Mroz , who says he is a Polish freedom fighter and who makes frequent appearances at rallies carrying signs that express his displeasure with Israel . The 22 persons were arrested when they refused to move along when ordered by Cambridge Police . Two volunteered for arrest , jumping into the van saying they wished to join their fellow protesters . Officers obliged , closing the van doors behind them . Some 80 people turned out for the protest . With snow falling steadily , they marched in an oval behind the yellow sawhorses set up by the police and chanted antiwar and antidraft slogans . About 20 Cambridge police officers and a dozen postal inspectors , stamping their feet to ward off the the cold that was creeping into their boots from the slushy snow , watched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their protest . The protesters had brought with them Christmas trees , intending to use them to block the post office entrance , they said , as they had done last week in a protest in front of the Central Square post office . But when a city of Cambridge sanitation truck drove by , police flagged it down and loaded the trees into it . The protesters accused them loudly of being scrooges and of harboring anti-Christmas sentiments . Postal inspectors and police stood on the post office steps , blocking protesters but leaving a path for postal patrons . The protesters had set up a booth on the sidewalk adorned with a sign proclaiming - inaccurately - that the draft registration was closed and offering 15-cent stamps for sale . Postal officials said that some young men had come in to register , but declined to say how many . Some of the protesters were veterans of similar protests of the past week and last July , and some were veterans of demonstrations against the Seabrook , N.H. , nuclear power plants . Those arrested were taken to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a disorderly person , and released in personal recognizance after paying a $5 fee to the bail bondsman . The protest at the post office ended at noon , at which time the office normally closes , and the protesters marched to the police station where they paraded outside , chanting , " Police won ' t stop the antidraft movement , " and " No to the draft . " They cheered when the arrested ones were released . Those released weresent off by the desk sergeant with a cheerful , " Have a good weekend . See you next Saturday . " Among those released was Jo Swanson , a producer with the New Theater Assn. , a Central Square group , who had painted her face in blue , yellow , red , green and pink star patterns . It was , she said , to mock military camouflage . She said that , even though as a woman she was not eligible , and too old in any case , she felt that opposing war was women ' s business , " since we are the ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graduate , said that when she was a student and learned that her trust fund had been invested in Polaroid , Exxon , Mobil , ITT , and other large multinational corporations , she had ordered her broker to withdraw the funds and re-invest them " in small enterprises . " The protesters had carried signs and shouted slogans suggesting that wars benefited large multinational firms . A sample slogan was , " Hell no , we won ' t go , we won ' t fight for Texaco . "                     