@@668175

William Styron , author of " Sophie ' s Choice , " is collaborating with John Phillips , author of the novel " The Second Happiest Day , " on a new drama , tentatively titled " Dead : A Love Story . " Book Digest reports the play has been pencilled in for workshop production by Robert Brustein at the American Repertory Company ' s Loeb Drama Center in Cambridge . The subject of the play is Ruth Snyder , the notorious half of the 1927 Snyder-Gray murder case . Perhaps the reason for her notoriety ( as opposed to the relative dimness of her fellow conspirator , roving corset salesman Judd Gray ) is her prominence as the final woman to die in New York ' s electric chair . That , and a scandal sheet photo , snapped as the juice went on , a picture that has come to symbolize the issues of sensationalism , press liberty , and the claims of human decency and dignity . Styron still has a half-finished novel in his desk drawer . The material deals with the Marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the author put it aside for the " Sophie " project . Phillips is the son of novelist J. P. Marquand . Arlington ' s " new renaissance " magazine has two inclusions in " Editor ' s Choice : Literature and Graphics from the U.S. Small Press , 1965-1977 , " edited by Morty Sklar and Jim Mulac ( The Spirit That Moves Us Press , Iowa City ) . Applying Gresham ' s law to literature , editor Louise T. Reynolds argues that mediocrity is sapping our national letters , that writers are no longer supposed to be exceptional , and that bad books are driving good books out of circulation . The other inclusion is a short story by Ruskin Bond , born of English parents in India , who has lived for the past several years at Mussoorie , a hill station in the Himalayas - a selection , incidentally , that typifies the magazine ' s international consciousness . Editor Mulac says the project , begun three years ago in an effort to be open-minded to the US small press movement , chose the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the college boom and the search for alternative publishing methods during the ' 60s . " We used newsletters over and over again , " Mulac says . " We used direct mailing lists of presses old and new . In the spring of 1978 the flow began - hundreds and hundreds of brown envelopes . Over 400 presses in all , more than a dozen big boxes , a mountain of material . I sat in my used book store and read all afternoon , then read , then read again all evening and all through the wekend . There was no other way to get through it all - more than 50,000 pages to be read by each of us , much of it to be re-read , sometimes as much as a dozen times over nearly two years . " Ultimately they winnowed the field to dozens of excellent writers , unknown to the public that doesn ' t read Toothpaste Press , Unmuzzled Ox and Salted Feathers . At the same time the volume includes William Stafford , Amiri Baraka , Vicente Aleixandre , Robert Creeley , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interesting point concerning small press funding from the National Endowment for the Arts - in its 1980 guidlines for small presses , the NEA requires presses to have published five books in the three- year period preceding the application date . This Sklar regards as a " publish or perish " ethic , and contends that quality and contribution to our culture ought to take precedence over quantity . After reading 50,00 pages himself , he ' s got a case .                     