@@734568

txt CHARGES THAT part-time Cook County Hospital physicians arranged for county-paid medical tests for their private patients and later billed them for those tests are being investigated by State 's Atty . Bernard Carey 's special prosecutions unit , it was learned Saturday . Attorneys for Carey believe that the scheme may have cost the almost-bankrupt County . Hospital in the thousands of dollars . Dr. William Towne , president of the hospital 's medical staff , said that he would cooperate in any investigation . Although he said that he could not positively rule out any such conduct on the part of the physicians , he added , " I seriously doubt that such is the case . I do n't believe that our doctors would be so ignorant as to do such a thing . " THE STATE 'S attorney 's office believes that such actions by a doctor would be a " theft of service ? ' County Hospital employs about 275 part- and full-time physicians within its eight major departments . The part-time doctors generally maintain outside private practices . Charges under scrutiny are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tests , including hematology . The patients were not registered and given ? " unit " number as is required by hospital policy . The doctors then billed the patients for the test costs , and allegedly kept the money . County Hospital , which is tax-supported , provides treatment for all patients without regard to their ability to pay . It treats hundreds of thousands of patients every year . ITS DEPARTMENT OF laboratoriesa performs s million tests annually . The Illinois auditor general , in a recent evaluation of the County Hospital operation , charged that the institution administers the tests recklessly , explaining that County 's volume of laboratory work is the second largest in the United States and the third largest in North America . There are " no monitoring devices or control methods " at the hospital . the report said . Illegal activity by doctors first was- alleged late last spring when the hospital was xontrolled by the Health and Hospitals Governing Commission , now dissolved . Mast December , by act of the Illinois legislature , the hospital 's administration was transferred to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their suspicions to Dr. James G. Naughton , then executive director , who promptly asked an aide . Roy Steinke , to investigate . STEINEE , WHO resigned after abolishment of the commission last December , found the names of about 15 patients.tvho allegedly had been given tests at the hospital by certain doctors who then allegedly sent them hills . Steinke reported to Naughton in late June of last year that be had confirmed the allegations . In a memo , Steinke recommended that " appropriate action be'initiated to ensure that facilities of the hospital be used only for the patients of the hospital - . . and that appropriate disciplinary actions be taken with respect to physicians named in the allegations and others for misuse of commission facilities , supplies and services . " Hapghton attached a note to the &stake; memo that " I endorse " the findings . Haugbton then forwarded the file to supervising physicians " for their attention . " Apparently , that was as far as it got . said one county official . AFTER THE COUNTY Board Inberhed soured es County . Oak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the allegations were sent to office of State 's Atty . Bernard Carey apparently by employes who believed that the allegations had been " swept under the rug . " Dr. Quentin Young , chief of medicine at County , said that he believed that the matter had been carefully examined and found to be without substance . One County official said that he believed that when all activities of the hospital become knows , it will " cause an explosion six ways from Sunday , "                     