@@735281

txt Producer Val Lewton 's 1942 movie " The Cat People " may be a cult classic . But if you do n't belong to that particular cult , it 's pretty difficult to understand why . A backlot cheapie with a chintzy studio look , a cast of third-rate actors and a script to match , it has little to recommend it other than its two famous scare sequences : the night-time stroll through New York 's Central Park and the shadowy swimming pool scene . Indeed , if " The Cat People " is clasOn Film " Cat People " " A Little Sex " sic anything , it 's classic Hollywood schlock . Still , it 's not all that difficult to understand why someone would want to remake it . The film tells of a woman of vaguely Transylvanian origins who is transformed into a vicious panther when her passions are aroused . Even if shabbily executed , it still offers deliciously suggestive Jekylland-Hyde-type terror , intimating that when sex rears its ugly head , humanity risks unleashing the beast within . It 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endless opportunities to exercise their technological virtuosity and ? perhaps more to the commercial point ? their new-found freedom in displaying varieties of sex and violence . And you can be sure that in bringing " Cat People " to the screen , filmmaker Paul Schrader ( scenarist of " Taxi Driver " and director of " Hardcore " and " American Gigolo " ) has n't let a single opportunity go by . In fact , he 's even revised the plot to create a few new ones . This time we have not only a woman whom desire turns into a man-eating cat , but a man who is similarly transformed ? one who happens to be the woman 's brother and who knows , as sister at first does n't , that the only way either of them can safely mate is with one another . No. we do n't quite get to witness this , but we do get to see just about everything else . Nudity ? Absolutely . Everybody in this movie gets a chance to take his or her clothes off , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the movie in the raw . Sex ? And nice and kinky ? Just consider the sequence in which our naked heroine is tied to a bed by her lover ( zoo curator John Heard ) . Blood and gore ? One need only menuon the scene in which we witness an enraged black panther ( actually . the incarnation of brother Malcolm ) pull a human arm right out of its socket with the last tendon snapping in close-up and vivid color . The problem is that instead of making " Cat People " erotic or scary , all this explicitness only makes it thoroughly exploitative and disgusting . Mr. Schrader fails to realize that too much of anything  --  even nudity  --  can be dulling : and he fails to understand what passion is all about or at least how to elicit the least shred of it from his players . Rather than seeming conflicted and aroused or even frightened by sex , these actors seem completely repelled by it . ( Of course , given the context , who can blame them ? ) Mr. Schrader also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unknown , that what we do n't see is invariably more frightening than what we do . But Mr. Schrader has n't only fallen prey to the error of making his film 's sex and violence overly explicit . He has also made the mistake of over-extending , literalizing and ultimately hopelessly confusing " Cat People 's " central metaphor . Apparently not satisfied to demonstrate that sex can turn man into beast , he goes a good deal further , implying that this bestial man will end up indulging in the mating patterns of beasts and even  --  God help us ? mating with them . Thus his distracting incest theme . Thus , too , an ill-advised explanatory sequence that takes us to a distant desert land . where we watch primitive natives offering up virgins to panthers for their pleasure and where brother leads sister back to their feline roots so she can look soulfully up at a huge panther and utter a deeply felt . " Mother ? " Reminiscent of Gene Wilder pining after his sheep in Woody Allen 's spoof , " Everything You Wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this is ludicrous . And what makes it even more so is that Mr. Schrader does n't seem to have any inkling of the absurdity he has wrought . Indeed . save for one single moment of comic relief ( an ape watching TV in the zoo ) , the whole is mounted with a Jarring solemnity of tone . At least the less pretentious original " Cat People " had a sense of humor , a touch of irony about it . Consider , for instance , the sequence in which , immediately after being told by her psychiatrist that her fears of transformation all lie in her mind , the cat lady promptly claws the good doctor to death . Mr. Schrader. significantly enough , has chosen to omit the psychiatrist from his version of " Cat People . " Too bad . I do n't think I 've ever seen a movie that needed a psychiatrist more . 41- * As if Paul Schrader had n't given us enough , the movies are also offering us " A Little Sex " ? a would-be comedy of mindboggling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( the make-out artist in " Animal House " ) as a Don Juanish newlywed who ca n't control his urge to sleep around , even though he loves his wife . Suffice it to say that this is the kind of movie where no one talks about anything else but sex in ways that are both dumb and embarrassing and where everyone and everything is coy and cute as all get out . Our hero who , when not in bed , directs TV commercials , even makes a video-tape for his wife to use in her kindergarten class in which he plays " Mr. Sandman , " sits on a crescent moon and reads stories in order to encourage the children to nap . I do n't know about his effect on the kids in the class , but he certainly came very close to lulling this viewer to sleep .                     