@@735837

txt The Justice Department charged that American Airlines and United Airlines have used their computer reservations systems to stifle competition by discriminating against other airlines and by " noncompetitive pricing " for access to the systems . The department said that an antitrust investigation of their reservations systems showed that their exercise of " market power inhibits the ability " of other airlines to compete for a greater share of the market on routes dominated by the airline whose reservation system is used . The two major systems control 70% of the U.S. computer reservations system market and are widely used by travel agents and other airlines , as well as American and United , to reserve seats for customers . In a filing in a Civil Aeronautics Board case , the Justice Department charged that the American and United systems suppressed listing of competitors ' flights or fares . The agency also cited examples of airlines pledging to limit their competition with United in certain markets , apparently in return for gaining access to United 's " Apollo " reservations system . The department recommended that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It urged rules aimed at guaranteeing more competition from other systems offered by non-airlines ; equal computer loading , modification and updating of schedule , fare or seat-availability information for other airlines programmed into the computer , and nondiscriminatory computer display of flight and fare data for each carrier . The department refrained , however , from proposing any CAB regulation of computer-systems pricing , saying this could produce " market distortions . " Instead , the agency said , the board should regulate the pricing only if other rules do n't sufficiently make the pricing more competitive . The Justice Department has conducted the civil antitrust probe since early 1982 , but recently suspended it while preparing its filing . The CAB , after pressure from Congress , is considering whether to issue regulations to correct the alleged abuses of reservations systems . If the CAB action is considered adequate . the department probably would close its investigation . The Justice Department 's Antitrust Division said that " competitive abuses " found by the investigation " are particularly troublesome because they threaten to limit consumer benefits of airline deregulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bias against other carriers ' flights into their computer systems , according to the department . Thus , United 's flights appear on a computer screen before those of competing airlines , or competing flights are excluded altogether , the agency said . A " host airline can punish a rival carrier " for competitive challenges by manipulating information in the computer display on the challenger 's flights , the department said . When New York Air entered the New YorkDetroit market in competition with American . American altered its system 's display so New York Air flights would be buried in the display sequence , the agency said . New York Air 's business on the route plunged , and it soon pulled out , the agency said . It said there is evidence that American intended to punish New York Air for its entry , and to intimidate it so it would n't enter the New York-Chicago market . From November 1981 to February 1982 , American removed Continental Airlines " supersaver " fares on 65 routes from its " Sabre " display , the agency added . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The department said its investigation disclosed several instances in which carriers ' decisions about entering markets were made partly on whether a " dominant " computer-systems airline flew the routes . Jet America , a new carrier , wrote United in August 1981 that it would n't undercut majorairline fares and would operate " in a manner acceptable to United , " the agency said . But United responded that it was losing traffic to Jet America on the Los Angeles-Chicago route , and said it needed information on Jet Amenca 's market-entry plans before it could admit the carrier to the Apollo system . Pan American World Airways and Air Florida similarly promised United they would n't compete too strongly , while seeking access to the Apollo system , the department said .                     