@@668522

VIRGINS AND VIRAGOS : A History of Women in Scotland from 1080 to 1980 , by Rosalind K. Marshall . Academy Chicago . 365 pp. $15.95 cloth ( $8.95 paperback ) . In the 11th century , when this social history begins , and indeed until the success of the Industrial Revolution , women all over the world lived subservient lives , and most still do . Their husbands were chosen for them , and they did what their mothers had taught them : They kept his house and bore his children , often on pain of death . " The name of his wife remains unknown , " say medieval chronicles of Scottish families . Unless they were queens or princesses , women did not count , and these persons were used even more ruthlessly than those in lesser , though just as carefully structured , orders . Childhood was over by age 12 . Girls were used to create or solidify family status . Love mattered , as it always has , and adultery flourished , but the women who engaged in it were safer ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Yet most of these arranged marriages worked and produced , if not passion , at least domestic felicity . There was no leisure in the Middle Ages . Wives and female children baked bread , churned butter , made cheese and ale , salted beef , cured pork , milked cows , kept bees , grew herbs and vegetables , fed chickens , spun thread , made soap and candles , even worked in the fields . And they were usually pregnant . In the aristocracy , women enjoyed music , needlework , chess and dice , even falconry and hunting . It was pleasant when husbands went off to war or to court because they usually left their wives in charge . Some of these women could even read , though they could not write until after 1450 , and even then . . . The convent nuns could teach needlework , but they were not literate . By the 17th century , women had , in some cases , achieved the independence that gave them the power to choose their husbands , or at least to have their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though . They often died young , even as they did in America . No one seemed to be concerned that having too many babies too quickly could sap a woman ' s strength , not even the women . It was expected of them . There is little material , no letters , no histories , on the lives of Scottish women in those years . Rosalind Marshall , who has written other books on the period , is more able to intuit than we . Only people like Mary , Queen of Scots , had documented lives , and she , having been touched by the Renaissance , was accomplished and educated . Life began to change for Scotland when King James VI became James I of England and Scottish thanes discovered they were unsophisticated clods . They took up education , even of their daughters , as a way away from incivility . Education spread outward and downward , and by the end of the 17th century women were postmistresses and account-keepers . Today ' s feminists would find this outrageously demeaning , but as someone said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During the reign of Queen Anne , public balls and assemblies became boisterously commonplace and brought a new social freedom which no one today would describe as freedom - but it was , for those who weren ' t heiresses in their own right . It would be more than a century before that fact could be remedied . Men , thank God , became skilled obstetricians , and there was Jane Austen . Thank God . This is neither a feminist screed nor an apology for women ' s failures . I don ' t know that there is a vast public readership waiting for " Virgins and Viragos , " but here it is , and it is worth reading .                     