@@668430

The Northeastern baseball team will have the benefit of spring training in Florida for the first time ever . The Huskies , under coach Charlie O ' Malley , will be in Sanford , Fla. , from March 25 to April 4 and among their opponents will be St. Lawrence , Bowling Green and Iona . In previous years , the NU southern swing meant a trip to Long Island , N.Y.- Northeastern has a freshman long distance runner who is expected to make a quick mark on the women ' s varsity track team . She ' s Mary Kenney from North Quincy High , who earned All-America honors last year . Kenney will run in the mile , 2-mile and 1000-yard events . . . Boston College ' s basketball team leads the nation in scoring with 92.4 points per game . . . The BC varsity club will hold its annual dinner to honor the football team Sunday night at Lantana ' s in Randolph . . . Boston University soccer coach Hank Steinbrecher will be named chairman of the National Rating Committee this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ll head an 80-man committee whose job will be to rate the nation ' s college teams each week . . . For the first time BU has two wrestlers nationally ranked . They are 190- pound junior Tod Siles from Spring Valley , N.Y. , and 134-pound junior Mike Enzien from Ballston Spa , N.Y . Siles is sidelined with a shoulder separation. - Harvard tennis player Rob Loud from Darien , Conn. , made the third round in singles and the semifinals in doubles in the National Amateur tournament at Falls Church , Va . . . . Harvard men ' s swimming team , which has won 26 straight dual meets for coach Joe Bernal , has a world-ranked freshman in Jim Ford from Turramurra , Australia , who is ranked seventh in the 1500-meter free style with his time of 15:27 . The Crimson has qualified 18 swimmers for the Eastern championships . The women ' s team has two standouts in Allison Greis from Camillus , N.Y. , who has qualified for the Easterns in eight events and Debbie Zimic from Arlington , Va. , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ center Chris Logan from Brooklyn scored 30 points in his first eight games and then clicked for 22 against Iona in the Shawmut-Worcester Classic in which he was named tourney MVP . The next time out he scored 27 points against UMass. - Babson ' s ski team will open its season Jan. 21 at Mt . Ascutney . The Beavers , seeking their fourth straight Thomson Division title , are paced by seniors Rudy Von Berg from Belgium and Brian Moran from Webster , N.Y . . . . The Babson basketball team has been getting strong play from Bill Allard ( 17.1 ppg ) and Tom Groth ( 15.5 ) . . . Bentley basketball guard Jerry Cizynski from Westport , Conn. , has an 11.9 scoring average and has hit in double figures his last seven times out . All-America Allison Fay , a 5-11 forward from Wellesley on the women ' s team , is averaging 17.2 points and 12.2 rebounds . She has 1002 career points and is aiming for the school record , 1088 , set by Paula Ayres . . . New coaches at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Danciewicz , assistant women ' s basketball ; Pamela Stone , men ' s and women ' s diving coach , and Ben Sands , hockey. - Pennsylvania football coach Jerry Brandt will continue to recruit heavily in Eastern Mass . Brandt points out that key players in the Quakers ' success this past fall included backs Bob Wolf , Marblehead ; Bob Shnider , Canton ; Steve Rubin , Winthrop , and Stan Koss , North Dighton , and interior linemen Frank Salvatore , Revere ; Mark Hembrough , Medford ; John Sullivan , Lowell ; David Smith , Newton Center ; Jim Miller , Holliston , and Jim Keough , Winthrop . . . John Bracker , a former New England scholastic foil champion for Concord- Carlisle High School , is captain of the Haverford College fencing team . 