@@669801

DALLAS  --  American Airlines is promoting a different approach to aircraft financing that could spare the airline and possibly other major carriers some of the massive costs of modernizing their aging fleets . American ' s basic idea , which is being pushed by its president , Robert L. Crandall , is to join with several other major carriers to form an aircraft consortium . The consortium would turn over the financial burden of buying new aircraft to a new company of third-party investors , from whom the participating airlines would lease the planes . To help keep lease costs down , American ' s plan would call for airlines in the consortium to standardize their aircraft specifications , order planes in bulk , and possibly pool certain maintenance and parts facilities , according to several individuals familiar with American ' s proposal . For American , in particular , the proposal appears to offer a means of using other airlines to help lessen the huge financial outlays it is expected to make over the next decade . Besides needing to replace one of the oldest fleets among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use in a major expansion of the company , which is being planned . An American spokesman says his company is in the market for an immediate purchase of aircraft : presumably using conventional financing arrangements . While American hasn ' t made any formal proposal and apparently has various versions of its plan in mind , the concept already has drawn mixed reviews from members of the financial community and other airline executives . " This is a good , exciting and big idea , " says one New York investment house executive who is studying Mr. Crandall ' s concept . But James J. Hartigan , president of United Airlines , the nation ' s largest carrier , says he " isn ' t interested in the concept . " C.E. Meyer , president of Trans World Airlines , says that " in theory it ' s a great idea , " but he doesn ' t think it is doable . The consortium concept , which has been tossed around in various forms before , has grabbed the industry ' s attention again in recent weeks because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who has talked with several East Coast financial institutions about his concept , is regarded in the industry as an innovator for putting in place such concepts as American ' s pioneering moves into computer reservations sytems and its introduction of a frequent-fliers program . " I always admire what Bob Crandall does , " says Andre Dimitriadis , Western Airlines ' senior vice president , finance . Mr. Dimitriadis believes American ' s idea " could catch on " and if it is eventually accepted in the industry , he says , " You might see us involved someday . " ( Western yesterday agreed to order 18 Boeing 737 jetliners , but will finance the orders independently . ) Mr. Crandall wasn ' t available for comment yesterday . A company spokesman said that American views Mr. Crandall ' s efforts " as planting a seed " that probably won ' t bear fruit for a while , but that American believes " the idea will probably come to pass sometime down the road . " Mr. Crandall ' s idea also carries potential advantages for airline manufacturers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in their history if the plan comes to pass . McDonnell Douglas Corp. in St. Louis and Boeing Co. in Seattle have been restrained in their public comments about the concept , although sources at the companies say their corporate planners have discussed similar ideas in recent months . Officials of several large airlines and financial institutions say that McDonnell Douglas in particular has provided strong behind-the-scenes backing for any such proposal . For McDonnell Douglas , which never has made money in commercial-aircraft manufacturing , increased sales could mean the difference between staying in or getting out of the jetliner business . McDonnell Douglas currently has a backlog of about a year and a half , but company officials are concerned about orders beyond that . The company , which recently canceled plans to develop two new jetliners , derived about 20% of sales from commercial-aircraft production in 1982 ; the company ' s other major businesses , military manufacturing and computer services , have been profitable . " Right now , we ' d welcome any large order that would put ( our aircraft-production business ) on a firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ executive says . " We ' d probably support any leasing or financing arrangement that could give us those orders , " he adds . But any such arrangement would first have to win over the skeptics among some carriers , and a myriad of details would have to be worked out . " The process could take at least two or three years , " says one New York banker who is interested in Mr. Crandall ' s plan . In addition , potential antitrust questions are likely to be raised in connection with any consortium proposal . At least one airline that has expressed some interest in Mr. Crandall ' s idea says the antitrust questions are " extremely sensitive . " In fact , an executive of the airline believes word of American ' s plan has been " leaked " to the press " to see if anybody from the Justice Department panics at the suggestions . " Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal                     