@@735504

txt In the early Sixties , Torn Wolfe went to the New York Colosseum to cover a Hot Rod and Custom Car show , and came back with the New Journalism . As he tells it in the introduction to " The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby , " he felt frustrated by his inability to recreate the atmosphere of the show , with its " nuttylooking , crazy baroque custom cars , sitting The Bookshelf " The Purple Decades : A Reader " By Tom Wolfe in little nests of pink angora angels hair , " in standard journalese . He needed a style flexible and uninhibited enough to capture everything a straight news story would miss : the carnival atmosphere and the thoughts and emotions of the participants . He came up with a style incorporating slang and contemporary speech patterns , stream of consciousness and abrupt switches in perspective . The first step was painstaking research and close attention to detail . After that , he was free to select from the novelist 's whole bag of tricks . Mr. Wolfe deployed his " new " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crowd , ghetto Black Power groups and acid-dropping hippies ? in sum , " the whole crazed obscene uproarious Mammon-faced drug-soaked mau-mau lustoozing Sixties in America . " Moving into the Seventies , he tackled the " new alchemical dream " of " changing one 's personality  --  remaking , remodeling , elevating. and polishing one 's very self . " In short , as he put it , the Me Decade . " The Purple Decades " ( Farrar Straus and Giroux. 396 pages . $17.50 ) is a reader culled from Mr. Wolfe 's previously published books and articles . It is a sociologist 's dream : a time capsule of ideas and idioms , brand names and places , cult heroes and calling cards . The wonder is that all this should still hold the interest of readers in the Eighties . But the row of Tom Wolfe paperbacks still in print testifies to his continuing popularity . Why have these pieces ? so many focusing on dated styles and Sixties status groups  --  survived their subject matter ? One reason is Mr. Wolfe 's attitude toward the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accept it as a permanent addition to the landscape . He celebrates it . He points a finger at every bizarre bit of slang , every funky costume , every outrageous gesture or outlandish thought process . Hence the use of slang and the transitions back and forth between subjective and objective points of view . Hence the slang of the " good ole boys " in that paean to Southern stock car racing , " The Last American Hero " ; hence the " like , you know " and " very mystenoso " of the surfers ' lingo . This is his way of saying , " Look , this is not normal , not mainstream . This is one sector of the population deliberately sawing itself off from the rest , inventing its own language , designing its folk-costume , working out rites of passage . " Mr. Wolfe alternates between group slang and " straight " description , between insider 's partisanship and outsider 's neutrality , to let his readers experience What It 's Really Like to Be a Black Panther ( or an acid-head , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and then step back to see themselves seeing it . The result , over the years . has been a major contribution to the psychology of trend-setting and trend-following . Constants in the human condition , such as envy and vanity , with their subsets of social climbing , hypocrisy and conformity , are reincarnated each generation in new fads and subcultures . What makes postwar Amencan life different is a level of prospenty that allows more and more people to try out life styles they would n't even have been able to afford 30 years ago . The resulting self-created minorities of the Sixties and early Seventies saw themselves as rebels against the boredom of Middle America , but they had their own orthodoxies , their own itch to belong to an inner circle . For instance , the jet-setters who adopted Radical Chic in the late Sixties , embracing the cause of the Black Panthers and their kind , were stunned by the hostile public reaction to Leonard Bernstein 's Black Panthers party . They beat a quick retreat from controversial convictions , for , as Mr. Wolfe notes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical in style ; in its heart it is part of Society and its traditions . Politics , like Rock , Pop , and Camp , has its uses ; but to put one 's whole status on the line for nostalgze de la boue in any of its forms would be unprincipled . " Meanwhile , architects in the late Sixties and Seventies were still fighting battles long since won against the exuberant design of the Chrysler Building or the Empire State Building or Grand Central Station . They had embraced the ideal of the Glass Box  --  those glass and steel rectangles blighting city landscapes from New York to Los Angeles  --  and found themselves incapable of designing anything but Glass Boxes . But unlike Swift , Tom Wolfe does not let the daily evidence of man 's fallen state keep him from appreciating qualities like daring and panache . Most of all , he is fascinated by men who display the Right Stuff  --  not just courage or grit-teeth perseverance , but daring served up with reckless abandon . Mr. Wolfe locates such qualities in their purest form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presents two chapters from " The Right Stuff , " his history of the American space program and the test pilots who manned It . But even more welcome is his earlier documentary of Navy bombers in Vietnam , " The Truest Sport : Jousting with Sam and Charlie . " These pieces alone would justify the purchase of this book . For Mr. Wolfe , the writing is almost understated , at once poignant and exhilarating . The strange , spectacular brotherhood being celebrated counterpoints the nerveless and inspirationless conformity of some of his other subjects . The New Journalism has often been the subject of controversy , and in inexperienced or irresponsible hands it can be a carrier of misinformation and authorial prejudices . It requires not merely intellectual and artistic virtues , but moral ones . Without integrity and conscientious attention to detail , the novelistic techniques that distinguish the New Journalism can overwhelm the journalist 's commitment to facts and accuracy . Torn Wolfe 's career , represented in this collection , demonstrates an original talent at the service of an honest , truthful mind . At @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wolfe represents the thoughts of Navy pilots John Dowd and Garth Flint : " ' My God , man , we 've just been into the Jaws ! ? about as far into the goddamned Jaws as you can go and still come back again ! ? And you want to know why we flew so low ! We 've just been there ! at the lost end of the equation ! where it drops off the end of the known world ! Ask us about . .. the last Hangs , you bastard , and we will enlighten you " There were no words in the chivalric code for such thoughts , however . " Tom Wolfe 's challenge ? and his achievement ? is the finding of such words .                     