@@735188

txt AirCal , a small West Coast airline , is borrowing an idea from Disneyland to lure passengers being drawn away by the discount fares and business travel incentives offered by its big competitors . Disneyland long has offered books of discount tickets , good on the ride of your choice . Beginning next week . AirCal said it will offer books of 10 discount tickets , valid without restrictions for a ride on any of its flights . The books , at 5585 each , will save frequent flyers from 10 ' to 2-I ' r . The coupons will be good indefinitely , even after future AirCal fare boosts , the airline said . AirCal , a privately owned airline , said it has about 0.7% of domestic passenger traffic and has had a hard time competing with unrestricted discount fares offered by such earners as United Airlines and Pacific Southwest Airlines . Harry Lehr . AirCal 's vice president for marketing and business planning , said : " We ca n't afford to be in business like that . " He said no other airline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the idea , at least in part , to AirCal executives ' familiarity with nearby Disneyland . An-Cal flies between cities in California and four other Western states . Mr. Lehr said the discount booklets are aimed at business travelers who fly frequently and at travel agents , who can either sell the coupons at cost or charge any amount up to the full fare . Passengers must still make reservations , but they wo n't have to stand in ticket lines . Shorter flights will require one coupon : longer flights , as many as coupons . Mr Lehr said that the booklets are intended to attract additional passengers and denied that the airline will profit significantly from the " float , " the result of some passengers paying for tickets well in advance of their flights . In conjunction with issuing the coupon books , AirCal says it is dropping some less profitable marketing strategies . These include many of its discount fares and its decision to close its recently opened ticket offices in West Coast cities . The lack of success of that effort , Mr. Lehr said @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Francisco ticket office and did n't get any money . " AirCal 's competitors said they do n't intend to follow suit . Pacific Southwest says it will keep its straightforward discount fares . " We really do n't like the discount gimmick fares , " said a spokesman .                     