@@734770

txt Affirmative action same for glue factory or university found evidence of " possible discrimination in employment in the faculty selection . " He cited as one example of what he felt to be evidence that " some jobs in the classics department were open only copyright owner . to graduates of British universities . " The university was unable to comprehend precisely what this could mean since it feels that in its employment for the classics department , as with all others , the university has always sought and hired only the most qualified people regardless of where they had obtained their qualifications . The University of California went a long way to try to satisfy demands of Washington . Administrators had agreed to take any specifically requested documents to Washington so they could be examined by proper officials , instead of simply handing them over to Labor Department investigators for copying , which would have , at the very least , seriously jeopardized.the requirement that the university maintain confidentiality . Confidentiality is an essential part of the affirmative action program . This whole seamy attempt by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly ignorant federal officials obtain-the power that comes with dispensing federal funds to private or public institutions . Nothing in the Labor Department 's attempted administration of affirmative action programs is really designed to ensure that obstacles to the employment of any qualified person are removed . Instead , it is designed to ensure that artificial quotas and statistical results are achieved enabling the department to claim that the classics department at Berkeley , for example , precisely mirrors the distribution of minorities in the community , without any regard to the quality of the teachers in the classics department . The pursuit of such ideological goals without realizing that the real importance of eliminating discrimination is to ensure that the most qualified people will be appointed is only one of the dangers of bureaucratic control over the universities . Another danger , also illustrated by this case , is that the Labor Department has consistently taken the position that it should use the same methods in dealing with affirmative action programs whether the institution involved is a glue factory or a university . Sometimes the heavy hand of the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is both absurd and exceptionally dangerous .                     