@@735761

txt School is still out , the annual teachersunion conventions are over and the " education issue " temporarily has vacated the center ring of presidential politics . It will return , however , if only because all the candidates read essentially the same opinion polls and thus understand that most of the American public believes deeply in the importance of good schools but is massively discontented with the quality of the current system . In that gap between hope and reality lurks opportunity for the adroit politician . But while education policy is an authentic Issue for governors and legislators who can do something about it and fairly are held accountable for it . school quality is a slippery topic for presidents and their would-be successors . The reason is clear : although the condition of American education is properly a national concern , it is not in any important sense a federal concern . It would surely benefit from astute leadership but would n't necessarily be helped by a flood of new programs surging from Washington . In short , from the perspective of national politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asking for Trouble A president  --  or candidate  --  can reasonably call on children to do their homework . on teachers to purge their ranks of incompetents , on universities to raise their entrance requirement. , and on state and local officials to summon the courage to impose tough standards and even , where necessary , sufficient taxes to pay the bills . He can base such exhortations on national security , on economic revitalization , on the need for private character and civic virtue , or on the intrinsic worth of intellectual activity . All are sound . But when he assigns responsibility for educational improvement to the federal government , when he proposes new legislation . spending programs and regulations , when , in other words , he abandons the bully pulpit for the pork barrel , he is asking for big trouble . That trouble takes three forms . First . by implying that Uncle Sam will cure whatever ails the schools , he may nip the budding educational reform movement already visible in many state capitals and local school systems . Why should a governor or school-board @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kitchen is cooking up a banquet for all ? Second , his motives immediately come into question . Though everyone would benefit eventually from educational excellence , particular interest groups benefit immediately from new federal programs . The candidate who explains that better schools may require more-amply-paid teachers is a statesman . But the politician who promises umpteen billion federal dollars to raise teachers ' salaries is arguably just looking for teachers ' votes . Third , his programs may do no good . The history of federal involvement with the schools is checkered indeed . Though few programs have been total failures , many a decently functioning school system has been tied up in knots by the regulations , court orders and budgetary snafus that have attended the rise of federal participation in education . The only reason educators have n't protested more vociferously is that most of them welcome the money . It might be supposed , then , that the wise president ( or aspirant ) will speak soberly about education as a matter of consummate national importance but will be wary of schemes that smack of direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what Ronald Reagan has been trying to do . His problem is that , after two years of total silence on the subject of public education , he can not help but look a bit like an opportunistic reader of opinion polls . Moreover , he is toting several pieces of heavy baggage . While he previously campaigned against the cabinet-level Education Department , itself a particularly unfortunate example of overweening federal activism and grubby special-interest politics , he now apparently has been cowed by those who insist on construing the department 's existence as a totem of the nation 's seriousness about education . His administration , having tried repeatedly to cut federal spending for current education programs , has trouble responding credibly to chargesof being " anti-education . " ( That 's a tough one . The superb work being done by the National Endowment for the Humanities to improve schools and colleges proves that a very little amount of money can do a lot of good if it is wisely spent . But to be as successful as the NEE , other agencies would have needed a faster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) Finally , the Reagan administration has indulged in some special-interest politics of its own , catering to groups favoring school prayer and aid to private education . Whatever one may think about those issues , the fact is that no matter what happens in Washington most Americans are going to continue sending their children to public schools and worshipping in church . Withal , Mr. Reagan seems to have grasped the potential of education as a bully-pulpit issue and to have resisted the temptation to offer up scads of federal programs . Not so his putative Democratic challengers , who are treating educational quality rather as if it were a federally sponsored auction . If one of them promises to raise teacher salaries $2,000 apiece , another ups the ante to $5,000 . When one proposes massive new federal subsidies for math and science education , another offers computers in the classrooms . The bidding process is amusing at times , but underneath lies either hubris or cynicism : Either the candidates actually believe that large sums of federal money will solve the quality problems of American education , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Democrats are n't good with bullypulpit issues , at least in domestic affairs . ( A few sometimes appear to think that the national defense can be vouchsafed by suitable rhetoric . ) They have great difficulty distinguishing between " national " and " federal " and resisting the belief that if there is a problem worth discussing . there is a program worth proposing . But the Democratic candidates have a further disability in the educational arena : the National Education Association . So long asthey feel they must have its political support , they are in thrall to its ideology . Notwithstanding some new-found " flexibility " on such issues as merit pay ( a change precipitated in no small part by the private pleas of panicky Democratic contenders ) , the NEA remains the major organizational obstacle to the kinds of reforms that any thoughtful bully-pulpit speaker would urge upon the educational system . Holding no hope of an NEA endorsement and having figured out that most voters deplore the NEA 's views or . most matters , foreign and domestic . Mr. Reagan shrewdly has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not do , at least not before the 1984 convention . though it 's a fair guess that whichever of them finally wins the nomination will use the election campaign to put as much distance as possible between his own positions and those of the education establishment . Joining in the Effort Meanwhile , one state after another has gotten serious about education . Reform proposals are beginning to be enacted into law . Governors , legislators , school boards . newspaper editors and business groups have taken charge of the gritty task of improving school quality . Some educators  --  the American Federation of Teachers ' Albert Shanker perhaps most prominent among them  --  detect a genuine opportunity and are now joining in the effort . The research literature suddenly is full of articles about " effective schools . " Task forces and commissions are stumbling over one another in their haste to develop recommendations . Other education groups are resisting , but they risk getting trampled or ignored . This grass-roots movement may not be rugged enough yet to withstand the crabgrass of presidential campaign politics . If the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ words of encouragement to the real gardeners and then move off to sow their weeds in other fields . But since they are apt to continue finding the education issue too tempting to ignore , serious reformers will have to try to ignore them when school reopens next month . Mr. Finn is a professor of education and public policy at Vanderbilt University .                     