@@668690

President P.W. Botha on Thursday asked the President ' s Council , a parliamentary advisory body , to draft plans to add blacks to its membership for the first time . The 60-member council now has 41 whites , 13 coloreds ( people of mixed race ) and 6 Asians . It is empowered to resolve disputes among the separate chambers of Parliament that represent those three racial groups . Earlier , police arrested 718 black strikers at Baragwanath Hospital in the black township of Soweto , near Johannesburg . Virtually all the strikers voluntarily offered themselves for arrest after leaders of the two-day-old walkout were detained . " Reform means new adaptations ; it means that new circumstances call for a new approach , " Botha told a special meeting of the council Thursday . He was following up on a pledge he made last month to consider black participation in the council . The President ' s Council was revised in September , 1984 , when a new constitution took effect creating the new houses of Parliament for the Asian and colored minorities alongside the existing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 73 percent of the population , was excluded . Apartheid foes boycotted the elections for the Asian and mixed-race chambers in August , 1984 , saying the system ignored the issue of black rights and gave Asians and mixed-race people only a token say over national policy . Nationwide rioting against apartheid erupted almost on the day the new constitution took effect . Botha has said in recent months he is committed to devising some form of power-sharing with blacks in a system that protects the rights of whites and other minorities . He has not offered any detailed plans apart from ruling out a one-man , one-vote system , saying it would mean white abdication . Botha did not tell the council how many blacks should be included or what powers they should have , saying it was up to the council members to propose the revisions . In Soweto , the striking Baragwanath Hospital workers were arrested under state-of-emergency laws after refusing to heed police orders to break up a protest gathering on the hospital grounds . The hospital ' s nonmedical staff , including cooks , cleaners and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ illegal gathering . He said they probably would be released pending a court appearance Monday . There was no count of the number of people on strike at the hospital , which employs about 8 , 000 . Baragwanath is the only hospital in Soweto and is considered the best black hospital in the country . Its superintendent , Dr. Chris van den Heever , said in a statement , " Services are being maintained but may have to be curtailed if the situation deteriorates further . " In Cape Town , the wife of a detained antiapartheid activist said about 300 jailed activists began a three-day hunger strike Wednesday . Heather Peterson , wife of Congregational minister Robert Peterson , said the fast was launched to support 32 activists at Pollsmoor Prison near Cape Town who began a week-long hunger strike Sunday . The 32 , including Peterson , are demanding the government release people jailed under the July 21 state of emergency and allow prisoners access to lawyers . Also Wednesday , 14 people recently released from detention alleged in court papers that they and other detainees were subjected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and forced excercise.                     