@@668256

The political autopsy revealed the principal cause of Mayor White ' s demise to be terminal arrogance . In the early years of his administration , the chronic disease had few debilitating effects . He ran Boston single-handedly , successfully brokered competing interests and could afford to be as arrogant as he wished . However , in later years he was compelled to turn to others for assistance ; shunned by the mayor for so long , they would not provide medicinal relief . The City Council , which infrequently had the high honor and rare privilege of meeting the patient - the council ' s most well-heeled member actually purchased at a charity auction the right to have breakfast with White - would not cooperate . Despite the cutbacks in city property tax revenues mandated by Proposition 2 1/2 , the council refused to pass legislation allowing the city to borrow $55 million to pay court-ordered tax rebates . As a result , the money had to come from already depleted funds that could have been committed otherwise to day-to-day city operations . The Legislature increased state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the unique financial problems of Boston caused by the tax-abatement problem and overspending in the School Department . The refusal resulted in no small measure from the Boston delegation ' s abhorrence of the mayor , a reaction to his years of condescending treatment of the city ' s State House representatives . As a consequence of all this , the city had to operate with a budget well below what was required to provide a satisfactory level of public services . White had to fire many of his political workers , undermining support within his own ranks . Because White had for years arrogantly flaunted his Daley- style , municipally financed political organization , many in the city did not see that he had cut his own people . They focused on the reductions in the Police and Fire departments . Those cuts further undermined grass-roots support for the mayor . In one harrowing incident , the mayor , seeking to escape demonstrators who accosted him as he left a restaurant , fled through the Sumner Tunnel in a speeding car , a car that was chased by an unknowing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; as a symbolic symptom of a mayor in failing political health , it qualified as an item for the New England Journal of Medicine . The symptoms of his disease became more pronounced . Suffolk County Sheriff Dennis Kearney , long a White ally , showed up in the papers talking openly about running for mayor . Former White Administration Deputy Mayor Robert Kiley showed up in offices of his friends talking about a mayoral bid . The administration ' s assessing commissioner , Raymond Torto , resigned in some sort of internal fight ; the resignation became public ; the business community was outraged and demanded Torto ' s reinstatement . It happened . The perception , correct or not , was that the mayor had knuckled under , something it was said he would never have done when in full political health . Andrew Olins , the mayor ' s long-time housing adviser , up and quit with no satisfactory explanation . Then the mayor , to the consternation of his remaining supporters , told a reporter that the city was really in a rather strong financial position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more local aid for Boston and while the council still had before it the question of how to finance the tax abatements . People thought the mayor had lost touch with political reality . Support dwindled further . There was open talk of a post-White era . All this occurred in the spring and early summer of 1981 . A life- support system - the city charter that sets four-year mayoral terms - kept White propped up in office for two more years . Yet , though in truth it was not the first time they had made the pronouncement , street-corner coroners agreed in mid-1981 that Kevin Hagan White was politically dead . Kirk Scharfenberg is deputy editorial page editor of The Globe .                     