@@668937

For years Gen. Augusto Pinochet ' s military regime has put down all challengers , defying urban guerrilla campaigns , violent street protests , prolonged international condemnation and even a bloody assassination attempt against the general . Now opponents of Pinochet ' s iron-fisted rule may be on the verge of a complex chain of events that could yet bring down his government . The first step hinges on whether a majority of Chileans just say no . Barring any last-minute change of heart by Pinochet and his junta , the showdown will come in a plebiscite this fall that encapsulates all the visceral passions , hatreds and fears of this polarized nation in a simple " si " or " no " vote . Chileans have been promised a choice between saying yes to another eight years of Pinochet ' s rule , or voting no and fashioning a path to open presidential elections late next year . That could mean a return to the tradition of democratic government that lasted in Chile for a century until Pinochet seized power in a violent coup 15 years ago @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the plebiscite is seen as a bid to gain a measure of long-sought political legitimacy . But despite his contention that he can not lose , the vote is shaping up as his most serious challenge so far , and his opponents are convinced he can not win . " We have the feeling that after 15 years of dictatorship , we are in a position to defeat Pinochet . And we are going to do it , " said Ricardo Lagos , a socialist leader with a small following who has nonetheless emerged as one of the best-known opposition figures . A constitution written since Pinochet came to power requires the junta to offer voters a single candidate this year , and that candidate is virtually certain to be Pinochet . If he wins , he has another eight-year term ahead of him . If he loses , a competitive presidential election is supposed to be held within a year . A flurry of recent polls indicates Pinochet is in a close race at best . A large number of Chileans say they remain undecided . Some 16 opposition political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves behind a common " Commando for the No " campaign to mobilize voters against Pinochet . Their goal of ending military rule is backed by the Reagan administration and the U.S. Congress , as well as by democratic governments around the world . The National Endowment for Democracy , a U.S. government-financed agency created to support democratic movements abroad , has chipped in with at least $600 , 000 for the " no " campaign and for the small but feisty opposition press . So far the opposition has succeeded in registering more than 7 million of Chile ' s roughly 8 million eligible voters for the plebiscite . Foreign diplomats and political analysts in Santiago see that as a sign that the regime may be in trouble . Regardless of the outcome , Pinochet will remain president for at least another year . But the plebiscite is also supposed to pave the way for open elections of a multiparty legislature by the end of 1989 . Later this month , in what many consider a mere formality , Chile ' s four- member military junta will announce its candidate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between 30 and 60 days afterward , meaning it will probably come sometime in October . Few doubt that Pinochet will emerge as the junta ' s nominee . " There has been a lot of debate within the junta , and a lot of people would like to see a less divisive figure than Pinochet as the choice , " said one business leader with ties to the junta . " But it will almost certainly be Pinochet . It ' s too late to change horses now . " The 72-year-old army general , backed by loyal officers , has been running as a de facto candidate for months . Shedding his familiar medal-laden military uniform in favor of civilian business suits , the general has crisscrossed the country to show what he has termed his " humanistic side . " Aides hint he may resign from the military and run as a civilian . With much fanfare , Pinochet recently cut the national sales tax from 20 percent to 16 percent . He regularly appears at ribbon-cutting ceremonies inaugurating new roads , housing projects and other public works @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over the undecided . His message , reinforced by pro-government newspapers and television stations , appeals to many Chileans ' fears of economic and political instability such as reigned in the early 1970s under the leftist government of Salvador Allende . Allende , the nation ' s last elected president , died in the U.S.-supported coup led by Pinochet on Sept. 11 , 1973 . Pinochet and his supporters repeatedly remind Chileans of the Allende period ' s 600 percent inflation , scarcity of basic goods and violent street unrest . Pinochet extols his own free-market economic policies and argues that a " yes " vote is necessary to continue Chile ' s economic boom of recent years , statistically the most impressive in Latin America . This year the economy is projected to grow by more than 5 percent for the third straight year , exports are up , and Chile has reduced its foreign debt from about $20 billion to $18. 4 billion . Inflation is low for the region at an annual 21. 5 percent rate , and unemployment is officially pegged at 8 percent , partly aided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argue that Pinochet ' s " trickle down " policies have not reached the shantytowns of the urban poor and that average real wages have declined for five straight years . But even many critics admit that the economy is the general ' s strongest political asset , particularly among big business owners who have prospered under his regime and a growing class of small-business entrepreneurs . Pinochet also can count on support from conservative rural areas . With the stakes and passions so high , the plebiscite is already clouded by fears of renewed political violence . The Manuel Rodriguez Patriotic Front , a violent underground group allied with the outlawed Communist Party , warned recently that it plans to assassinate Pinochet . The same group tried to kill him in 1986 ; the gunmen missed Pinochet but killed five of his bodyguards . The military says it will maintain order at all costs . As the balloting nears , few fear the regime will be able to commit vote fraud on a major scale , mainly because of the presence of about 60 , 000 opposition activists at voting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign diplomats and human rights groups decry the opposition ' s limited access to state-controlled television , Pinochet ' s use of the government bureaucracy and public funds for the " si " effort , formal restrictions on free speech and political activity , and the regime ' s increasingly open campaign of intimidation against the opposition press . Three of the four junta members have signaled their intention to lift restrictions on civil liberties and allow all dissidents to return from forced exile abroad before the plebiscite . But Defense Minister Patricio Carvajal warned last week the regime could change its mind if there is violence in the streets . CAPTION : PHOTO : Gen. Augusto Pinochet . Illustration PHOTO <>                     