@@668145

President Jimmy Carter , who has seen his fortunes slip in the other big industrial states , still stands tall in the Empire State for the most startling of reasons . Here , in the cab driver ' s citadel of wiseguy cynicism , Carter is ahead of Ronald Reagan because he has apparently proven to New Yorkers that he shares their sentimental , unsophisticated chauvinism about their city and its well- known advertising campaign . As Carter himself put it in his most recent visit here , " Let me summarize my feelings in these four words - I Love New York . " The fiscal aid to New York City provided by the federal government in loan guarantees probably turned the 1976 vote to Carter when the New York Daily News headlined Gerald R. Ford ' s reaction to the city ' s plea for help : " Ford to City : Drop Dead . " These days , with the city having been provided loan guarantees , millions of riders on the ancient subway system underneath the five boroughs can stare up an advertisement that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in my morning and evening prayers every day , the prayer that the federal government not bail out New York - Governor Ronald Reagan . " To the left of the sign is a photograph of Carter signing the federal aid bill on Aug. 8 , 1978 , on the steps of New York City Hall , flanked by local Democratic officeholders . Little things mean a lot , and that signing ceremony included Carter wearing a " I Love New York " button . The advance man then , Ellis Woodward , now handling press relations for the Carter campaign here , gave the President and his wife , Rosalynn , buttons as soon as they emerged from their helicopter on that bright August day . By the time they reached City Hall , they found Gov . Hugh L. Carey and Mayor Edward Koch with a fistful of buttons . The Carters , however , had already been converted . The issue seems to cut across the multitude of ethnic , religious and racial lines that makes up this great melting pot that has never melted . But Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pork barrel . More than 20 Carter offices are open in upstate cities , all of which have benefitted from timely grants in aid from Washington . The western state coordinator , handling the Buffalo area , is Massachusetts state Sen. Joseph F. Timilty . He has let the resident of Buffalo know that their city is in the top six per capita in UDAG grants , the Urban Development Action Grants that are discretionary with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development . " If you stay close upstate , you win the state , " says Jerry Weiss . " We ' ve worked the upstate area and all those mayors have been very helpful . " Carter was drubbed by a 2-1 margin in the March 25 primary by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy , and Carter did not win a single congressional district south of Albany . But his - and HUD ' s - assiduous attention to Albany , Syracuse , Utica , Rochester and Buffalo are still paying dividends . " When those mayors keep on telling their constituents how much the Carter Administration has done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Reagan campaign is in the obverse position of the Carter campaign ' s attitude toward California . Carter is pretending to make a serious effort in California , but really isn ' t . Reagan had early hopes for capturing this state and its 41 electoral votes , but has been unable to crack the impression that he is anti-New York . " I read in the paper that Carter will be here seven more times before Nov. 4 , " says Enid Borden , a spokesman at Reagan headquarters . " I can ' t say the same thing for my candidate . " Borden is looking forward to the visit of the vice presidential nominee , George Bush , " to rally the troops upstate . They need to know that we take them seriously and we need to have a presence there . " She adds : " Turnout is the key . Will the blacks who voted so heavily for Carter last time turn out in the same numbers this time ? No one knows . " She also predicts that " if we get @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will win the state . " The Jewish vote has been the last to come around for Carter . Reagan ' s strong , even doctrinal support of Israel is appealing , and so is the independent candidacy of John Anderson , who holds the Liberal Party line on the New York ballot . The Liberal Party counts as official members fewer than 100,000 as compared to the 3.6 million registered Democrats and the 2.6 registered Republicans . But Anderson shares the Liberal ballot with an old hero to many Jewish voters , Sen. Jacob K. Javits , defeated in the September Republican primary by a conservative selectman from Long Island , Alfonse D ' Amato . Anderson might benefit from Javits ' reverse coattails , but the 76- year-old senator is not mounting a strong effort , leading most political analysts here to conclude that the next senator from New York will be Democratic Rep. Elizabeth Holtzman of Brooklyn . Javits addressed a Liberal Party dinner in Manhattan Thursday and hardly sounded like an active candidate when he said , " This is an evening of great nostalgia for me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1946 , I would not have been a congressman or a senator and would now be a wealthy and retired lawyer . " Javits spoke as though he wished he were already a wealthy and retired lawyer . Carter enjoys coming to New York even though Carey has been cool to him and Koch uses every opportunity to lobby the President on more aid for New York and cities in general . Carter was impressed enough to confess to a group of business and labor leaders Sept. 29 how important New York is to his future . " It ' s almost theoretically impossible , practically I ' m sure it ' s impossible , to figure out how I can win re-election without New York state , " the President said . In this century , a Democrat has been elected President while losing New York only twice , when Harry S. Truman lost the state to its governor , Thomas E. Dewey , in 1948 ; in 1916 , Woodrow Wilson was re-elected , while a New Yorker carried the Empire State , Republican Charles Evans Hughes . Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dinner , a multiethnic must for presidential candidates sponsored by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York next week . The black-tie affair at the Waldorf-Astoria may be the only time the two men meet during the campaign , and for Reagan it may be the last chance to prove that he can sing a song much like his old friend Frank Sinatra : " If I can make it here I can make it anywhere , it ' s up to you , New York , New York . "                     