@@669046

The state police psychologist who hypnotized convicted murderer Brian Dugan in 1985 to attempt to pinpoint Dugan ' s involvement with the murder of Jeanine Nicarico described Monday how Dugan wept as he relived the crime . " Tears were coming from his eyes , " Noble Harrison , who was then the state police clinical psychologist , said of Dugan . " His body remembered what it felt like at the time . " Tearing is a sign of emotion , sadness . He was talking about the physical struggle with the girl or when he was attacking her . " But Harrison also noted in his testimony that a hypnotized subject " is always under his own control " and could still provide false testimony . Dugan ' s statement about the Feb. 25 , 1983 , slaying of the 10-year-old Naperville girl is the focus of a weeklong hearing before Du Page County Circuit Judge Edward Kowal . Kowal must decide if Dugan ' s confession of involvement in the crime , which has been disclosed only through his attorney and only under the proviso @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduced into the retrial of Rolando Cruz and Alexandro Hernandez , two Aurora men previously sentenced to death for the crime who now face a retrial ordered by the state Supreme Court . At previous hearings in the 6-year-old case , Dugan has taken the stand several times only to cite his 5th Amendment right against self-incrimination while refusing to answer questions . But on Monday , Kowal ' s courtroom became the viewing area for the first portion of a three-part videotape of the six-hour interrogation session between Harrison and Dugan . The session took place on Dec. 5 , 1985 , in the state police office in Joliet . At the time the tape was made , Dugan already was serving two sentences of natural life after having pleaded guilty to two other rape-murders . The tape shown Monday consisted of Harrison conducting a pre-hypnotic interview with Dugan and explaining the procedure . In the video , Dugan detailed for Harrison his extensive use of drugs and alcohol , which he contends began with use of marijuana in the 6th grade . The recording of the four-hour questioning under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before the videotape was shown , Harrison discussed Dugan ' s reactions under hypnosis , which included rapid heart rate , increased rate of breathing , pulsing in his veins and other psychological reactions . " I did notice signs , signs he was becoming upset discussing the abduction , " Harrison said . " As he was talking about driving around the area that day and smoking marijuana , his speech became slower and slurred . The signs gave strength to the opinion that he was recalling actual events . " Defense attorneys Michael Metnick and Jed Stone contend that Dugan ' s confession is valid and that their clients should be released . They are attempting to show Kowal that Dugan ' s version of the crime contains more than 50 pieces of information about the crime that could not be obtained independently . Prosecutors have fought to preclude Dugan ' s statement , claiming that he is a liar and his story is without merit . They contend that the two men facing retrial are guilty . Under questioning by Robert Kilander , first assistant state ' s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withhold , omit , or include lies . Hypnosis is " not a magical truth-gathering procedure , " he said . " It has to be combined with good police investigative work . By itself , hypnosis can ' t determine the truth . " Dugan was in a light to medium trance , but in my opinion he was doing it with real recollection . " Jeanine Nicarico was sick and home from school , alone in her family ' s Naperville home , when she was abducted , sexually assaulted and killed . Her body was found two days later along the Illinois Prairie Path.                     