@@670213

The doctor hired by the victim of a minor car accident testifies that a neck sprain deserves a large award because the injury will result in an 18-month leave from work . The doctor for the insurance company says such injuries heal quickly and the victim can return to work immediately . Whom should the jury believe ? In cases like this , one doctor may not be telling the truth . The Medical Society of Delaware plans to try a novel remedy for that longstanding concern : a testimony-review committee made up of Delaware doctors . Though unanimously approved by the society ' s 800 members , the plan has sparked much opposition from the state ' s trial lawyers and skeptical curiosity from those outside Delaware . The medical society says the committee will weigh doctors ' testimony against established medical thinking and decide whether physicians have twisted the facts or slanted their opinions . Offenders would be admonished or reported to the state Board of Medical Practice for disciplinary action . Such action wouldn ' t have any direct impact on a given lawsuit , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ review to keep doctors honest . In the endless battle between lawyers and doctors over medical malpractice , attorneys view the committee as the latest attempt to prevent doctors from testifying against one another . Moreover , the lawyers argue that juries are supposed to decide the truth . All witnesses take oaths , they note , and perjurers can be caught on cross-examination . " It ' s an end run around the court system , " says Keith Davidson , a Chicago lawyer and former chairman of the American Bar Association ' s tort and insurance practice section . " It ' s fairly obvious this committee is designed to intimidate . " Bernard Van Ogtrop , head of the state ' s Trial Lawyers Association , adds , " We believe the judicial system works . Of course there are cases where things go wrong , but isn ' t that life ? " But the Medical Society says it is simply trying to police its profession and weed out unethical doctors who may distort facts in favor of a paying client . Martin Gibbs , a Wilmington @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' t it be nice to be able to go to court and be sure that at least the doctors were being honest ? " Dr. Gibbs , who has served as an expert witness himself , says he has heard doctors exaggerate the effect of an injury . The term " whiplash " has become a joke , he says . He also once saw a doctor never trained in neurology describe himself as an expert in that specialty . The legal system isn ' t designed to reward those who tell the truth because the real expert isn ' t always the most convincing to the jury , Dr. Gibbs says . " You can be an absolute charlatan and be very convincing , " he says . The society hasn ' t decided exactly how it will select committee members or what circumstances would trigger a review of a doctor ' s testimony . One possibility : If the committee were to receive a complaint from any party  --  lawyer , physician , plaintiff or defendant  --  it would then review court transcripts or observe trials firsthand to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could be complicated by medicine ' s many gray areas . Martin Cosgrove , a Seaford , Del. , physician and president of the Delaware society , says the committee most likely would steer away from such issues , which could include , for example , whether to remove a diseased gallbladder immediately , or permit it to settle down and then reevaluate the situation . Similarly , some doctors prefer to monitor an aneurism , or weakened artery wall ; others would treat it immediately . " If it ' s shades of gray , it ' s acceptable , " Dr. Cosgrove says . " Medicine is always changing . " But he adds that many " black and white " areas exist , such as operating on the wrong extremity . It isn ' t clear whether Delaware ' s plan will catch on in other states . The American Medical Association won ' t comment on it . Neither will the American College of Physicians and Surgeons . Like many other state medical groups , the Pennsylvania Medical Society says it recently proposed a measure now pending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ govern who may testify as an expert medical witness . The bill proposes that only doctors who practice in the area under consideration testify as experts . " The question of which expert is correct is a jury question , " says Ken Jones , general counsel to the Pennsylvania society . " It might be cleaner " to tighten laws on expert witnesses than to review individual cases , he says . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     