@@669955

DOUBTS HANG over a low-cost alternative to coronary bypass surgery . Clogged heart arteries can be reopened in some patients by threading a thin , balloon-tipped catheter through a leg artery into a clogged coronary artery in the heart . Inflating the tiny balloon squeezes a passage through the blocking deposits . This balloon " angioplasty " costs about one-third of the $15 , 000 a bypass operation costs . It ' s been successful so far in about 80% of patients . When it fails , the patient can still undergo bypass surgery , advocates note . Even though 4 , 000 to 5 , 000 patients have undergone angioplasty since 1978 , researchers debate whether angioplasty patients live longer or fare better than bypass patients . Mayo Clinic doctors urge that a trial comparing the two procedures be launched soon or angioplasty will go into wide use before its merits and risks are known . If too many angioplasty patients later have to have bypass operations , the total bill to the public may go up instead of down , say the Mayo doctors . DIET-BLOOD @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sodium in table salt ( sodium chloride ) has been strongly linked to high blood pressure partly because low-salt diets reduce pressure in many hypertensives . But some scientists say it is the chloride in salt that ' s the culprit . Others argue that low consumption of magnesium or potassium is at fault . Now a large-scale diet-health survey links low calcium intake with high blood pressure . But a second , similar survey says calcium is a blood pressure factor only in non-white males . From such confusion , Dallas hypertension expert Norman Kaplan devises a " practical prescription " for lowering mild high pressure without drugs : Shed excess pounds , cut back on table salt but maintain calcium intake with low-fat , low-sodium milk and cheese ; limit alcohol to two ounces daily ; eat more fiber , less animal fat ; exercise and relax . Use calcium and magnesium supplements only if lab tests show a deficiency . " OBLIGATORY RUNNING " may be the obsessive disorder of the 1980s . University of Arizona psychiatrists first speculated in 1983 that some men obsessed with long-distance running @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aversion to food . One goal of such " obligatory runners " is an ever-leaner body ; a goal of anorexic women is an ever-thinner body . Both types pursue the " ideal " body despite pain and debilitation . Both tend toward " grim asceticism , " are introverted , compliant and self-effacing . Now British psychiatrists describe a woman who switched from anorexic dieting to intense exercise to keep her body " in shape . " This hints at a new trend . " The increasing public interest in regular exercise , for women as well as men , may mean that individuals with morbid concerns about their shape and weight will turn to exercise rather than dieting , " the psychiatrists speculate . Patients who once saw doctors for anorexia may start showing up with exercise injuries instead , the British warn . PRODUCE CLERKS at an Ohio grocery suffered skin rashes after going to a tanning salon . Chemicals from celery , dill , parsley , parsnips and other fresh produce often render people sensitive to sunlight , health officials explain . DIETERS , take hope ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may seem discouragingly small . But a British experiment proves 90% of each lost pound is fat , not water as in the initial week of dieting . MOOD RHYTHMS are discovered by Clarke Institute of Psychiatry in Toronto . Mood diaries kept by volunteers show that many people regularly go from happy to blue and back every three to four months . TURISTA prevention sparks debate among doctors , public health officials . Traveler ' s diarrhea will afflict about a third of Americans touring underdeveloped nations this summer . Many doctors prescribe daily doses of antibiotics to prevent attacks . But an expert panel says such " prophylactic " use of antibiotics may be riskier than the diarrhea . It suggests packing drugs but saving them until an attack begins . Prescription drugs like Lomotil and Imodium , or a nonprescription drug like Pepto-Bismol can clear up mild cases in 30 hours . Severe cases require prescription antibiotics , preferably bought in the U.S. rather than locally . The turista " bugs " were once thought to be only a few common bacteria picked up by tourists from uncooked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ volunteers in Thailand found 11 different microbes capable of causing turista . An outbreak in a group of Caribbean tourists this winter was caused by a parasite thought , until recently , to affect only animals . Such diverse causes makes it difficult to decide which antibiotics to take to which country . BRIEFS : New marine plywoods , treated with arsenic compounds , can cause skin irritation in boat carpenters , a Florida doctor-boat owner warns . . . . An English doctor uses his stethoscope to listen to in-flight movies for free . ( Revised WSJ April 15 , 1985 )                     