@@734552

txt The publicity release for this book would remind us that Vance Bourjaily is one of America 's major writers . do n't think this claim can he taken lightly . The proof of the matter lies in this compelling and relentlessly authentic work of art , " A Game Men Play . " It 's his finest novel since " The Violated , " which up to now has been his best , and best-known , work . " A Game Men Play " is a big hook and One charged wan acts of violence and dismay : You could n't begin to coma all the murders and " relocations , " the double and double-double dealings that occur in its pages . But , surprisingly , it is also ? and this is more to our purpose ? a long and profound , sometimes pastoral meditation on the human condition . . The settings are as varicius as any you 'd want to conjure : the deck and cabin life of a Norwegian freighter on a voyage from San Francisco to Wellington , New Zealand ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; an Argentinian horse ranch ; the Greek islands of Crete and Corfu ; Cairo and Alexandria ; the Russian steppes and Vladivostok ; Berlin during the Cold War ; Thailand ; Scull iago , Chile ; Honolulu ; Montevideo , Uruguay ; Yugoslavia during the German occupation ; New Orleans ; the high life and low of New York in the late 1970s . In many of these places we are witness to scrupulous renderings of violent acts , part of the vicious game some men play . The novel is Connubial in its entanglement of motive and its intricacy of plot . It is filled with lore of all sorts : the raising , training , and racing of horses ; soldiering , mostly behind-the-lines guerrilla sluff ; covert CIA activity ; and as complete an inside look at the vile pursuits of terrorism as you 'd ever want . But since I can only touch on the story 's main lines , which ' will not begin to tell you what the novel is about . I want to say that it has to do with the not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , danger , and self-reliance , and a man 's lifetime journey of self-discovery . The hero of this remarkable novel ? and he is a hero , praise he  - -  is a man of integrity and deep complexity ; he has character , in the oldest and truest sense of that word . His name is C. K. " Chink " Peters ( nicknamed because of the slightly slanted eyes he inherited from his mother , a Mongolian ) , and he Raymond Carver IS a . short story writer and professor of English at Syracuse University in the Creative Writing Program.is far and away Rouriaily 's best fictional creation to date . During World War II , Peters gained prominence as a young OSS agent tagged " Der Fleischwulf " ( The Meatgrinderl , and after the war found himself in the nascent CIA the Agency , as it 's called . Peters has written a small book on guerrilla warfare , and the book as well as its author have come to assurne some fame in underground circles , mainly a radical IRA group whose members are fanatical but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 43 and free from involve . meat either domestic or Agency related . Peters is living in a ? rooming house in San Francisco when the novel opens . He is about to sail for Wellington with a group of horses destined for a New Zealand breeder when he sees a television news account of the murders of Mary and Wendy Offenbach in their New York apartment . the has not seen these girls since their childhood when their father , his friend , neighbor , and wartime commanding officer , Walden Difenbach , took away Peters ' wife . Offenbach is now a UN ambassador-at-large , often mentioned as a potential secretary of state . Peters sends a telegram asking if there 's anything he can do , wails , then goes ahead and sails . Peters spends a lot of time talking to his horses , believe it , on the way to New Zealand ; and so , in long flashbacks , we have the story of his life . Moving from past to present , this way and that , using the freighter as both metaphor for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through prep school , where he goes on a wrestling scholarship but studies foreign languages , then enlistment in the military , Army and Agency service . lie later attends Yale and takes a degree in German medieval history . Happily married , he settles on the Eastern Seaboard to breed and race horses with Offenbach is his country squire neighbor . This Difenbach is a Machiavellian character with plenty of charm and intelligence who runs up against the IRA , whose agents set out to tiring hint down . Through a dreadful foulup , his daughters become the victims instead . In New Zealand , a cable from Offenbach reaches Peters asking if he can come to New York and tend a used in this horrible affair . What happens when Peters moves into the murdered girls ' New York apartment takes up the second half of the book . I 've seldom read a novel that 's offered up such rigorous and lasting pleasures . The people who populate this fine book will strike you not so much as characters but rather as common and uncommon men and %Onion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ damn them forever  --  or that could raise theta to something they might otherwise have out been capable of id this imperfect world , or in the hands of a lesser novelist . Of course I wo n't give you the novel 's ending . I can tell yoia that the plot turns , and then turns , and turns again . Until the last pages it has you , as they used to say . on the edge of your seat . For ate . a discussion of the book brings to mind F. Scott . Fitzgerald 's invocation ; " Draw your chair up close to the edge of the precipice , and I 'll tell you a story . " Varlet . Bourjaily is a writer of great gifts and originality , hard at work , as always , and in the fullness of his powers . ? ? ? . , .. . wisWopill ! t , I                     