@@734782

txt It was back about the time of the political conventions this summer that I started to notice how happy life is in TV commercials . Commercials have always been optimistic . Speedy Alka-Seltzer was one happy fella , and the success of his up-beat message for a product intended to relieve pain and suffering probably set the tone for selling on television . Within the past year , however , the general tone of TV commercials has begun to move well beyond the routine cheerfulness one expects from salesmen . Commercials have become downright euphoric . I have in mind what appears to be the unsurpassable pleasure of chugging down Pepsi-Cola , the ecstacies of eating hamburger at Burger King or 's , the irrepressible joy of opening mail from Dean Witter , the unbounded pleasure Joe Namath gets from thing on the world smelling of Brut , the I-couldn't-be-happier attitude of the food handlers at United Airlines , Sunkist 's good vibrations . My mind has become a bell tower ringing with jingles of joy : Drink it in , drink it in , drink @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reach for Sprite ! The best darn burger in the whole darn world , Burger King and I ! Have a Coke and a smile ! You look like you just heard from Dean Witter ! Oooh what a feelin ' to drive , Toyota ! These commercials are operating at the outer limits of happiness . After years and years of incrementally increasing the level of joy derivable from , say , eating at Burger King or drinking Pepsi , the producers of TV commercials are now showing us people who are as happy as it gets . If I could reduce this to a mathematical equation I would , but the best I can do is say that it is not possible for anyone to be happier than Joe Namath is on his Brut day . Surely the decision advertisers have made recently to use up all the known resources of human joy in their commercials is based on sober calculations of risk and return . It would not surprise me to learn that advertisers have produced econometric studies suggesting that happiness on TV commercials should be inversely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recession , the people in TV commercials should be insanely happy . If the economy turns up , one should produce quiet , intimate slice-of-life commercials . However there may be another reason to explain why so many people mad with loud joy are running through TV commercials now . The explanation was suggested to me by an ordinary commercial for a color-TV manufacturer . It is the one in which the " color is so real " that a football jumps out of the screen into the lap of a startled viewer , who is sitting in the deep folds of an easy chair . When the football hits the fellow 's lap , he jumps as if he had been roused from a trance . That is because a trance is exactly what he has been in . Most people use television to relax . They use it to relax because the medium produces restfulness  --  the mind is made blank , one stares , and in fact the eyes defocus slightly while watching the screen . Indeed the condition of watching television very much resembles the dyhanas , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to achieve a state of equanimity by drawing one 's mind away from earthly concerns . One text indicates that during dyhana one might meditate by concentrating on a colored patch . The events that occur between the time we get up and Prime Time are our earthly concerns . Television is our colored patch . It is n't my intention to draw a simple analogy between the seriousness of religious meditation and watching television , but only to suggest that viewing television induces something resembling the pleasant , trance-like qualities of meditation . This is why we watch so much of it . Surely this condition of mind can not be what advertisers would prefer in the audiences for their commercials . Thus the mood and rhythms of commercials are designed to rouse us from the languor of watching our favorite programs . Some viewers find the commercials an intrusion ; others think them entertaining . I am becoming convinced , however , that after years watching uncounted hours of television , many viewers are finding it easier to incorporate most commercials into the meditative , or relaxing , experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noticing or remembering which products the advertisers are selling . The solution ? Capture our attention by pushing the mood of the commercials into emotional hyperspace ? stock Burger King 's restaurants with cheering , singing diners and employes , fill the playing fields of Pepsi with deliriously happy lacrosse players and send their message of happiness and joy soaring into 70 million living rooms filled with millions upon millions of citizens doing the exact same thing  --  sitting stock still , stone-faced and staring , entranced . In my own case , the message of happiness and joy has been getting through . I like Whoppers . And I rather liked all the commercials mentioned here the first time I saw them . But I do n't like them 75 times more . Television is for relaxing . Television is dyhana . The people in these happy commercials do n't fit in . I turn them off .                     