@@735310

txt Deciding whether runways are safe for takeoffs and landings in bad weather apparently is an inexact science . In testimony before the National Transportation Safety Board , airport officials indicated significant differences on when and how to clear runways of ice or snow , and considerable doubt about the reliability of equipment that measures how slippery a runway is . Underscoring those views . Robert Davidson , an official of the Los Angeles Airports Department and president of the American Association of Airport Executives , said that " currently , no reading derived from mechanical means bears much relationship to the ability to stop an aircraft . " Most runwaycondition reports " are based on inexact techniques and on reports from pilots who have previously landed , " he said . The testimony came on the first day of a three-day hearing on runway safety . The hearing largely is an outgrowth of the Jan. 23 accident at Boston 's Logan International Airport . A World Airways DC10 skidded off the end of a slick runway and the front section of the plane broke off , falling @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their bodies have n't been recovered . The day of that accident , the pilot of another aircraft had reported that braking conditions on the runway were " poor to nil . " Nevertheless , airport officials said the runways were usable . The safety board also wants to determine whether runway conditions were suitable for an aborted takeoff at National Airport in Washington , D.C .. on Jan. 13 , the day an Air Florida jet crashed . The Boeing 737 had trouble gaining takeoff power and , soon after liftoff , lost altitude , struck a bridge and crashed into the Potomac River , killing 78 people . The board is investigating whether the pilot would have been able to stop the plane before lifting off , had he decided to abort the takeoff . In addition to concern over the imprecise gauging of runway safety . testimony from representatives of airport , airline and pilot groups also showed some dissatisfaction with the accuracy of runway-condition reports that are given to pilots . According to testimony , after a runway is cleared , airport officials often rely on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said they try to give the pilot the best advice they can , based on their own measurements . But Leonard Griggs. director of the St. Louis Airport Authority , said he would rather have a pilot tell him the runway condition " than to depend on some Imeasuring ) wheel behind a car , " which might n't be properly calibrated . Improvements are needed in measuring and reporting runway conditions , most witnesses said . But the airport officials said they did n't want more federal regulation , insisting that local conditions and methods differ widely . making stricter federal rules unworkable . Federal Aviation Administration officials said they do n't routinely and frequently monitor measuring and reporting methods used by airport managers . FAA officials also said that under existing rules , they do n't necessarily inspect runway maintenance procedures after an accident .                     