@@668323

Police said yesterday they doubt that the weekend arrest of a Red Brigades fugitive leader and seizure of a huge weapons cache will bring them any closer to finding kidnaped US Brig . Gen. James L. Dozier . Rome police burst into three suspected Red Brigades hideouts Saturday . They said the found bazookas of the type used by Soviet- bloc nations , French- built air-to-air and air-to-ground missiles , hand grenades and rifles . They arrested Giovanni Senzani , 40 , a criminology professor believed to be the Red Brigades ' top theorist , and nine other suspected terrorists in early morning sweeps on hideouts in Rome . Police said the six men and three women were charged with participation in armed bands and illegal possession of arms . Senzani is charged with conspiracy to kidnap an Italian judge a year ago and membership in armed bands , a catchall charge used against suspected terrorists . But Verona Police Chief Pasquale Zappone said yesterday he doesn ' t believe Senzani had anything to do with the kidnaping of Dozier from his home in that northern city Dec. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the " people ' s prison " where the Red Brigades say they are holding Dozier . Senzani is allegedly part of the Rome column of the Red Brigades , and police believe Dozier was kidnaped by the Venice column . The Venice column is part of the " military wing " of the leftist Red Brigades , so-called because they believe military action is the most important strategy . Senzani is believed to lead the Red Brigades members who believe spreading their ideas and building popular support for their movement are as important as military action . Police identified those arrested along with Senzani as Luciano Farina , 26 ; Giuseppina Delogu , 27 ; Susanna Berardi , 30 , Gino Aldi , 20 ; Roberto Buzzati , 24 ; his brother Massimo , 21 ; Pasquale Giuliano , 31 ; Franca Musi , 27 ; and Lino Vai , 27 . Senzani , a professor at the University of Florence who specialized in the study of prisons , was an adviser to Italy ' s justice minister . He disappeared about a year ago and is believed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Giovanni D ' Urso , a Justice Ministry official who was in charge of transferring prisoners . D ' Urso was freed after 34 days in captivity . NATO officials in Verona said Judith Dozier , the wife of the kidnaped general , is trying to lead as normal a life as possible , going shopping or to the hairdresser and having friends visit her at home . She went to religious services yesterday in the chapel of the American school in Verona , accompanied by a bodyguard . Meanwhile , police in Rome said they believe two suspected members of the Red Brigades arrested near the Spanish steps were planning to kidnap Cesare Romiti , managing director of Fiat , who lives in the neighborhood . The Turin- based auto-maker is Italy ' s largest private company . They said the abduction was foiled with the arrest of Stefano Petrella and Ennio Di Rocco . Police said late yesterday they suspected Petrella and Di Rocco killed Roberto Peci during his kidnaping last year . Peci was the brother of a Patrizio Peci , a former Red Brigades member who turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrest of many suspected members of the gang . Peci , 25 , was kidnaped near his house in the central Italian town of San Benedetto del Tronto and was found murdered outside Rome on Aug. 3.                     