@@668312

Charles DiPerri appeared to have everything going for him . He had a good job as the maitre d ' at The Brookline Country Club , friends , a bachelor ' s social life , good clothes , good food , you name it . Only one big thing seemed to mar his happiness . DiPerri had a bald pate and even though that pate is fringed by handsome , wavy , silky , brown hair , he wished for a full head of hair . Then , in February 1978 , DiPerri saw an ad in The Boston Globe announcing a new method of putting hair on a bald pate . The ad , DiPerri ' s lawyer would later say , promised that trained technicians , supervised by a licensed physician , would implant synthetic fibers directly into the scalp . Others , too , noticed this ad and others like it that were published in the New York area . Among them was Dr. Marvin LePaw , a New York dermatologist who testified in Middlesex Superior Court last week that he , on seeing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In due course the FDA banned this method of putting hair on scalps , Dr. LePaw said , but not in time for at least 126 men in New York and about 30 in the Boston area to undergo hair implants and step into what one physician has called a medical nightmare . The implanting method is different from another medical procedure , hair transplants . This method , as explained by Dr. Michael Greenwald , a dermatologist who is now treating DiPerri , involves transplanting hairy patches of skin surgically onto a bald pate . Sen. William Proxmire ( D-Wis. ) , for example , had it done . The method DiPerri participated in for nearly a year involves the puncturing of the scalp with a pen-like instrument and sticking a hair-like fiber directly into the skin , crimping it inside to make it stay in , according to court testimony . The modacryclic fibers are the kind manufactured by Monsanto Chemical Co. for synthetic fur coats , certain carpets and wigs . Last week , nearly four years and $2800 later and after months of pain that DiPerri says @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " he appeared in Middlesex Superior Court to tell his story . He had filed a malpractice suit against Drs . Florencio and Almeda Hipona , natives of the Philippines who now live in Wellesley . Dr. Florencio Hipona , formerly a radiologist at New England Deaconess Hospital , testified that he is licensed to practice medicine in Massachusetts . His wife , Dr. Almeda Hipona , told the court that she is licensed to practice medicine in the Philippines , but not in the United States . It is the first such suit in New England , according to John V. Kerry , one of the attorneys representing DiPerri . This is the story DiPerri told Judge Joseph Mitchell and a jury of 11 men and three women last week : In February 1978 , he called a telephone number in the newspaper ad and made an appointment to visit a hair-implant clinic in Burlington which went under the name of United Laboratories , Inc. , and which has been identified in court as having been a Cleveland corporation . The clinic consisted of a shampoo room and an implant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went into the implant room where a technician , using " an instrument , something like an oversize pen , silver-colored , " set to implanting the fibers . The lighting was poor in the room , DiPerri said , so the technician had him move his chair to the window . Before the implanting , his scalp had been anesthetized by Dr. Almeda Hipona , DiPerri testified . He could feel and hear the punctures , he said , which sounded like " someone popping cardboard . " On the way home to Brookline , DiPerri said , he had to pull off Rte. 128 several times because of the pain and the dizziness . He could not sleep that night , and in the morning " my forehead was out to here . " Within days , he said , the scalp became infected , a dry layer of skin developed , the scalp bled and he went back to the clinic , where Dr. Almeda Hipona gave him medication . Hairdressers washed his hair and cleaned off the flaking skin . DiPerri said he went back six times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scalp to heal . Each time he went for another implant , a different technician worked on him , he said . In February l979 , he made an appointment to have his scalp looked atbecause it was again infected . The appointment was canceled by telephone shortly thereafter and when DiPerri went back to United Laboratories in Burlington , he found it locked . He looked in through the windows and found that all furniture had been removed . John V. Kerry and his associate , Roanne Sragow , who are representing DiPerri , said they have researched the available literature on such implants and have found that the medical community is highly critical of synthetic hair implants . Dr. Eugene Courtis , who testified on the Hiponas ' behalf , said he had been approached by one Michael Goldfarb to be the Burlington implant clinic ' s resident physician , but that he had refused . Drs . Vincent R. DiGregorio of Mineola , N.Y. , and Gregory Rauscher of Tenafly , N.J. , wrote a paper which they presented to a convention of plastic surgeons in New Orleans @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to use as part of their case . In the paper , the physicians write : " It is obvious to any experienced surgeon that the basic premise of synthetic hair fiber implantation is false , " adding that such fibers are a foreign body and will be rejected by the body , which is why attempts at " bionic " reconstruction have thus far failed . " All nonabsorbable sutures , no matter how inert , " the paper says , " when placed subcutaneously , will eventually evoke a foreign body reaction ultimately leading to abscess formation and rejection of the material . " Dr. Michael Greenwald , the dermatologist into whose care DiPerri has placed himself now , said that infections continue to break out in DiPerri ' s scalp . Dr. Greenwald testified last week that it was improper for any physician to permit a person to undergo such implants . Among other reasons , Dr. Greenwald said , the fibers have been tested by the FDA and have been shown to be carcinogenic . When attorney Francis Leone , representing Hipona ' s insurer , asked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to let a patient undergo implants ? " the physician replied , " Absolutely not . " Q. If the patient wanted it , would he be free to do so ? A .. Absolutely not . Q. Should Dr. Hipona have restrained Mr. DiPerri from undergoing the implants ? A. Yes , sir . When the Hiponas ' attorney , Joseph Downes , asked Greenwald what he would do if a patient , after being properly warned and restrained , went out and had it done anyway , Greenwald shrugged , spread his arms and began by saying , " Well , I am not a policeman , but . . . . " Downes cut him off , saying , " Thank you , that ' s all . " Kerry and Sragow have introduced color photographs of DiPerri ' s scalp at the end of the implant period and have passed them to the jury .                     