@@668606

Q  --  I have some pictures in which all four corners are very dark as if something obscured the lens . I don ' t remember seeing any of this in the viewfinder of my SLR . What could have caused this ? A  --  This is almost certainly vignetting caused by using a lens attachment ( lens shade or filter holder ) that is too small for the field of view of the lens . It is often not noticeable when the image is viewed at full aperture but will show up when the lens is stopped down . Q  --  What causes fuzzy prints ? How can I correct the problem ? A  --  Camera shake is the most common cause . This usually can be detected by the presence of a double image ; the whole of the image will be affected . If there is a slight double image in only part of the picture but the rest is sharp , the cause is likely to be subject movement ; the shutter speed was not fast enough to arrest the movement . If part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but without any indication of double image , the reason probably is inaccurate focusing or inadequate depth of field . If no part of the image is sharp but there is no apparent double image , then either the image is totally out of focus ( at a very close distance , for example ) , the lens is dirty or there may have been condensation inside it , or the lens is faulty or not properly aligned . Q  --  I have taken some very nice photographs and would like to submit some of my work to magazines . How should I go about it ? A  --  First , you should be thoroughly familiar with the magazines you intend to approach . You should understand the type and style of pictures they use and how they use them . If this is in line with your work , make sure that they purchase freelance material . You can determine this by looking at the published picture credits or by telephoning the picture editor to ask . If you decide to submit your work , put your transparencies in cardboard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely use color prints . When submitting black and white photos , you should make a good 8-by-10 print on a nontextured , preferably glossy paper . Each print should be captioned when appropriate and should be marked clearly with your name , address and phone number . Make sure that the prints or slides are packed securely , with adequate protection . Q  --  Is it possible to remove stains when copying black and white photographs ? A  --  Yes , it often is possible to remove them by shooting through a deep yellow or orange filter , but this technique will not be effective with a sepia print as you also will lose detail in the light tones . Q  --  I have ended up with lots of strips of black and white negatives . What is the best way to store them for maximum protection ? A  --  First , be sure that they are well fixed and thoroughly washed , possibly with a hypo-cleansing agent . Strips of negatives should be stored individually in protective sleeves or envelopes ; the glassine type are not recommended for long-term @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sure that no seams are in contact with the negatives and that they are stored so that air can circulate , not stored under pressure . They should be kept in a clean , dry , cool , dark atmosphere . Q  --  What is meant by exposure latitude of a film ? I would like to understand the term . A  --  The term describes the amount of under- or over-exposure that can be given to a film while still producing an acceptable image . Ed Harn is general manager of Standard Photo Supply . Questions of general interest about photography may be addressed to On Cameras , Chicago Tribune , 435 N. Michigan Ave . , Chicago , Ill. 60611 . Unpublished questions can not be answered individually.                     