@@668204

Representatives of Roxbury Community College and Boston State College yesterday expressed vehement opposition to recommendations that would merge Roxbury Community College and Bunker Hill Community College , as well as shift the entire academic and administrative function of Boston State College to UMass-Boston . The proposals , which were debated at a day-long public hearing at the State House yesterday , will apparently not be voted on next Tuesday when the full 15-member state Board of Regents of Higher Education meets in Boston . Dr. George W. Hazzard , chairman of a six-person task force appointed by the board to draft the proposals , noted that more than 70 individuals had requested time to speak , and told the afternoon session that " the scenario calls for further public hearings before asking the regents for a vote . " Roxbury Community College trustee Charleen Cozier told the task force , " There is nothing in your report that would benefit Roxbury CommunityCollege . We have been waiting eight years for a new campus . We reject your proposed merger because we want the right to remain autonomous . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide funding for a new campus in the southwest corridor , " said Cozier . She added , " Tell Gov . King that until we get our facility that people with color can not make it in Massachusetts . " At that point , some 150 faculty , students and supporters of Roxbury Community College left Gardner Auditorium in protest . According to a draft report of the Task Force published earlier this week , a new Boston Community College , with campuses in Roxbury and Charlestown and additional sites located in metropolitan Boston , would be established . Former Mass . Educational Affairs Secretary Paul Parks objected to the plan , saying , " We need long-range solutions , not a short-term budgetary move . It ' s a disgrace to call Roxbury Community College a part of the higher education system in the state . " The school is located on Dudley street in an old building that formerly housed the St. Joseph ' s nursing home . The Legislature has appropriated $30 million for a new campus , but the bond issue that could free the funds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ways and Means Committee or the Office of Administration and Finance . Hazzard , before the hearing , said the task force , as its " top priority , " would seek to build a new Roxbury Community College . Harold Shively , president of Bunker Hill Community College , said he was also disappointed in the plan because " we are being asked to merge without assurance of adequate and new resources . " Recommendations that would discontinue the governance of Boston StateCollege and assign its programs , personnel and other institutional operations to UMass-Boston , and possibly to other campuses because of declining enrollments and program duplication , was supported by UMass administrators , but opposed by Boston State officials . Most of the afternoon crowd of about 200 people supported Boston State ' s position that it should remain autonomous . UMass president David C. Knapp said the proposal would " coordinate and consolidate scarce resources and at the same time extend and improve the educational services available to the citizens of metropolitan Boston . " But while he agreed that basic skills development should generally rest with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ programs are necessary within a university to serve a limited number of students who may have inadequate preparation but who possess potential . " However , Boston State president Robert V. McCarthy urged that consolidation include his school as " an equal partner " with its separate board of trustees , and added that a proposed " rigorous " entrance standard for the two schools would create " an elitist " institution . Dr. John Moon , president of the Boston State Faculty Assn. , said he objected to faculty and staff being treated as " movable parts " in a proposal that would create " a two-tier factory of higher education in the state . "                     