@@735177

txt Performance at the White House " ; 9 p.m . Prklay ; digs-Ch . THIS HAPPY HOLIDAY package is the second In d series , of four public television concerts from the White House . According to Nancy Reagan 's original plan , announced at a proper East Room luncheon last Sep . tenter , four great American artists Rudolph Sorkin , Beverly Sills , Merle Haggard and Gene Kelly would come to the White House , perform , and introduce someone very special , a young protege , who world be treated royally to a nationwide TV debut . It 's a noble Idea and certainly makes for better press than the cost of new dishes . Once the First Lady proposed It , she had no trouble getting public television stations WETA in Washington and WHET In New York to join forcei on the project , and they in turn had . a predictably . easy time getting J.C . Penney , Nabisco Brands and Archer Daniels Midland to underwrite it . Two of the three companies never before had given to public television . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sorkin and his young nominee for greatness , Ida Levin . She played the violin and displayed semarkable talent and an ego the size of Rhode Island . This second show strays a bit from the original concept because Instead of one young protege , Beverly Sills has brought along eight professionals . They are all outstanding members of the New York City Opera , the company that BeVerly Sills began to manage after she retired from singing a year or so ago . THEY ARE , AS YOU 'D expect , thrilling . As SMs says , " They are what Is great about American singers . " The eight are sopranos Ashley Putnam , Manna Roland , Carol Vanes. ; mezzo-soprano Gail Gilmore ; tenors Vinson Cole and Barry McCauley ; and baritones Stephen Dickson and Alan Titus . Sills also hosts the series , and she s a delight . She is effusive , outgoing , at ease  --  all the qualities that Mrs. Reagan appears to have left upstairs in her sitting room . Still , it is Mrs. R. who helped get the series going , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be tottering on the edge of extinction and distinction at the same time , anyone who uses her wily , ' womanly power to boost corporate giving to public television should be applauded . Speaking of applause , the in ? ' White Rouse audience for this second program is a great improvement over the cardboard cutouts that seemed to be part of the East Room wallpaper the first time around . During the SerkIn  --  Levin concert , even the Reagan appeared comatose . This time everyone seems to have moving parts , and a few even appear to be actually enjoying themselves , You can , too , especially.at the end when they all lift voice and spirit with ' a rousing chorus of " Joy to the World . " It 's almost enough to make you believe. : ' .. " The Mike IVellace Profiles " ; tip.in . CBS-Cit . THE FIRST HALF of this interesting hour focuses on we important issue in the life of Robert Kennedy , brother of John and Ted , former attorney general of the United States , senator from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who was killed in 1968 by Sirhan Matt . The issue is Kennedy 's extreme turnaround on the issue of civil rights , . It was RFK , we . now know , who authorized the wiretaps on Martin Luther King 's phone . It was RFK , who before his brother John was killed , is depicted as tough , insensitive , unwilling to believe that , the plight of the black man in America was as bad as he was told , After his brother 's death , after the pain and suffering and loss he experienced , RIM became a champlon.of the underdog and a trusted spokesman for minority interests . Wallace explores the transformation with ? tieveral black leaders who counseled Kennedy throughout : James Baldwin , . Harry , Belafonte , professor Kenneth Clark , lawyer Clarence Jones . He asks them to neon . street a meeting they had with Kennedy 18 years ago . " If he believed what we were telling him then , " Baldwin says , " I do n't think be or his brothel : would be dead today . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fun . and features the life and rhymes of Noel Coward , the remarkable playwright , composer , actor , singer , director who was all the rage in the ' 20s and ' Ms. His brittle wit , his elegance , his urbanity were all a clever pose , says Wallace , who interviews Coward 's close friends , including Mary Martin and Elaine Stritch . He meY have been a homosexual , Stritch says , but he was more of a man than most men she ever knew . It 's a loving , almost gushy profile of a man who ultimately felt love was the most important thing in his life . " Television : Inside and Out " ; 9 p.m . Saturday ; Idea . 5 . THIS WEEK IS Hone Barrett 's fourth attempt to get it right and anchor the kind of " 60 Minutes " ? style treatment of the entertainment industry she must be striving for . There are only five shows scheduled  --  just NBC 's way of paying out her contract , some say  --  and it 's too bad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use a show that takes a closer look at TV . The question is : Do NBC execs need it ? Probably not . The show is spotty and superficial enough to make me think she was set up to fall . The piece her staff did on the Nielsen ratings , for instance , was total garbage . The segment last week on blacks on TV was informative , but it lacked the point of view ? of white power structure , which needs to be there if only to make us laugh . Pat Weaver , her resident wise man , has not been ! mines . sive , and vita Shriner is about as funny as a porcelain crutch , How much is Barrett 's fault ? Her interviews are never boring and sometimes outrageously wonderful . I missed the one in which she wound up kissing Hock HUdson 's hand , but her Richard Dreyfuss piece was juicy and frank , not to mention totally unrelated to what the series is supposed to be about-television . Last week she got Mary Tyler Moore to talk abbot what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a . sister , a son and a 17-year marriage all die within months . After MTM answered , Barrett allowed herself to be speechless . Head down , stunned , she lOoked away , and said something about simply not being able to go on . MTM lurched over and touched herhand . What drama ! What emotion ! Not since Barbara Walters got President Reagan to admit he was a Cstudent in school have seen such raw honesty on the little silvery screen ! This week , it 's hard to say what Barrett and her staff of near-competents will attempt . As of Wednesday , all they had for sure was an interview with Barbara Mandrell and : something about the success of NBC 's " Hill Street Blues . " Last week , his sic-wife . This week , his ex-series . Who knows ? Maybe NBC chief - Grant Tinker will keep Barrett 's Credibility Crutade going after all .                     