@@668396

The Wellesley student running against Sen. David H. Locke in the Norfolk- Bristol-Middlesex District is circulating a flyer that lists " six reasons to make Paul Davis our next senator . " Using personal testimonials from a half-dozen people in the district that runs from Needham to North Attleboro , Davis makes Locke out as a part-time senator who is unresponsive to the needs of senior citizens . He implies that Locke is opposed to " a tough state cancer policy " - whatever that is . Perhaps Davis , if elected , plans to file legislation to outlaw cancer in Massachusetts . Reporters and political writers who have covered the State House during the past two decades can easily cite a dozen reasons why Dave Locke should be returned to the Senate . But one will suffice : Locke is his own man . His distinguished legislative record and his colleagues in the upper chamber - Democrats and Republicans alike - attest to this . Davis may be a fine young man who is well connected , as his flyer indicates , with Democratic legislators in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overwhelmingly Democratic Senate here needs is a freshman Democrat to replace the veteran GOP whip who has been the Senate ' s chief watchdog since 1970 . The addition of more Democrats next year to the lopsided 32-8 majority now enjoyed by the party would prevent the GOP from being able to muster the necessary eight votes for rollcalls on sensitive matters before the chamber . Since 1958 when the Republicans controlled the Senate by a 21-19 margin , the GOP has been steadily losing seats as the population tilted toward the Democrats and the controlling powers in the Senate realigned and tailored the 40 Senate districts to guarantee overwhelming party control there . Fortunately during this period , there always has been a Republican policeman to help floor leader John Parker of Taunton keep some semblance of balance , some measure of control over the aggressive , hungry Democrats . In the 1960s , it was former Sen. Philip A. Graham of Hamilton who prevented the growing Democratic majority from dictatorial control on sensitive , regulatory legislation ( " money " bills ) dealing with racing , liquor , small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1968 after Graham left the Senate , Locke entered after four terms in the House . As a young representative , Locke had quickly established himself as the conscience of his party when he challenged the then GOP minority leader , Rep. Sidney Q. Curtiss of Sheffield , for his " shameful performance " against the Democrats . Curtiss , a quiet , affable , weak lawmaker , headed the GOP House delation during the heyday of former Speaker John F. Thompson of Ludlow . Thompson , who was known as the Iron Duke , so dominated and , at times , terrorized the lower branch that Curtiss and many other would-like-to-be dissidents were afraid to challenge him vigorously . Throughout his Senate career , Locke has exhibited the same aggressiveness and helped keep the Senate from becoming a runaway chamber where the absolute power of the Democrats in the early 1970s corrupted the legislative process and sent three senators to prison . Another is awaiting retrial . Although Locke would never win a popularity contest with his Democratic colleagues , he is highly respected by the opposition . Former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently over lottery and other gambling bills , regarded the GOP minority whip as the most formidable opposition voice in the chamber . One of their most notable clashes came over legislation successfully pushed by Locke for a State Appellate Court to ease the Supreme Judicial Court ' s workload . Democratic gubernatorial nominee Michael Dukakis , who was a colleague of Locke in the House , admires Locke ' s vigilant , adversarial role , their personal differences over the Sacco- Vanzetti case notwithstanding . The senator was very critical of Dukakis when the then-governor issued a proclamation in 1977 suggesting there were compelling grounds to believe that the two men did not get a fair trial before their execution for murder during a South Braintree payroll holdup in 1920 . Locke ' s opposition role also occasionally pits him against officials such as State Treasurer Robert Q. Crane with whom he plays tennis . The attempt last year by the Lottery , which is chaired by Crane , to expand into video gambling , was blocked by Locke . His assault on the " video cash roulette " caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Director William Perrault . It was a big win for Locke and the public .                     