@@734514

txt American Financial Corp apparently made its renewed bid for Fairmont Foods Co. sweet enough to Fairmont 's taste , as the two companies jointly announced that they signed a letter of intent for American Financial to purchase Fairmont Generally , terms of the transaction are the same as those disclosed last week Each Fairmont commlin share would be con.erted into S4 cash and 51.5.50 of American Financial 's 12 ' . debentures due in 1999 , American Financial said . American Financial currently owns 1.2 million shares , or about 27 , , of Fairmont 's 4.5 million common shares outstanding . Fairmont said the value of the transaction , based on its 4 5 million common shares outstanding . is about ST6 million . The company added , however , that if its convertible issue outstanding is converted to common stock prior to the completion of the transaction . the value would be increased about $17 million . According to American Financial , a provision will be made in the definitive agreement to protect both Fairmont common shareholders and American Financial against " substantial changes " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as determined from Dec. 21 , 1979 , to the close of the transaction . The debentures that will be issued in the transaction will be identical " In all material respects " to American Financial in deben ? tures due 1999 that currently are traded ' over-the-counter and on the Pacific Stock Exchange , American Financial said . American Financial said Fairmont 's preferred stock will remain outstanding in the transaction . An American Financial official did n't offer a reason why the company was n't making an offer for the preferred . Asked what value Fairmont 's preferred would have with Fairmont as an American Financial subsidiary , the official replied , ca n't determine the value the market will place on lt . " As previously reported , American Financial in October proposed to buy as many as 993.000 Fairmont shares , or an additional We , at $15 each . American Financial dropped the bid after Fairmont manage- ment said Fairmont 's investment bankers advised them that the proposed tender offer price was n't lair . The proposed acquisition of Fairmont , a convenience  --  store operator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to various conditions , including the negotiation of a definitive contract , certain regulatory approvals and final approval by Fairmont 's directors and shareholders . American Financial , a holding company , has interests in insurance , banking , savings and loan operations and other businesses . Fairmont is a natural extension of American Financial 's business by way of Carl H. Lind. ner , American Financial 's chairman and chief executive officer , and his brother Robert , its vice chairman and senior vice president . Both are partners of United Dairy Farmers , their family 's dairy-processing and convenlenc  --  store concern .                     