@@735818

txt HEALING THE SICK by fixing their genes has been a dream for three decades , ever since scientists discovered the chemical that carries the message of heredity in all of life . Slowly , parts of that dream are becoming reality . Advances in genetics are gradually improving the ability of doctors to diagnose and treat some of the hereditary diseases that afflict an estimated 20 million Americans . It may be decades before the research yields cures , but progress in genetic therapy is being made . And the strides in diagnosis are rapid . The initial help is for relatively rare conditions such as cystic fibrosis , sickle-cell anemia and Tay-Sachs disease . But in the near fu ture , scientists expect results in the more com mon inherited problems of diabetes and some forms of hypertension and coronary artery and kidney disease . " Some research deserves to remain obscure , but this work is definitely ready for prime time , " says Dr. Lawrence Brenkus , a 1 consultant at Arthur D. Little Inc . In the most exotic research , scientists are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properly . But almost all the experiments have been limited to mice and fruit flies . Working with microscopes and hairlike needles , scientists have squirted human genes for insulin and interferon into mouse eggs , for example , and watched the genes become part of the adult animals . MOST SCIENTISTS are n't even considering such transplants in people . Indeed , they are focusing on discovering which genes cause each of the nearly 4,000 hereditary disorders . For example , scientists at the University of California 's San Diego School of Medicine have identified and reproduced a gene whose malfunction leads to a severe form of mental retardation called Lesh Nyhan syndrome . Victims of the syndrome bite everything nearby , even chewing off their own lips and fingers . At California Institute of Technology and the University of California in San Francisco , researchers have identified a gene whose defects may cause multiple sclerosis . Knowing which gene is the culprit may one day help alleviate blood disease . Already researchers have aided a few victims of anemia by awakening dormant genes that helped their blood store oxygen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anemia , which primarily afflicts blacks , or from thalassemia , a related disorder that is common among people of Mediterranean descent . In preliminary experiments , the anemias have been treated with a very toxic drug sometimes used in a leukemia therapy , 5-azacytidine . The gene , which stops working at birth , revives and partly compensates for defects in another gene that causes the anemia . THE THERAPY , unfortunately , may give the patient cancer in place of anemia . " We do n't know for sure , but at this point the risk cuts out almost all potential patients , " says Dr. Samuel Carache of Johns Hopkins University Medical School . Detection rather than treatment of genetic disease appears to hold the greatest promise of benefits soon . Tests are being developed that could make it practical to screen every pregnant woman for the presence of the most common genetic defects . " These tests also could be done on a child or adult as well as a fetus , " says George H. Sack Jr. , a clinical geneticist at Johns Hopkins . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what diseases a child is likely to develop in later life . " In one new prenatal test , copies of defective genes are helping doctors detect thalassemia without drawing a blood sample from the unborn child , which kills about 5% of the babies tested . Another promising technique for genetic analysis enables doctors to spot defects in unborn children as soon as the eighth week of pregnancy . That is two months earlier than is possible through today 's most common test , amniocentesis , and should result in abortions that are safer and emotionally easier . In amniocentesis , fluid from around the fetus is sampled by sticking a long needle through the mother 's abdomen . In the new prenatal test , known as chorionic villius biopsy , a thin plastic tube is put into the uterus through the vagina . The tube sucks out a few of the fingerlike tissues that hold the fetus to the womb . GENES IN THE TISSUE can be analyzed in a few hours , as opposed to the weeks required for analysis of the fluid sample in amniocentesis . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the biopsy also may be less risky than amniocentesis to the mother and child . Soviet , Chinese and European physicians have been working with the biopsy procedure for years , mostly to determine fetal sex . Recently , however , French scientists using chorionic biopsy have diagnosed sickle-cell anemia about two months after conception . In the U.S. , biopsy patients are being accepted on a trial basis by Yale Medical School , Michael Reese Medical Center in Chicago and Thomas Jefferson Medical Center in Philadelphia . " Excitement over the technique is exploding , " says Dr. Maurice J. Mahoney , a Yale professor of human genetics who made a presentation on the technique earlier this week to fellow scientists in Norfolk , Va. , at a convention of the Society for Human Genetics . " We have to proceed cautiously , however , " he says . It is n't yet clear how much risk the biopsy holds for mother or child . " The early experience is reassuring , " the doctor says . " Answers will take another two or three years to get . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to do something about it is very exciting . "                     