@@668648

Long awaited plans to convert the vacant Goldblatt ' s department store into a new central library still hinge on the city ' s acquisition of property owned in partnership by Cook County Sheriff Richard Elrod that was described Tuesday as the only appropriate site for a library auditorium . The importance of the property , the Key Building on the southeast corner of State Street and Jackson Boulevard , was stressed by architects as final design plans were displayed at a board meeting in the empty department store . The planners said they hoped to build the auditorium and an arcade entrance on the site . The city is attempting to take possession of the Elrod building through the power of eminent domain , said assistant corporation counsel Kenneth Cortesi . The city made an offer of $900 , 000 to the Elrod group last month , which was rejected as too low . Elrod said in an interview last month that he believes the building is worth at least $1. 5 million . Cortesi could not offer an estimate of how long it would take for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only about 40 feet of the State Street block that is to provide the main entrance to the new library , but it represents the best location for a library auditorium , said Thomas Welch , an architect at Holabird &; Root . The Goldblatt ' s building has structural columns that stand only 20 feet apart , leaving too little open space for an auditorium , he said . " Our desire is that we really should complete the block , " he said , noting that the Key Building occupies the only space on the block that is not part of the 10-story Goldblatt ' s building . " We need the long-span space for an auditorium , " he said , displaying plans for an arcade entrance that features two-story-high arched windows that " are sympathetic " to the style of the terra cotta building but do not " imitate " the original design . Thomas O ' Neill , president of the project ' s supervising firm , Lester B. Knight and Associates , told the board that the firm hopes to complete documents in preparation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Construction would begin three months later , he said . The new library is scheduled to open in May , 1988 . A new subway stop on the elevated line that runs south of the building would be installed as part of the plan . Final design work has been completed for about a year , and it included tests on the building ' s structure that Jerome Butler , city commissioner of public works , labeled Tuesday as " unusually thorough . " The floors of the building were put under stress tests that " duplicated the weight of fully loaded stacks of books . " The floors were tested to withstand 326 pounds of weight per square foot , more than twice the weight expected to be present from books , furnishings , visitors and staff , said David Sauer , project manager for Lester B. Knight . Samples of structural steel were removed from the building and sent to labs for testing . Inspectors found it to be " very similar in characteristics to modern steel . It ' s nice for structural engineers to work with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside " skin " of the 1912 building was examined to see how well it had been maintained . Sauer said the terra cotta surface needs some work but that only 2 percent needs replacement . The renovation work on the terra cotta will be placed for bid separately next month , Sauer said . Library board members , staff and visitors made their way into the vacant store , past piles of construction rubble and scraps of dirty , worn carpeting . The board met in a brightly lit room , actually a partioned area on the second floor , that had been painted as a " mock-up " of different stlyes of design . Of the nine structural columns in the partitioned area , three featured gold-painted trim on the elaborate decoration at the top , three featured a pink and purple " Egyptian motif " and three were painted with a combination of red , pink and blue . The walls next to the high , arched windows featured paint that ranged from pink to green to blue  --  with the exception of one area that had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a mix of patterns and colors . " The first floor space at this point , one would say , is not particularly inspiring , " Welch acknowledged . But the open spaces of the building will transform easily into a building for public use as a library , he said . In another matter , library board president James Lowry asked four top deputy commissioners to organize themselves into a committee that will review " hundreds " of proposed promotions and hirings of library staff members . Lowry , who is acting library commissioner as well as board president , said he was concerned that promotions were being made too often " on the basis of tenure " and asked the deputy commissioners to review all the personnel decisions to make sure the best people are chosen for positions that really must be filled.                     