@@668122

A persistent pioneer in research NEWBURYPORT - George Snell is known by friends for the quality of his research , the glory of his garden , and persistence of spirit - even after his life ' s work was wiped out by fire . Snell , 76 , has devoted his life to deciphering the incredibly complex genetics of the mouse immune system , work for which he was named a corecipient yesterday of the 1980 Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine . The $215,000 award will be split among Snell , Baruj Benacerraf of Harvard University , and Jean Dausset of the University of Paris . A quiet , unassuming man , Snell had in 1942 tackled one of the most important and difficult problems in biology : why tissue from one member of a species is rejected by another member of the same species . That pioneering research , done at the Jackson Laboratory in scenic Bar Harbor , Maine , has led directly to the beginnings of an understanding of the mammalian immune response . He became one of the world ' s leading authorities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s work , indeed , was a key element in making organ transplants possible , since it led to some understanding of how , and why , the body tries to reject implanted organs . This work is also important toward understanding why the body is able to destroy some types of cancer cells , while others survive to grow into tumors . He discovered what is called the H-2 histocompatibility complex in the mouse , which is similar to the set of genes in humans - the HLA hostocompatibility complex - responsible for identifying implanted organs as " foreign , " or " nonself . " In an impromptu news conference yesterday , held at the Hoyt- Merrill House in Newburyport , Snell said the genetic system he uncovered is very complex , " not a single locus , but a whole group of genes . " He explained that his work was done by carefully breeding , cross- breeding and rebreeding selected strains of mice , gradually isolating the genes needed for study . In the process , too , he developed strains of laboratory mice that have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began this work at Bar Harbor in 1933 . A colleague at Bar Harbor said Snell " had gotten to the first set of crosses that was going to lead him someplace " when the mice were destroyed by a 1947 fire . That blaze took much of Acadia National Forest , along with an adjacent facility in which Snell ' s research was housed . " So he started all over again , and by 1957 he finally reached his goal . " Snell commented , as his wife , Rhoda , and one of his son ' s Peter , looked on , that " I worked on this as a problem in basic research . I was asking what these genes are like , how many there are and what their function is . " Noting that " everybody hopes that what they do will turn out to be useful , " Snell said the work with laboratory mice " speeded up our understanding of the same system in man , and led to an understanding of organ transplants in general . " Snell and his wife were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grand opening of their son ' s new business , Snell Acoustics Inc. , manufacturer of high fidelity loudspeakers . Mrs. Snell said all three of their sons - Peter , 34 , Tom , 42 , and Roy , 37 - had attended the celebration . Tom , of Wentworth , N.H. , runs a data processing center , while Roy is an architect in South Woodstock , Vt . In addition to his scientific work , a cousin , Katharine C. Snell , commented , he is a consummate gardener . " His garden is the pride of Bar Harbor , " she declared . A friend noted , too , that during World War II , when victory gardens were being emphasized , Snell ' s garden was outstanding . Even though Snell officially retired from the staff at the Jackson Laboratory in 1973 , the pace of his research work hasn ' t changed . Friends said he writes prolifically , visits his laboratory regularly , and is frequently involved in conferences and meetings . " This research is something you either have to do full time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yesterday . " You can ' t go at it halfway . You have to work at it full time , or get out . " Snell is the first Nobel laureate on the staff at the Jackson Laboratory . He received his bachelor ' s degree in biology at Dartmouth University in 1926 , where he was known as an extraordinary clarinet player and outstanding member of the Dartmouth band . He went on for his master ' s and doctor ' s degrees at Harvard University , and then returned to Dartmouth for a two-year stint as instructor . He also taught at Brown University before joining the Jackson Laboratory . Snell said his early work dealt with the damage done to genetic materials by X-rays.                     