@@735233

txt After two days of lambasting Reagan administration policies , the AFL-CIO 's executive council focused on the nuts and bolts of how to elect candidates who support the views of organized labor . Yesterday , John Perkins . the new director of the Committee on Political Education . the federation 's political arm . outlined details of an election-year game plan . The strategy includes communicating with state and local union organizations , encouraging coalitions with special interest groups , working closely with the Democratic Party and launching counterattacks against conservative assaults on labor 's political friends . The 35-member council , at its winter meeting here , also worked out details of how its Media Institute , formed last year , will try to bolster labor 's image . But the council was cautious in appraising its prospects in this year 's congressional elections . For example , the AFL-CIO currently projects that the Democratic Party will pick up only five new seats in the House , a smaller gain than many political analysts are predicting . AFL-CIO spokesman Murray Seeger added that council members concluded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Democratic Party will recapture control of the Senate . Both the emphasis on broad political activities and the caution reflect the style of Mr. Perkins , who last month succeeded 72-year-old Alexander Barkan as head of the political committee . Mr. Perkins , 48 years old , plans to use communications technology far more than his predecessor . And , at least publicly , he tends to underestimate prospects for success . For example , when he coordinated labor 's Solidarity Day rally last fall , he consistently played down the expected turnout , making the protest appear to be a huge success . The committee , Mr. Perkins said , will pay particular attention to the needs of grass roots labor organizations . For example , the council yesterday approved a limited endorsement of candidates by local and state labor organizations . The new endorsement . which is n't expected to be used frequently , would be for candidates whose record has slipped in labor 's view but who still are considered preferable to their opponents . The federation currently does n't give labor groups such flexibility . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been forced to become more conservative in today 's political climate . In another change that the council discussed yesterday , the committee will make special efforts to increase members ' knowledge of state election laws when such information can benefit labor . For example , Mr. Seeger said , individuals in Michigan are permitted to change voter registration when they renew driver licenses . Michigan is a heavily unionized state and such rules could be used to swell the vote for labor 's candidates . Also , as previously reported , Mr. Perkins plans to use computers to send personalized letters on specific issues to union members . Currently most members receive general mailings . The AFL-CIO also plans to respond promptly and forcefully to attacks by conservative political action groups on candidates supported by labor . Mr. Seeger , noting that Sen. Paul Sarbanes ( D .. Md. ) is the target of a New Right campaign , said , " You will see a counterattack in Maryland by labor and other liberal groups to knock that stuff down . " The council also announced that its Institute @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in three major areas . It will sponsor and produce programs in an effort to tell labor 's story through the electronic media to the public and to union members . It also regularly will poll union members and the public in an effort to keep labor leaders in tune with public opinion on a variety of issues . Finally , the institute will select markets and advise AFL-CIO unions on the best way to spend their advertising dollars . Mr. Seeger said that the institute 's budget had n't been set , but that " it will be funded as needed . " Financing , in part , will come from a dues increase approved last November at the AFL-CIO 's convention .                     