@@668356

John Lakian went to dinner at the Kennedy School at Harvard last week and one of the first things he did was to take a crack at the Kennedys . It is true that he has a bit of money behind him , but not nearly as much , Lakian suggested , as John F. Kennedy , whose father " bought " a share of the 1960 Democratic National Convention . This produced a little gasp from several of those present . Lakian said he only meant to stimulate conversation . Then , in explaining how he represents " a new generation " of political candidates , Lakian , 39 , described himself as a child of the Vietnam era who " participated in the drug and sexual revolutions " of the 1960s and 1970s . Asked by an active Democrat to detail his " participation , " Lakian uncharacteristically demurred . Differentiating himself from former governor Michael S. Dukakis , Lakian said a major distinction was their knowledge of business . Dukakis " could not find his way around the private sector with a map , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bowels . " Colorful statements like these are not new to Lakian , the Westwoodfinancial adviser who has become the convention-endorsed Republican candidate for governor . Lakian has had some kind remarks for his President , Ronald Reagan , for instance , but warned recently that Reagan ' s economic program could lead to " massive dislocation because of unemployment " that could " go through 10 percent like melted butter . " Lakian also said last July he thought Reagan might be guilty of " throwing money at the military without asking them to justify the weapons - how good they are . " Two months ago , when supporters of Rep. William G. Robinson of Melrose claimed a delegate lead going into the Republican state convention , Lakian said , " I think they ' re smoking dope . " On Gov . Edward J. King and day care , Lakian said last month , " My opinion is that Ed King is really parochial on the issue and thinks that mommy ought to stay home with the kids . " But Lakian said he personally would rather run @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and money comes pouring in versus Dukakis , " he said . Lakian said of the private sector : " Cannibalistic capitalism brings out the best in our system . " And he seemed eager to transfer some of that sentiment to the public sector when he pledged , as governor , to encourage strong Republican challenges of such key Democratic legislators as House Speaker Thomas W. McGee and Senate Ways and Means Chairman Chester G. Atkins . " You have to be a bit of a streetfighter , " Lakian said . " The Speaker will be contested vigorously in Lynn - where it counts . " Lakian says he will be able to achieve a major increase in funding for public higher education " simply because it ' s easier for a Republican to get away with it . . . People don ' t think we ' re in the tank to the education lobby . " Teachers should have some job security , Lakian said last month , because " educators don ' t like economic insecurity - that ' s why they ' re educators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , self-serving and blustery . At other times , it seems fresh , candid , passionate . When he announced his candidacy last Dec. 1 , Lakian took a helicopter tour of the state that included a statement at a stop in Lynn . Two reporters showed up , only one of them local . And it was cold . But Lakian made an abbreviated version of his announcement speech anyway . " They come out when it ' s cold , and you owe them that , " he said . " You have to act as if you ' re on stage for that one person , because you are . " Not all of his remarks are so well-considered , however ; some are just plain wrong . Lakian said last week , for instance , that local aid is approaching 10 percent of the state budget , when in fact it is already at 30 percent . And he remarked that , through job scheduling , " the Speaker of the House controls the appointment and the promotion of almost the entire state bureaucracy , " a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at his announcement that there would be " no new taxes , " but has recently been talking about the possibility of a new gross receipts tax on oil companies and local option taxes such as a hotel-motel tax . Many people , however , seem willing to excuse inconsistencies from political candidates , and are even more likely to suspend their disbelief when the candidate is a neophyte , an outsider like Lakian . And Lakian is playing this to the hilt . He talks openly about the extent to which his whole candidacy is built on the assumption that voters are so angry at incumbent officeholders they are willing to try anything . Or , as Lakian himself put it last week , the public , presented with two rascals , willthrow out the one it knows better and take a chance on the one it knows less well . Yet Lakian said the other part of the strategy is to hire the best insiders available and do the insider kinds of things , like wining and dining delegates , that are needed to win . Whether Lakian ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cynicism depends on the listener . Likewise , Lakian is running something of a populist campaign , in that he has gone out of his way to attack big business , the utilities , the Associated Industries of Massachusetts and " the fancy guy with the tie and the suit " who usually escapes the full weight of the law . Said Lakian last July , " I cannotallow myself to be boxed in as some conservative , knee-jerk Republican . " Yet the whole basis of his pitch about his own qualifications is that he has been " a success at business and can turn it into good solid government . " Candor - even a critical , wisecracking brand of candor - seems to be a political asset these days . Certainly Ed Koch has done all right with it in New York . But Koch had a much longer public record . As Lakian ' s candidacy moves forward , it will be important to try to figure out just what he is saying . In an underdog campaign involving a potential longshot winner , people often ignore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endorsement of a generally conservative convention without apparently suffering much from the fact that he is for the Equal Rights Amendment , for gay rights legislation and for government funding of abortions - he even described himself as " pro- abortion " last week . More important than such simple issues , however , is the search for substance and coherence behind Lakian ' s colorful rhetoric . Last week , for instance , Lakian said that legislators " by their very nature are not very strong individuals " because they must necessarily accommodate conflicting pressures from lobbyists , colleagues , constituents and the like . But if Lakian thinks he would avoid such pressures simply by being a political executive rather than a legislator , he is setting a trap for himself and the state .                     