@@668408

Milwaukee ' s main downtown thoroughfares became scenes of near bedlam last night as thousands of revelers celebrated the city ' s first major league baseball pennant in a quarter century . Police stood by helplessly as youths jumped atop cars of passersbys or rocked them back and forth after the throng , in effect , forced the closing of Wisconsin avenue , the main street . Other cars with occupants leaning out of windows careened through side streets with horns blowing . It was was reminiscent of the street celebrations that occurred when the Braves , then of Milwaukee , won the National League pennant in 1957 and 1958 . " We ' re No. 1 , " was the repeated cheer last night . It all started early in the night at County Stadium when the Milwaukee Brewers won the American League pennant with a 4-3 victory over the California Angels . When Rod Carew grounded out in the ninth , sealing the Angels ' fate , hundreds of fans , led mainly by bleacherites , jumped over the barriers and rushed to the infield . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bases while the public address announcer begged them to leave the field . The billboard flashed a sign : " Please leave the field . Due to the recent rain , the playing field can be easily damaged . It is important that the field be ready for next weekend ' s World Series . " The fans paid no heed . For almost an hour they milled about on the infield and outfield . They were told that the players would come out to make a bow , but not until the field was cleared . " It ' s pandemonium , " one fan who stayed in his seat said . " But it ' s good- natured pandemonium . " One young man proudly displayed a patch of grass and mud about a foot square that he apparently had dug up from the playing field . Finally , as the crowd moved to the parking lot and nearby streets , the scoreboard sign flashed the word that no players would appear . No matter , by now nearly everyone was outside . A group that had arrived @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ danced a jig in front of cars as motorists tried to leave . Cars on Blue Mound Road , the closest city thoroughfare to the ballpark , were moving a few feet every 10 minutes . Motorists sounded their horns as celebrants walked between the autos , some handing beer bottles to the drivers . About 50 persons stood on the sidewalk and in the street in front of Ray Jackson ' s , a favorite gathering place for Brewer fans , and drank beer or wine . Most gave passing motorists the victory sign or the " We ' re No. 1 sign . " More fans stood on the roof of nearby Schlehlein Brothers tavern and waved to other revelers . At one point , police on foot rushed to break up a group that had completely blocked the street . The celebrators moved back good- naturedly and no arrests were made . From the Marquette University area through downtown , traffic on Wisconsin avenue was at a virtual standstill for hours . Many motorists regretted driving into the morass . Five youths climbed atop the hood of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The youths pounded cake pans with wood sticks and jumped up and down . As the hood began to cave in , the young woman driver got out of the car and yelled at the youths to get off . They paid no heed . The woman ' s female companion , wielding the broom she carried as a symbol of a clean sweep for the Brewers , struck at the youths , but her weapon was ineffective . The two women finally gave up the struggle and sat glumly in the car .                     