@@735141

txt Union leaders assembled here for the AFL-CIO centennial convention starting today are showing solid support of the federation 's increasingly aggressive approach to organized labor 's mounting problems . Early this year the AFL-CIO 's president , Lane Kirkland , was criticized for responding too cautiously to the challenges of the Reagan administration . But recently the federation has begun playing a more active role in Democratic Party policies , union organizing and image-building , and has taken to the streets to protest the administration 's economic policies . This change of direction has n't solved labor 's problems . Its membership base continues to erode and it has been hit hard by the weak economy and administration budget cuts . Still , " The labor movement is more unified now than it has been for a long time . Our reaction to Reagan has brought us together in our adversity . " says Howard Samuel . president of the federation 's industrial union department . As a result , little resistance is expected this week when delegates are asked to approve a steep dues increase to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raise current monthly dues of 19 cents a member to 24 cents next year and 27 cents in 1983 was approved unanimously by the AFL-CIO 's executive council last weekend . The federation has about 15 million members , so each one-cent increase adds about $1.7 million annually , to its coffers , a spokesman said . Labor 's Story A big portion of the proposed dues increase would support a new " labor institute for public affairs " designed to bolster the sagging image of unions . Labor leaders had urged Mr. Kirkland to establish such a unit to coordinate organized labor 's public relations efforts , which normally are left to individual unions . Glenn Watts . president of the Communications Workers of America union . says the AFL-CIO will spend about S5 million annually on the effort . The institute will concentrate on commercial , cable and satellite television , telling labor 's story through advertising and public affairs programs . The federation also plans to use some new dues money for a major organizing campaign that began last month in Houston . Unions have been unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Houston campaign will be an important test of labor 's ability to attract members . While the federation has launched several such efforts in the past , the Houston project will be by far the largest , involving as many as 40 unions . Of course , there will be some disagreement at this week 's convention . For example , delegates will discuss a resolution concerning the right of public employes to strike . Mr. Reagan 's firing last summer of the air-traffic controllers who illegally walked off the job helped unite labor leaders . Mr. Kirkland contends that all workers have the right to withhold labor during disputes . but some labor leaders contend that this position should be modified . Vacuum ' " There are special categories of public workers that have to give up their right to strike . " says Sol Chaikin , president of the International Ladies ' Garment Workers Union . For example , he adds . " I feel the community ca n't afford the sight of buildings burning and firemen picketing . " Some concern will be expressed that labor could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " protest against the Reagan program if other events are n't planned . " We 're creating a vacuum that has got to be filled . " warns William Winpisinger , president of the International Association of Machinists union . But it is expected that the convention will be offered only a general resolution declaring that the next national election day . Nov. 2. 1982. be called " Solidarity Day II . " And although the convention will rail against Reagan administration economic policies , the AFL-CIO wo n't offer any fresh alternatives . Rather , it will continue to advocate government intervention in the economy in the form of credit controls , certain price controls and public spending programs at a time when the tide is running against such measures .                     