@@668929

Critics of the 1968 fair-housing law always decried its lack of " teeth . " Now , after years of debate , Congress has approved overwhelmingly a new set that may bite some of the people they are intended to protect . The good news is that the new legislation , after 11 years of disputes between civil rights groups and real estate associations , strengthens the original law enacted in 1968 by empowering Department of Housing and Urban Development officials to bring legal proceedings against parties they believe are guilty of housing discrimination . Under the original law , HUD could resolve such disputes only through mediation . But Congress , unable to leave well enough alone , took the present law , which makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of race , color , sex , religion or national origin , and added new protected groups that could raise the costs of dwellings and threaten legitimate rights of others who live in them . The legislation , expected to be signed into law by President Reagan , imposes new restrictions on the ability of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against people who have disabilities and families who have children . That sounds admirable . No one wants to discriminate against the physically handicapped or families with children . But when you consider the impact of a law that extends the principles of affirmative action to such groups , serious questions are raised . For example , the new law establishes a national building code , passed without hearings , that requires all units in new apartment buildings of four units or more to be " reasonably accessible or adaptable to handicapped persons . " Some senators said that would require only lowered light switches and widened doorways to accommodate wheelchairs . But a stricter interpretation might find the law required ramps , elevators , special kitchen equipment and other features that could add thousands of dollars to the per-unit cost , even if no tenants needed them . An effort to soften that requirement by limiting it to a few units in such buildings was voted down . While it makes sense for the government to require that public buildings be made accessible to the unassisted disabled , it makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on private property owners . Those costs will be passed back to renters , further shrinking the affordable-housing market . Bans on discrimination against families with children are already on the books in some states , including Illinois , but have been sporadically enforced for a number of practical reasons . Communities full of young singles have different needs from those of retirement communities or those whose residents want playmates for their children . But fair housing , as defined by the new bill , sets up " familial status " as a protected group , presumably making it as illegal to " steer " a family to a neighborhood with schools and Little League as it would be to steer a black or Hispanic family toward a ghetto . There is no reason beyond blatant bigotry for discriminating against racial , ethnic or religious minorities . But there are some practical reasons why night-shift workers or others might need the peace and quiet an " adults- only " environment affords . Lawmakers recognized this only to the extent of granting exemptions for some senior-citizen communities . Other dangers lurk in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ court to freeze a vacant house or apartment after its sale or rental has been challenged on fair-housing grounds . Less than a month is then allowed for those accused to ask for a jury trial . This may put undue pressure on landlords or sellers to buy off a claim , even if it has no merit . Unfortunately , it ' s a bit late for objections . In this election year the flawed bill sailed through Congress on the merits of the rightful need to put some teeth in the old law . Both George Bush and Michael Dukakis have blessed it . Perhaps sober afterthought-after the election , that is-will lead to wise revisions later.                     