@@668210

The first real breakthrough in the baseball strike after a 30- day stalemate seemed to be at hand last night . Representatives for both the owners and the Players Assn. came out of a three-hour meeting with a favorable reaction to a three- page proposal drawn up by federal mediator Kenneth Moffett that is designed to solve the thorny issue of free agent compensation . The plan is not just a juggling of numbers , as has been the case in previous proposals submitted by the Player Relations Committee . It is a revolutionary approach to movement of free agents that maintains the freedom of the premier free agent , and at the same time allows the kind of movement between clubs that in time could give major league baseball the competitive balance other professional draft plans are designed to fill . Player representatives and the PRC took a four-hour recess at 5:20 p.m. for dinner and further individual discussion of Moffett ' s plan which was presented to both sides on Thursday morning . They were to resume talks at 10 p.m. and it was likely that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either 10 o ' clock tonight or 10 a.m. tomorrow , " said the Orioles ' Doug DeCinces , spokesman for the players . " We want to get this thing over as soon as possible , so we said let ' s do it right away . There are portions that both sides find hard to deal with . But there is a skeleton there for some kind of agreement . " The skeleton lies in the fact that the players will apparently get the right not to have their free agency hampered by heavy compensation . Premier free agents are subject to no compensation at all , and will not be a part of the reentry draft . They may sign with any team . For purposes of player movement , the definition of a premier player has been tightly defined and excludes players with 12 years or more of service , those over 35 and any player who has been a free agent before . For the rest of the players it is another story . They are not only subject to compensation , but clubs that sign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or $150,000 , depending upon which club does the signing . All of this movement is set up through a system of club rankings which directly affects those involved in player movement The clubs are ranked on a 9-8-9 ratio , with the listing top to bottom based on how the clubs finished in the standings for the previous two seasons . Generally speaking , players moving from the top clubs to the bottom clubs can do so without the signing clubs being required to give compensation . But if a player signs with a club within his grouping , or one higher , then the club losing the player is entitled to some form of compensation . Based on the won-loss standings for 1980 and the 1981 season until June 11 , the Red Sox would rank 12th overall and be placed in Group B. The full groupings are as follows : Group A - New York Yankees , Baltimore , Houston , Los Angeles , Philadelphia , Montreal , Kansas City , Cincinnati . Group B - Milwaukee , Detroit , Boston , Pittsburgh , Texas , Cleveland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sox , San Francisco , San Diego , California , Minnesota , New York Mets , Toronto , Chicago Cubs , Seattle . If a Red Sox player , whose club is in category B , became a free agent and decided to sign with a club from group A or from one of the other teams in the B group , Boston would be entitled to compensation . In case one , it would be a player after the signing club has protected 30 players . In the second case , it would be an amateur draft choice . If Ron Guidry of the Yankees , for instance , signed with Boston , the Red Sox would not have to offer any compensation because Guidry would probably be a ( 1 ) premier player and ( 2 ) a player moving downward from Group A to B. The plan calls for a a maximum number of 12 premier players who are subject to player added compensation . The 13th premier free agent signed results in only an amateur draft choice and cash considerations . While the players seemed outwardly pleased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it hard selling some of the more successful owners like George Steinbrenner who in theory could lose some of those big-money free agents he has been signing - without compensation . Many fall into the premier player category , like Reggie Jackson . Based on the above rankings , the have-not teams statistically includes the California Angels . Not many owners might see the advantage of helping a club that already is loaded with free agent talent and is considered a pennant contender .                     