@@668459

LEE , N.H. - Before a long race , runners eat like pigs to store enough carbohydrates for energy . At the University of New Hampshire , pigs are eating like runners and " jogging " to see if the strange diet is bad for the heart . " They are about ready to begin intensive training " to become " endurance athletes , " said project director Alan Parsons , an assistant professor of animal science . The pigs train on a small , motorized treadmill in a building where they live at the university ' s agricultural section near the Durham campus . " Right now they ' re just going along at a good , comfortable walk , but I ' m , looking to get them up to slow jog , maybe 6 mph for a half hour , " Parsons said . " We don ' t know how long we can get them to go , or how far or how fast . The target is to run them for a half hour at 80 percent of their maximum heart rate , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that ' s fine , " he said . Pigs ' digestive systems and cardiovascular systems are " remarkably similar " to human systems , Parsons said , making them good subjects for the test . " Their heart responds to exercise and stress much the same way as ours does . " The training will be combined with a special diet based on the nutrient pattern recommended by the US Senate Select Committee on Nutrition and Human Needs . For the two-year project , the 15 pigs are split into three groups . " One of the groups will have no exercise and just be fed that diet , " Parsons said . " One group will be turned into endurance athletes and fed the same diet and another group will be turned into endurance athletes and fed that same diet most of the time except when they are being carbohydrate loaded . " Carbohydrate loading is a manipulation of body chemistry practiced by athletes shortly before endurance tests like a marathon run . Usually seven days before the event they begin eating food high in fat and protein , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with exhausting exercise , that diet will deplete the body of its store of carbohydrates and glycogen , sugar vital for endurance . " Then for three days they switch to another diet that is high in carbohydrates , low in fat , but has plenty of protein - the spaghetti and beer diet , " he said . The result is a " remarkable increase in glycogen levels in muscles that is proported to enhance endurance , " he said . " The carbohydrate loading diet is potentially a very poor diet and potentially is going to cause arteriosclerosis because of the very high fat content and the meal plans that you have to follow , " Parson said . Enter the jogging pigs - Hazel , Bertha , Meghann , Margot , Felicity and their friends . The goal is to find out how diet and exercise interact and whether the effects of exercise in warding off hardening of the arteries and heart attack are negated by carbo loading . After two years of training , the pigs will be " sacrificed " and autopsies performed to see how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these animals and studying what is going on in their bodies , perhaps we ' ll have a better handle on what ' s going on in ours , " Parsons said . The pigs appear to enjoy the exercise . " They look forward to running , " Parsons said . " You let them out of the pen and they will run . . . right up the ramp and onto the treadmill . We ' ll run them for awhile and as soon as you stop the treadmill they are looking up , Where ' s my apple ? ' You give them a piece of apple , they ' re happy , " he said . " They are not going to do this if they don ' t like it . " The treadmill has plywood sides to keep the pigs on the track and either Parsons or Marylynn Cady , who manages the swine unit , stands behind them to make sure the pigs don ' t fall off if they stop walking while the track is moving . " We take them up ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximum speed , hold them there , then give them a cool down , just like you would give an athlete on a stress test on a treadmill , " Parsons said . The pigs weight 80 to 150 pounds . They are not the fat , dirty , lumbering animals you might imagine . " We ' re going to have some nice , lean running pigs , " Parsons said . The stereotypes , he said , come from " bad press . " Parsons , a runner himself who is training one pig to jog outside on a leash with him , said he has heard no complaints yet from the pigs about bad knees or shin splints , two common running ailments . " In fact , they don ' t get up as stiff in the morning as I do , " he said .                     