@@735153

txt THE U.S. BUREAU of Labor Statistics reported Tuesday that prices in the Chicago area droPpeci ? 0:3 per cent in October , the first decline since January . ' Alto price moderation also was reflected nationally . Inflation rose just 0.4 per - cent in October , the smallest gain for any month since prices went up 0.1 per cent nationally in July , 1980 , If October 's inflation rate continued for a year , prices would be down 3.7 per cent in , the Chicago area And up only 4.9 per cent across the country . The inflation rate in the Chicago area over the last 12 months has been 8.0 per cent , compared to a 12-month rate In August of 12.5 per ceht ' THE KEY ' TO the favorable figures wnsihousing costs , which fell 1.1 per cent Rothe Chicago area and were flat nation . ' ally:after rising steadily for months , Ironically , the improvement in housing cdsti came in the same month that the ' government , bowing to pressure from economists , agreed to reduce the weight oPthe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beginning in 1983 . The economists had contended that the housing component , which makes up 41 per cent of the CPI , was unrealistically skewing the index . The seasonally adjusted national CPI rose 9.6 per cent in the first 10 months of . this year to 279.9 , meaning that goods that cost $10 in 1967 would have cost ' $27.99 last month . The Chicago-Northwest Indiana CPI is up 6.6 per cent since the beginning of the year to 276.1 , In September , prices rose 0.4 per cent in the Chicago area and 1.2 per cent nationally . WITH THE RECESSION dampening demand for goods and services , economists do not expect any large increases In the inflation rate in the last two months of 1981 . The experts expect the inflation rate for this year to be about 9.5 per cent . One economist , Donald Ratajczak , director of Georgia State University 's Economic Forecasting Project , said in a recent report that " continued moderation in energy and food prices may prevent the CPI from hitting double-digit rates during the fall , but only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently that next year should be a virtually " shock-proof " year for inflation . Analysts say the current recession is responsible for the flattening of housing costs nationally , and the more laggard economy in the Chicago area put a big dent in the cost of housing here . Home prices declined sharply , the bureau of statistics said , and although it does not break out figures on home prices , it said the cost of honle dwnership  --  which includes purchase costs , financing , mainte- COnsumer prices nonce , insurance , and taxes  --  fell 0,7 per , cent in the Chicago area in October . CHICAGO-AREA food and beverage prices , down 0.2 per cent In September , were up by the same amount in October , one of the few components in the inflation rate to show an increase in the month . Grocery prices were up 0.3 per cent in October and up 2.9 per cent since October , 1980 . Most of the rise was accounted for by a 0.5 per cent increase in the price of meat , poultry , fish , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last 12 months is down 0.7 per cent . The prices of cereal and baked goods , dairy products , and alcoholic beverages fell fractionally in the month , while the costs of fruits and vegetables and eating out were unchanged . The increase in ' food and beverage prices nationally was also 0.2 per cent in October , following a brisk 1 per cent rise ' in September . October grocery prices were up 0.1 per cent . Transportation costs showed the largest increase for the month in the Chico. " go area , rising 1 per cent . Most of this increase was due to higher prices for , used cars , auto financing , and auto maintenance .                     