@@669047

What began as a routine traffic stop in Salt Lake City nearly two years ago led to a series of drug smuggling arrests on Monday that extended from Joliet to the Texas Gulf coast , authorities said . In all , 16 people were named in federal indictments in the case , returned by a grand jury in Houston , with help from Chicago-based federal drug enforcement agents , Illinois State Police investigators and Utah officers . The indictments charged the 16 , many of them members of the same family , with operating a " pipeline " through which an estimated 75 tons of marijuana and smaller quantities of cocaine were smuggled to the Midwest from staging points in Guadalajara , Mexico and Brownsville , Tex . At least 11 of those charged were immediately taken into custody . Among them were two reputed ringleaders , George Rodriguez Sr. , a Joliet ice cream vendor , and Alberto Banuelos , a land developer from Benito , Tex . Each was charged with operating a continuing criminal enterprise and each faces a life sentence and a fine of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ federal warrants from Texas in Illinois were Rodriguez ' s wife , Sofia Verde ; his son and a brother , George Rodriguez Jr. and Jose Rodriguez , both of Joliet ; Jose Rodriguez ' s wife , Diane Rodriguez ; and a fourth Joliet man , Jesse Borunda . They were charged with conspiracy for allegedly arranging to smuggle marijuana and cocaine or to sell the drugs throughout Illinois . The roundup of suspects was certain to crimp a lucrative flow of marijuana , which began in Mexico and terminated in Joliet , authorities said , explaining that police in Utah stumbled onto the smuggling activity in October , 1987 , when a van loaded with 600 pounds of pot was intercepted on an interstate highway in Salt Lake City . The pot find followed a stop by an officer suspicious of the driver , who fit a federal profile of smugglers : a young Hispanic male , nervous , alone and usually driving over the speed limit . A subsequent investigation , said regional drug enforcement chief Raymond Vinsik in Chicago , identified Rodriguez Sr. in Joliet and Banuelos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ together . Investigators said the Utah van was fitted with compartments under the floor boards to hold marijuana . But the pungent odor of ripening grass seeped out , despite floor board insulation , prompting the search , they said . Banuelos was in charge of arranging transport for the marijuana and cocaine through a fleet of 15 altered vans , each capable of holding 600 pounds of grass , according to the indictments . Profits from the drug ring figured closely in the government ' s case , with authorities contending in the indictments that large sums of cash derived from drug sales went to acquire dozens of residential and commercial properties in the Joliet area as well as in the Texas Rio Grande Valley . In this regard , Rodriguez Sr. and a Texan identified as Bueford Moody were charged with helping to launder " hundreds of thousands of dollars " in violation of federal law that requires all cash transactions of $10 , 000 or more to be reported to the government . By investing in property , the traffickers hoped to launder drug money of its illegal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus shielding themselves from suspicion , according to documents in the case , known as Operation Northbound . As jailhouse doors here and in Texas swung open to accommodate those charged , authorities seized their properties . Locally , property seized included the home and retail ice cream business of George Rodriguez Sr. , in Joliet at 423 Clay St. and 510 Collins St. , respectively ; a Hispanic social venture known as the Spanish-American Club , owned by Rodriguez Sr. and Jose Rodriguez , at 413 Meeker St. , Joliet ; BJ ' s hot dog stand , owned by Jose Rodriguez , 952 Collins St. , Joliet ; and Jose Rodriguez ' s home at 420 Ohio St. , Joliet . Another family member , Eddie Rodriguez , was not charged in the indictment , but he felt its impact . His home at 408 Williamson St. , Joliet , and his business , Fast Eddie ' s auto detailing garage , at 964 Collins St. , Joliet , both were confiscated . Officials said each was acquired with drug money . There are an estimated 18. 5 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said enforcement efforts in that area is important . " Marijuana is still the most widely abused drug in this country , " he said . " We just forget that because of the furor with cocaine , whose abusers number an estimated 6 million . " All those arrested in the Chicago area later appeared at court hearings in the Dirksen Federal Building , where bonds and arraignment dates in Houston were set by a magistrate . CAPTION : PHOTO : Tribune photo by Frank Hanes . Federal officers inspect a house at 423 Clay St. , Joliet , seized in conjunction with the drug-smuggling indictments of 16 persons . Illustration PHOTO <>                     