@@735425

txt Judge Harold H. Greene 's order requiring changes in the AT &T-Justice; Department antitrust settlement is a classic example of how vague statutory language coming out of Congress encourages courts to step beyond their proper function and enter into policy making . Under the Tunney Act of 1974 , Judge Greene had to determine whether the settlement was " in the public interest " ? with absolutely no guidance from Congress as to what that means . This congressional abdication of responsibility gave the judge an open-ended mandate to impose his own preferences about how the telecommunications industry should be structured . As it turned out , the changes he wants are fairly sensible . One of the biggest dangers of the antitrust settlement has been that local phone service might deteriorate if the divested operating companies are left in a weak financial position and , perhaps more important , if their managers , now cut off from AT &T; advancement opportunities , are limited simply to regulated local service . By allowing the operating companies to keep the Yellow Pages and to market phone equipment , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also attract more enterprising executives . The change might cloud Assistant Attorney General Baxter 's distinction between regulated and unregulated businesses , but one can argue just as well that operating companies ought to keep businesses that have traditionally been connected with local service . In addition , it is difficult for a newspaper to complain about Judge Greene 's decision to bar AT &T; fromproviding news and advertising over its own wires . The newspaper industry has long campaigned for this restriction , fearful that AT &T; might limit access to transmission wires if it were in the electronic information business itself . But judges in our republic were not meant to make decisions like this . Courts are not equipped to be administrators , nor are they supposed to make policy decisions that are the responsibility of executives and legislatures subject to electoral accountability . School systems , prisons and mental health facilities across the country bear the scars of mismanagement by judges who have virtually taken them over during the last 10 years . Judge Greene 's decision adds an unfortunate precedent for judicial intrusion into industrial structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , some judges might not be as sensible as he . It 's widely expected that AT &T; will want to go along with Judge Greene 's changes . That would be just as well , for the decision would leave intact the most important part of the antitrust settlement  --  the overturning of an earlier consent decree that barred AT &T; from unregulated computer and electronics businesses . It would also bring to a close the interminable Justice Department lawsuit , and with it much of the uncertainty that has bedeviled AT &T; and its competitors as they restructure themselves for new competitive challenges . Judge Greene 's decision will thus be valuable if it finally clarifies the legal and regulatory rules of the game , but we wish the same result could have been reached without such violence to the proper separation of powers .                     