@@668944

A drug that tricks the brain into thinking the body has eaten carbohydrates may help relieve the depression associated with certain types of obesity , seasonal mood changes and premenstrual syndrome , a nutritionist reported Sunday . The drug raises levels of the natural brain chemical serotonin , a compound the brain uses to carry signals from one nerve cell to another . Known as D-fenfluramine , the drug is prescribed in Europe but probably won ' t be approved in the U.S. for two to three years , said Dr. Richard Wurtman of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology . In studies of about 250 subjects with various depressive disorders over the last three years , MIT researchers found that low doses of D-fenfluramine controlled the subjects ' cravings for carbohydrates and made them feel better . A number of the subjects complained of dry mouths , but the researchers observed no serious side effects . " This drug is the first of its kind that controls appetite disturbances , particularly carbohydrate cravings , that lead to obesity , " said Wurtman , who spoke at the annual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ people who have a kind of depression associated with weight gain , the drug corrects both the appetite and the depression , " he added . Other studies have shown that serotonin levels are closely tied to mood swings , sleepiness and periods of depression . When people eat sugary or starchy foods without balancing them with proteins , serotonin levels in the brain go up . Normally , researchers believe , serotonin makes the brain send signals to the body to steer away from more carbohydrates and eat proteins for the next meal or snack . Even though food choices seem a matter of free will , a brain laden with serotonin will tell the body to eat , say , a turkey sandwich instead of potato chips or cupcakes . But in people who crave carbohydrates , the serotonin seems to have less of an effect on their food choices . That ' s where the D-fenfluramine comes in . Wurtman and his wife , nutritionist Judith Wurtman of MIT , first showed that rats injected with D-fenfluramine ate less carbohydrates over the next hour . Then , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whom craved carbohydrates , the students were offered high-carbohydrate snacks like cookies , bagels and candy , or high-protein snacks like ham and cheese , meatballs and pork chops . Low doses of D-fenfluramine made the students reduce their carbohydrate snacks from almost 6 per day to 3. 5 per day , while protein consumption stayed about the same . Students in the same study who were given a placebo-a drug with no effect-showed no changes in their diets . Another study , conducted by MIT psychiatrist Dr. Dermott O ' Rourke over three years , showed that D-fenfluramine helped people cope with " seasonal affective disorder syndrome , " a depressive malady that usually strikes in the winter . Almost 90 percent of these people crave carbohydrates and gain weight over the winter , Richard Wurtman said . The drug curbed the appetites and helped ease the fatigue and depression of the subjects in the study . Preliminary data from an unpublished study on premenstrual syndrome , a monthly depressive and eating cycle that affects many women , had similar results , Richard Wurtman said.      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      