@@734714

txt THE VISION of thousands of tiny lobsters growing rapidly in miniature apartment houses , fattening for the table while protected from the ravages of the ocean wild , is a tantalizing thought for seafood lovers . Tnanks to a heavy investment in lobster research by the federal government and some recent breakthroughs in lobster culture and nutrition , the vision may become a reality within the next five years . The United States consumes approximately 50 million pounds of lobster a year , 30 million pounds of which are imported from Canada . The National Marine Fisheries Services estimates an additional need of 40 million pounds annually by 1985 , , but the number of Maine lobsters caught in individual lobster traps has been declining since the 1950s as has the average size of lobsters caught . ( The American or Maine lobster with two claws is favored in this country over spiny or rock lobsters without claws that are native to Florida , California , and many ' tropical countries . ) Modern technology applied to fish farming is being looked to as a possible salvation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biological feasiblility of lobster cull-titre in controlled conditions that reduce the time necessary to grow a marketable one-pound lobster from five to eight years in the wild to from two to 242 yehrs in the laboratory . ALTHOUGH U.S. ' researchers have successfully hatched and cultured lobsters in the laboratory since 1885 ( primarily in order to release juvenile lobsters into the ocean to augment wild stock ) , inthe last decade massive lobster culture research has been done through the establishment in the ** of the National Sea Grant College Program to accelerate the sound development of marine resources . The Sea Grant Program , considered comparable to tge 1865 Land Grant College Program , which helped the United States become a leading agricultural nation , has invested more than 52 million in lobster research in the last decade . The naming by President Carter of representatives from 13 federal agencies to a joint subcommittee on aquaculture was the first federal effort to create a coordinated national aquaculture program . Tapan 13anerjee , the subcommittee 's executive secretary , explained that " incredible research and development money has gone into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and we are looking at species that are not such an expensive food . " PRIVATE INVESTORS are hiring marine biologists to find solutions to housing and feeding problems of American lobsters as a preliminary step toward producing lobsters in the same kind of numbers as the big chicken farmers can produce chickens . BiologiSts in Provo , Utah , are designing a pilot plant that will suspend lobsters in cages in biologically filtered recirculated spring water . Philip Wilson of Aquaculture Enterprises in Monterey , Cal. , . foresees producing a million pounds of lobsters annually within the next five years , but he cautions that lobster farms will take time and money to build . Sea Yo* Tines r ; ecc Sereice                     