@@735481

txt At the very time when ordinary citizens in Europe and the U.S. are becoming more concerned that they are hostages under nuclear strategies they do n't understand , nuclear weapons are becoming less relevant as instruments of national power . Together , these two developments could provide impetus for trends which , if encouraged , may lead nations to depend less on weapons that could cause Indiscriminate mass destruction . Nuclear weapons have already become less important , and the next 20 years could see important reductions in their numbers . The U.S. and the Soviet Union . in particular , will see few positive benefits in them other than heavy continued costs , leading to the view that many of these expensive , dangerous weapons should be dismantled . The nuclear freeze movement has indeed hit a responsive chord and perhaps its supporters feel some of the same concerns that made security a major factor for the Reagan campaign in 1980 . But the freeze authors seem unaware that U.S. stockpiles have been going down , and parts of their freeze proposal could have a perverse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ importantly , their proposals do not deal with the key question : How do we lower the likelihood of nuclear war ? There are , in fact , alternatives that would more effectively get nuclear weapons out of our lives . Before discussing these , it would be useful to review some recent trends . Back in the 1950s , a sort of gee-whiz ap proach pervaded some quarters , as military development chiefs rushed to stake out claims to newly created nuclear jobs . Their criteria were usually apolitical , depending mainly on finding uses for the astoundingly destructive power of nuclear warheads . But Western military leaders have had second thoughts the past decade after realizing that it was n't likely that the political authorities would release short-range nuclear weapons in time to do their job . National air forces questioned the resources tied down in the nuclear " Quick Reaction Alert " aircraft . High commanders , seeing that the use of any nuclear weapon would be treated as a profound political decision , worried that they had become custodians of weapons they might well be forbidden to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technologies began to emerge . The developments made it feasible to do with nonnuclear weapons , many jobs that had been assigned to nuclear weapons . These new weapons , notably the accurate cruise missile , promised to be more usable and commanders began to see the possibilities of widespread substitution . The Brutal World of Warfare In retrospect , it 's almost as if nuclear weapons have been an aberration , distressing even in the brutal world of warfare . The huge energy released in a nuclear blast is unfocused and destroys unintended targets along with intended ones . Military commanders usually give priority to blunting opposing military forces ; attacks on civilians have less calculable effects . For attacks on many military targets the nuclear warhead 's big area of destruction was useful only because it could compensate for poor knowledge of where the enemy 's targets were located and for inaccurate guidance systems . But now most targets can be seen , and in the 1980s , guidance to within 30 feet will be common . Weapon engineers have learned new nonnuclear techniques to break up runways , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these devices can be carried in accurate cruise missiles. , For example , there are the surface-launched " Tomahawk , " which can fly 1,500 miles or more , and its airlaunched cousin . In one version , these would carry some dozens of " Skeet " delivery vehicles , which would sense the presence of vehicles by their heat , and fire forged metal fragments that can destroy tanks . ( This was recently demonstrated in a test . ) In another version , manned airplanes would fire precisely guided dispensers filled with Skeet delivery vehicles . Skeet is only one of the new generation of dispenser-delivered munitions . " Wasp " is a quite different guided anti-armor munition that uses millimeter-wave radar . Others are unguided after release , but dropped in large numbers they can stop armor . Equally important are several information gathering and processing systems . A radar called Pave Mover was tested last March ; it can keep track of the vehicles in There are alternatives to the freeze proposals that would more effectively get nuclear weapons out of our lives . The next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area greater than 100 kilometers on a side . There might be 4.500 such vehicles . Pave Mover will be part of a tank-stopping system in which guided rockets will deliver munitions like Skeet to points over clusters of armored vehicles . There are naturally a number of practical problems with these new systems . There have been several unsuccessful tests of Tomahawk . Several of these systems require that each of a series of devices works successfully ; tf one fails , the system fails . The armed services are also less than enthusiastic about replacing current manned systems . But the problems are of a sort that can be solved in time . Note that the new weapons just described are guided and focus their destructive energy on military targets . In addition , other techniques for using highly focused energy are now better understood ; they include hypervelocity missiles , devices that accelerate projectiles and high-power laser beams . Humanitarians see in these trends ways of diminishing the unwitting role of civilian populations as hostages . Any war is a horror , but an even greater horror is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ victims . These trends are gradually having their effects on policy . In the U.S. , the latest Defense Department annual report downplayed nuclear weapons , saying that the 15% allocation of funds for strategic forces would have been even less if past administrations had not slipped so far behind Soviet advances . The zero  --  option proposal to negotiate down to no intermediate range nuclear forces in Europe seems to have been carefully studied . The director of the Los Alamos laboratory has proposed large cuts in battlefield nuclear systems , which are even more vulnerable , whose control is hard to assure and which may be overrun . Thus the negotiated end to short and intermediate range nuclear weapons is not so remote a prospect . Making the 15,000 or so " strategic " warheads less-desired possessions is harder . That will require innovations in technology and in policy . But some of these developments are presaged by the trends just noted . In the 1990s , nonnuclear weapons can handle many intercontinental military tasks , including the threatening of enemy missiles , though this may require new investments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it hard to give up the last 500 intercontinental missiles on each side ; these might be targeted on populations in some vestige of the " mutual assured destruction " doctrine . And the non-superpower nuclear states , notably France and China , might be little affected by the reduction of U.S. and Soviet nuclear stocks . Increasing Vulnerability On the other hand , the increasing vulnerability of many of these intercontinental nuclear weapons makes them less desirable . Witness the agony of the Reagan administration in finding a sufficiently survivable basing mode for the giant MX missile . Certainly this must be signaling the Soviets , no strangers to paranoia , that the useful life of their huge investment in landbased ICBMs is ending . With motivations of ownership lower , a mutual agreement to give up land-based ICBMs gets easier . Similar trends are afoot for all the nuclear systems that have been pushed to gigantism for reasons of efficiency , making them harder to conceal and protect . Maintaining nuclear stability during this process is essential . The negotiations ? which must include the concerns of U.S. allies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected to look after their own interests , not the world 's . If stockpiles get down to hundreds , the risks of instability will increase , making linkage deals more important . If goals like the above make sense . what is wrong with the nuclear freeze proposal ? Nothing is wrong with the first 75% of it ( we are using the California version ) , which describes the revulsion of people who do n't want to be nuclear hostages or to support such horror . But freezing production and deployment of weapons and delivery systems misses the boat . This would really have a perverse effect on the negotiations to reduce European nuclear forces , where the Soviets are clearly ahead . Trying to ban the deployment of nuclear delivery vehicles would lead to drawn-out haggling with the Soviets ( who have many cruise missiles ) and would inhibit U.S. development of the very missiles that could substitute for nuclear systems . Most importantly , the people who wrote the initiative did not propose mutual efforts to decrease the probability of nuclear war . This should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and over the next few years by making nuclear weapons less vulnerable ( and thus less attractive to hit ) . Unfortunately , the freeze movement has not built on the factors that have made for no nuclear war since 1945 . Nonetheless , the freeze proposal 's statement of concern seems to genuinely reflect the dismay of many people . Fortunately , these concerns can give impetus to an alternative plan , one that does not diminish Western security , but decreases the likelihood of nuclear war . Mr. Dzgby is executive director of the California Seminar on International Security and Foreign Policy and a member of the senior staff of the Rand Corp . The views expressed are his own .                     