@@670244

A controversial tax clause could snatch a bigger bite from mutual fund investors than some had originally feared , if a little-noticed federal tax regulation is any guide . Known as the phantom income rule , the clause would require mutual funds to report their expenses as income to shareholders , even though the investors never receive the money . Such expenses then would be deductible for the holders only to the extent that they , plus other miscellaneous deductions , exceed 2% of adjusted gross income . Mutual fund investors have been granted a one-year reprieve from the rule . But recent Internal Revenue Service regulations  --  which apply to non-publicly offered funds  --  suggest that the expenses funds must pass on to investors are much broader than initially assumed . Some mutual fund specialists had expected the expenses to cover merely the funds ' investment advisory fees . The IRS says , however , that expenses to be passed to shareholders include all fund costs  --  except for certain fees , including registration and transfer agent costs , and proxy and prospectus expenses . " This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc . " The breadth of expenses is confusing and terribly unfair . " The IRS also indicated that a fund can elect to pass through 40% of its expenses to its holders if it doesn ' t want to identify each fund expense separately . That alternative appears to be more attractive to funds , though they would have less flexibility . Another twist : Expenses are allocated to all investors owning shares during a calendar year ; typically , expenses have been allotted in proportion to a holder ' s pro-rata share of dividends paid by the fund . The regulations , which for the first time spell out the extent of the rule , disappointed mutual fund specialists . " It ' s gone further than they need have reached , and gone beyond where most thought they would , " says Allan Mostoff , a partner at Dechert Price &; Rhoads , a Washington , D.C. , law firm . He added : " Now , more than ever , the industry has to do what it can to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule isn ' t permanently repealed , some funds probably would be hit harder than others . Investors in funds stressing capital gains without emphasizing current income , for instance , could especially feel the pinch , some say . " The tax liability in some cases could be more than the distribution , " says Shearson ' s Mr. Willens . Harris Horowitz , senior tax manager at Ernst &; Whinney in New York , says it ' s not the economic hit that bothers him most . The new rules suggest that investors might face more than double the amount of taxable income than was originally expected , he says . He added that it wouldn ' t total a significant amount of money . " But the confusion and aggravation will be that much greater , " he says.  --  - CAN YOU SPARE A FUND , FELLA ? : Filings for new mutual funds are rebounding to pre-crash levels  --  and recent entries have included some unusual investment twists . Mutual fund filings sagged immediately after October : A scant 12 funds were filed in January , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But filings more than doubled in February , and March ' s filings totaled 45 . That ' s the highest since April 1987 , when 54 new funds were proposed , according to the Mutual Fund Monitor , a trade publication of Charles E. Simon Co. in Washington , D.C. Laura Berger , executive director of the No-Load Mutual Fund Association , says some recent filings represent a " rounding out " of family product offerings . Several fund groups are adding a money-market fund , for instance , for more flexibility . Some offbeat funds are in the works as well . One is Morgan Funshares , which will seek long-term capital appreciation through leisure companies with products that are habit-forming . The fund filing concedes it ' s a " novel approach . . . not supported by any empirical research or data " and that many of its potential holdings could be speculative . Still , it believes sales of habit-forming products , such as liquor and tobacco , would tend " to remain strong even in times of economic stagnation or downturn. "  --  - " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s six-month anniversary nears , pundits still are searching for culprits . Here ' s the latest : an English hurricane . Michael Lipper , president of Lipper Analytical Services Inc. , which tracks mutual funds , raised eyebrows at a recent mutual fund conference when he blamed an Oct. 16 hurricane in London  --  the worst in 300 years  --  for triggering the crash . Mr. Lipper reasoned that many English money managers and other financial whizzes were unable to exit the market Friday , causing the tidal wave of selling Black Monday . " The gods were angry , " Mr. Lipper said . When Mr. Lipper later suggested a similar collapse was likely in the debt or currency markets , Matthew Fink , general counsel of the Investment Company Institute , a trade group , offered this : " We ' d better get a weather satellite . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     