@@669013

This story is a composite of versions published in the various editions . About 250 , 000 chanting students and supporters were waiting Monday for Mikhail Gorbachev in central Beijing ' s huge Tiananmen Square . They missed him . At the last minute , Chinese authorities switched the elaborate welcoming ceremony to the airport as the Soviet leader arrived for the first Sino-Soviet summit in 30 years . The students , about 3 , 000 of them on a hunger strike since Saturday evening , are demanding the kind of political reforms Gorbachev has already implemented in his country . The stubborn student protest posed a problem for the Chinese government . Gorbachev , like all illustrious visitors , was to be officially welcomed by President Yang Shangkun on the sweeping steps of the Great Hall of the People , which faces the square . Cannons usually boom a 21-gun salute from their positions on the square while the flags of both countries are raised . But the spot where the cannons stand is covered by hunger strikers , and the official flagpoles are already adorned with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authorities broadcast over the preceding 24 hours that the square would be closed four hours before Gorbachev ' s plane was to land , no large police contingents had shown up . " We were told we could stay here but were requested to move to the back of the square so the ceremony could take place , " a student leader said . While most student leaders agreed to the request , the rank and file rebelled . " We are not going to move one inch , " many shouted . Shortly after dawn Monday , masses of students and their supporters marched into the square in an effort to fill it before the expected show of force cordoned off access . The crowd swelled to an estimated 250 , 000 . In response , senior university staff members , civic authorities and 12 prominent scholars and writers appealed to the students to postpone their hunger strike to allow the summit to take place without inconveniences . As thousands of people joined the students Monday in the square , municipal authorities announced they would provide a special medical service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sunday , 28 students fell ill . On Monday , under a warm sun , another 10 fainted , a municipal spokesman said . It was the first time the authorities have provided the students with services . In the center of the square , close to a monument honoring the nation ' s heroes , the hunger strikers camped on quilts and newspapers . During the night 28 had fainted from weakness and were taken to hospitals . As dawn came up , hundreds of students began to sweep the square with brooms to ensure that it was reasonably clean for Gorbachev ' s visit . Others asked the crowd to contribute money to buy bottles of water for the hunger strikers . The crowd responded generously . Some students carried banners in Russian and Chinese welcoming Gorbachev . " Welcome to a real reformer-Gorbachev " read one sign . " Welcome Gorbachev , speed up the reform process , " said another . Student leaders said the strike was another triumph for democracy and they did not expect the authorities to use force against them . " If they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it , nor will people around the world , " said Wang Yuan , the young economics student who organized the hunger strike . In a mood of defiance , bystanders for the first time openly urged the students Sunday to remain firm until China ' s Communist Party provides a timetable for high-level talks on political reforms . Tasting imminent victory , student leaders refused to accept Lie Tie Ying , a Politburo member , as a partner for talks . " We want someone at least at vice ministerial level , " one student leader said . The students also ignored a last-minute appeal by Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang not to mar the four-day summit . CAPTION : PHOTO ( color ) : AP Laserphoto . Protesting students wait in vain at Tiananmen Square as ceremonies to greet Mikhail Gorbachev are shifted to the airport . Illustration PHOTO <>                     