@@668306

The question is asked in every city in the National Hockey League , from Vancouver to , yes , Montreal . It is asked even by the men who make the decisions for the Bruins . Are you surprised at the Bruins ' record ? Yes , yes , a thousand times yes . The next question is inevitable . Can they win the Stanley Cup ? Ah , er , well . . . anything ' s possible , but . . . it ' s a long way to May . The Bruins , who are back in action tonight at the Garden against the Sittler-less Toronto Maple Leafs ( Ch. 38 , WITS radio , 7:35 p.m. ) have been the biggest surprise in the first half of the season . They are a solid club and coach Gerry Cheevers tells people in every city , " It ' s the blend of young players and veterans . . . it ' s the way they ' ve come together . " But , the Stanley Cup ? It figures to be a couple of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the front office that it could be nearer with a couple of moves , or one major trade . To be a championship team the Bruins need a championship goalie . They need a Rogie Vachon of the mid- ' 70s . Or a Marco Baron of 1983 . And Mike Moffat is still a junior . The past may never be replayed and the future is not yet . The Bruins have given up 12 goals in their last two games , not all of them the goalies ' fault . The goal-tending , however , has not been consistent . Vachon has moments of sheer brilliance and other moments of something quite less . Baron has good potential , but his inexperience surfaces from time to time . This is not to say the goalies have cost the Bruins any games this season . But no team wins the Stanley Cup without a championship goalie . That ' s why most hockey people feel that Billy Smith can win a third cup for the Islanders . He is the premier money goalie of this era , the Gerry Cheevers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ your side in the seventh game of the Stanley Cup finals . He is a winner . The Bruins are not going to get Billy Smith . No one is . So the Bruins must decide if they will alternate their two goalies until either Vachon takes over or until Baron gets the experience he needs . If they are going to look elsewhere it has to be now . The best bet is that they ' re looking west to Vancouver , to Glen Hanlon or Rich Brodeur . And they must now be thinking that they ' ll have to give up a front-line player if they are to get an established goalie . Hanlon has been injury prone , but he has the promise of greatness . He is 24 . He is a leader . Brodeur is 29 . He saved the Canucks from total disaster last season when Hanlon was injured . Both are competitive , but neither has had the opportunity to perform as a true playoff goalie . The two alternate about equally as starters . Vancouver ' s situation is critical . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 consecutive losses on the road , and general manager Jake Milford and head coach Harry Neale may be reaching the point where they feel it is necessary to make a trade . It is unlikely they ' d trade one of their goalies in a straight one- for-one deal , and if Boston and Vancouver should get into serious trade talks it could escalate into a multiplayer deal . All that aside , the Bruins have stunned the NHL this season . It isn ' t merely recovering from last season ' s low ( eighth place finish , preliminary- round elimination ) . It is the way they have soared into the upper echelon of the league . They had several periods during the recent western road trip when they were awesome in their checking game , both offensively and defensively . That kind of potential may be the reason general manager Harry Sinden looks at his team and ponders how to strengthen it for the playoffs.                     