@@668518

There is an assumption that everything has a purpose - " What good are mosquitoes ? " " What are they for ? " Wrong questions . From the mosquito ' s point of view , it is easier . " What good are people ? " " Very succulent but very dangerous , " is the eschatological answer . ( Do not bother looking up eschatology . It is just a big word I threw in because you hardly ever see one like it in newspapers anymore . Eschatology is Greek and it means the study of the ultimate destiny of the world in general and mankind in particular . I think that the destiny of the mosquito is intimately involved with the eschatology of human beings . ) Clearly we were put here to make the individual mosquito ' s life more exciting , and also to provide a Darwinian mechanism to encourage the evolution of the mosquito . We are both sustenance and grim reaper , a most efficient evolutionary combination . We reward the race of mosquitoes , but we eliminate the least imaginative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I am sure that each summer there are new kinds , products of a million bites and a million swats . Take , for example , the deck chair mosquito . By deck chair , I refer to the cheap aluminum object you purchase at one of those all- purpose drug and department store places - the ones with the interwoven plastic strips that hold you up for about three summers until the sun kills the polymers and you smash through it , usually while drinking gin . The deck chair mosquito has discovered that there are gaps in the plastic webbing , and that the tenderest part of you is on the other side . Thus we now have the upside-down- biting deck chair mosquito . Normal , natural , mosquitoes bite from the top down , and always did , until the invention of the deck chair . The high-speed mosquito is , I argue , one of the finest products of evolution since the bitter almond turned into an apricot . You probably think that the best way to get away from mosquitoes is get out in an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because you have never been to the Milk River Valley in Montana . It is true that most mosquitoes refuse to fly into a head wind , even to the point that a simple electric fan makes an effective mosquito repellent . Not in Chinook , Montana , it doesn ' t . In Chinook , the wind blows all day , every day , all year around . The Milk River used to be one of those typical high- plains rivers - run like crazy in spring , and dry up solid in August . Then people showed up . And the people built irrigation dams so that the Milk River would run all summer and irrigate the sugar beets and the Navy beans and the other boring but nutritious crops . Whatever the mosquitoes used to do ( probably wait for a buffalo to come by ) , they have learned to breed by the millions in the murky Milk River , and fly like F16s to get to the people . I remember standing in the cemetery , with a wind absolutely flattening the grass and whipping the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upwind toward me , dancing up and down in the turbulence . To the Milk River mosquito , a gale is just a mechanism for spreading the nice , juicy , scent of a meal across the valley . The cat burglar mosquito is another one . Screens were invented to keep mosquitoes out of houses . This was a very good idea until mosquitoes learned how to get through the screens . It is not your fault if mosquitoes get into the house and bite your spouse , they are getting in in spite of your best householdering . I was down in the kitchen in the middle of one of those miserable hot nights last weekend , staring out through the screen at the steaming night . ( Nights always steam in detective stories . Actually , this one was sort of lying there , sullenly . ) A tiny motion caught this highly trained observer ' s eye . It was a wiggle on the screen . Close examination revealed it to be the front end of a mosquito , about a third of the way through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lot of faith in modern technology watching something like that . I did not see the mosquito get clear through the screen . It would have been scientifically interesting to see the mosquito get clear through the screen . It might have even been more sporting to let the mosquito get through the screen . Some nights you are in the mood for science , or sport , but not when it ' s 80 degrees and 99 percent humidity . Besides , some evolutionary branches on the tree of life need to be nipped in the bud .                     