@@668707

Q-Our condominium is getting older , and the plumbing , especially the plastic ball cock valves in the toilet tanks , are beginning to malfunction beyond repair . There have been many sudden breaks with overflows . If this condition exists in an apartment above the first floor , the damage can extend to the apartments below . Are the owners of the lower apartments entitled to restitution from the apartments that caused the damage ? Who pays the $100 deductible ? Also , if the association votes to have the unit owners replace these valves with newer types , and a unit owner refuses , can they be held legally responsible to pay for any damages ? A-The owner of the faulty water closet should have homeowner ' s insurance , that would pay for your damage . If there is a deductible , it is his problem . The proper procedure is for you to immediately contact your insurance agent , who will contact his agent and work out the settlement . If the fellow upstairs does not have insurance or doesn ' t want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The association ' s main concern is the protection of the common areas and not the damage to your furniture and furnishings . I am advised that it is possible , however , that the association could find itself in a liable position if : They did not properly restore any damaged common elements ; they did not notify all unit owners of the problem after several valves had malfunctioned ; or if they did not follow up to see that each malfunction was corrected after the fact and another flood was caused . The association voting to outlaw the old valves would not make anyone more or less responsible for damages than before , in my opinion . Because each condominium ' s private and common area responsibilities differ due to definition , you should consult with your agent and attorney before taking action . Q-Can an association enforce a rule that prohibits the use of your apartment by family members when you are not present ? A-I think it is generally accepted that an association can enforce rules of occupancy that limit overnight guests , in the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restrictions are expressly provided in the declaration of condominium . In 1977 , a Federal District Court in Florida struck down a " board " passed rule limiting occupancy to family members , ruling that a use restriction must be " clearly inferable from the declaration " and that a board action can not impair any rights given in a declaration . Q-In the past we have immediately posted the vote count of the results of the election of directors on a chalk board at our annual meeting . This year the results were not posted . The reason given was that the vote was unanimous and that posting was not necessary . Some of us feel it is important to post the results so that the top vote getter can be appointed president . What is your opinion ? A-I do not see any reason to list the vote totals if the results were indeed unanimous , but I see no harm in doing it either . As for the presidency , it is always best for the position to go to the most astute and prudent administrator available and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there a mediation board for resolving problems dealing with irresponsible condominium management ? We are also being charged excessive fees for the work that is done . Do they have a code of ethics or national association ? A-There is no nationally recognized professional association of condominium management people . Some managers belong to the Institute of Real Estate Management , some to the Community Association Institute , some to Building Managers International , but most do not have any professional affiliation . No state requires any certification of association managers and only Hawaii requires them to be registered . Have a question about condominiums ? Send it to Condo Line , the Miami Herald , 1 Herald Plaza , Miami , Fla. 33101 . Questions of general interest will be answered as space permits . Sorry , no personal replies.                     