@@669981

I was gratified to see Peter K. Keresztes ' editorial-page article June 14 , " The Bible as Romanian Toilet Paper . " The headline graphically describes what the government of Romania thinks of both Christianity and the U.S. Yet for the past eight years , the U.S. has honored Romania with the Most Favored Nation ( MFN ) status with which we reward nations which have exemplary human-rights records . Where are the human rights of the Christians whose shipment of 20 , 000 Bibles was intercepted by the Romanian government and sent to a pulp mill to be turned into toilet paper ? Where are the human rights of the Romanian people whose churches and synagogues are bulldozed under , of the citizens who are arrested , imprisoned and brutalized because of their beliefs ? Each year , MFN status comes up for review and renewal . Each year , several weeks before the hearings begin , Congressional offices are filled with Romanian lobbyists promising dramatic change . And each year , gullible congressmen believe these hollow promises and return Romania once again to the MFN @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It ' s time for the American people to get fed up with playing the court jester of Europe . It ' s time to tell the Socialist Republic of Romania that its time is up . Mark D. Siljander ( R. , Mich . ) House of Representatives Washington  --  - I can not and will not believe that Bibles were recycled in Romania for toilet paper . Laszlo Hamos , who is quoted in the article , is a Hungarian by origin and has carried out this campaign of hate against Romania for many years and for one purpose : He wants Transylvania ceded to Hungary . This would be impossible without a war . In World Wars I and II the Romanians occupied Budapest and will do it again if there is another war . I know from my many visits to Romania that President Ceausescu is hardly a religious man . But when his father died five years ago , seven priests officiated at the funeral . During my various visits I talked to three presidents of the Jewish Community in Bucharest and one in Jassy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Orthodox priests and many clergymen . I was assured by all that there was no interference by the government and that they had absolute freedom to perform religious activities . My wife and I talked to the pastor of the greatest Baptist church in Romania . He told us that in 1978 he received 5 , 000 Bibles from the Baptists in West Germany which were distributed among the 1 , 000 Baptist churches in Romania . The Romanian government does not encourage members of the Communist Party to participate in religious activities , but does not interfere with others who do so . Prof. Emanuel Merdinger University of Florida Gainesville , Fla.  --  - As a representative of Hungarian nationality of the Reformed Church in Romania , whose members are in majority Hungarians , I must express my astonishment and repulsion in the face of the allegations in this article . I was a Bishop in the Reformed Church of Romania while at the General Assembly of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches in 1970 held in Nairobi , Kenya , when the president of the World Alliance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our church the Bibles mentioned in the article . Also , I was bishop in 1980 , at the General Assembly of the European Area Council of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches held in Poiana Brasov , Romania , when the delegate of the Alliance of Bible Associations from London offered to our church another 10 , 000 copies , as well . The Bibles in both instances arrived in my country , were distributed proportionally between the two bishoprics ( Cluj-Napoca and Oradea ) and through the competent deaneries were distributed to the congregations in proportion with the number of members , and so they were put at the disposal of the believers . D. Laszlo Papp Bishop , President in Office of the Synod of Reformed Church of Romania Washington  --  - Your article gives a painfully sad but accurate insight into the operation of Communist dictator Nicholae Ceausescu within his private empire . The pulping of the 20 , 000 Bibles sent from the West could not have been accomplished without the active support of the two Reformed " Bishops , " Gyula Nagy and Laszlo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regime , against the wishes of the clergy and lay people alike . Papp is also a member of the Romanian Parliament , and thus any criticism directed to him by the clergy or church members is considered a subversive act against the State . Papp rules with the help of the feared State Police , the Securitate . In May 1984 he ordered the arrest of eight of his ministers , who were subsequently tortured . In the case of the Rev. Bela Csernak , who was sentenced to three years ' imprisonment for receiving " illegal " Bibles from the West , Papp requested an additional one and a half years for him , which the court dutifully granted . " Bishop " Papp was also instrumental in the confiscation of all church records , antique chalices and communion table cloths , dating back to the Protestant Reformation , from the possession of local churches . These valuable items have been , in many cases without receipt , loaded into trucks and carted away to unknown places . He forces local congregations to give up their sacred right to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the congregations remain without a pastor , sometimes for years . This wolf in shepherd skin instructs his ministers how to deny the requests of the parishioners who demand the holding of Bible classes . No wonder " Bishop " Papp and his colleague Nagy were more than willing to oblige their Communist overlords and to pass on the 20 , 000 gift Bibles of the World Reformed Alliance to the pulping factory in the Braila industrial zone for the manufacture of toilet papers . The scientific chemical analysis of the papers proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that they were made from Bibles supplied by the United Bible Societies to the Reformed Alliance from the 1957 Edition , published in London and printed in the Netherlands . Whenever the MFN status of Romania is in danger , the Ceausescu regime finds it opportune to send its " Bishop " as an unregistered foreign lobbyist to Washington to convince our Senators and Congressmen and the press of the great religious liberty enjoyed in Romania . We hope that he will be given the credibility which his record warrants . Rev. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                     