@@735646

txt Some nights , after darkness blankets the flat expanse of rice and cotton fields here , Wayland Owen flicks off his headlights and creeps along in his car . He is on midnight dumping patrol , tailing waste-hauling trucks and alerting the police if any drop their load in the secluded ditches and creeks in these parts . " I do n't want nobody using my town as an outdoor privy , " the salty , 70-year-old Mr. Owen declares . His surveillance work grew out of the Matagorda County Citizens for Environmental Protection group and its fight against a hazardous-waste dump that it fears will be developed near the Colorado River here . Residents claim that even if they stop that project , they wo n't rest easy again . " These waste handlers are like hound dogs , " says Mr. Owen , who has shelled out $600 so far in the fight . " We know they 'll strike again if we do n't remain on the defensive . " In nearly every U.S. town where new dumps , incinerators and treatment facilities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protest groups . The recent shake-up at the Environmental Protection Agency has made the groups all the more militant . " Publicity about the EPA and sweetheart deals with industry is the best thing that could have happened to us , " says Sharon Serafino , the president of Bay City 's citizens group . " People see clearly now that they ca n't count on anyone but themselves . " Blue-Collar Flavor The growing sensitivity to toxic chemical waste is creating a new grass-roots environmental movement . People in many of these protest groups belonged to the so-called silent majority during the 1960s and 1970s . They are farmers , blue-collar workers and small-business owners whose civic involvement used to start and stop at the voting booth . Now they tote picket signs , write letters to congressmen and make speeches for the first time in their lives . " Environmental advocacy during the 1970s was usually done by professionals , civic activists , students and scientists , " says Kenneth Geiser , professor of urban and environmental policy at Tufts University . " This new national movement is based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are n't concerned about saving whales or protecting the ozone layer . They are motivated by self-interest , not ideology . They fear their lives may be shortened and their ability to produce normal children will be jeopardized if they allow chemical wastes anywhere near their towns . Some say they have nightmares about foul chemicals oozing up out of their drains and about jackknifed trucks spilling poisons near their homes and their children 's schools . Lack of Hysteria " We 're not dope-smoking , hippie environmentalists , " says John Dyess , a pharmacist in Lexington , Tenn .. who organized citizens there to block a proposed landfill . " We 're a new breed . We drive pick-up trucks and wear overalls . And we 'll be much harder to stop . " In some respects , industry officials find the new activists more unnerving than such groups as the Sierra Club . " These people are more conservative and have a narrower focus than other environmentalists , " says William Moore , environmental specialist at Rohm &; Haas Co. , a chemical manufacturer . Adds Harold Gershowitz @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country 's largest waste-disposal company : " It 's dangerous to stereotype them as emotional or hysterical . " Indeed , protest leaders can mobilize a community within days of getting wind of a proposed hazardous-waste project . Most resistance groups adopt catchy acronyms like HALT ( Humanity Against Lethal Trash ) , OUCH ( Opposing Unnecessary Chemical Hazards ) , and MAD ( Mothers Against the Dump ) . To fire up their neighbors and gain media exposure , they form picket lines and hold rallies . They work out of their kitchens or shabby storefront offices , but think nothing of hiring lawyers , lobbyists , professional fundraisers and technical experts . Says Mr. Geiser of Tufts : " There are now national conferences , national newsletters and a growing number of training institutes and resource libraries to support these local groups . " So far , most of the people opposing new hazardous-waste sites have kept the peace , although last year some demonstrators were arrested in North Carolina after they lay down in the road to block trucks carrying soil contaminated with toxic polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say they will carry shotguns In self-defense if it comes to that . " We try to stay calm , but I will sit in front of bulldozers , " vows Roger Ramos , a physics teacher and girls ' - basketball coach in Freetown , Mass. , another town fighting a hazardous-waste treatment facility . A look at three citizen groups in different regions of the U.S. shows the kinds of people leading the crusade against toxic waste . It also provides some insight into their tactics and the intensity of their opposition to disposal projects . Bay City , Texas The Matagorda County Citizens for Environmental Protection group was founded over coffee and cookies at Wayland Owen 's dining-room table last May , just 48 hours after Mr. Owen and his wife , Frieda , spotted strangers surveying the property behind their brick , ranch-style home . Through a little skulduggery , the Owens got their hands on a topographic map that confirmed suspicions that Waste Management Inc. was studying the site for a toxic-waste landfill . Since then , the battle against hazardous waste has caused homemakers to forsake @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motivated factory and clerical workers to devote their vacation days to protest activities . Life for Sharon Serafino , the group 's president , used to revolve around her job as secretary to Bay City 's elected officials . " I just had the normal everyday concerns , " she says , " keeping the house running and making sure everyone was wearing clean clothes . " Now she mingles with brawny , tobacco-chewing shrimp-boat captains on the Gulf Coast , trying to convince them that hazardous waste could be spilled and contaminate the marine life . Building a Float Other folks have been staking out supermarkets , livestock shows and rodeos , gathering signatures for petitions and telegrams to the governor . Some of the local activists built a float for last fall 's Rice Festival parade that featured men in gas masks picnicking alongside a smoking . 55-gallon drum . And recently , the environmental group prodded state legislators to introduce a bill banning hazardous-waste projects within 100 miles of the Gulf of Mexico . But Bay City residents are n't confining the fight to their back yard . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Management operates landfills , and they are closely monitoring lawsuits filed elsewhere that charge the company with mishandling toxic materials . So incensed is Steven Morales that he flew to Alabama last month to testify against Waste Management 's plans to establish a waste storage facility there . " I do it for this little guy here . " Mr. Morales , a serviceman for IBM typewriters says . patting his three-year-old son David , who attends protest rallies wearing a red cape emblazoned with the slogan Superman vs . Toxic Waste . Activists in Matagorda County and other communities insist that they are n't anti-industry . Mr. Owen of the midnight dumping patrol helped construct a Celanese Corp . chemical plant near his home that he says has proved to be a good neighbor . What 's more , many of the people opposing the hazardous-waste dump have no major qualms about a nuclear power plant under construction in Matagorda County . The Cheapest Way " We just feel that when it comes to waste disposal , industry is looking for the cheapest way out , and that means dumping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an oil-refinery worker . " We want to put some pressure on them so they start thinking about alternatives , such as recycling their waste . " The protesters in Matagorda County believe they are winning their battle . Waste Management says that it still holds an option on the Bay City site but that it has serious doubts about whether it will pursue a project there . " We have certainly taken into account local opposition , " says Mr. Gershowitz , the company 's senior vice president . " In addition , our assessment of the potential market has n't encouraged us . " He declines to comment on the Matagorda County Citizens for Environmental Protection group . The group is pleased about Waste Management 's comment that it may drop the Bay City project , " but we take it with a grain of caution . " Mrs. Serafino says . In fact , the group is stepping up its fight against Waste Management by organizing a " barge blockade " later this month to try to stop the company from shipping allegedly contaminated waste into Corpus Christi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ motorboats and even canoes out there if necessary . " says Mrs. Serafino . " We have to call attention to the fact that the company is shipping waste all over the country . It has to be stopped . " Narvon , Pa . Fighting a hazardous-waste landfill was n't an easy decision for Sam Ringler . Like many of his Mennonite neighbors , he fears that such a facility eventually will contaminate underground wells and springs , driving people out of this bountiful farming region in Lancaster County . " But some Mennonites believe you should just pray and not get involved with protest groups and lawyers , " the 58-year-old dairy farmer says . " I figure praying alone wo n't get the potatoes out of the ground . " So he and his family attend meetings and openly contribute money and services to the Red Rose Alliance , a citizens ' group formed to prevent a subsidiary of IU International Corp . from building a waste-treatment and disposal facility at a clay-mining site here . More conservative Mennonite and Amish people quietly back the group by donating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Amish and Mennonite support suggests how strongly many communities feel about hazardous waste . Normally , these religious sects avoid conflict , especially when politicians and lawyers are involved . " It do n't suit me to be too active or to attend too many meetings . " says Eli Newswanger , a young Mennonite farmer living in the shadow of the proposed disposal site . " But I 'm against the dump because the things of this world last only so long . After a while , the chemicals will start leaking from their liner down here into my water supply , and when my water is gone , it wo n't do me no good to be here . " Pork and Sauerkraut The two-year struggle already has cost the Red Rose Alliance more than $75,000 , primarily for legal expenses . The group also spent $3,000 to rent a helicopter and fly in some Pennsylvania State University experts on ground water . " It 's not easy to fight a $2 billion company , " says Ronald Stoltzfus , the treasurer for the alliance . " We never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and submarine-sandwich sales . " Mr. Stoltzfus feeds the group 's financial data into the computer at the International Harvester dealership where he works as an accountant . He and local bankers also are discussing the possibility of allowing customers to make automatic monthly donations to the Red Rose Alliance from their checking or charge-card accounts . Members of the Red Rose Alliance and other citizen groups agree that these fights will have a lasting impact on them . " We 're really not Cain raisers , " says Betty Herr . a mother of four . " But I do n't think any of us could go back to being the complacent , uncaring people we were . Now I 'm feeding my children cold suppers so I can get to township zoning meetings , and my bedtime reading consists of magazines like Waste Age and Pollution Engineering . " Brian Bennett , the program manager at IU International 's Conversion Systems Inc. subsidiary , says he finds members of the Red Rose Alliance " generally well-informed and sincere . " But , he adds , " I think their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our process differs from what they have heard about hazardous waste on the TV news . " Mr. Bennett says that waste will be treated and made less hazardous before being placed in a landfill , and that it will " cure like concrete " after disposal . Warren , Mass . Lucy and Joe Rogowski consider themselves foot soldiers in the war against hazardous waste . They trek into Boston every month , where they sit quietly , taking notes and tape-recording the proceedings of the state 's Hazardous Waste Facility Site Safety Council meetings . " Some days we 're so mad we feel like we need tranquilizers , " says Mrs. Rogowski . The retired couple are emissaries for Stop IT , a group that has gone to court to prevent IT Corp . from building a $100 million waste incineration and treatment project in Warren . " We 'll do anything it takes to keep that monster away from our door , " Mrs. Rogowski says , handing a $25 check to Anthony Trespacz , a retired knitting-mill shipping foreman , who canvasses door-todoor for donations to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant role in these protest groups . Because they do n't work , retirees in this tiny rural outpost between Springfield and Worcester , Mass. , do much of the legwork , while housewives write letters and bake cakes and cookies for the cause . One recent chilly , gray day , Mr. Trespacz was rounding up money and prizes for Stop IT 's May raffle and dropped by a modest duplex , where Sally Misiaszek , a member of Stop IT 's " editorial response SWAT team , " contributed a kerosene lamp . When her three-year-old son is napping , she whips off letters to newspaper editors , rebutting articles about IT and hazardous waste that she says " made my blood boil . " " Jesus is the only person I would trust to monitor one of these disposal sites , " Mrs. Mlsiaszek says . Family Stress Although these local environmental groups generally represent the majority viewpoint , they sometimes breed stress and divide the community . A few marriages have failed , partly because of the strains of working for Stop IT , says Linda Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ harassed for draping symbolic red ribbons on the trees and telephone poles in town , with one local official in a neighboring town likening the ribbons to painting swastikas on the barns . A member of the steering committee resigned last year because he felt Stop IT had turned too radical when it joined in a demonstration at a $1,000-a-plate dinner in Boston for the state 's former governor . Residents of rural communities like Warren are especially resentful because they believe waste companies take advantage of the fact that they are n't as well-educated or politically powerful as people in larger cities . " They think we 're simple-minded hicks out in the sticks , " says Mr. Trespacz . " I admit I 'm a homebody , but this has brought me out of my cocoon . " John Schofield , a vice president of IT Corp . ( which is n't a public company ) , says he sympathizes with the Warren citizens , but believes the Stop IT group is being unreasonable . " The group 's name indicates they do n't even want to discuss it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ n't want any kind of facility , no matter how safe it might be . " He claims that " everything will be detoxified and destroyed " at IT 's proposed treatment and incineration project . IT has spent about $250,000 on legal fees already defending itself m a suit brought by the town and Stop IT , Mr. Schofield says . " One has to question whether they really feel they have valid complaints against us , " he adds , " or whether they just hope that we 'll go away if enough time and money are lost . "                     