@@734702

txt The axe-wielding , table-pounding executive is back in vogue . So says MNO Programs International , a Columbia , Mo. , outfit that runs management training semlnars . For more than a decade , ALNO has surveyed executives ' preferred type of boss from among three stereotypes . Lately , MNO says , managers have gone for ' the despotic type . MNO takes its readings in a role-playing seminar in which three instructors vie for the presidency of a hypothetical company . There 's Norman . the numbers man . He 's the " management by committee " candidate who 's obsessed with controls and bottomline performance . There 's Orville , the bureaucrat . He 's content to let others make decisions while he concentrates on public relations and corporate planning . And then there 's Max , the monster . Max is fond of saying that " people will be rewarded if they do well , and if they are n't doing well , they wo n't be around . " Max Takes Honors To the surprise of Don Webb , MNO president , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferred boss . " It 's scary , " Mr. Webb says . " But we find a surprising number of people who say , ' I like to work for a guy who lets me know where I stand every minute of the day . ' " In the past , Mr. Webb says , Max ran a poor third to Norman and Orville . The No. 1 choice depended on the industry ; supermarket managers , for instance , preferred Norman and his emphasis on numbers , while advertisers voted for Orville and his willingness to press the flesh while subordinates made the day-to-day decisions . But things have changed in the past few years . Complicated Times Have the nation 's executives suddenly turned masochistic ? Not really , Mr. Webb surmises . " People are saying , ' Things are so damn complicated that we do n't think a collective approach to decision-making is ever going to get a decision made , ' " Mr. Webb says . He also speculates that votes for Max " represent an increasing frustration with the lack of decisiveness taking place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vice president at Heidrick &; Struggles Inc. , a Chicago executive-search firm , says she 's " shocked " by the results . " The consensus manager will be the one to emerge as the leader of the ' 80s . " She cites the recent demise of such autocratic bosses as A. Robert Abboud , deposed chairman of First Chicago Corp . " I just know what we 've found , " Mr. Webb counters . But he concedes that the growing fondness for the cold-hearted Max is founded on mighty thin ice . " People seem to think that when they get Max in as a leader , they will be able to change the things they do n't like about him , " Mr. Webb says . " But the Maxes in the world do n't reform , they do n't change . It 's just wishful thinking . "                     