@@668568

Billerica swimming coach Jack Stephenson related a simple instruction to his swimmer , Michelle DiBiasio , before she took the platform against Andover ' s Laurene Lazzaretti in the 100- yard freestyle at last week ' s dual meet . " Don ' t pay any attention to what ' s going on in that lane , " he said , referring to Lazzaretti ' s lane , No. 3 . " Just pace yourself against the other swimmers . " Not the usual go-get- ' em pep talk one might expect , but then , Laurene Lazzaretti is not the usual competition . " When you ' re swimming behind her , all you can see are bubbles in the next lane , " says DiBiasio . " And she gets such a fast start and pulls away from everyone so soon . It ' s hard because you know she ' s going to win . " It ' s a feeling Laurene ' s been getting used to . She was Nebraska ' s state champion at 15 before moving to Andover her sophomore year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ records for her undefeated team ( 17-0 ) . Andover became the Merrimack Valley Conference champion last year and finished third ( out of 30 ) in the sectionals before placing fourth in the state meet . " She gives us a sense of pride , " says fellow co-captain , Amy Brown . " Because she ' s on the team , we work harder to keep it ( the conference championship ) . And she makes the good swimmers do even better . " She went to the Senior Nationals in California last summer . " I was so nervous , I didn ' t know what to expect , " she said of her performances in the 100 meter breaststroke ( 1:16:22 for 31st out of 90 ) and the 200 meter individual medley . " Suddenly there I was , competing with the best in the US . I wanted to do well so I could prove myself next to them . It took a while to change the nervousness into excitement and concentrate on the event . " She wasn ' t always so excited about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ passion , " she grimaced when recalling how her father used to drive her to the community pool in Omaha when she was five . " It finally reached the point where I told her we wouldn ' t go home until she went into the pool , " remembers Laurene ' s father , Tony . " So she stomped her feet and started to cry . Finally , she would go in . Then she started to like it . " So she kept at it , joining a summer league for the next two years . At seven , she joined the Amateur Athletics Union . When she was 15 , she began to swim for the New England Barracudas . " You could tell she had the talent , " said her former US swim coach at Nebraska , Cal Bentz , now head coach at the University of Nebraska . " Her height ( 5-10 ) helps her to streamline well . And now she ' s acquired a great deal of desire to make that talent work for her . I ' m sure the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Laurene ' s brother , Tony , placed 24th ( in 60 ) in the 100 meter fly in the 1981 Senior Nationals and went to the University of Hawaii on a swimming scholarship . Her other brother , Victor , plays for Marquette on a full basketball scholarship . Her father also had a basketball scholarship , for the US Naval Academy . And her mother was an Amateur Athletics Championship breaststroker in high school . " In the Merrimack Valley Conference , she ' s head and shoulders above anyone else , " said Jim Fyrer , a conference swimming official . " I haven ' t seen anyone in the conference come close in the 200 freestyle ( 1:55:58 ) . It was a real find for Andover the day she moved over from Nebraska . "                     