@@670362

Even in the best of times , bankruptcy can be a tangled affair . In Texas these days , it can be a Gordian knot . Take the case of Frost Bros . Inc. , the venerable clothing chain that is vacating its property this week after more than 70 years of keeping Texans in such essentials as Guccis and French perfume . Maybe it shouldn ' t surprise anyone that attempts to revive the company have failed . After all , the rescue involved a real estate developer , a retailer , banks , a troubled thrift and federal regulators  --  all the elements that have come to symbolize collapse in this beleaguered state . But Texans are steaming nonetheless , including many who blame the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. for scotching the rescue at the eleventh hour . " I ' m just very deeply disturbed about everything I ' ve learned about the process , " says Lila Cockrell , the mayor of the retailer ' s home town of San Antonio . The story began in April 1988 when the company , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy , filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition in New York , home of its biggest creditors . For more than a year , Frost Bros. ' s owners searched for a buyer , without success , while continuing to operate under court protection from creditors . Last month , the company finally threw in the towel and began liquidating its inventory to pay down part of its debt of more than $20 million . But all wasn ' t lost  --  yet . A Texas investor group , composed of former Frost Bros. owners , agreed to buy the furniture , fixtures , leases and name of the chain for $750 , 000 , and announced plans to reopen four stores in the fall . Texans loved the idea because it promised to preserve more than 700 jobs . And creditors , led by Citibank , were prepared to sign off on the deal , according to an attorney for the creditors committee . There was only one problem . For the reorganization to fly , the investor group had to renegotiate the leases to reflect free-falling rental rates in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the flagship store in San Antonio , had a problem . By slashing the rent on that site in half to reflect market rates , McCullough would have been unable to service its $20 million debt on the property . So it asked its lender to restructure the note . But the lender , Silverado Banking Savings &; Loan Association of Denver , had problems , too . Its bad real estate loans had forced FSLIC to place it in receivership , and FSLIC found itself stuck with a loan on a hard-to-fill Denver shopping center . The center ' s owner : none other than McCullough , which says Silverado forced it to take over development of the project as a condition of receiving its $20 million loan on the San Antonio Frost Bros. property . At the last minute , FSLIC told McCullough it would allow the Frost Bros. rent reduction , but only if McCullough signed a release waiving all claims it might have against the regulators in any matter , according to William Reppeto , an attorney for McCullough . McCullough refused . " That was absolutely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Reppeto . So , lacking FSLIC ' s consent , McCullough declined the rent reduction in San Antonio . That , in turn , prompted the investor group to scuttle its plans to re-open any Frost Bros. stores . FSLIC , meanwhile , claims it has come up with an offer for the McCullough note on the San Antonio property from a third party that will end up saving taxpayers money , a claim disputed by McCullough . San Antonio newspapers have worked themselves into a frenzy denouncing the deal . " It ' s strange , " wrote the San Antonio Express-News , " that the . . . FSLIC decided to put more than 700 people out of jobs . " FSLIC denies it had any such intention . All it cared about , it said , was getting the best deal for taxpayers . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     