@@735791

txt We thought of lemmings and Lane Kirkland the second we finished reading the following newspaper account of Big Labor 's new policy agenda : " The executive council of the 13.8 million-member American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations called for the creation of a Re-industrialization Board made up of representatives of labor , business and government , to guide the revival of industrial institutions the federation said was necessary . " In our imagination we could see Lane Kirkland down there this past weekend in Hollywood , Fla. , for the federation 's annual meeting . We see Mr. Kirkland sitting on a beach chair , gazing into the Atlantic and hearing a soft voice across the waves . The voice says , " Re-industrialization Board , Reindustrialization Board . " Now we grant you that the surf does not speak in octosyllables to many people in the ranks of management or labor , but we are hard put to come up with any other real-world explanation for the content of the policy statement issued by the federation 's executive council on behalf of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ game plan for America 's fu-ture : I. At the top , so to speak , is the aforementioned Big Labor/Big Government/Big Business Re-industrialization Board . 2 . Next , a National Development Bank , directed by the hoard 's members , would invest private and public funds in " necessary re-Industrialization projects . " There is mention of " loan guarantees " and older industries that need help with modernization and expansion . 3 . Tax policies will create incentives for productive investment but should " conform with re-industrialization goals and tax justice . " 4 . Repeal of airline deregulation . 5 . Passage of a domestic-content law to protect U.S. producers of cars and clothing . 6 . Passage of the " Competitive Shipbuilding Act of 1983 , " which would eventually mandate that 20% of our foreign-traded bulk cargo sail on U.S. ships . 7 . Greater use of the corporate income tax " as a source of revenue , equity and economic balance . " If this is the organization and ideas with which Walter Mondale hopes to sail into the White House , we by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could get the federation 's 13 million workers down there on the beach with Lane Kirkland , we wonder how many would hear the siren song of reindustrialization , protectionism and a " guided " economy . We suspect more than , a few of the nation 's workers might instead hear the destructive pounding of inflation , income erosion , bracket creep , wage-price controls and layoffs . In any event , those Democratic presidential aspirants who do n't receive the federation 's protective embrace and America 's workers have the coming year to decide for themselves whether to follow Mr. Kirkland 's executive council out to sea .                     