@@670341

WASHINGTON  --  The other day , while dozens of chanting Machinists picketed an Eastern Airlines ticket office just down the street , Lane Kirkland ' s thoughts turned to his early days at sea with the merchant marine . " When I quit going to sea , we were the biggest maritime power in the world , " says Mr. Kirkland , the president of the AFL-CIO . " We now have very few ships left . The ships that are active today are highly automated , and the crews are shrinking . " The American manufacturing base  --  and , with it , the foundation of the U.S. labor movement  --  has shrunk precisely the way Mr. Kirkland ' s beloved merchant marine has . And even today , with labor emerging from a bitter struggle with Frank Lorenzo , the chairman of Eastern and its parent , Texas Air Corp. , the 67-year-old Mr. Kirkland remains at the center of a storm as dangerous as any he encountered during World War II coal runs to Rio de Janeiro and supply missions to the Anzio beachhead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he stirred great hopes : He was a politically polished intellectual ready to rouse labor from the stagnation of the George Meany days and point it toward the future . But now , a decade later , organized labor is still stagnant . It is still on the defensive against union-busting tactics such as Mr. Lorenzo ' s , some of its leaders are growing impatient with Mr. Kirkland ' s Cold War views , and its critics deem it perilously unsuited to the workplace challenges of the next century . In its hard battle with Texas Air ' s Mr. Lorenzo , labor so far appears the victor . Thanks partly to Mr. Kirkland ' s determination to rally all of organized labor around the struggle , the Machinists and pilots had the persistence to grind Eastern ' s operations to a halt . With pressure mounting from all sides , Mr. Lorenzo was finally forced to accept a takeover offer for Eastern from Peter Ueberroth , the former baseball commissioner ; whether Eastern gets back in the air quickly  --  and on whose terms  --  won ' t be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or defeat at Eastern , labor ' s woes aren ' t over . " Numerically , we have fallen a good ways , " says William Winpisinger , who has led the Machinists ' international for a dozen years , " and there ' s still the idea that all the ills of society are traceable to the voracious appetites of the unions . " Mr. Kirkland ' s supporters credit him with opening the windows of the house of labor to let some fresh breezes through , achieving a few congressional victories such as last year ' s plant-closing legislation and building labor unity . " Jurisdictional fights are almost unheard of now , " says Howard Samuel , the president of the federation ' s Industrial Union Department . " The swirl of feuds is gone . " As a labor leader , Mr. Kirkland cuts an incongruous figure . Often pictured with a cigarette holder , he is a product of the elite Masters , Mates and Pilots union who sits at the top of a mass movement . A spokesman for the striving , he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ easily about art and archeology . An erstwhile class warrior , he has a circle of friends that includes many Republicans and are very Establishment : Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan , GOP Sen. Bob Packwood of Oregon , conservative columnist George Will and television journalist David Brinkley . But for all of his political versatility and his erudition , some union leaders and many experts outside the labor movement believe that Mr. Kirkland hasn ' t resolved important questions about the role organized labor should play in an increasingly high-tech and service-oriented economy . " He has not set the federation in a strong direction , " says Charles Heckscher , an expert in labor relations at Harvard Business School . " The federation is in big trouble . Unionization is declining rapidly , and Kirkland hasn ' t come up with the dramatic solutions that are needed . He has not changed the image of big labor in the public ' s mind , and he hasn ' t given the movement any vision and vitality . " These issues acquired special urgency when labor , with Mr. Kirkland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into an Armageddon of the air . Mr. Kirkland took a visible role in the strike , even appearing on a picket line at Washington ' s National Airport and putting his prestige at stake . He calculated that if the cost-cutting Texas Air chief defeated the Machinists , other employers would conclude that they , too , can beat down unions . Mr. Kirkland enters this war of nerves with depleted forces . When he took over from Mr. Meany in 1979 , 24% of the nation ' s salaried and wage workers belonged to unions ; today , with only 17 million in unions , fewer than 17% do . Moreover , union membership in the manufacturing sector , the core of labor strength , dropped by nearly four million in the Kirkland years , while labor also was failing to make significant inroads in the service sector . Indeed , economists such as Harvard ' s Richard Freeman predict that by the year 2000 , the percentage of the labor force that is unionized is likely to drop into single digits . " The most they can hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the decline . " Mr. Kirkland , who says he will seek a sixth two-year term this fall  --  a decision tantamount to re-election  --  asserts that he isn ' t troubled by talk of labor ' s decline . Not long ago , he went to the federation ' s archives and inspected the list of unions on Samuel Gompers ' s roster around the turn of the century . " If you looked at that list , you ' d say labor was doomed in Gompers ' s time , " he says . " The horse-collar makers ' union and the harness makers ' unions were doomed . We lose parts and we gain parts , and when you ' re going through these transitions , you have to adapt , re-examine your methods and look at your structures . " However , labor , which has tended to blame its predicament on anti-union sentiment stirred up by the Reagan administration , has taken only a few hesitant steps to adapt to the changing economy . And the prevailing culture inside the AFL-CIO remains more comfortable with political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee on the future of work , which itself warned that unions are " behind the pace of change . " At his urging , organized labor has recruited about 300 , 000 associate members , whom it doesn ' t represent in contract negotiations but for whom it arranges benefits such as health insurance and low-interest credit cards  --  a tactic some experts see as the wave of the future . Most of the innovation comes from the bottom up  --  from unions such as the Steelworkers , which claimed 1. 2 million members when Mr. Kirkland took over and has embarked on an ambitious organizing drive to raise membership beyond its current 632 , 000 , and the American Federation of State , County and Municipal Employees , the fastest-growing union in the country . The AFL-CIO , the product of the merger of the activist , mass-movement Congress of Industrial Organizations with the more conservative , guild-like American Federation of Labor , itself has limited powers . And , for a small organization , its national headquarters remains remarkably hidebound and bureaucratic . " A lot of CIO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prominent labor leader . Mr. Kirkland himself has little grassroots organizing in his background . The son of a South Carolina cotton buyer and descendant of a Confederate senator , Mr. Kirkland grew up in a small Southern mill town , dreaming of the sea . As with Herman Melville , a ship was his Yale and his Harvard . But he soon left the seafaring life , got a degree at Georgetown ' s School of Foreign Service , became a nautical scientist and , eventually , joined the AFL staff and began the long climb to the top . " He was so out-of-the-mold to do well in the labor movement , " says Mary Zon , a retired research director for the federation ' s political arm . " He is a card-carrying intellectual , which he is rather at pains to hide . " Thomas Donahue , the federation ' s secretary-treasurer and a possible Kirkland successor , adds : " He ' s capable of the most intent concentration on a single issue of anyone I ' ve ever encountered . " Mr. Kirkland once wrote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stevenson ' s presidential campaigns , and today his own speeches sparkle with elegant turns . But he is more effective in the AFL-CIO executive council or even the academic community than in the mass media , where many of today ' s labor battles are fought . " He ' s a great spokesman , but he should do more of it , " says Douglas Fraser , who led the United Auto Workers between 1977 and 1983 . " He doesn ' t go on television . That ' s the medium our members watch . " Indeed , if there ' s any area that labor leaders themselves identify as a vulnerable spot , it ' s the public image of unions . " We need to have people think that unions aren ' t selfish , not just concerned with more , " says Gerald McIntee , the president of the 1. 1-million-member government-employees union . " We need to show that we ' re a progressive force for America . " The labor federation is still struggling to recover from the 1984 presidential campaign , when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an early endorsement to former Vice President Walter Mondale , then watched the Minnesotan ' s rivals bloody him as a " tool " of the " barons of labor . " In the heat of that campaign , then  --  Sen. Gary Hart also painted Mr. Kirkland as the personification of the politics of the past . The AFL-CIO did help Mr. Mondale get the nomination , only to see him lose 49 states in the election . Mr. Kirkland often says that , on questions of foreign policy , he has learned nothing new since the Depression , the Hitler-appeasing Munich Agreement , the Nazi-Soviet pact that divided Poland on the eve of World War II , and Pearl Harbor . He remains skeptical of Mikhail Gorbachev and the Soviet Union . " Glasnost hasn ' t reached the workplace yet , " he says . " I welcome anything that lifts the boot off the neck of working people , but I don ' t see anything yet . " Within the federation ' s executive council , Mr. Kirkland is facing increasing pressure to soften his attitude @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Some of us want to seize the opportunities more readily , " says Jack Sheinkman , the president of the 280 , 000-member Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers . David Montgomery , a Yale historian of the labor movement , calls Mr. Kirkland ' s foreign-policy views " a dead weight around the movement " because they make it difficult " to open up alliances with groups of workers in other countries fighting the same employers . " These days , however , conversation in Mr. Kirkland ' s office almost always returns to Mr. Lorenzo , Eastern Airlines and the united front that labor presented to a dreaded foe . " The labor movement is , in many respects , in far better shape to deal with its problems , which are manifold , " Mr. Kirkland says . " Our internal cohesion and solidarity are there . " Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     