@@668296

It must be horrifying to be summoned by police 11 months later to identify a brutal rapist . But what happens when the man , positively identified by five victims , is set free on a technicality , and the cop in charge of the case suggests to the women , " Why don ' t you go home and forget about it ? " " No ! " Ruth Hession shouts back . " I spent a year of my life trying to forget about it . For what ? So you could let him go free ? " No , this time I ' m not going to forget about it . " And there , in a nutshell , is the essence of " Victims , " a made- for-TV movie to be broadcast by ABC tonight ( 9-11 on Boston ' s WCVB- TV , Channel 5 ) . " Victims " is a violent , unpleasant story told remarkably well . And nobody portrays obsession like Kate Nelligan - take a look at her portrait of Zola ' s haunted adultress in last @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Therese Raquin . " To suggest that Nelligan , a Canadian who studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts , helps " Victims " is understating the case . She ' s an award- winning stage actress - for her performance in " Plenty " at London ' s National Theater in 1979 - with at least one major theatrical film , " Eye of the Needle " with Donald Sutherland , to her recent credit . In fairness , she gets plenty of help in " Victims " from Howard Hesseman , who plays the deranged rapist , Charles Galloway . Hesseman ' s more familiar persona - Dr. Johnny Fever on CBS ' " WKRP in Cincinnati " - is merely borderline strange compared with this guy . TV pictures about rape tend to take advantage of the subject , but this one - some implausible twists in the storyline notwithstanding - is generally restrained . Flashback scenes during which Ruth Hession is attacked and then terrorized by Galloway are graphic , though mellowed somewhat by the camerawork . And the climax to the story is dissatisfying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tough way to leave Ruth - and the viewer . After Galloway is released , Ruth assembles her fellow victims and suggests they keep a constant eye on Galloway , in an effort to catch him in the act again . " Some stranger , some creep off the street , walked in and robbed me of my humanity , " she says in vowing to pursue Galloway . " I was robbed of any sense of dignity , any sense of person , that I spent my whole life getting . " Three of the women - Maydene ( Jonelle Allen ) , Nina ( Pamela Dunlap ) and Chloe ( Amy Madigan ) - agree to share the nightly watch on Galloway ' s house . One by one , they drop out - first Maydene , then Chloe . Then it ' s just Ruth and Nina , and one night , Galloway climbs in his car and drives away . They follow , and he leads them into the hills over Los Angeles , to a small oilfield . The women ' s car stalls , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ iron , and leaves - to rape another woman across town . " She was upset last night , " Ruth says when Lt. Ashcroft , the policewoman now handling the case , asks about Nina . " You mean she ' s had the good sense to drop out , " says the cop ( Madge Sinclair ) . But Ruth appears more determined than ever to track Galloway , even after losing her job and her boyfriend Joe Buckley , played by Ken Howard . " You know , sometimes I almost envy Galloway , " Joe says a few nights before he decides to leave . " I get the feeling that in some strange way , you ' re getting closer to him than you are to me . " Then Ruth - fearing her own mental disintegration - buys a gun and approaches Galloway ' s wife , Pilar , for help . And " Victims " rushes to its unrewarding conclusion .                     