@@670024

Futures prices on the Value Line stock index , an indicator of small-investor sentiment about the stock market , led declines in stock-index futures as stock prices fell for the second consecutive day . The Value Line , a broad-based index weighted toward second-tier stocks favored by many retail traders , closed 3. 95 points lower at 211. 35 for March delivery on the Kansas City Board of Trade . At one point in a frenzied trading session , the Value Line posted a 5. 8-point decline . The plunge largely reflected small investors ' reaction to Wednesday ' s record stock market plunge , analysts said . " The public was scared and the Value Line was absolutely devastated , " said Jack Barbanel , head of futures trading at Gruntal &; Co . , New York . Declines in other major stock-index futures moderated yesterday as traders awaited further price cues . " Traders couldn ' t make up their minds whether ( Wednesday ) was for real , and whether to get back in the market or sell . Some were trading both sides of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Standard &; Poor ' s 500-stock index , made up mostly of large-capitalization stocks , fell 1. 4 points yesterday to 206. 85 for March delivery on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange . Volume in stock-index futures , although brisk , fell short of record levels again yesterday . Volume in futures on the S &; 500-stock index was an estimated 107 , 542 contracts , well short of last Dec. 5 ' s record of 112 , 582 contracts . In the Value Line , volume yesterday was an estimated 9 , 900 contracts , compared with the Dec. 5 record of 10 , 421 contracts . As the stock market rose steadily in recent months , the Value Line index has generally trailed the S &; and other indicators of top-tier stocks as the public hesitated to join the rally . " They knew it was too late to go into blue chips , so they went into secondary stocks , " Mr. Barbanel said . Yesterday , " They got caught with their pants down and they sold the hell out of it . " Stock-index futures , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , regained that position yesterday after plunging below cash indexes during Wednesday ' s selling frenzy . The S &; 500 futures closed moderately above the cash-market index yesterday after tumbling to a sharp discount Wednesday . In other futures markets yesterday : is expected today to release a Florida orange-crop production estimate for the 1985-86 season ending Nov. 30 ; the estimate is expected to show little change , or possibly a slight decline , ar also weakened against most major currencies , encouraging investment in precious metals , analysts said . Silver , gold and platinum were the big gainers ; " it was like the good old days " of inflationary metals-price spirals in response to political unrest , said Bernard Savaiko , senior precious metals analyst for PaineWebber Inc . , New York . Some analysts said continued strong buying on cash markets buoyed gold prices . The cash-market buying has reportedly come from the Japanese in anticipation of the minting of a new gold coin , some analysts said . But David Linnehan , senior metals analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures Inc . , New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' t yet passed legislation that would authorize minting of the new gold coin , " Mr. Linnehan noted , adding that the Bank of Japan already holds a substantial amount of the precious metal . Strong buying by computer-guided commodity funds helped spark the surge in silver , said William O ' Neill , director of research for Rudolf Wolff Futures Inc . , New York . And platinum futures soared amid reports that some of the 3 , 000 workers who had returned to the world ' s second-largest platinum mine after a six-day strike had resigned , increasing the possibility of a supply disruption , said Frederick Demler , metals analyst for Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc . , New York . ORANGE JUICE : Orange juice futures prices slumped for the third consecutive session to the lowest levels since February 1983 . Continued mild weather in Florida orange-growing regions accounted for the selling . While there was some light buying in response to concern over the effect of the Brazilian drought on the orange crop in that country , recent rains have given the trees a chance to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brothers Inc . , New York . The Agriculture Department is expected today to release a Florida orange-crop production estimate for the 1985-86 season ending Nov. 30 ; the estimate is expected to show little change , or possibly a slight decline , from the department ' s December forecast of a 132 million-box harvest . The report won ' t show the effects of the cold snap that hit Florida around Christmas , although the department ' s next estimate in February will . The December freeze mostly hit older citrus-growing areas in the northern part of the state , said Paul Redstone , analyst for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc . , New York . Citrus growers have moved farther south in recent years to avoid cold waves . " If that cold had hit before 1983 , it would have been a much bigger issue , " Mr. Redstone said . LIVESTOCK AND MEAT : Cattle futures prices rose moderately , while hog and pork belly futures fell . A record movement of frozen boxed beef from packers to retailers Wednesday encouraged buying . Analysts said the retailer interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices over the past week to 98 cents from $1. 02 a pound . But as retailers replenished their beef supplies , they showed less interest in pork products , pushing some wholesale pork prices lower and leading some traders to sell hog and belly contracts . In addition , pork packers are expected to make lower bids for hogs because wholesale pork prices are currently too low to cover the cost of buying and slaughtering hogs . Also , farmers have been sending large numbers of heavy hogs to markets since the beginning of the year ; the heavy supply is a precursor of lower cash hog and pork belly prices . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     