@@670005

ITT Corp. recruited a star sales executive to help push its personal computer line , but lost the man who had spearheaded its efforts to break into the U.S. telecommunications switch market . Max E. Toy , who helped Compaq Computer Corp. become the fastest growing start-up company in the U.S. , said he resigned his post at that company to help engineer a turnaround at ITT ' s personal computer operations . As senior vice president , marketing , at ITT Information Systems , the 38-year-old Mr. Toy ' s mission will include strategic planning for the company ' s line of personal computers , currently with less than 1% of the market , and strengthening a dealer network that is considered weak . Mr. Toy is expected to " lead our major thrust into the resellers markets and to maximize sales of our International Business Machines Corp. - compatible personal computer products , " V. William Souveroff , ITT ' s senior vice president , said . Meanwhile , an ITT spokesman said Ivan Cermak , an ITT vice president and president of the System 12 switch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " The System 12 telephone switch is the cornerstone product in ITT ' s effort to bolster its flagging telecommunications operations . ITT has yet to sell a complete System 12 to a former Bell company . The System 12 switch , which cost $1 billion to develop , has been a big seller overseas . In the U.S. , the world ' s largest market for such equipment , ITT is competing against about 10 other vendors of such switches for telephone companies . Mr. Cermak , 44 , was a 12-year veteran of American Telephone &; Telegraph Co. ' s Bell Laboratories . He was recruited by ITT in 1981 to help adapt System 12 for use by U.S. telephone companies and to help market the switch . In an interview , he termed the departure " friendly , " but declined to comment further . " He is the point man , " said Francis McInerney , executive vice president of Northern Business Information Inc. , a New York research concern . " He represents the thrust of their marketing efforts in North America . Without him @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ITT spokesman acknowledged Mr. Cermak " was effective at marketing " but said " our marketing effort is in place . " Harold W. Miller , president of ITT Telecom Products Corp . , System 12 ' s parent , will assume Mr. Cermak ' s responsibilities at the Raleigh , N.C.-based division , the spokesman said . At Compaq , Mr. Toy played an important role in setting up Compaq ' s dealer network , which is considered one of the best in the industry . As part of that effort , he helped establish Compaq ' s national accounts program and field sales training and development , all of which has given Compaq a reputation for quality service and dealer loyalty . Mr. Toy is convinced that ITT is in a strong position to turn around its personal computer business . " ITT has all the right elements to be a very successful , big player in the marketplace , " he said , but he conceded that " we have our work cut out for us . " He added : " I fully expect that ITT @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the computer industry . " Mr. Toy accepted his new post at ITT in early September , and he has met with the company ' s computer executives to plan new sales strategy , which he said is premature to discuss in detail . Mr. Toy ' s departure is the first by a senior executive at Compaq , which hitherto has escaped the kind of management turnover that has vexed other computer companies . A Compaq official said that Mr. Toy " certainly leaves a void . " But officials said they didn ' t expect departures by other Compaq executives . In an interview , Mr. Toy suggested that he resigned as Compaq ' s vice president of sales and strategic planning in search of a fresh challenge and expanded responsibilities . Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal                     