@@734736

txt Throughout the campaign for the Republican nomination , Ronald Reagan made a point of publicizing the dozens of advisers whose counsel he had solicited on a variety of domestic and foreign policy issues . Doubtless this publicity was in part intended to counter charges that Gov . Reagan lacked depth in national and international affairs . But if Mr. Reagan wins the election , many of these advisers will be given key posts in a new administration . While the experience and views of many of these experts are well known within the circles of academia , journalism and WashThe Bookshelf " The United States in the 1980s " Edited by Peter Duignan and Alvin Rabushka . Hoover Institution , Stanford University . 868 pages . $20.00. ington. their names are probably obscure to the average voter . A chance to meet Mr. Reagan 's advisers is conveniently afforded in a book published earlier this year by the Hoover Institution , a conservative " think tank " at Stanford University . " The United States in the 1980s " contains contributions by 33 authors , of whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ length , the book is a handy overview of the conservative stance on a large number of public policy issues facing this country over the coming decade . ( Curiously , about a third of the authors are Democrats  --  no small commentary on the importance of - party affiliations these days . ) Keynoting the domestic policy section , Milton and Rose Friedman emphasize that freedom and limited government go hand in hand . " Reliance on the freedom of people to control their own lives in accordance with their own values is the surest way to achieve the full potential of a great society . " They note that " a gradual reduction in the fraction of our income that government spends would be a major contribution to a freer and stronger society . But it would be only one step toward that objective . . . . the most promising approach is through general rules that limit government power . " Alan Greenspan , former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Ford , says that renewed capital investment growth must be central to economic policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early 1980s would spur renewed growth in productivity , which in turn would reinforce disinflationary fiscal and monetary policies . Standards of living largely stagnant in the 1970s would rise again and the 1980s could look a glad deal more like the 1950s and early 1960s than a replay of the 1970s . " As to the means of restoring balanced noninflationary growth . Alvin Rabushka and Dan Smith find that current tax policy is a major economic impediment . They offer a string of actions which would permit a reduction in taxes and government spending without cutting public services . For instance , let users , not taxpayers , pay for certain services and emphasize private substitution for tasks now performed by bureaucrats . Tackling a thorny political topic , Martin Anderson . who was a special assistant to President Nixon and is a top Reagan adviser on domestic affairs , asserts : " The war on poverty is over for 9.11 practical purposes . We should now begin thinking about how to revise our welfare strategies to deal with the problem of preventing poverty . to make programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to focus more on the social problems that widespread welfare dependency will bring . " Thomas Moore , formerly a staff member of the Council of Economic Advisers , writes on energy policy that " it should be the primary goal of the 1980s to return this country and the energy sector to the free market . As a side benefit , we would be less dependent upon foreign oil supplies and , as a consequence , would put ( downward ) pressure on world oil prices . " Other domestic issues addressed in the volume include Social Security , environmental protection , health care , housing , neighborhood revitalization and education . On foreign affairs , Fred Ikle , who ? was director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency , stresses that the deterrent effect of our nuclear'arsenal is shrinking as the Soviet Union continues a massive arms buildup . " The new and mounting threats to America 's security can not be easily met , " he states . " A determined effort requiring broad political support and some sacrifices will be needed if in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , triple pressures : Soviet military preponderance , a flawed nuclear strategy . and the acute vulnerability of the West 's oil supply . " The need to revamp our foreign intelligence services is discussed by Ray Cline , former deputy director for intelligence at the CIA . Edward Teller , the physicist , examines the important role that technology must play in national defense ; he criticizes the scientific community for not sufficiently fulfilling this role in recent years when the Soviet Union has been making enormous strides . Other authors discuss world energy sources , foreign aid , U.S. foreign economic policy and international business . More detail is provided in a subsection covering problems in various regions around the globe . " The 1980s offer both challenges and dangers , " write the editors , Peter Duignan and Mr. Rabushka . " Individual responsibility must replace government controls and direction . We need more competition and less regulation . The price mechanism , not bureaucracies ' , must allocate our scarce economic resources . " A harsher , more exacting , and more perilous age lies ahead . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ puritanical garrison state ; but we will not survive unless we save more than we spend , work more than we play , and spend more on defense and less on welfare . We must replace rhetoric with resolve and detente with a dynamic defense . The choice is ours . " The choice is , indeed , ours . Before voters make their choice in November , a reading of " The United States in the 1980s " would make a good primer . Mr. Kureivie : is a member of the Journal 's editorial page staff .                     