@@670301

BONN  --  The West German government adopted a series of measures to increase penalties and bolster enforcement powers against illegal exports of technology and equipment useful in arms production . The measures , approved by the cabinet of Chancellor Helmut Kohl , are in direct response to recent evidence of illegal West German exports of nuclear technology to Pakistan and other Third World countries . They also come amid U.S. allegations that West German companies helped build what Washington says is a chemical-weapons plant in Libya . Despite pressure from Washington , West German investigators haven ' t independently confirmed the U.S. allegations , though they have absolved one German firm the U.S. said was involved . Separately , the government said it ordered several West German companies to end current contracts with Libya . Lorenz Schomerus , head of the department for export policy at the Economics Ministry , told reporters that deliveries to Libya had been stopped while authorities determined if export laws had been violated . Mr. Schomerus wouldn ' t name the firms or say where in Libya the goods were destined . Economics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ news conference , said companies operating in a variety of sensitive fields , including nuclear technology , armaments and other goods of military or strategic importance , will be required in more cases to obtain permits to export that technology . Mr. Haussmann noted that such restrictions on technology transfer currently apply only to exports to communist countries , under the rules of the 16-nation Paris-based Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls . He declined to specify which countries will now be covered by the restrictions , except to say that the curbs won ' t apply to member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . The cabinet also approved heavier fines and prison terms for violators of export laws , and more professional staff for the licensing agency of the Economics Ministry  --  the Federal Economic Agency  --  to better scrutinize export flows . In addition , Mr. Haussmann promised measures to improve cooperation between customs authorities and the licensing agency . And he directed Environment Minister Klaus Topfer to produce a more comprehensive list of West German companies involved in the production of nuclear technology . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controls increases pressure on the Federal Economic Agency , where 75 civil servants in the agency ' s embargoed-goods division last year sifted through 75 , 000 applications for the export of sensitive equipment and technology . Trade experts are skeptical that the cabinet ' s decision will be enough to deter unscrupulous exporters from falsely declaring exports or from shipping sensitive equipment through third countries . Matthias Wissmann , economic spokesman for Mr. Kohl ' s Christian Democrats in parliament , said Bonn ' s effort is genuine . But he added that West Germany ' s position as the world ' s biggest exporter complicates the government ' s task . " With our kind of export volume and with a number of neutral countries as neighbors , preventing every abuse is difficult . The danger is always there that something will slip by , " Mr. Wissmann said . Mr. Haussmann said he will discuss the changes with U.S. officials during a planned visit to Washington early next month . The U.S. has often criticized West German export controls as lax , particularly regarding the sale of sensitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long-standing trade relationships with the East  --  and the irritation at what many West German businessmen feel is an artificial curtailment of that trade  --  has heightened U.S. concern . More recently , the evidence of technology transfers to the Third World has embarrassed Bonn . Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal                     