@@734578

txt The Carter administration is considering new ways to control certain hospital costs wIthont  --  eglidation . The effort partly reflects frustration over Congress 's refusal to pass the White House 's hospital cost-containment bill . In November , the House overwhelmingly rejected a standby mandatory ceiling on hospital ads . The prospects for reviving the measure in the Senate do n't look good . President Carter has said the bill is a key anti-inflation weapon . " We are n't trying to achieve the legislation by regulation , " an administration official stresses . " But that does n't mean we ca n't play with the 50 or 60 regulations that affect hospitals , " a second official adds . " We are looking at the range of regulations across the board to see where they should be tightened . " In the next month or two , policy makers are expected to agree on how to overhaul the Medicare and Medicaid programs . The federal programs spend more than S30 billion a year for hospital care for 47 million aged , disabled and poor Americans . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to extend current cost limits to cover essentially all hospital services , instead of just room , board and nursing care . By placing new ceilings on laboratory tests , physical therapy and other ancillary services , federal payments could be based on a hospital 's mix of patients . Hospitals with many seriously ill patients employ considerable sophisticated technology and personnel , so they would be reimbursed more . Hospitals with few such patients but high administrative overhead would receive less . " We think the net effect would be to inhibit the rise in hospital costs , " says Marilyn Koch , an official of the Health Care Financing Administration who is working on a White House proposal on broadened reimbursement limits . The agency , part of the Health , Education and Welfare Department , runs the Medicare and Medicaid programs : The financing administration also may encourage hospitals to seek competitive bids for supplies by limiting their reimbursement , reports Leonard Schaeffer , the agency 's head . A recent General Accounting Office study found wide differences in what hospitals in the same area pay for routine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Congress , laid the price differ ences largely to a lack of comparison shopping . Curb on Construction However , tightened federal payments may prompt hospitals to put a greater financial burden on private patients . " Then you have the problem of ballooning costs " for those patients , observes a federal health official . So , the Carter administration is considering capital expansion restrictions that would unilaterally affect private and public hospi-. tal patients . One possibility is a national ceiling on capital expenditures . Another is removing the tax-free status for hospital construction bonds . Hospital-industry lobbyists think either change would require legislative action . HEW experts disagree . Says one : " There are some things you could do through regulation . I just do n't know how far you can go . " Eye on Congress Whatever regulatory route the White House chooses will likely be pursued slowly , with a wary eye on Congress . " This is n't something that 's going to happen tomorrow , " cautions Mr. Schaeffer . The administration 's current thinking is to propose broader ' Medicare and Medicaid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They 're trying to get the machinery in order in 1980 . If ( President Carter ) is reelected , It will be put in place in 1981 , " predicts Michael Bromberg , executive director of the Federation of American Hospitals , a trade group that represents profit-making institutions . Taking action any faster would upset the politically powerful hospital industry . Then , Mr. Bromberg adds , " some Senators would get mad and say , ' You 're trying to do by regulation what you 've said you want to do by legislation . '                     