@@668541

A leftist Druze leader and the Lebanese government today rejected each other ' s proposals on where to hold a peace conference , dashing US hopes that the meeting would convene soon . Walid Jumblatt , leader of the Syrian-backed Druze militia , refused to go to Lebanon ' s presidential palace for the conference and said it should take place aboard a Greek ship off Beirut ' s coast . The government quickly rejected an offshore meeting . " Mr. Jumblatt must be joking , " said a government spokesman who declined to be named . " The president is unwilling to consider any site for the conference other than his palace or Saudi Arabia . " US officials had hoped that the " national reconciliation conference " would convene soon to work out a new power-sharing formula to end eight years of recurring Moslem-Christian civil warfare . In a new breach of the Lebanese cease-fire , meanwhile , the Druze and rightist Christian militiamen exchanged artillery and rocket fire in the hills of the Kharroub region that overlooks the Israeli army defense line in southern Lebanon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hilltop town of Barja and Christian militias in the coastal town of Jiyye sent shells crashing onto the seafront highway linking Beirut with Israeli-occupied southern Lebanon . Police said army positions in southern Beirut neighborhoods came under sporadic sniper fire from Moslem Shiite militiamen . No casualties were reported . Jumblatt ' s Progressive Socialist Party said Jumblatt " refuses to attend any conference at the presidential palace , " in suburban Baabda five miles east of Beirut . " The party leader proposes the first meeting of the national reconciliation conference be held aboard a Greek ship flying a Lebanese flag , " said the statement . It was issued a few hours after US Mideast envoy Robert C. McFarlane , who has been shuttling between Beirut and Damascus to halt squabbling over the site of the projected conference , told reporters he expected the meeting to begin soon . " Events of the last 48 hours have brought us to a position where there is every promise that the national reconciliation process is about to begin , " McFarlane said . " President ( Amin ) Gemayel has nurtured @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threshold of beginning to build a new Lebanon . " Sources close to the Christian president said Saudi Arabia , which mediated the current 16-day-old cease-fire , and Syria had accepted the presidential palace as a site for the reconciliation conference . But Syria , which backed Druze and Shiite Moslem militiamen in fighting against the Lebanese army and rightist Christian forces , made its approval contingent on a similar agreement by its allies . Jumblatt , who is touring Socialist countries in Europe , did not say why he rejected Baabda as the site . Gemayel has rejected any meeting site in Lebanon other than the palace . In another development , a Palestine Liberation Organization spokesman said armed rebels yesterday attacked three PLO offices Damascus , including PLO chairman Yasser Arafat ' s former headquarters . The spokesman in the Syrian capital said two Arafat loyalists of the mainstream Fatah faction were killed and three wounded in the fighting . Jihad Saleh , a rebel spokesman in Damascus , said only that the PLO " office of organization and mobilization " was taken over by guerrillas who had decided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exchange of small arms fire " when loyalists tried unsuccessfully to dislodge the rebels , and he said one loyalist was killed .                     