@@668113

If Ronald Reagan picks George Bush next week as his running mate , the pair will have a little patching up to do over issues on which they ' ve disagreed this spring . Bush once called Reagan ' s tax-cut ambitions " voodoo economics , " and the two also have differences in their stands on the equal rights amendmenet and abortion . But it appears they could settle for a little cosmetic surgery instead of having to undergo the political equivalent of joining Siamese twins . In February , for example , when Reagan was overhauling Bush in New Hampshire , the Californian stressed that Bush was opposed to a constitutional amendment to bar federal funding of abortions . Bush said he is opposed to abortion , but does not believe in a constitutional amendment . On the ERA , however , Bush favors the constitutional amendment . Reagan says he is for equal rights for women , but opposes ERA . In addition , a review of the primary season turns up some interesting and occasionally sharp things Bush said about Reagan . But in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more compatible with Reagan than , for example , Lyndon Johnson was with John F. Kennedy when Kennedy decided he needed the Texan to get southern votes . Reagan has had plenty of time to sort through hopefuls . The weeks leading up to a national convention comprise the silly season for vice presidential trial balloons , with many pressure groups and columnists paying off debts to old allies by advancing a favorite for serious consideration or a day ' s good press . Yesterday , for instance , the great race to choose was hyped a bit more with the " leak " that the final list was down to three : Bush , Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana and Sen. Paul Laxalt of Nevada , who seems an unlikely choice . Reagan will make the decision in consultation not only with top aides and party leaders , but also with his wife , Nancy , who has considerable influence with the man his aides call " the Governor . " Reagan ' s running mate will have more going for him than usual . Not only is Reagan ahead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latest Gallup Poll matching Reagan , Jimmy Carter and John Anderson , or 47-41 in a two-man race ) . But because Reagan turns 70 in February , his running mate will be seen as an even more likely successor than if Reagan were younger . Bush backers say he not only outdistanced all Reagan ' s rivals at the primary polls , but is seen as strengthening Reagan ' s bid in the Northeast , where Carter demonstrated most-un-Democratic-like weaknesses . Sen. Howard Baker is seen as too liberal by Reagan ' s more conservative backers ; Lugar lacks the foreign-policy expertise of the former CIA director . Others mentioned ? Rep. Jack Kemp gives New York a native son , but at 44 his critics say he is too young and inexperienced ; jokes about the actor and the football player pair also may dim his chances . After Reagan finished making movies , Kemp began throwing passes for the Buffalo Bills . Laxalt of Nevada ? Too close in regional identification , say the handicappers . Anne Armstrong ? Will a candidate opposed to the ERA seriously consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his goal is to reach beyond his Southern and Western base ? While the media seems as much in the dark as everyone else , it still appears Bush is in the front of the pack . So how would they get along ? They ' ve had a few harsh words along the rocky primary trail , but nothing that can ' t be patched up , given the flexible standards employed in politics . Reagan was far and away the least critical of the GOP candidates when it came to running down the others , as befits the popularizer of the " 11th commandment , " that Republicans should not speak ill of other Republicans . Reagan and Bush have engaged in nothing like the sort of disdainful rhetoric that President Jimmy Carter and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy are locked in . But every Republican hopeful took a crack at the frontrunner , and Bush was no exception . In a Wall Street Journal story late last year , Bush suggested hopefully his fellow rivals would be deemed unacceptable for the following reasons : Reagan was too " old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Robert Dole too " mean , " John Anderson too " liberal , " Philip Crane too " conservative . " But after Reagan skipped the Iowa caucus debate and Bush toppled him in an upset , Bush got a touch of the frontrunner ' s treatment himself , and it hurt . Reagan had campaigned leisurely in Iowa , but was all over New Hampshire like flypaper , rarely missing a chance to say how he differed from Bush . Reagan himself kept to issues and the high road , but Reagan backers like Jerry Carmen , the former GOP chairman there , assailed Bush as an elitist , a WASP , a " redcoat , " a " Tory , " or , in publisher William Loeb ' s unmanicured phrase , " a clean-fingernail Republican . " The Bush camp seethed over the elitist attack , but never really countered it . " It was too cold for the silk stockings , " crowed Carmen after Reagan crunched Bush 2 to 1 in New Hampshire . But Reagan himself never risked sullying his own image with sly jibes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ campaign bus , the candidate kept reminding Granite Staters he was more conservative than Bush . Reagan said , " He has more faith in Big Government than I do . " " George Bush voted for gun control , " Reagan told gun owners in New Hampshire , " and I ' m against it . " Bush tried vainly to say the congressional vote in question was a mere technical amendment , that he was against gun control stoutly . In South Carolina two weeks later , Bush told Reagan during a debate , " Some said I was for abortion ; I ' m opposed . Some said I was for gun control ; I ' m opposed . " But his claims that his record had been distorted apparently failed to persuade . All year long , Bush found it difficult to attack Reagan with the same toughness he used in his digs at President Carter . By April 8 , in Philadelphia , Bush told the World Affairs Council that Reagan ' s refusal to support Carter ' s Olympic boycott was unacceptable . By the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the wall . He branded Reagan ' s support of the Kemp-Roth 30 percent tax cut " voodoo economics , " and labeled it " economic madness . " Bush also slammed Reagan ' s proposal to blockade Cuba to punish the Russians for invading Afghanistan . Bush ran better nationwide than any other Republican but Reagan . When he bowed to the inevitable and quit in late May , Bush had won 6 primaries , amassed 255 delegates ( including 14 in Massachusetts ) , but Reagan took 17 primaries and had 919 delegates at that point . " My every gut instinct , my every bit of training , " said Bush , told him to stay in the race and " fight , fight , fight , " but Reagan had " just ground us down . " On some big issues , Bush is aligned with Reagan . Both opposed the Panama Canal treaties and SALT II , now on hold . Bush brings an Eastern Establishment cachet with him : his candidacy was endorsed by moderates like Henry Cabot Lodge , Elliot Richardson and William @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a good soldier for Richard Nixon during Watergate is undercut by support from Leon Jaworski , the Watergate special prosecutor . Bush was once a member of the Trilateral Commission , and Reagan has said he wouldn ' t be recruiting Trilateralists for his White House . " I ' ve said that isn ' t the direction I would go , " is the way Reagan phrased it . If strength at the polls is any help in the selection , Bush has some selling points . He ran only 5 percent behind Reagan in his adopted Texas , he licked him by a solid 9 percentage points in Pennsylvania , he demolished Reagan 2-1 in Michigan - all solid big- state help for the November ticket . In a recent Christian Science Monitor survey , 45 of 87 GOP leaders responding picked Bush as their suggested running mate . Last weekend the Washington Post surveyed GOP convention delegates by telephone , and of the one-third who responded , Bush was the favored running mate , winning 34 percent of the respondents to 21 percent of those replying for Kemp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down his commitment to the Kemp-Roth tax cut , and that should help paper over the potential barrier to Bush that existed there . In a debate this spring , Reagan said : " Whoever I pick would have to agree with the Kemp-Roth tax bill . " But Reagan told reporters afterword that criterion was " an ill- chosen bit of humor . I would never have said it if I had known you were taking it as meaning ( to exclude ) George Bush personally . I just thought it was kind of cute since that was our biggest difference . " When Reagan was asked if he would exclude someone who supported the Panama Canal treaties , he said , " Well , I don ' t know , I don ' t know how much the past would influence me . " He has been consistent , however , in saying he wants someone who opposes abortion . But there has been a dispute over how firmly he requires that his selection support a constitutional amendment . One antiabortion group claims it has a firm promise from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to different interpretations . Bush and Reagan agreed during a Chicago debate that Henry Kissinger would not find work in either ' s White House . " I don ' t believe he ' ll be in my Administration , " said Bush . " I agree , " added Reagan . There was one more memorable moment of agreement between the two , during the now-infamous debate in Nashua , N.H. , where Reagan seized the microphone and insisted on saying his piece . In the aftermath , Bush was asked if he felt Reagan was too old to be President . " No I don ' t , " said Bush . Added Reagan with a grin : " I agree with George Bush . "                     