@@668488

This peculiar weather we are having is called spring . I point this out to remind us that there are times when it is normal to be odd . Spring is one . For at least two years , perhaps three , we have not had any spring at all . We have had winter followed by summer . Except last year when we had winter followed by monsoon season . Spring , as usual , reminds me of bats . It may not remind you of bats , but that is probably because you are trying not to think about them . You would probably rather think about frogs , which never get in the house and whoosh around in the bedroom . Well , a normal spring goes like this : blackbirds followed by frogs followed by mosquitos followed by bats . We are three-quarters of the way along in our neighborhood , with very early mosquitos of the worst kind . ( The best kind of mosquito is very large and fat and makes a lot of noise . The kind we have this week @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ noise . They are sort of stealth bombers , not picked up by any of our senses until too late . ) Bats do not make much noise either , as far as we are concerned . It is alleged that John Keats could hear bats . John Keats ( 1795- 1821 ) was a poet who wrote very long and complicated poems which were taught in high school English courses until about 1962 , which was a watershed year for getting anyone under 18 to read poems with titles like Endymion , Hyperion , or La Belle Dame sans Merci . Every once in a while , an occasional English teacher will still try to sneak a short Keats , say , Ode on a Grecian Urn , past a class under the pretense that it is actually by Rod McKuen . The problem with hearing bats is that they usually produce sounds in kilohertz that human beings can ' t pick up . For all I know , the current crop of mosquitos is actually playing the 1812 Overture , but up around 50 kilohertz so that no one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ears poop out around 15 kilohertz ( or 15,000 hertzes ) , as do most high fidelity systems . Some hifi systems advertize that they go to 20 kilohertz , which is only detectable to the average customer by a certain fuzzy itching sensation in their amalgam fillings . Our local bats operate around 50 kilohertz which is not a sound likely to be " heard , " but that hardly means it isn ' t there . Now the old hertz is just a measure of pitch , or relative highness or lowness of the sound . It has nothing to do with how loud that sound is . The very common Little Brown Bat is actually making as much noise as the average home smoke detector . When you go out on a summer evening and realize that those half dozen bats operating 10 feet over your head are putting out an outrageous volumn of sound , a half a dozen smoke detectors beeping anywhere from 20 to 200 times a second , and all that sound is bouncing off your head , you begin to wonder whether John @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ raises the question of what all that noise is doing to us , even if we can ' t hear it . It might be slightly irritating . The only evidence I have for this possibility is that there is no such thing as a person who doesn ' t care about bats . People are very much against them ( usual ) or very much for them ( rare ) . Show me a man or woman who doesn ' t care if there are bats in the house and I will show you a person who has probably memorized Endymion , Hyperion , and La Belle Dame sans Merci and has very little else in their head . It is extremely unlikely that high frequency sound is bad for our mental health , compared to the audible low frequency sound like the kind you get on the evening news . All in all , it is the evening news that really drives usbatty.                     