@@668144

The signing of the Maine Indian land claim settlement by President Jimmy Carter yesterday marked a unique victory for Indians in America . " There has never been a lawsuit where Indians have won back any significant land , " said Thomas Tureen of the Native American Rights Fund , who has devoted more than six years to the complicated settlement as attorney for the Penobscot and Passamaquoddy Indian tribes . In this case , the two tribes , along with Maliseet Indians , will not only receive $27 million in federal funds to set up a trust fund for tribal uses , but will be paid an additional $54.5 million by the federal government topurchase 300,000 acres of Maine woodlands from willing sellers . The scale of the federal compensation is notable when measured against the fact that it is being made to fewer than 4000 Indians . There was one other recent large settlement made to the Sioux Indians , who were awarded $125 million as compensation for the taking of the Black Hills in South Dakota . But there are more than 20,000 Sioux Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ settlement . The Maine Indian case rested on proving that , under the old Trade and Non- Intercourse Act , their lands had been illegally taken from them because the deals had never been approved by Congress . This key court ruling , however , resulted in a long and often bitter negotiations and litigation over terms that finally produced a settlement . Tureen , 36 , of Portland , pointed out that the course of the Maine case was constantly marked by drama and the prospect of failure . For years , the state of Maine , through its governors and attorneys general , resisted accommodation to the Indian claims . The case also produced a significant backlash in public attitudes toward Indians within the state , particularly among residents in the claim area whose property deeds had been placed under a legal cloud by the Indians ' suit against the state . The original claim sought recovery of $12 billion in damages and millions of acres . In praising the settlement yesterday , Maine Gov . Joseph Brennan expressed relief that the agreement has averted the " financial disaster @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to finance new economic development " in the claims area . Just five months ago , Tureen despaired that there would ever be a way to reach a settlement with the state . The break came when two more court cases came down in early July , one buttressing the Indian claims , the other questioning them . " It was in this situation of flux that negotiations really got serious , " Tureen explained , " because neither the State of Maine nor the Indians could be assured of the outcome if the case went to court . It sharpened the risk for each side as it had never been sharpened before . " Tureen admits now that he and the Indian tribes were also reluctant to take the risk of letting the settlement be put off until there was a possibility of a new Administration in Washington . Though President Carter failed to resolve the case two years ago through the use of an appointed negotiator , he had gone on record in favor of a settlement . But negotiations within the State of Maine had to come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was let off the hook for providing the financial aide to the Indians . By mid-March , an agreement was written between the state and the Indians and it passed the state legislature on April 2 , the last day of the session . But when the law and the appropriation bill got to Congress , it sat there . Ironcially , though Maine Sen. Edmund Muskie was chairman of the Senate budget committee , he did nothing to move the measure along . It is possible that the $81.5 million pricetag was a small embarrassment to the Carter administration , which had never committed itself to that large a package . Fate intervened when Muskie was appointed Secretary of State and Sen. George Mitchell was appointed to replace him . Mitchell , a strong proponent of a settlement with Maine ' s Indians , got the bill moving through Congress . The land claim bill breezed through Congressional hearings in June , but even though it went on to unanimous passage in both House and Senate , there were more anxious moments . Because the bill was filed late under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two-thirds vote and might have failed if it was pushed to a roll call in either the House or Senate . At the last minute , Rep. Robert Giamo ( D-Conn. ) , chairman of the House budget committee , announced he would oppose the bill because it called for too much money and he questioned the merits of the case . In hectic weekend lobbying , House colleagues prevailed upon him and he abandoned the challenge . " That might have killed it , " said Tureen , " and we would have had to start the whole process over again . " As it stands now , the Indian tribes will probably receive their money before the end of the year . " Everyone is quite relieved , " said Tureen . " This has been a high-stakes game . "                     