@@735175

txt Christmas is a time for . worship foi joy , for children , for thotigtfulneas toward others , and for song . But iti'Chicagop perhaps more than in any other city anywhere , . it is. also a time for preserving and enjoying trOditions Inherited from dozens of " old countries " throughout the world  --  and even same fairly new ones . Each group makes its own distinctive contribution  --  the Poles , the Irish , the Italians , the Swedes , the Mexicans , the Germans , the Greeks , and all the others ; but as in a symphony orchestra , the net effect is the harmonious one of one big , ? cosmopolitan city celebrating Christmas . Our purpose here is not to describe the different national customs that determine whether we are to enjoy a wesolych mutat , a Mix navidad , a frohliche Weinachten , a buon notate , a god jut , a linkamu kaledu , or any of the others that blend into one big American merry Christmas . The customs are displayed every year at-the Museum of Science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and neighborhood festivities . But there 's a paradox that does n't show up in a museum display . The longer an ethnic group has lived in Chicago , and the more thoroughly It has woven itself into the social and economic fabric of the city , the more eager it seems to preserve the traditions that distinguish it from others . The first foreigners to come to Chicago in any numbers were the Germans and Irish and Swedes . The famous German language newspapers of the early 19008 have pretty well disappeared , there being little need for them today ; but go to ' a German restaurant during the holiday season or a performance by the Danube Schwablims or the Deutsch-Amerikanischer Kinderchor and you 'll feel as if your nlane had just landed in Munich . The Irish are famous - for preserving their Irishness , even while busily getting themselves elected mayors of Chicago and running our political machinery for us . Listen to the Swedish Male Chorus singing Christmas carols or watch children of Swedish ancestry ' ancing in a Lucia 's ' day festival , and you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pie from 9 to 5 or from January to November , suddenly becom- ing as Swedish as smorgasbord . If there 's a paradox here , it 's an understandable one . At first each group of new immigrants must live behind a wall of linguistic , and cultural differences . As it emerges kern that isolation , learns the English language and adapts to American norms of public behavior , nostalgia sets in . . There 's an urge to save what 's left in the attic  --  to preserve national traditions and , more important , to share them with others . Spanish-speaking Chicagoans are among the more recent arrivals and many of them have yet to wean themselves from dependence on the Spanish language ; yet their colorful Christmas procession , the posada , has already become an institution not just for themselves but for their neighbors as well . Chicago is lucky to have such a variety of cultures to draw dn . In culture as in genetics , too much inbreeding is a bad thing . For most of the day and most of the year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Americans , whatever our ancestry . It takes occasions like Christmas to remind us that being a Chicagoan does not mean totally abandoning one 's own past or blinding oneself to the richness of alien traditions . This cross-pollination has been healthy fcir Chicago . There are too ? many parts of the world today where divergence is discouraged and alien traditions are something to hide .                     