@@668158

It was purely coincidence , but organizers of a new statewide summer program for gifted high school juniors say it could not have come at a better time . Planning for the program , set to begin next July at Milton Academy , was already well under way when Massachusetts voted Proposition 2 1/2 into law Nov. 4 . So at a time when the tax-cutting initiative is threatening to erode many services provided for public school students , particularly advanced courses with small enrollments , a privately- financed program for the gifted is about to be born . The Massachusetts Advanced Studies Program , or MASP , will bring 125 to 135 juniors together for an intensive enrichment program that will replicate in condensed form the experience offered by expensive preparatory schools . For six weeks students will live and study together on the 125-acre campus of the private boarding school in Milton . Each student will choose an intensive , 16-hour-per-week course . Sample offerings presented in a slickly produced brochure sent to high schools include : a laboratory course in genetics , a profile of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture in Spain and the Americas . Students will also take a less intensive course , meeting eight hours a week , aimed at improving writing . " The Massachusetts Advanced Studies Program , " the brochure tells students , " is designed to help you discover the extent of your own abilities and to prepare you for taking best advantage of the prospects open to you for college and career . " Tuition is set at $1300 , but organizers hope to be able to raise enoughfrom private contributions so that no students will be turned away because they don ' t have the money . In addition to seeking grants from industry and foundations , the program will encourage local organizations to provide scholarships for local students . MASP is patterned on a similar program offered to New Hampshire students at St. Paul ' s School for the past two decades . Gail P. Roycroft , described by a colleague as a prime mover behind the Massachusetts program and now its associate director , recalled in an interview how the idea got started . Roycroft , head guidance counselor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s in the summer of 1979 with Alice Palubinskas , a friend and associate director of admissions at Wellesley College . The two were sitting on the grass chatting , she recalled . Impressed with the New Hampshire summer program and " feeling jealous , we decided Massachusetts should have one , " she said . The Massachusetts School Counselors Assn. was brought into the planning , as were admissions officers from a variety of Massachusetts colleges . Both groups will have a direct role in the program , with guidance counselors recommending qualified students and the admissions people counseling MASP students on their college plans at a college day to be offered during each summer session . Jan. 25 is the deadline for guidance counselors to file nominations for next summer ' s inaugural program . As many as 800 students are expected to apply . Program leaders are looking for minority candidates and students from all parts of the state , according to Roycroft . Fund-raising is moving into high gear as MASP seeks to realize its goal of making sure that no qualified student is denied access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ironically , appears to be helping the drive for funds , according to director Richard E. Barbieri . In a recent letter to high school principals , he noted that the new program is now " more timely than ever , as the foundations and businesses who have so far given to its support agree . "                     