@@668660

When sales of mare ' s milk produced on farms near this city in Soviet Kazakhstan suddenly showed a sharp increase in late spring and early summer this year , no one was too surprised . The rich milk , it seems , is easily fermented into a far more potent brew , and that was important to thirsty local tipplers bent on getting around Moscow ' s latest and toughest anti-alcohol campaign . They haven ' t been alone . The first three months of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev ' s fight against the bottle has produced more than just anger and confusion in the Soviet Union . It also has made people seek out booze from less conventional sources than the local bottle shop . " If the ingenuity used to circumvent the new law was invested in solving the nation ' s economic problems , we ( the West ) would be in real trouble , " said a West European diplomat . The regulations promulgated May 16 were among the most stringent ever decreed by the Kremlin in its decades-long struggle against widespread alcohol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s health and its economy . The crackdown includes heavy fines for public drunkenness , raising the drinking age from 18 to 21 , a ban on sale of liquor on workdays before 2 p. m. and reduction in the output of some types of spirits . Furthermore , alcohol consumption at all government functions has been banned by Gorbachev , who , unlike most of his predecessors , seems to be a teetotaler . Soviet embassies throughout the world were told to stop serving vodka at official receptions . The leaders have signaled their determination to push ahead with the present campaign : A reported 15 , 000 arrests so far attest to that . But drink is so much a part of life here that the task is immense . For example :  --  Managers at Drug Store No. 194 in Moscow had to stop the sale of eau de cologne and other alcohol-based products before 2 p. m. after morning sales of those items shot up following the May 16 announcement.  --  In the first two weeks of June , police arrested 1 , 000 people on bootlegging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a total of 21 stills were shut during the same period.  --  Government officials in a southern Soviet republic were so embarrassed at having to serve grape juice instead of wine to visiting dignitaries that they began inviting the visitors to their homes , where they could imbibe in an " unofficial setting " and thereby bend the rules . Vigilance on some fronts in enforcing the law has been matched by confusion on others . Communist Party and government officials who once competed with one another in bottle counts and tales of revelry now often eye each other with uncomfortable suspicion . A party official dining recently with visiting foreigners at the Erkenshilikski state farm near here accepted a glass of wine poured at lunch by a foreign guest but didn ' t touch a drop after noticing that a fellow party man declined the offer . Explanations for why Soviet alcohol intake is five times higher per capita than in Western Europe ( according to a Soviet expert ) have ranged from contentions that drink is the only escape from the unrelenting tedium of Soviet provincial life to suggestions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal frustrations of Soviet-style communism . But while the cause remains unclear , there is no argument about the effect . Officials say alcoholism is the single biggest cause of premature death and of a rising rate of birth deformities in the Soviet Union . It is considered the main cause of an escalating divorce rate and is said to be responsible for more than 80 percent of violent crime nationwide . Precise economic figures on drink-related absenteeism and industrial accidents are not available , but informed Soviets say Western estimates that alcohol abuse knocks 7 percent off the Soviet gross national product each year are broadly correct . The failure of past campaigns and the efforts made to circumvent the present one illustrate the difficulty in bringing about change inside the Soviet Union . Some Western experts contend that the current drive to control the consumption of hard liquor pits an entrenched social habit against the tough , innovative Gorbachev . The battle is one the new Kremlin leadership has no choice but to win , the experts say . If Gorbachev can not make his anti-alcohol program work , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might prove virtually impossible unless accompanied by serious repression . The same beat-the-system attitude of the mare ' s-milk fermenters might be used to undermine any attempts to make people work harder . To illustrate the gravity of the problem and the need for controlling it , an economist named Bazhenov cited the case of a village woman who became rich by selling moonshine to her neighbors . Deciding to build a house from her profits , she hired a brigade of carpenters from a nearby village because she did not want to use the drunken carpenters from her own town . " But , " Bazhenov said , " on a national scale we have no choice : We can not hire workers from elsewhere , ' from the next village . ' " Not all initial reports on the crackdown ' s effects are encouraging . Police spot-checks on Moscow restaurants and liquor stores indicate the number of liquor-related violations has been rising rather than falling , according to Col. Georgei Postojuk , chief of the city ' s department of public order . Postojuk told the newspaper Moskovskaya @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ turned up 273 violations , and another sweep July 13 and 14 produced 364. 