@@734653

txt Joseph Lash 's marvelous book comes at exactly the right moment , when we need to help to outwit the national hopelessness . Recent revivals of love and faith have seemed more like vice than virtue . Let us hope that hope will have its heyday once again , and that there are teachers clever enough to feed their students bread-and-butter biographies like this one , to defeat the diffidence and despair of dropouts . " Eleanor and Franklin " was Lash 's most popular book and his reputation is studded with prizes . Ile has turned from the study of powerful men , Roosevelt , Churchill , and Stalin , to a pair of women who fought more formidable foes , blindness , deafness , and dumbness . Miraculously , they won , and we all know the plot from William Gibson 's play , " The Miracle Worker . " Lash is a biographer in the Victorian tradition where the lives of the great serve double duty as the history of the times ( the 1860s to the 10604 and the ' catechism of moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only nostalgia for the earnest days when hope flourished in America that drives the reader on through almost 1,000 pages of daunting double biography . It is well , every once in a while , to re-examine our heroines , to decide if they deserve their pedestals , to ask ourselves if we still wish to worship . Lash 's answer is a resounding yes . Once he has scraped off all the whitewash , dug up all the dirt , Helen Heller comes out cleaner than ever . Annie Sullivan 's halo is tarnished and tipped . She stands more shakily on her pedestal , giving us back the evil eye , all the more lovable and appealing to a modern audience because of her rage and self-destructiveness . Annie Sullivan 's childhood was so horrible that she never told Helen Keller about It in all the years of their intimacy . Driven out of Limerick , Ireland , by the potato famine of 1847 , Thomas Sullivan settled in Springfield , Mass. , where his crippled , tubercular wife gave birth to five unhealthy children , including the half-blind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " little devil of a daughter , " and the blow he struck her on the day of her mother 's burial in potter 's field determined the course of her life : " A fire of hatred blazed up in me which burned for many years , " She and her crippled bnither were taken in briefly by an aunt and uncle . But when their father failed to contribute to their support , they were packed off to the poorhouse in Tewksbury . Poverty , filth , and disease were Annie 's teachers for six years . Among the crippled , the insane , and the criminal , she clung to her brother Jimmy until he died , furious that the priest Jane Marcus is a Chicago writer and one ? . Her edition of Elizabeth Robins ' women 's suffrage novel , " The . Convert " ( 1970 ) , will be published in July . did n't bless his burial , crying out on her death . bed many years later that she must be allowed to put flowers on his grave . In 1880 she @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hot-tempered , bright , and belligerent . The rebellious Annie could never relate to authority . Docility she ' knew in her heart meant death , for poor handicapped immigrant children . Authbrity meant beatings , and she was always waiting for the blow that all her father-figures , mentors , and teachers would eventually deal her . Neither individuals nor institutions could bring her to heel , except by humiliation , and many were the humiliations she suffered , always ending with " an expense of spirit . in a waste of shame . " To her proud , inquiring , original mind there was little difference between the Tewksbury poorhouse and Perkins Institution , between Radcliffe College and the American Foundation for the Blind . From her point of view they all oppressed her while pretending to care for her . Helen Keller always celebrated the day her " Teacher " arrived in Tuscumbia , Ala. , as " the birthday of my soul . " Annie transformed a kicking , screaming little monster , almost autistic , without sight , hearing , or speech , into the brilliant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Linguists and child psychologists have been fascinated by the results of her unorthodox methods . The breakthrough came when Annie spelled into Helen 's hand the word for water . That things had names , that she could learn them and then " speak " by spelling back , learn to read Braille , then write it , was a joy beyond description . Both teacher and student described the experience repeatedly using the image of clay , transformed by a sculptress into humanity . Helen came out of darkness " trailing clouds of glory , " and all over the world hopes were fulfilled in the nature of human goodness . Rousseau 's " noble savage " in the form of a blind , deaf , . and dumb little girl , gave people hope for humanity . Now Annie Sullivan was not a charming worn . an . She was no modest model of the Victorian self-sacrificing teacher or nurse . People were often suspicious of her success , prejudiced against her Irishness and poverty . While still a student at Perkins , Annie had tangled with Boston Brahmin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for to upper-class , Bostonians there was nothing lower on the earth than an Irish female . To Annie they were all like the landlords who had destroyed her own and so many Irish families , despite their feminism ' and abolitionism . The humiliations she endured getting Helen through Radcliffe were crowned with a final blow . Though she 'd mastered the languages , sciences , math , history , and literature , to teach them to Helen , and endured continual harassment to prove that Helen did the work and not her teacher , only Helen got a degree . Like the " little people , " she nursed her grudges . She never forgot . Lash 's researches have turned up much material on the scandal of Helen 's " plagiarizing " from a story read to her as a child , which Annie published as the blind child 's own while they were at Perkins . Helen was actually put on trial and cross-examined . The shame and-disgrace were never forgotten , never erased , despite Helen 's fame as a writer , her enduring friendships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Twain , They were always dogged by those who thought Helen was a fraud , or only parroted Annie 's thoughts . But the proof was in the fact that no two women could have been more different . Annie alternated between arrogance at her colossal achievements and abnegation , self-hatred , and despair . She challenged authority , then bowed her head for the blows , Lash is impatient with his subject for her tendency to cut her own throat in relations with the powerful . Yet her student , her prize , was sweetly studious , charming but firm , idealist and revolutionary . Helen Keller became not only the fierce pacifist and feminist we know , but also a left-wing Socialist , supporter of Bill Haywood , a member of the I.W.W. Lash is at his best in the chapters " Red Flag , " and " Socialist Joan of Arc , " John Macy , a young Harvard Socialist poet , became Helen 's tutor and married Annie . He was charming , brilliant , weak , dependent , and a drunkard . He soon abandoned them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and wrote a misogynist book . As a female partnership of teacher and pupil , Helen and Annie were counter-institutional . And this is where Lash fails in imagination as a biographer ? on their lives as women . Lash is excellent on the history of Perkins and the Foundation for the Blind and Helen 's fierce Socialist determination to see that the blind were educated for useful work . His method as a biographer is inclusive and he amasses much material . Helen and Annie spoke to each other In the language of touch , and the meaning of this for their lives is hardly explored here , the depths of their physical and emotional relations hardly plumbed . Helen became , like the poet Blake , a Swedenborgian , to satisfy a need for spirituality and mysticism at the opposite pale from Annie 's belligerent anticlericalism , The story of Helen and Teacher is , for me , an anti-Frankenstein myth . Mary Shelley imagined male jealousy of motherhood wreaking death and destruction by trying to create life out of death . Annie Sullivan was an angel of deliverance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evils of life were dispelled for her by every daily proof of Helen 's natural goodness . The poet Richard Watson Gilder captured the mythic quality of their lives when he wrote of their first meeting that it would take a Blake to paint the picture of those two souls rushing toward each other .                     