@@734545

txt All but one on school board ought to quit now In the weeks since the Chicago public schools financial debacle exploded , a number of people have proposed that I write a column urging the entire Board of Education to resign . So by popular request . here it comes . All the members of the Board of Education should resign immediately except for the Bev . Kenneth B. Smith , the newest member . who had no part in the schools ' financial catastrophe . The first time I heard a call for all board members ' resignations was from the lips of Jane Byrne after last year 's primary mayoral election . In an interview , she reiterated a campaign theme that all members of boards appointed by the mayor including the school board should , as protocol , offer their resignations so she could decide whom to retain or replace . At the time , the suggestion seemed absurd . State law establishing the Chicago school hoard provided for continuity by setting up overlapping terms , thus preventing an incoming mayor from cleaning house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sweep the house clean . Former School Supt. Joseph I ' Ilannou and his financial officers may he guilty of gross misitinagenleal of school finances . not po school superintendent votes on ; will , * only board members vote . Board members may argue that Hannon 1100 1% , inked thins stout the schools ' financial condition : still , there 's an old saying at the school hoard that if you have is votes I thal 's the majority needed of the tt-member boardl , you can do anything . A majority of board members , had they so chosen , could have forced out the information on the finances . Instead , they adapted Chicago ' teachers Union coutraels for which money was not at hand , and passed budget after budget with deficits . Singled soil especially must be Herbert E. Johnson , , 1 board member for four years and senior vice president of the Contineolal Illinois National Bank ltz Trust Co. of Chicago . Be was recommended for the board in 1975 by Chicago United , whose members include the top businesses in the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ board . When I suggested to Johnson last week that he . Awe any other hoard member , should have known what was going on . he replied there was nothing in the official financial reports to indicate dipping into restricted accounts of funds to meet bond payments . Furthermore , Johnson said he was not a banker , was only employed at a bank , and was really an economist . But Johnson wrote a paper on the 1976 school financial crisis which he submitted for publication in the Tribune . Excerpts were published on June 20 , 1978 . This was his conclusion : " ' rho turnaround accomplished for the Board of Education 's finances is a classic and dramatic example of what can he done with thr combination of leadership , understanding . and will . With all the problems of a large . urban school system and his base , the Board of Education could have temporized with this problem of escalating budget deficits until a severe financial crisis developed . Instead , the difficulties were faced and the turnaround was accomplished without the crisis most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mayoral campaign Bali all board members resign as a antler of protocol , one objection was that the board would lose all continuity . Now one might say That it Johnson 's comments represent the kind of thinking among hoard members On the fiscal issue over the last few years . then the hoard needs to lose all continuity , and lose it right now . In an amendment to the Chicago school financi-d bailout package , the slate legislature voted last week to end the terms of all board members on April 30 . That 's one clear indication that the people of Chicago and Illinois have no confidence in the present board members . The sooner the board members relinquish their seal , . the quicker the school system Will he able to make a new beginning .                     