@@668083

Special to The Globe BEIRUT - After the most severe battles since the Lebanese war , the right- wing National Liberal Party has been forced to surrender to the Falangists , who now have gained full control over Christian areas in East Beirut and the mountains north of the city . Many believe there is danger of another civil war and , with it , partition . A major question here is how long so much power will be held by a few families , who have been the main actors on the country ' s political scene for a long time . The families are the Chamouns , of the National Liberal Party ( NLP ) , and the Gemayels , who head the right-wing Falangist Party . The two parties fought jointly , under the umbrella of the Lebanese government forces , against Palestinians and their left- wing allies during the 1976-77 civil war . Since then , however , the relationship between them had soured and clashes between them had become more frequent . The reason given for this friction was rivalry over territorial claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Pierre Gemayel , who still leads it , is the strongest and the best organized party in Lebanon . It has for a long time had its stronghold in the mountains north of Beirut and in some of the city ' s Christian suburbs . Former president Camille Chamoun ' s NLP , on the other hand , only gained strength during the civil war and its arrival on old Falangist grounds has been regarded as an intrusion by families and villages loyal to the Gemayels . It had always been emphasized , however , that this friction never managed to tarnish the relationship between the two leaders who , during the recent battles of their forces , sat through frequent meetings to find a solution to the problem . The same good relationship apparently does not exist between the two men ' s sons , who , due to the age of their fathers , more and more have come to represent their parties . Camille Chamoun is now in his 80s , and Pierre Gemayel is only a few years younger . Dory Chamoun , oldest son of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outburst of fighting between the parties and explained that he no longer wanted to be associated with people who use violence as a means to gain political power . Dani Chamoun , his younger brother , who has headed the NLP militia since the war , has now given a similiar reason for his resignation , which battles were still raging . In a statement , Dani accused the Falangists of a " surprise crime . " And , pointing especially to Bashir Gemayel , the younger son of Pierre and the chief commander of joint Christian forces , he said that Bashir " obviously seeshimself as the successor of Camille Chamoun in leading Lebanon ' s Christian population and on the basis of that seeks his own gains . " The statement was made shortly after Dani Chamoun had been forced to escape from a Falangist attack on Fakra , in the northern mountains , where Dani heads a tourist-resort project . Only hours before this escape , Dani ' s house in Safra , also north of Beirut , had been stormed and burned and his wife and teenage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the intervention of the Red Cross . Dani ' s accusations against Bashir Gemayel did not come as a surprise to the Lebanese , who for some time have been aware of the deep differences existing between the two . Dani stressed in the same press conference , however , that he has a much better understanding with Amin Gemayel , the oldest son of Pierre , who is a Falangist member of the Lebanese parliament . Amin , who accompanied Dani in the helicopter from Fakra , is said to have refrained from attacking NLP offices in his area , and it is believed that the two have gone to great efforts to make peace . Both Dani and Amin are known as moderates within the right-wing ranks , and they have in many ways the same aspirations for a future Lebanon . Both speak of a Democratic modern state that would have abolished its feudal system and in which all religious groups handle their own affairs , while political posts would be open to everyone , regardless of sect . The political system agreed upon at the time of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sectarian basis . The two men have also , in separate statements , denied the accusation that they still have close ties with Israel . The Chamoun family had remained neutral during this long feud between the parties ' forces . But its recent overtures to move closer to former President Suleiman Franjieh , in what is believed to be an attempt to get his support against the growing threat of the Gemayels , is understood here to be one of the reasons for the recent attacks . Franjieh , who has been put in a new key role while Lebanon waits for Chamoun ' s next move , also has good relationships with Wallid Jumblatt , the son of Kamal Jumblatt , who was assassinated in March 1977 . Wallid , who now is in his early 30s , was known as the son of a chieftain and a fun-loving playboy until his father ' s death . Since then he has grown gradually into his role as one of the main politicians on the left . At the time of his father ' s death , Wallid inherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the popular Socialist Party , which his father formed , and he has recently been eelected to succeed his father as the president of the National Movement , the left-wing alliance , headquartered in West Beirut . Both Dani Chamoun and Amin Gemayel have expressed willingness to talk to Wallid Jumblatt in order to achieve a national conciliation . Bashir Gemayel has rejected any such move , claiming that , although Wallid may be a leader of considerable strength , he can not act independently , but is controlled by the Palestinians and the Syrians . Wallid , in return , has few kind words to offer Bashir , whom he accuses of wanting a partition of the city so that he can maintain his power . While Wallid admits that he has had certain contacts with Dani and Amin , he abruptly dismisses the idea of talking to Bashir , whom he sees as a close ally of Israel and whom he criticizes for showing off Israeli arms in his many military parades . Wallid ' s own party , he points out , sees its role as giving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Zionist takeover of southern Lebanon . Wallid , as a result , sees the new power of the Falangists , and particularly Bashir as a dangerous turn that has ushered in " a new era ... more serious than the previous one . " His view is shared by most people in West Beirut , which only hours before the battles in East Beirut witnessed its own severe clashes between rival left-wing factions . This steadily worsening fragmentation among left-wing groups , they feel , can only add to the Falangists ' power and bring Lebanon closer to another war . As always , they look for some form of government action to ease the tension . One such action would be to deploy the Lebanese army in the areas now controlled by the Falangists . Such a move seems to be far from realization , for , although both the elders Camille Chamoun and Pierre Gemayel have suggested this , the idea has been rejected by President Elias Sarkis , who agrees with Bashir Gemayel and claims that the army can not be deployed in one area and not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any efficiency until the nation has reached greater political conciliation , referred to here as " entente . " The most discussed topic in trying to assess the developments here is what will be Camille Chaoun ' s next move . One of his options would be to agree to the plan of unifying the parties , in which he would remain as leader . Another choice is to move yet closer to Suleiman Franjieh , and thereby also to Wallid Jumblatt , which would bring him towards the left-wing groups . A statement recently made by Camille Chamoun gives the impression that the former president has strong hesitation concerning a unity between the parties , as has been suggested by Pierre Gemayel . Familiar with Camille Chamoun ' s reputation as a shrewd and clever politician , many Lebanese also have strong doubts that the Chamouns will accept any symbolic leadership in a party that would be ruled by the Falangists . B08005091                     