@@670065

TO : The George Bush media team FROM : Yet another Washington kibitzer RE : The Fatal Problem The vice president sat still for an interview two days ago in his office . He was between trips . Earlier in the month he ' d been making speeches and raising money for candidates in Georgia and Arkansas . He was about to begin a similar swing through Nebraska , South Dakota , Montana , Idaho and California . He looked terrific . His sincerity showed in every word . It was hard to believe that this was a man being nibbled to death by the Fatal Problem . Back in the pre-Reagan days , political sophisticates said that an extremist ideologue could not be elected president of the centrist , muddled , lovable U.S.A. Now they say the opposite . They say that a candidate without enough ideological fervor can not win the presidency . What they mean is that George Bush should plan for a post-1988 retirement to his home in Kennebunkport , Maine . They dismiss the vice president ' s impressive career  --  as congressman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United Nations , envoy to China , and director of the CIA . They say the list simply marks Mr. Bush as an establishment favorite . This is silly . What the long list of jobs really means is that Mr. Bush has seen a big chunk of the country ' s public life over the past decades . When he meets up with a policy issue , he often brings to it some concrete personal knowledge or associations . This experience has hardly showed in the campaign so far . But it emerges easily enough in conversation . In the past few days the press has reported that the U.S. and Cuba are once again starting immigration talks . It seemed natural to remind Mr. Bush that he had watched the Cubans at close range for 15 years , since his days at the U.N. What did he think were the prospects for any such talks ? He said , " I think it is too bad that Castro as he grows older doesn ' t recognize something fundamental  --  that if he could move away from Soviet domination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this hemisphere he could enjoy better relations with the United States . " This answer was less than gripping . But Mr. Bush went on to tell a story about the Cubans . " My mind goes back to the United Nations , " he said , " when Ricardo Alarcon was their ambassador there . He wouldn ' t even talk to us . " Alan Shepard , who was on our public delegation , had NASA prepare , as a gesture of friendship , pictures with the flags of the various countries that he carried on his spaceship . I remember his giving one to the Cuban ambassador . The ground rules in those days were that there was no real contact at all . We watched carefully , and Shepard placed the picture on Alarcon ' s chair in the Security Council . Then Shepard went over to speak to him , and Alarcon just stood there . Shepard handed it to him , and the guy at first wouldn ' t say anything . And then he did hold out his hand and say thank you . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " They haven ' t really changed . " On the other hand , Mr. Bush  --  unlike some in the administration  --  had not minded when the president of Ecuador , Leon Febres Cordero , visited Havana last year . " I know where Febres Cordero is coming from , " Mr. Bush explained . " Febres Cordero knows the United States . He can say to Castro in Spanish , with gusto , exactly what the heartbeat of the United States is , what his relationship with us is , how important it is and why Castro ought not to undermine him or any other smaller country in the hemisphere . " How did he get such confidence in Mr. Febres Cordero ? The two had been visiting one another since before the Ecuadorean president ' s inauguration . " Took him to a Mets game , " Mr. Bush said . " I remember him eating a hot dog and talking a lot of diplomatic relations at Shea Stadium . " Mr. Bush said he liked entertaining people this way : " At the United Nations we did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they crop up again in your life . " In short , Mr. Bush ' s major strength is in the particulars . The virtue of a person with practical experience is that in making judgments he brings to bear many lessons that he may not even be able to articulate . His weakness is that the accumulation of detail makes it hard for him to think in terms of general principle . If he can not think this way , he can not lead large numbers of people in new directions . This is , of course , The Problem . But what if people are happy with the new direction that Ronald Reagan has already given them ? What if they want to keep chugging along the same track ? If they do , then candidates who are " issues leaders , " who speak more inspiringly and have more coherent visions , are in trouble . Every time they raise their voices to call for increased efforts at this or greater dedication to that , they are going to make people very nervous . A candidate like Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he is skilled at intraparty politicking but because his public self , with the somewhat thin voice and the very fat curriculum vitae , might be appealing . Precisely because Ronald Reagan has been such a success , people may not want another one . So , media folks , first you must stifle the tendency in every campaign to try to make the candidate into a stirring stump speaker . Second , you have to find ways to bring the candidate ' s private manner and concrete knowledge into public view . Win or lose , it will be one of the most interesting political jobs around for the next couple of years.                     