@@668360

Whether you are just beginning or have been a nut for a long time about photography , if you are a true aficionado you are on the lookout for most anything that will help you improve your game , technically and esthetically : If not always , at least when the going gets tough , as when a roll of film processes out badly or blank , or when the pictures just don ' t seem to have the kind of pizzazz you want . Besides reading the many fine books on photography , one practice well worth developing ( no pun intended ) is to view all the photography you can , with the prerequisite that you should find the time . In addition to your daily newspaper ( and the photography in this one is outstanding ) , magazines and other periodicals offer vaults of pictures to view . And don ' t overlook advertising photography . The so- called slick magazines are a fine source here . There is much innovative and creative work in this area , and a serious viewing of it can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a regular practice is to visit the Museum of Fine Arts ( and other museums ) , and as many galleries that exhibit photography as you can find . Newbury street has many good ones . Concerning books , there are many excellent ones available , and reading - and rereading where warranted - is a sure-fire way to go about improving your photography . Remember that public libraries are a fine source of hard-to- locate books and can provide access to material you may not wish topurchase , or to make a pre-purchase reading . Among books available ( the list is necessarily incomplete ) : An extremely valuable book is Ralph Steiner ' s " A Point of View , " published by Wesleyan University Press . Arnold Newman ' s " One Mind ' s Eye , " put out by the New York Graphic Society ( it ' s in Boston ) is wonderful , and Beaumont Newhall ' s " The History of Photography " and " Photography : Essays and Images , " ( Museum of Modern Art ) are musts . Technical books of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Workshop , " ( Amphoto ) , " David Vestal ' s " The Craft of Photography , " ( Colophon Books ) , " Black and White Photography " and Beyond Basic Photography , " by Henry Horenstein ( Little , Brown ) , and Andreas Feininger ' s several books on color and black-and-white photography ( Amphoto and Prentice-Hall ) . " Photographic Facts and Formulas , " by E.J. Wall and F.I . Jordan , revised and enlarged by John S. Carroll ( Amphoto ) is indispensable for those who need quick reference to this type of information . Another valuable text for basic to advanced photography , with a superb section on the problems of meaning , is Arnold Gassan ' s " Handbook of Contemporary Photography , " ( Light Impressions ) . Ralph Hattersley ' s " Photographic Lighting - Learning to See " ( Prentice- Hall ) can be profitable reading , and Ansel Adams ' " The Negative " from the New Ansel Adams Series/Book 2 ( New York Graphic Society ) is excellent . " Photography and the Art of Seeing " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fine Canadian photographer , is an invaluable aid to those who wish to broaden their awareness of and approach . Prof. Richard D. Zakia ' s " Perception and Photography , " ( Light Impressions ) discusses how psychological factors based on Gestalt laws can be used for photographic advantage . Another most-helpful volume concerning the photographic image is John Szarkowski ' s " Looking at Photography , " a compendium of work by the great photographers , accompanied by Szarkowski ' s explanatory text . It ' s published by the Museum of Modern Art , for whom Szarkowski is photographic director . This is the book to examine to help one understand why many seemingly esoteric photographs are so respected , admired and appreciated . For plain viewing enjoyment as well as a source of insight into what makes great photography , Roy DeCarava ' s " Photographs " ( The Friends of Photography ) is outstanding . His images of life in New York City , particularly Harlem , are moving and deeply felt studies of life . Other books that may assist you , are : " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Aperture ) ; " Design Basics , " by David A. Lauer ( Holt , Rinehart and Winston ) ; " The Visual Dialogue , an Introduction to the Appreciation of Art , " by Nathan Knobler ( Holt , Rinehart and Winston ) and " Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain , " by Betty Edwards ( J. P. Tarcher ) . Also , " Zen and the Art of Seeing , " by Frederick Franck ( Vintage ) and " The Shape of Content , " by Ben Shahn ( Harvard University Press ) ; Ernst Haas ' The Creation , " ( Penguin ) , and " Photography : Art and Technique , " by Alfred Blaker ( W.H. Freeman ) . If one could study only three of the listed books , DeCarava ' s , Steiner ' s and Gassan ' s would get you on your way . Nicely .                     