@@669809

WASHINGTON  --  Meeting on the White House lawn , both China ' s Premier Zhao Ziyang and President Reagan chose to stress their common ground rather than their continuing disagreements . The word " Taiwan , " a longstanding bone of contention between the U.S. and China , wasn ' t even mentioned in welcoming speeches the two men made . Mr. Reagan spoke of trade , technology and student exchanges ; Mr. Zhao focused on the two countries ' responsibility for maintaining world peace  --  by which he means cooperating to contain the Soviet Union . In private , it was a different matter . The president , in a reference to Taiwan , reminded the Chinese " that we take seriously our commitment to our friends , " said a senior administration official after a Zhao-Reagan meeting . In a similar briefing , a Chinese spokesman reiterated Peking ' s longstanding view that Taiwan is " a crucial point " in developing Sino-American relations . Despite the obvious continuing differences of both sides over Taiwan , the restrained public posture reflects a desire of both Mr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the issue and to return Sino-U . S. relations to a more even keel . The Chinese recognize that good long-term relations with Mr. Reagan , a president whose past pro-Taiwan statements have angered the Chinese , could outweigh the inconveniences . Mr. Reagan for his part , is looking towards the election-year benefits of his trip to China , scheduled for April . That Mr. Zhao ' s 10-day visit to the U.S. is taking place at all is an indication both of calming relations between the two countries and the strategic imperatives that have drawn Washington and Peking closer . The visit is the first by a Chinese premier and the first by a top-level Chinese official since Deng Xiaoping , then vice premier , visited in 1979 . The trip had been discussed earlier in the Reagan administration but postponed repeatedly as the two countries quarreled over Taiwan , trade and other issues . Mr. Zhao met privately with Mr. Reagan for an hour . The meeting then comtinued with some cabinet members . By the time he leaves Washington tomorrow , Mr. Zhao was scheduled to have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and state . Mr. Zhao travels next to San Francisco and then New York before leaving the country next Tuesday for Canada . During the visit , two agreements will be signed : one , a renewal of a science and technology accord signed five years ago and the other an industrial-cooperation agreement . Advisers from the two sides will continue a discussion on a nuclear-cooperation agreement that would govern future sales of U.S. nuclear equipment to China . While the U.S. side reports that there was progress on the nuclear cooperation discussions , it isn ' t expected to be completed while Mr. Zhao is in Washington . In international affairs , the two sides discussed the perceived threat from the Soviet Union and tension on the Korean peninsula . China is an ally of North Korea , while the U.S. supports and maintains troops in South Korea . But the atmosphere was much different than that during Mr. Deng ' s 1979 visit . This time , it was the U.S. side speaking out about the dangers of Soviet military buildup , rather than the Chinese fretting about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Since that time , China and the Soviet Union have been trying to ease tensions . The restrained public posture the two men adopted on the Taiwan issue isn ' t without domestic political risks for each . Mr. Reagan , while campaigning for the presidency , suggested restoring the diplomatic relations with Taiwan that were severed in order to normalize relations with Peking . He has since modified that view , but his constituency continues to include strong pro-Taiwan forces . As the two leaders spoke at the White House , masses of pro-Taiwan demonstrators shouted and waved banners in view of the speakers ' podium . And as Mr. Zhao was leaving China , a strongly worded statement appearing in an authoritative domestic journal warning that appearing to seek common ground shouldn ' t be taken as weakness . China ' s government still contains many powerful leaders who worry that Sino-U . S. relations are being bought at too high a cost to national dignity , especially where China ' s claims to govern Taiwan are concerned . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          