@@668514

At 5 a.m. , farmers in Mexico are awakened to the strident cry of the rooster , " quiquiriqui . " At the same time , Israeli families hear their roosters crow " kookooreykoo . " Yet every American schoolchild knows that a rooster cries " cockadoodledoo . " Surprisingly enough , most animals in the world don ' t speak English . Norwegian horses murmur " knegg-knegg , " not " neigh " ; Turkish dogs don ' t bark " arf-arf , " but " hav-hav " , and Venezuelan pigs grunt " jui jui , " not " oink- oink . " To be sure , the sounds emitted by the rooster in Mexico and the horse in Norway are no different from those made by their counterparts in America . " What does change , " says the linguist Donald R. Kloe , " is the way humans hear such sounds and then attempt to reproduce them . " A few years ago , Dr. Kloe compiled a " dictionary of onomatopoeic sounds , tones and noises in English and Spanish , " onomatopoeia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This unique dictionary ( Blaine Ethridge Books , 1976 ) offers a wealth of information on sounds produced by animals , humans , nature , machinery and musical instruments as they are heard by English and Spanish- speaking auditors . Where English speakers , for instance , hear the rhythmic noise made by the wheels of the moving train as " clickety- clack , " speakers of Spanish hear " **25;276;TOOLONG . " When Americans swallow liquids , the gulping sound is heard as " glug- glug . " South of the border down Mexico way the sound becomes " glu- glu , " which is , coincidentally , the cry of the South American turkey to the listener in Quito . Several years ago , in a New Yorker article aptly titled " Old McBerlitz Had a Farm , " writer Noel Perrin took his readers on a veritable linguistic tour of the animal world . He discovered that Latvian dogs bark " vau-vau , " while Irish hounds growl " amh-amh . " In the land of the rising sun , Japanese pooches yelp " wan-wan . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " while their French cousins nasally intone " meu . " Hungarian cows seem orally versatile , lowing " mu-bu . " It might give a lift to those who believe Americans possess much in common with the Russians to learn that both American and Soviet cows cry " moo . " Among woolly creatures , Spanish sheep hum " bee , " while Chinese lambs mutter " mieh . " In the Onitsha province of Nigeria , shepherds hear " nmaa " from their flock , quite different from the cry of French sheep , " be . " Animals aren ' t the only things making different sounds in different languages . Czech children call the clanging of coins on cement : " zblunk- zblunk . " The same coins , however , would strike with a cumbersome-sounding word on a Turkish street , " cumberlop- cumberlop . " And Swedish farm carts have their own distinctive rumble , " mullra-bullra . " While these sounds have not made their way into many multilingual dictionaries , lexicographers have been compiling the names of animal sounds for some time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bougeant , published a glossary of bird and mammal vocalizations ; a French aristocrat reputedly compiled a Nightingale- French and Crow-French dictionary in 1807 ; and the former assistant director of the Washington Zoo produced an English- Ape dictionary . For ages , philosophers have asked whether a tree that falls in a forest makes a sound if no one is within hearing distance . Although that question remains unresolved , the answer to another intriguing question - What is the sound heard when a naked person falls into mud ? - is known , at least in southern Africa : It ' s " pyhakavaka , " according to the Bantus .                     