@@670098

REYKJAVIK , Iceland  --  President Reagan insists that he will bring up human-rights and regional issues when he meets Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev here tomorrow , but U.S. officials expect little progress on this front . Mr. Reagan will try to convince Mr. Gorbachev that a more liberal human-rights policy and less meddling in regional disputes will assure a more stable relationship with the U.S. This could lead to expanded trade relations and improve the chances that Congress will ratify any new arms-control agreements , Reagan aides say . The summit will focus mainly on arms control , and Mr. Reagan " won ' t beat Gorbachev over the head or offer him specific benefits , " such as trade or other economic concessions , but " he ' ll make clear the advantages they could gain once they improve their performance , " a senior administration official says . Thus far , Mr. Gorbachev has gained more by making superficial compromises that improve public opinion while undertaking policies that actually toughen Soviet positions on both human rights and regional issues . Despite the planned withdrawal of 6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ escalating the fighting and stepping up his political and military threats to neighboring Pakistan in the hope of reducing support to anti-Soviet Afghan forces . On human rights , Moscow has freed such prominent dissidents as Anatoly Shcharansky and Yuri Orlov and has reunited some divided spouses and separated families . But Moscow has toughened its treatment of political dissidents and religious observers and reduced Jewish emigration to its lowest level in 20 years , according to a U.S. official who monitors the Soviet human-rights record . This means that President Reagan will find it difficult to blunt right-wing criticism that , in his eagerness to gain arms-control agreements by the end of his term , he is repeating his predecessors ' mistake of downgrading human-rights and regional issues that would more fundamentally improve the U.S.-Soviet relationship . " We are sliding into the Soviet-favored posture of measuring progress in the relationship by concessions the U.S. makes in arms control , " complains President Carter ' s national security adviser , Zbigniew Brzezinski . " Summitry tends to focus on hard , concrete and manageable things . Regional issues are messy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of U.S.-Soviet discussions on regional matters have helped each side air its positions but haven ' t paved the way toward agreements . Secretary of State George Shultz said the talks have played a role in damage control and in clarifiying issues . " We try to keep ( regional issues ) from being explosive in the sense of leading to a superpower confrontation in a direct way , " Mr. Shultz explained . " But beyond that , they ( the talks ) really haven ' t gotten that far . " Officials say it is also difficult for the superpowers to reach agreements on regional issues involving other parties , such as the Palestinians in the Middle East or the resistance in Afghanistan . Moscow , which is making a highly publicized withdrawal of 6 , 000 of its 125 , 000 troops in Afghanistan , recently demanded that Washington respond by reducing its support for the anti-Soviet Afghan guerrillas . The U.S. rejected the proposal . " The effect would be a gradual strangulation of the resistance , giving the Soviets as long a time for withdrawal as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the U.S. saw the Soviet demand as an effort to stick with a step-by-step approach , rather than to embrace the type of comprehensive political solution the U.S. wants in Afghanistan . And there ' s no assurance that the Soviets wouldn ' t increase troop strength in Afghanistan in the future . Even when there ' s a degree of agreement between Washington and Moscow , progress on regional issues is difficult . In the Iran-Iraq war , both the U.S. and the Soviets want to avoid an Iranian victory , but the Soviets rejected U.S. proposals for a joint statement calling for Iran to reach a negotiated agreement . It ' s the U.S. , however , that has resisted Soviet efforts to win a larger role in the Middle East through participation in an international conference to address the Arab-Israeli conflict . Curiously , Israel has been more forthcoming than Washington on this question , but Prime Minister Shimon Peres , who steps down today in a political power-sharing agreement , has insisted that Moscow first give Israel diplomatic recognition and increase Jewish emigration . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nine months of 1986 , down from 1 , 140 in 1985 , and 896 to leave in 1984 . The administration has generally followed the " rising tide " approach , hoping that better overall relations will in the end prompt the Soviets to improve their human-rights performance . But Mr. Reagan will offer Mr. Gorbachev more specific incentives by suggesting that Washington will lower trade and credit barriers if Moscow allows a substantial increase in Jewish emigration . ( Revised WSJ Oct. 13 , 1986 ) Credit : Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal                     