@@670149

Your excellent March 31 editorial " The Yeutter Market " could have gone further in illuminating the shameful trade politics the administration has engaged in . At a meeting of G-5 finance ministers on Sept. 22 , 1985 , Japan agreed to appreciate its currency against the dollar  --  on the theory that this would increase U.S. competitiveness with Japanese industry ( and in a relative sense decrease Japanese competitiveness with the U.S. and all other countries whose currencies are linked to the dollar ) . This economic theory , which Prof. Robert Mundell of Columbia University calls pure " quackery , " is widely held in Washington because it remains part of the baggage of the neo-Keynesian think tanks  --  liberal and conservative . When the dollar/yen ratio was at 220 in September 1985 , it could be moved to 150 in either of two ways : inflation in the U.S. or deflation in Japan . A U.S. inflation would send interest rates up and the economy into decline ; the U.S. trade deficit would decrease because we would be poorer and thus buy less from abroad @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could not sell in the contracted U.S. economy . A Japanese deflation would send domestic yen prices down , squeezing debtors and forcing a wave of bankruptcies , a lower growth rate and higher unemployment . Japan would buy less from the rest of the world and its domestic manufacturers would unload inventories abroad that they could not sell in their contracted economy . The U.S. trade deficit would increase . The actual policy was a mixture of both , but because Japanese deflation dominated , the net effect was an increase in the U.S. trade deficit . Thus , the U.S. policy demand placed on Japan had the opposite result of its intent , with Japan putting itself into a wringer to placate U.S. protectionists but only making them madder ! As the perverse policy unfolded , Japanese semiconductor manufacturers were among the hardest squeezed by the deflation . Inventories of most durables can be held for better times , but chips become obsolete . When U.S. chip manufacturers saw that their Japanese competitors were having to cut prices to get rid of inventory , they prevailed on the U.S. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Japan last summer prohibited Japanese chip makers from selling their inventories outside Japan at a discount , and there wasn ' t the domestic demand they had anticipated before the U.S.-induced yen deflation . In this pressure cooker , chip leaks developed into a gray market that fed into other Asian countries through Hong Kong . It was this gray market that the Commerce Department gumshoes fixed upon in making a case that Special Trade Representative Yeutter took to the president , " proof " that duplicitous Japan had violated its solemn agreement . The 100% tariff on Japanese consumer products as punishment is plain brutal . At the same time , of course , the Japanese were observing that the U.S. , which had agreed to defend a 150 dollar/yen rate at the Paris meeting of Feb. 22 , was waltzing away from that pact at the first market test of the rate . Treasury Secretary Baker now seems to deny having any rate in mind at all , and perhaps forgets that he was in Paris on Feb. 22 . From this standpoint , which is the view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that couldn ' t be kept by a U.S. government that has skipped out on an agreement that can and should be kept . What should be done to get out of this mess ? The president should declare victory on semiconductors and lift the tariff penalty before it takes effect April 17 . Secretary Baker should reaffirm the Paris accord , and with the Fed and Bank of Japan reestablish the floor of 150 to the dollar/yen rate . The Journal was of course correct in its editorial that Japan should get on with cutting tax rates to expand its economy , which is the most positive way of cutting its trade surplus . Jude Wanniski Morristown , N.J.                     