@@668022

On the evening of Dec. 17 , Nancy Hurlburt , her husband , Jim , and their children Amy , 8 , and Rory , 2 , fled their home here with little more than the clothes on their backs - victims of a do-it-yourself project gone horribly wrong . They have been homeless ever since although their two-year-old , $60,000 home looks completely intact as far as the eye can tell . It is only when Nancy gingerly raises a living room window from outside that their plight becomes apparent : the house is filled with sickening fumes . The problem began the day before their hasty flight . Nancy wanted to waterproof the concrete cellar floor . In the spring , ground water had seeped in covering the floor to a depth of six inches . She purchased a five gallon can of a substance called Kure ' N Seal on the advice of the Chicopee Mason Supply firm . With the help of Dave Airoldi , a family friend , she broomed the Kure N Seal onto the floor . The first sign that things @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ran out of the sealer half way across the floor . They had calculated that five gallons was enough for two coats . The second thing was that as they left the cellar both felt extremely ill . Nancy was reeling and stumbling into things . Airoldi ' s eyes were smarting . Upstairs Amy and Rory were complaining that their eyes hurt . At that point no one realized that anything was seriously wrong . The Hurlburts had anticipated some fumes and had already made arrangements to sleep at Airoldi ' s so their house could air . Next evening the family returned home and despite a lingering odor , they ate supper and sat down to watch television . Suddenly Nancy began to feel very dizzy and nauseous and told her husband they had to get out . They fled to Airoldi ' s . The following day the fumes were still intense despite 48 hours of airing . Hurlburt turned to the Monson board of health . Barbara Storm , board chairman , and a police officer inspected the house . Although the two were inside only five @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and penetrating . Within half an hour the officer and I had tremendous congestion in our lungs . " Storm declared the house unfit for habitation until the fumes could be dissipated . The problem is that in more than three weeks no one has figured out how to do that . Hurlburt has been calling state health and consumer protection agencies without getting much help . She has hired testing laboratory to analyze the fumes and the residue in the can . Al Galin , technical service manager for the manufacturer - Sonneborn Building Products , Division of Contech Inc. of Minneapolis - said in a phone interview that " Kure N Seal is an industrial product . It is not our intent that it be used by homeowners . It is not waterproofing . It will eventually dry depending on its proper use . At lower tempretures , it dries more slowly . It should be used exactly according to instructions . " Galin said Kure N Seal has been marketed for over 20 years without problem . One possible reason for the continuing fumes is that Hurlburt and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cellar floor , causing it to seep deep into the concrete . Instructions on the can indicate that it should be applied so as to form a continous uniform film , either by spraying or brushing the substance on . Dr. Renate Kimbrough , a toxicologist with the Center For Disease Control in Atlanta , said in a phone interview that this indeed might have been the case and could account for the persistence of the fumes . Kimbrough said that eventually the fumes will dissipate unless the sealer has sunk below the concrete . " Then it could take forever . " The remedy , she suggests , would be to remove the floor . Kimbrough said the Center For Disease Control received another call about Kure N Seal in December . In that case , employees of the small newspaper in Georgia re-entered their building sooner than instructed after the floor had been sealed . When they all suffered eye irritations , the Center For Disease Control was consulted . The remedy says Kimbrough was simply to ventilate the building a little longer . Nancy Hurlburt , who along @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the experience , says , " I feel as if I ' m living in the twilight zone . I go over and just look at the house and ask can this really be happening ? ' . We built the house ourselves , I refinished and reupholstered the furniture . All the Christmas presents I made for friends and relatives are still in there . All I want is to be able to go home . "                     