@@668245

The House Ways and Means Committee , after strong lobbying by the commodities industry , voted yesterday to weaken a Treasury-backed amendment to end tax shelters now costing the government $1.4 billion a year . Only two of the 12 Republicans on the committee supported the Administration position , and liberal Democratic members appeared embarrassed that a majority in their party did not adopt the stronger language written into the Senate version of the President ' s tax bill . The 25-8 vote instead approved a provision that will capture two- thirds of the revenues now estimated to be lost each year . After presenting themselves as the party of the middle class taxpayer , the Democrats are in a position of accepting shelters for often-wealthy commodity traders . " I think it will hurt us , " said Rep. James Shannon of Massachusetts , one of six Democrats to oppose the weaker proposal sponsored by Rep. Marty Russo ( D-Ill . ) . The Chicago Board of Trade , in Russo ' s home state , and the National Conservative Political Action Committee ( NCPAC ) both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Finance Committee acted before a strong campaign had begun , Ways and Means was plainly influenced by the industry lobby . In a letter yesterday , the committee ' s chairman , Sen. Robert Dole ( R-Kan. ) and Sen. Russell Long of Louisiana , the ranking Democrat , both urged Ways and Means to " withstand the pressure " from " special- interest lobbyists . " But the appeal only seemed to underscore the frustration among those wanting stronger language . " It ' s just incredible , " said Rep. Wyche Fowler ( D-Ga. ) , " when you have the Republican chairman and ranking Democrat from states heavily dependent on commodities voting for a stronger bill than we ' re willing to back . What the committee did was a serious mistake . " The sums at stake are dwarfed by the total value of the various tax plans before Congress , but the issue reflects the strong lobbying that can take place as various interests use their influence to protect themselves or win benefits in the changes written into the law . The commodities market is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and as much as the tax shelters have attracted attention , many congressmen were frank to admit they did not fully understand the situation . While the Russo amendment promises to end the most controversial shelters for outside investors , it is cautious about tampering with the same type of " straddle " arrangements when used by professional traders . " Straddles " allow investors to essentially take two positions at once in the commodity market , so they can arrange to buy and sell an item at some future date . The losing leg of the straddle provides a loss , or deduction against income earned , while the profit can be essentially rolled over into the next tax year , when it can be treated as a less-costly capital gain . The action in Ways and Means caps a week of more maneuvering than action in Congress , which returned Wednesday from its July 4 recess . Next week , the House committee will complete drafting what will be the Democratic version of the President ' s tax proposal , and on Wednesday the Republican-controlled Senate is scheduled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate Democrats yesterday outlined several amendments they will offer , and in an apparent bid to establish a record for future campaigns , the minority will ask that the third year of the President ' s 33-month tax-cut plan be implemented only if he meets projected deficit and inflation rates for next year . Sen. Bill Bradley ( D-N.J. ) , joined by five other members including Sen. George Mitchell of Maine , said he would also propose a model one-year tax cut , which would direct more benefits to lower- and middle-income families than the Republican plan proposes . Democrats in the House hope to write some of the same provisions into their own bill in Ways and Means . The real contest for Congress will come when this legislation comes to the floor late this month .                     