@@668345

Boston Police logs of arrests and incidents have been made available to a gay rights newspaper reporter after several weeks of dispute over a state law requiring that such records be made available to the public . Representatives of Boston ' s Gay Community News , a weekly newspaper with a national circulation of about 15,000 , had earlier threatened to take the Police Department to court because , they said , its reporters weren ' t allowed to look at daily police journals . Reporters for the newspaper were seeking information on recent assaults against gay men and were dissatisfied with oral reports from the department ' s Bureau of Informational Services . " On Tuesday , I was allowed to look at the logs and I ' m satisfied , so there won ' t be a suit , " said Larry Goldsmith , a reporter for the newspaper which covers news and events of interest to lesbians and gay males . However , Nicholas Foundas , legal advise to Police Comr . Joseph M. Jordan , said Goldsmith was never denied access to the logs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s against the law of confidentialit y to divlge information concerning a rape victim , and there ' s also some dispute whether juvenile records should be made public , " Foundas said . The newspaper ' s attorney last month told Foundas that if its reporters were not given access to the journals they would take the matter to court to test a 1980 state public information statute . The law requires all police departments to maintain a daily log of police responses and arrests , written in a form that can be easily understood , and including the names and addresses of persons arrested . " All entries in said daily logs shall , unless otherwise provided by law , be public records available without charge to the public during regular business hours and at all other reasonable times , " the state statute reads . Goldsmith said he intended to file suit against the police " because we ' re treated differently than reporters from The Globe and The Herald American . " His news editor said the paper would back the court action financially . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the department ' s Informational Services and from inside sources . Goldsmith said that on several occasions he has learned of assaults on gay persons in Boston and has gone to district stations or called Informational Services only to be informed that there was no record of the incidents . " The kinds of stories I write from police logs concern violence to gays , " Goldsmith said . " I ' ve heard of incidents that have been verified by several witnesses , but Informational Services knows nothing about them . " So I wanted to see the logs . In one instance , I went to District 4 ( Area D* and asked to see the daily logs and they didn ' t know what I was talking about . Evidently they don ' t keep them . I ' ve gone to Informational Services at police headquarters and they wouldn ' t allow me to look at the logs . This seems to be a violation of the statute . " Goldsmith said he was told on Tuesday that Informational Services would henceforth keep the logs and make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John P. Ward , wrote a letter last month to Foundas to say that he would " be forced to take legal action to assure this right of access " to the logs . Contacted by The Globe , Foundas said yesterday Goldsmith " may have been mistaken if he thought that every incident that takes place in the city is reported in the logs . " He apparently didn ' t believe the fact that we don ' t have information on every incident . There has to be a police response and a report written on it . " Foundas said that when specific logs are requested , they would be screened to remove information about rapes and juveniles that another law prohibitsfrom being made public .                     