@@734718

txt , U.S. REP . Augustus . F. Hawkixis Cal. ) knows that his criticisms of President Carter will be ? used by Ronald Reagan  --  one man Hawkins does not want to see in the White House . " Yet , I must speak the truth about the President 's economic policies , " declared Hawkins , one of the most respected men In the Congress of the United States . " If the black leadership of this country insists that Carter change his economic approach , maybe we can force him to do what will help him get re-elected . " Hawkins is certain that the President is ' a loser in November unless Carter soon starts to campaign like an incumbent President " rather than an economic forecaster . " Hawkins said the President is " going about forecasting what is going to happen as though he has had nothing to do with economic policy-making . " HAWKINS , IMO was elected from California 's 21st District in 1962 , is as-Winded that Carter continues a policy of fighting inflation through low productivity and high @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead in " restoring this country to vigorous ? economic growth  --  rather than the present negative rate of growth  --  we 're simply helping to elect Ronald Reagan , " Hawkins ' feels . Moreover , Hawkiris believes that the public won't. buy Carter 's - practice of pointing the finger at others when explaining the causes of inflation to the voters .. " This situation has been brought about directly as a result of his ( Carter 's ) policies , " he declared . litiwkrns ; 73 , does not accept Carter 's " placing the blame for our energy problems on OPEC " ( the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ) . Hawkins ' argues that - " the energy problem was here a long time before OPEC got into the picture . ? " And it 's pretty obvious that the domestic producers are a part of . OPEC : You ca n't separate Standard Oil or Exxon and the other ( American ) companies from the OPEC countries , " he insisted . - HAWKINS RECENTLY announced his support for Kennedy 's nomination " even though I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the nomination , " he said . Hawkins would do everything possible to " force Carter to save himself . " The mild-mannered author of the Hum-. phrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act believes that the Republicans will borrow Carter 's 1976 campaign strategy and turn it on the President in this election . " In 1976 the President-elect was blaming the ? Republicans for our 6 per cent - inflation , " Hawkins recalled . " Well , the 6 per cent inflation that Carter said was unbearable in 1978 has reached as high as 18 per cent . " In 1977 when the President assumed office , the number of unemployed was approximately 10 million , counting the official rate plus the part-time , as well as the discouraged workers ... But in 1976 , the number was going down . " Today we have in excess of 13 million unemployed , the number is increasing , and the prediction of the President is that unemployment will increase another 1 per cent this year and that the high rate of 8.5 or 9 per . cent will be maintained throughout 1981 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I LISTENED to Hawkins on the telephone , I could see Reagan saying ? " Amen , Brother Hawkins . " Hawkins con-'tinned his attack : " In 1977 , . President Carter had the . courage to . present a stimulus package , an increase in public works , public service jobs , and a more progressive tax reduction prograM . But today , the President refuses to do this . He Is continuing his policy of increasing unemployment and extending the.recession ; he thinks he is going to break the back of inflation ... that we will have better economy ? ; after 1981. ? sometime in the future . " Such public criticism of Carter froin ' several members of the Congressional Black Caucus may have forced Carter to alter what some critics have called a " casual attitude " toward unemployment . He was blistered sharply last week during an address by U.S. Rep. Shirley Chis'holm ( D. , N.Y. ) before the national con.vention of the National Urban League in ' New York . Will Carter 's economic policies cause black voters to move toward Reagan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Reagan alternative , which , in Hawkins ! view , will provide hardly more than " tax reductions for those in high income brackets and tax : handouts to corporate interests . " The real danger , according to Hawkins , is that " unless Carter changes his ' policies and reverses the downward trend , blacks will lose interest in ' this election . " That wilt help Reagan more than persistent cries for reform from within the Democratic Party .                     