@@734675

txt Risking a renewed battle with Ohio utility and coal companies , the Environmental Protection Agency decided to toughen the air-pollution standards for two controversial Cleveland-area power plants . What 's more , the agency threatened to tighten the sulphur dioxide limits at the plants even further next year , by applying for the first time a policy aimed at cutting smokestack heights to curb acid ram . For several years . the Avon Lake and Eastlake generating plants of Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. have been the focus of a bitter dispute among the utility . Ohio 's coal industry . its miners unions and the EPA . The federal agency had been seeking to impose new pollution standards at the plants , which are largely coal-fired . But the coal industry and miners in the state protested that the cleanup would cost Ohio mining jobs , because it would prompt the utility to substitute lower-sulphur coal from out of state for higher-sulphur Ohio coal . The EPA tentatively agreed with the miners that a switch in coal types could cost Jobs , but that angered the Cleveland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Clean Air Act , it might be required to Install costly antipollution equipment instead of switching to low-sulphur coal Because Ohio is a politically important state , the arguments attracted the interest of the White House , and the EPA finally proposed last June sulphur dioxide limits for the plants that were greatly relaxed from those it was proposing previously . The decision was hailed by the utility and by President Carter . Tougher Standards Now , however , the agency has decided to impose standards that are tougher than those proposed last June . though still looser than the planned limits that sparked the controversy in the first place . In its final ruling , the EPA said that , for the next year . the Eastlake plant could emit 5.64 pounds of sulphur dioxide for each million British thermal units of heat generated . less than the 6.58 pounds allowed in last year 's proposal The Avon Lake plant would be allowed to emit 4 1 pounds per million BTUs. down from a proposed 6.9 pounds . However , the limits could drop even further in 1981 if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the current height of the plants ' smokestacks justify the stack heights , the sulphur dioxide limit could drop to as little as . U14 pounds per million BT Us at Eastlake and 3.43 pounds at Avon Lake In the past , the EPA has given utilities ' credits . " raising pollution limits if smokestacks are built high enough to disperse pollutants . However , the agency recently concluded that very tall stacks can spread fine pollutants for hundreds of miles , contributing to the formation of acid rainfall , which damages lakes , crops and other resources . The agency thus has decided to reevaluate the granting of stack height credits , and to force utilities to prove that tall stacks are needed to cut local pollution . The Cleveland plants are the first to which that decision is being applied . Steven Kuhrtz , an EPA air-pollution official . asserted that the standards being imposed for the next year probably can be met by the two plants with little change in their current operations . But he conceded that , if the plants lose all or most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the tests , some out-ofstate coal might have to be substituted for local coal . " It could cause some reduction of Ohio coal contracts , " he said . More Generous Limits However , he declared , " we do n't think it 's going to plunge everybody into a real job crisis . " For one thing , he noted , even the toughest standards possible under the final ruling are considerably more generous than the original planned limits of about one pound per million BTUs . Further , he said , the company is n't certain to lose any or all of the value of the stack height credit , as it should be able to prove some local need for the added stack height . Also , he said , the Avon Lake plant can liberalize its standard by about half a pound of sulphur dioxide per million BTUs if it switches to lower-sulphur oil in certain parts of the plant that use oil to supplement coal as a fuel . But if the ruling does ignite the controversy again . David Hawkins , the agency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be altered for political reasons . In Cleveland , a spokesman for Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. said the company must study and analyze the EPA 's final regulations before it will comment on the standards . In particular , the spokesman could n't say how the standards will affect the company 's purchases of high-sulphur Ohio coal , except to say " we hope to continue to use Ohio coal to the extent permitted . " The company 's statement yesterday did n't carry the same sense of certainty about Cleveland Electric 's commitment to Ohio coal purchases as did the remarks it made a year ago when the EPA announced its much-relaxed air-emission standards . At that time , Cleveland Electric said the EPA 's decision would " assure that CEI will continue to buy Ohio coal and contribute to a strong state economy . " In 1979 , Cleveland Electric bought 4.6 million tons of Ohio coal .                     