@@668777

A car packed with 220 pounds of TNT exploded Thursday near a hospital in Christian East Beirut where a Christian leader was recovering from an assassination attempt . Police said 20 people were killed and 100 wounded . Civil Defense official Elie Honein said the Mercedes-Benz sedan exploded in a busy street in Dora , near St. Joseph Hospital and opposite a gas station , causing huge fires . Police said that , of the 20 people killed , 7 were burned in their cars . Another 100 were wounded and taken to nearby hospitals . The Voice of Lebanon , a Christian radio station , quoted unidentified witnesses as saying they had seen a driver in the car moments before it blew up . Police said they could not confirm the report . Fuad Abu Nader , a nephew of President Amin Gemayel who led a revolt Sunday within the Lebanese Forces , is recuperating at the hospital from gunshot wounds suffered in an ambush Monday . The Lebanese Forces is the largest Christian militia in Lebanon . Health Minister Joseph Hashem visited the hospital Thursday and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said . The car-bombing set afire two apartment buildings , including one owned by Gemayel ' s family , police said . Rescuers used ladders to save tenants trapped by the flames in the Gemayels ' seven-story building . No member of the president ' s family lived in the building , police said . The blast , which occurred about 100 yards from St. Joseph Hospital , wrecked 30 shops and 27 cars . Five other buildings were heavily damaged in the 10 a. m. explosion . Abu Nader , 34 , masterminded last weekend ' s revolt to oust the Christian militia ' s anti-Syrian commander , 37-year-old Samir Geagea . But police and Christian radio stations said there was no evidence the car-bombing was linked to the inter-Christian power struggle . Police said Geagea ' s forces staged a counterattack in East Beirut Thursday and crushed the rebels . Geagea ' s loyalists stormed into the Karm el-Zaitoun , Matahen and Ashrafiyeh districts at midmorning and besieged rebels led by Abu Nader ' s supporter , Maroun Mashalani , police said . Mashalani surrendered after Geagea loyalists pounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Khawand , chief of the Phalange Party security department , took Mashalani , 26 , into custody and Geagea ' s fighters withdrew from the three districts , according to police . Thursday ' s explosion coincided with a meeting led by the head of the Phalange Party , George Saade , at the party ' s headquarters to contain the rift between the Lebanese Forces and the Phalangists . A major cause of the fighting was said to be discontent with Geagaa ' s approach to managing militia affairs and his decision to rehabilitate the Lebanese Forces through a rigorous training program . The Lebanese Forces , once considered the military wing of the Phalange Party , was founded in 1980 by the president ' s brother , the late Bashir Gemayel . Thursday ' s attack was the fifth car bomb and the eighth explosion in Beirut since July 28 . In all , the blasts have killed nearly 100 people and injured about 500 . No one has claimed responsibility for any of the attacks . Christian leaders have accused Syria ' s secret service of engineering attacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allies to oust Gemayel . Moslem leaders blamed one of the car-bombings on Christians they said had been recruited by Israel ' s secret service to sabotage Syrian efforts to end the long reign of feuding militias in West Beirut . In southern Lebanon , French United Nations peacekeepers were on alert Thursday after gunmen from the Shiite Amal movement broke a cease-fire Wednesday and attacked 10 positions guarded by the UN Interim Force in Lebanon east of the port city of Tyre , 46 miles south of Beirut . UNIFIL spokesman Timur Goksel said militiamen fired machine guns , rifles and antitank rockets at eight French positions and one Fijian and one Irish post . A French soldier was slightly injured , bringing to 18 the number of Frenchmen wounded in the past two days . On Thursday morning , Goksel said , five rocket-propelled grenades hit a UNIFIL supply base in Tyre , causing serious damage but no casualties . Three militiamen were killed overnight Monday and five were wounded in the clashes that engulfed a cluster of villages east of Tyre . It was the worst fighting since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ months ago . Goksel said the renewed violence was centered around the headquarters of UNIFIL ' s 1 , 400-strong French battalion in the village of Maarake , 9 miles east of Tyre . CAPTION : PHOTO : Beirut car bomb kills 20 . Firefighters douse burning shops after a car packed with 220 pounds of TNT exploded in Christian East Beirut Thursday . At least 20 people were killed and 100 wounded . Story , Page 5 . AP Laserphoto . Illustration PHOTO <>                     