@@735445

txt In a vote last week , the Senate refused to end a filibuster now being conducted on its floor against an antiabortion measure . The vote does not end matters , though . This week the anti-abortion forces are going to try the filibuster again , and yet necessary . The controversy , so often in the past , has stirred sions on both sides in the Senate . It drawn in President Reagan on the i-abortion CifiP Agri it tparhpc lesson not abdut whether abortion is good . or bad , but why people should make ? every effort to keep issues like this one out of national politics . Nearly a decade ago , pro-abortion or pro-choice advocates succeeded in radically changing the legal and political status of the abortion issue . The Supreine Court said that the matter was not just another policy area in which states had the discretion to legislate more or less as they wished . Instead ; terminating a pregnancy must remain a decision for a woman and her doctor during the first three months , after which the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where government must keep out , government stepped in  --  with federal funding of various sorts for abortion . And in the wake of all this action by the courts and the federal executive branch , Congress also got into the act . Anti-abortion activists began bringing pressure on the legislators to get rid of federal funding for abortions and somehow to nullify the Supreme Court 's action . The factions of the anti-abortion movement are truly luxuriant in their numbers and variety , so we 've had quite a number of anti-abortion measures introduced in the Congress . Some have declared that human life begins at conception , and denied the lower federal courts jurisdiction over the matter . Some have proposed to amend the Constitution to declare abortion a non-right . Some would have denied federal funds for abortions except in life-or-death cases . The version the Senate voted on last week was an amendment offered by Sen. Jesse Helms to a bill raising the debt ceiling . Its combination of provisions would permanently prohibit almost all federal funds for abortions , declare that life begins at conception and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and set up a procedure to get the matter quickly before the Supreme Court once more . It is not the most radical such proposal to have . come before Congress . It tries to regulate the disbursal of federal funds for the purpose of abortion , which Congress has every right to do . It makes various pronouncements on the beginning of life , where the pxparticp of Pnngracc is not clear . It is a lopsided piece of legislation , but that is no great surprise . The abortion issue in this country is stuck between the claims of two demanding visions of political morality . On the one side , pro-abortion activists insist that reproductive matters are among the very last place a government should be interfering . They are right , but would be more right if they were willing to forgo public financing for abortions . On the other side , antiabortion people say that if we do n't extend our aid to the most helpless and innocent among us  --  that is to say , unborn children  --  we lose our claim to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be more right if they were willing to accept modifications of this principle that would reduce or eliminate the incentives for illegal abortions , which inflict greater damage than legal ones . If we emerged from the current legislative struggles with abortion legal under the limits imposed in 1973 but unfunded , that would not be such a bad outcome . But more important is that we take a lesson from this debate about how we should deal with such controversial issues in the future . It has seemed natural in the past for ? activists in liberal social causes to take their message to the national political arena  --  where the most publicity was possible and where officials from the courts to the bureaucracies and the press seemed the friendliest . Now they are learning that the passions they arouse by making these issues national ones may be antagonistic and strong . Maybe the best course of action where the sides of an issue are so unalterably opposed is to move cautiously and piece by piece , rather than going for the big , well-publicized victory . This might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be safer for our political arrangement as a whole .                     