@@668244

WASHINGTON - Expressing a desire to shorten the presidential primary season and to ensure prominent Democratic officeholders of a vote at the 1984 convention , leaders of the Democratic National Committee ( DNC ) have unveiled the party ' s latest commission to restructure the nominating process . Although the public pronouncements this week claimed that the commission would work toward a " progressive and broad-based " convention , party officials snickered privately that it was " back to the smoke-filled room . " Gov . James B. Hunt of North Carolina , the commission chairman , said he would like all Democratic governors and members of Congress - including renegade representatives who bolted the party last month during the budget fight - to serve as delegates to the national convention in order " to pull the party together . " In 1980 , fewer than 50 of more than 300 Democratic senators and congressmen were delegates . Hunt said he also favored abolishing the rule that binds delegates to the candidate whom they originally pledged to support - a rule that produced the biggest fight at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to break President Jimmy Carter ' s hold on committed delegates . Hunt said he would like to confine the primaries to a shorter season , and would encourage local party officials to eliminate early caucuses and straw ballots , such as the exercise in Florida in the fall of 1979 that became the first , expensive showdown tween Carter and Ke-nedy . The effect of some of these proposals , if enacted , would return power at the conventions to political brokers and minimize the importance of " grass- roots " campaigns , though DNC chairman Charles T. Manatt said that the changes would not be " in any way opposed to the reforms we have had . " The 66-member Hunt Commission , which is due to have its first meeting next month , must turn in its recommendations to the DNC by the end of 1982 . For the next year and a half , it will serve as the cockpit for quarrels between the followers of such prospective candidates as Kennedy and former Vice President Walter F. Mondale , as well as Carter loyalists and representatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ commission took " lots and lots of time and much blending . " The commission must decide such politically sensitive issues as the timing of primaries and caucuses leading up to the 1984 convention . Mondale , for example , would prefer to see the process begin in Iowa - which held the first caucuses in 1976 and 1980 - because he is popular there . If he chooses to run again , Kennedy would obviously be interested in holding the first test in New England , which has traditionally held the early primaries . DNC officials said that Mondale and Kennedy were each given two seats on the commission for their lieutenants , though both have other supporters sprinkled through the roster . Kennedy will be represented on the commission by Carl Wagner , one of his top political aides in the 1980 campaign , and Scott Lang , an attorney from New Bedford , Mass . Mondale ' s advocates will be his associates at a Washington law firm , John Reilly and Robert Torricelli . To try to avoid bitter in-fighting on the commission , the DNC created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party ' s most partisan and professional specialists on rules . This 18-member group will make recommendations but have no vote on decisions . The creation of the Hunt Commission marks the fifth consecutive time since the 1964 convention that the Democrats have established a special unit to overhaul the delegate-selection process . The party has won only one presidential election during that period . This time , Hunt said , he was determined to come up with a process that would ensure " that we choose the strongest possible nominee with the best opportunity to be elected . " B07888083                     