@@668101

Gov . Edward J. King , vowing that his administration intends " to put criminals behind bars , " signed legislation yesterday calling for stiff mandatory prison sentences for drug dealers and car thieves . The move was immediately criticized by the Massachusetts Bar Assn. , law reform groups and civil liberties organizations , who said the state ' s already overcrowded prisons can not accommodate a flood of new inmates and that the new laws weaken judicial authority . During a signing ceremony yesterday at the State House , King said the new laws , which take effect immediately , fulfill his campaign pledge to deal harshly with drug dealers . He disputed objections that the state ' s prisons are already too crowded , saying : " We ' re ready for new prisoners . " As of yesterday , however , there were 3050 inmates in the state ' s prisons and 92 inmates in county jails awaiting cells , according to Correction Department spokesman Brian Gendron , who said the capacity of the system is 2988 . King also offered more hints yesterday that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company revenues . King told a news conference he needed several more days to study that tax and a companion hike in the gasoline tax . However , the governor said , " I find it very , very doubtful if I will sign both tax bills . It may be neither one of them will be signed . " The governor also signed into law yesterday a bill intended to increase the number of convictions for rape by grading each offense according to its seriousness . " The commonwealth is and wants to be a law-abiding society . Those who feel otherwise - drug dealers and those who sell drugs to our youth , pimps and car thieves - now face mandatory jail terms , " King said . But several observers , including the legislative counsel for the Massachusetts Bar Assn. yesterday termed the governor ' s approach , " regrettable . " " The notion of mandatory sentencing is certainly a regrettable approach , " said Edward J. Smith . " To say arbitrarily that discretion will be taken awayfrom the courts and lodged with the prosecutorial authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with what we understand to be the scope of judicial discretion . " In a speech last November , the chief justice of the Supreme Judicial Court , Edward F. Hennessey , opposed mandatory sentencing , saying : " Mandatory sentences ... are not the answer . Inevitably , these inflexible sentences lead to flagrant injustice , for any specified offense may be committed in a multitude of ways and the offenders may differ in just as many ways , " he told a gathering of newspaper publishers . Also opposed is the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts . Besides prison overcrowding , the new laws insure that " discretion is taken out of the hands of the judges and pushed down in the criminal justice system , giving prosecutors more power , " CLUM executive director John W. Roberts said yesterday . The auto theft measure , the outcome of findings of a commission appointed last year by King , provides for a mandatory one-year jail term for second offenders convicted of car theft or automobile insurance fraud . The legislation also provides that the person convicted make restitution to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ auto theft was among the key recommendations made by the Governor ' s Auto Theft Task Force . " In the future , there won ' t be much joy in the joyride , " noted secretary of public safety , George Luciano . With more than 60,000 cars stolen in Massachusetts last year , " We ' re leading the nation in car theft , " Luciano said in a telephone interview . " This is a $100 million economic loss to the state each year . We ' ve found cases where the same person has been arrested 20 straight times for stealing a car , but there ' s never been any confinement . " A spokesman for the Public Safety Department said that in 1976 , the last year for which statistics were compiled , 42 percent of the 1294 persons found guilty of the crime of " unauthorized use of an automobile " were imprisoned . Of the 300 found guilty of the greater crime of larceny of a motor vehicle , 39.3 percent were imprisoned . The spokesman said the department has no projections of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which calls for mandatory sentencing under both categories for offenses . The drug dealer bill establishes mandatory sentences of from one to 15 years based on the quantity and type of drugs involved in the conviction . For example , a one-year sentence is mandated for anyone convicted of possession with intent to sell 50 to 100 pounds of marijuana . Heroin dealers with 200 grams or more would face a 15-year mandatory jail term . The rape bill , co-sponsored by Sen. Alan D. Sisitsky ( D- Springfield ) and Rep. Stephen J. Karol ( D-Attleboro ) , provides compensation to rape victims , as well as grading the offenses . Supporters of the legislation said that rape often goes unpunishedbecause juries and judges are reluctant to convict because of the lengthy sentences that had been connected with the crime . Sisitsky , who attended the signing ceremony , said , " The new law will insure that more rapists are convicted , and it also will encourage more women to come forward with complaints . It was long overdue . " Allen Rodgers , executive director of the Mass @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rape bill . But he said his personal opinion of the other two measures is that " mandatory sentencing gives the prosecutors a hell of a lot more power , " that it strips judicial authority and will be " a tremendous tool in the hands of an aggressive prosecutor . " Suffolk County Dist . Atty . Newman Flanagan said yesterday the new mandatory sentencing bills will eliminate the possibility of plea bargaining , and therefore all but end the practice allowing defendants to plead guilty to a lesser offense . " The defendants will know that if they ' re convicted , they ' ll go away , " the county ' s chief prosecutor said . On Wednesday , King signed a bill imposing tougher prison sentences on pimps . The bill requires a five-year prison sentence for convicted pimps and says they may not be eligible for parole until they have served two years of that sentence . In signing the bills yesterday , King said , " When I was campaigning , I pledged strict penalties for drug dealers . Today that promise is fulfilled . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ governor added , there is money in the budget to fund expansion at Bridgewater and at the new prison in Gardner . " But , " he said , " If it takes more money , if we have to spend significantly more money , I ' m going to accommodate that . " ( Contributing to this report was Globe State House Bureau chief Walter V. Robinson . ) B08005092                     