@@734905

txt IT 'S TIME to reconstruct where we went ? and why , when , with whom , and what ft aft means ? for the old 1040 tax form . There'Is an excellent 32-page booklet published by the Commerce Clearing House of Chicago titled , " Travel and Entertainment : Business or Pleasure . " This concise manual spells out what constitutes a deductible travel and entertain-. meat expense , how to treat it on your tax return , and where the IRS is apt to draw the line between business and pleasure expenses . Although it wo n't turn you into a tax expert or put your accountant out of business , it will show how the government looks at travel and entertainment expenses and help you organize your future tax records . It starts off sounding easy . All nrdinsry and necessary business expenses are deductible . This includes Navel expenses related to the conduct of your business . Where the crunch coo w is in defining " ordinary and necessary . " One problem is separating business from pleasure traveling expenses , espe cially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ THE NEED TO KEEP good records becomes important when taking ? these combination trips . You could lie faced with a tough scrutiny of the business expenses claimed , and you may he asked to establish the time spent on business to determine . ( lust the primary purpose of the trip was not a vacation . If the trip was made primarily for pleasure , none of the expenses is deductible even if you In conduct soma incidental business while on the road . Nor can you even count on deducting the cost of the transportation on a husiness-pleasure trip . You any be se ? quired to allocate a portion of the total expepse , including air ticket , ns a nondeductible vacation expense . Also . If an international trip is longer than a week or If more than 25 per cent of the days spent away from home were for pleasure purposes , the ** disallow a portion or all of the cost . If the site of a business meeting or convention is vacatiomoriented , such ns a resort area in season , IRS agents are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine what travel expenses will qualify for a deduction , but no accountant cam help you if you do n't keep good records . Remember , the burden of proof that an expense was made is on the taxpayer . . THIS MEANS that . proof of expenses may be required ? Your substantiation must establish the amount , time , place , business , and business relationship of the person entertained . Documentation of the expense should be In the form of Itemized receipts or paid bills ; a canceled cheek . may not he sufficient . If the IRS wants to play rough , you may be required ' to produce corroborative evidence , such as a sworn statement . from the person entertained . To play it safe , you should ? hang onto all receipts unelected with your travel regardless of whether the item paid for is deductible . In addition , a detailed account hook and ? diary may he requested in an audit . The diary will help substantiate those portions of your business activities away from hem for which you do n't have evidence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you an advance for travel expenses and does not require ' yen to make an accounting to the company that you are off the hook . Your employer might change his mind . In addition , you are entitled to deductions for certain business-related expenses for which you were not reimbursed . IF THERE Is any question about what the company policy is concerning business travel , the IRS may ask you to provide a letter from your employer , This letter should slate that the employe must travel as part of his Job and state whether the employe has been reimbursed for expenses and if any of those reimbursements appear on his 111-2 form , Establishing and maintaining a good system for keeping detailed records is essential . ' Travel and Entertainment : Business or Pleasure " is available for 52 home ? Commerce Clearing House , 4025 W. Peterson . Av. , Chicago 60040 , 40 ? 1 ? NI , Ci COrr , , , M.                     