@@668708

NASA on Friday gave the presidential commission investigating the Challenger explosion a detailed " ascent timeline " of the doomed shuttle mission , and one NASA spokesman said that timeline indicates that the disaster already was underway at liftoff . The timeline shows that a mysterious puff of black smoke appeared near the base of the right-hand booster rocket at . 445 seconds after booster ignition and remained visible for almost 13 seconds into the flight . Aside from that , the Jan. 28 shuttle mission appeared normal until 58. 774 seconds into ascent , when there was the first indication of flame emanating from the same booster rocket , according to the timeline , which says the flame became " a well-defined , intense plume " shortly after 59 seconds . The timeline concludes with the appearance of " a sudden cloud " alongside the shuttle ' s external fuel tank at 73. 175 seconds after launch , followed a fraction of a second later by a flash between the tank and the orbiter , and then an explosion . Telemetry data stopped reaching consoles operated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 73. 621 seconds . " This shows it was a continuing cause and effect , " said James Mizell , a former NASA launch operations engineer and now an agency spokesman . " The cause probably started at ignition , and the effect was seen at the end . " It means that the root cause was back here , " he added , pointing to the puff of black smoke in the data released by NASA , " and it was a gradual deterioration of the problem until it got out there . " The presidential commission concluded two days of closed-door meetings with space agency officials Friday and toured the Kennedy Space Center ' s assembly building and launch pad with NASA officials and shuttle contractors . Commission Chairman William Rogers declined to comment on a report Friday by Aviation Week and Space Technology magazine that NASA engineers are assessing whether supercold propellants leaking from the shuttle ' s external fuel tank before launch may have chilled a section of the suspect right-hand booster to temperatures below safe operating limits . The magazine announced it will report in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by an ice-inspection team 90 minutes before liftoff recorded temperatures of 7 degrees and 9 degrees Fahrenheit at two points on the booster . Those temperatures are considerably below flight-safety specifications , which recommend launch only when the temperature of each of a shuttle ' s two booster rockets is between 40 and 90 degrees . The inspection team , which was checking for ice on the tank that might come off during launch and damage the tiles on the orbiter ' s heat shield , did not report the low temperature readings to primary launch personnel , according to the magazine . Commission member Richard Feynman , a Nobel Prize-winning physicist from the California Institute of Technology , added to speculation that the Challenger catastrophe may have originated at a field joint between segments of the right-hand booster . Field joints are sealed with putty and two synthetic rubber seals called O-rings . " That ' s certainly true that that looks like the most likely " cause of the accident , Feynman told reporters during the tour of the towering 52-story shuttle-assembly building . " If you made me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , " added Feynman , who put a piece of synthetic rubber from the O-rings in a cup of ice water during commission hearings earlier in the week in Washington to demonstrate the rubber ' s lack of resiliency when exposed to cold . But Feynman cautioned that his view could change with additional information . NASA officials insist that they have not yet zeroed in on the cause of the shuttle blast , and that they are considering several possible explanations . Some rocket experts have suggested that unseasonably cold temperatures at launch time could have caused the solid fuel or insulation in the booster to debond , thus creating a channel through which flame would have reached and burnt through the booster ' s casing . Challenger was launched in the coldest temperature yet for a shuttle mission , 38 degrees Fahrenheit . Rogers described the commission ' s visit here as two days of " very intensive , thorough discussions and investigations " on the Challenger accident . He said the NASA Data and Design Analysis Task Force brought the commission up to date on its probe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very frank discussions , " Rogers said at a brief news conference . " This included substance about the environmental effects of the launch  --  we reviewed a great number of photographs  --  and we discussed those photographs and telemetry and so forth in depth . " Rogers said that commission members also met with personnel from Morton Thiokol Inc. , which manufactures the shuttle booster rockets . He characterized the session as " very active . . . with a good deal of questions back and forth , give and take . " " The issue of seals and O-rings , and particularly about the relationship of the weather to those seals and O-rings and other conditions that may have affected the launch site " were discussed at the meeting , Rogers said . Morton Thiokol announced Friday that it will lay off 200 full-time employees involved in the rocker booster program at its Wasatch Division near Brigham City , Utah , on Feb. 21 and put another 1 , 400 on four-day work weeks beginning Feb. 24 . Company spokesman Gil Moore said he did not know how soon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend on the result of the investigation , " he said . The 1 , 400 workers put on four-day weeks will be allowed to take already- earned paid vacation days to make up for lost income , Moore added . About 2 , 400 of the 6 , 400 people employed at the Wasatch division work directly on the shuttle program . CAPTION : PHOTO : ( color ) Firsthand look in shuttle probe . Members of the presidential commission investigating Challenger ' s explosion view a space shuttle ' s external fuel tank ( center ) and rocket boosters at Kennedy Space Center , Fla . , Friday . Story , Page 3 . UPI photo . Illustration PHOTO <>                     