@@735667

txt A federal court in New York dismissed a consolidated slut filed against Hercules Inc . And three other chemical companies by Vietnam veterans and their families . The plaintiffs claimed they were injured by exposure to a hei Weide known as Agent Orange . However , the court denied motions by Dow Chemical Co .. Thompson-Hayward Chemical Co. and Uniroyal Inc. that also sought dismissal . Two other defendants , Monsanto Co. and Diamond Shamrock Corp. , did n't seek dismissal These five companies now face a trial in connection with the suit , the court said . A trial date has n't been set . Agent Orange . a mixture of toxic compounds known as 24D and 245T. was made under a Defense Department contract and used as a defoliant during the Vietnam war . Some plaintiffs alleged that servicemen and their children had died as a result of exposure to the product Others claimed they suffered from cancer and other ailments as a consequence of the exposure . Federal Judge George Pratt granted the requests of Hercules , Riverdale Chemical Co .. Hoffman-Taff Co. and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these companies from the case . An appeal by plaintiffs is probable , the judge 's law clerk said . Hercules , in a statement , said that the judge 's decision affirms " what we believe is the correct rule of law , that there should be no company liability for the supply of military products meeting government requirements when the government has equal or superior knowledge as to the risks , if any , involved in their use . " The company said it is confident that the decision would be upheld on appeal . In Midland , Mich. , Dow said it is " disappointed " with the court 's decision against dismissal of Dow 's role in the Agent Orange dispute , and that it is " confident Dow will be vindicated when the issue is resolved " at a trial . Dow also said it is " considering the possibility of an appeal . " In St. Louis , Louis Fernandez , Monsanto vice chairman , said : " Monsanto considers the ruling to be very favorable . The indefinite postponement of the trial gives the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the government-contract defense issue . " Mr. Fernandez added : " In the past few weeks , we have managed to discover significant new information and have obtained revealing depositions from forme ' government officials who were actively involved in the Agent Orange program . " He did n't elaborate More than 350 lawsuits involving more than 5,000 plaintiffs and asking hundreds of millions of dollars in damages were brought against makers of Agent Orange . The cases were consolidated for pretrial purposes .                     