@@735005

txt IS CHICAGO 'S BOB IRSAY planning to sell the Baltimore Colts , or a minority interest in the National Football League franchise ? Two reputable sources in different sectors of the country telephoned Thursday night to say Irsay was peddling the team . When these rumors were checked out with a top official in the league ( not a Chicagoan ) , he said : " I know that a Canadian group with tons of money is interested in buying the Colts , but I do not think that Irsay would sell them more than 49 per cent . " Baltiniore sources said that Irsay was in that city early this week , seeking to buy a condominium , and that he gave no indication there would be a change in command . " However , we 've understood right along that Irsay would like to sell 49 per cent of the team , " said a Baltimore citizen who Is close to the Colts . Early this week , an affluent Chicagoan who has hankered for a pro football franchise said : " I have information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ million . " THIS CAME AFTER Thomas Ring  --  a prominent figure on the local sports scene and general ma'hager of the Merchandise Mart , flatly stated that he was part of a group that had made Irsay an offer ? between $35-and-$40 million ? for the Colts . King 's group originally was organized to survey the possibit. ity of obtaining a franchise in an April-through-July pro football league being organized by Dave Dixon , who founded World Championship Tennis and put the New Orleans SuperIn the Wake ' of the News By David Condon dome on the drawing board . ' " We have been looking Into the prospects of joining Dixon 's league , " conceded King , " but our top priority is an NFL franchise . " King played pro basketball after graduating from Michigan State , subsequently was affiliated with Chicago Stadium and the International Boxing League , and helped guide Ills Mich- igan State buddy , Chuck Davey , from the amateur ranks to a shot at the world welterweight title . Irsay could not be reached for comment Friday night , Bears ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to sell the Colts but was aware that King was interested in ' an NFL franchise . " And , " said Papa Bear , " Tommy would be a wonderful person to have in our ? grantzation . " PEOPLE IN THE NFL have various hunches about the Colts situation . The most fascinating theory comes from an insider who asks not to be identified . He says : , ' Everyone knows that Indianapolis is seeking an expansion franchise In the NFL but that the league has other locations with higher priorities . So the best chance buy for an Indianapoli establishes , which is building a domed stadium , is to established franchise and transfer it , It may sound far out , but I think they have an eye on the Baltimore Colts , and that Irsay would be willing to sell if he could persuade George Hales to sell him the Chicago Bears . " Hales sell the Bears ? Well , stranger things have happened . Bill Wrigley is selling the Cubs , is n't he ? And to set the record straight for my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a subsidiary ) completes the purchase of the Cubs , you can count on David Condon to continue his impartial , unbiased reporting on the Chicago baseball scene . Which means he 'll continue giving the White Sox all the best of it . Meanwhile , Andy , who will be chairman of the new Cubs organization , will not confirm or deny reports that the Cubs will open auxiliary ticket offices south of Madison Street . INCIDENTALLY , TRIBUNE COMPANY is not the first organization with Chicago newspaper and TV interests to attempt to purchase one of this city 's great sports franchises . Years ago , Marshall Field IV , then publisher of the Sun-Times , negotiated seriously to purchase the Bears , with the stipulation that Halas would continue as head of the club . When it became known that Hales was pondering the offer , Col. Henry Crown , the Chicago financial tycoon who once owned the Empire State . Building and who revitalized General Dynamics , made an almost similar bid . And guess who then jumped in the swim ? None other than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season tickets and who would have divested himself of his baseball interests if he could have gotten into professional football . I guarantee this because I relayed Finley 's first offer to Hales , who said : " Finley 's interest is flattering , but as you well know , Dave , I have two other offers on the table . " I 'm glad Halos decided not to sell the Bears , or any part of them , because pro football would not be pro football without Hales , the father of it all . But when I spoke to him Friday night , he remembered the offers from Field and Crown . ? IN THE WAKE : If directors of Tribune Company had asked my advice ( which would have been a first ) , I 'd have suggested they buy a racetrack ? perhaps Ed DeBartolo 's Balmoral plant in Crete , where the first annual Dave Condon Derby is scheduled July 12 ... While the Wake conductor was running around the country , four longtime Wake helpers died : Jim Dunn , whose family owned the racehorse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years served as a volunteer coach for Rockford prep football teams . . . Mrs. Mae Malooly , a South Sider who for four decades contributed quips to the Wake under the name of Mae Maio ? , died while on vacation .. . Mrs. Irene Long , a West Skier who maintained a lively sense of humor and a great enthusiasm until the end , died this week at 86 ... And , of course , you read the obituaries on Hal Block , and the information that he was an original panelist on TV 's What 's My Line and a gag writer for some of America 's finest comedians . He also was one of the original " Quiz Kids " of radioland.                     