@@668072

Clutching a printout and a walkie-talkie , Thomas J. Guthrie strode into the " war room " of phones , radios and blinking , blipping charts at the Traffic Control Center in New York yesterday , just as the early morning rush-hour was cresting . He ' d been out touring streets . An aide told Guthrie that a local radio station wanted to know if he was indeed letting up on the " Iron Curtain " - a police screen used to keep cars with fewer than two persons from entering Manhattan below 96th street . " Hell no , if anything we ' ll re-enforce it , " the tall , 48-year- old traffic commissioner said as he shucked off his trench coat . " And we ' re set for the bridge and tunnel reversals an hour earlier today , right ? " It is Guthrie ' s job to see that the quarter million or so cars that have been converging on Manhattan Island each day of the current subway and bus strike are kept flowing smoothly on the city ' s 6000 miles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arteries . He attempts to do that with a cascade of data at the Traffic Control Center , a nerve center of New York ' s ganglia of roadways . It includes wall- sized maps of the boroughs , linked electronically to many of the city ' s 9000 traffic intersections , their wintergreen lights winking information about direction , flow and tie-ups . All in all , traffic has flowed fairly fluidly during the 10-day- old strike , despite dire predictions of a " gridlock " condition - the paralysis of vehicular movement . Much of the credit belongs to the transportation department ' s extensive energy emergency planning , its 1150 now-fatigued traffic- control agents stationed around the city , and its complex monitoring system made up of human observers , helicopters and 1600 traffic volume sensors imbedded in the streets . And to Guthrie , a onetime motorcycle police officer . A pillow on the couch in his equipment-laden office has gotten precious little use since the 33,000 transit workers went out over wage demands last week . " In a way , the strike has allowed us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ normal times , such as creating scores of bike lanes , reversing traffic flows according to need and enforcing mandatory car pooling . " " Public cooperation has been fantastic , " said Guthrie . " We ' re getting the same number of people entering Manhattan as during the 1966 strike , but in two-thirds as many cars . People are more receptive to the idea of sharing a ride and , with the physical fitness craze , more willing to ride bikes or walk . " About 240,000 cars were estimated to have entered the central business district yesterday - down slightly from a record quarter million Tuesday . Eugene Connell , Mayor Edward Koch ' s emergency strike coordinator , said that some people evidently chose not to come in after a 3 1/2 - inch , driving rainstorm drenched the city Tuesday , flooding roads and stalling cars . While New Yorkers have been loudly praising themselves about their adoption of new commuter habits during the strike , Guthrie is afraid they won ' t stick . " All this car pooling and bike riding and walking has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said yesterday at the control center . " But unfortunately , New Yorkers have a habit of reverting back to gas- guzzling habits after a crisis . " The transit strike caused a very personal labor problem yesterday for a Queens woman . Juana Chavez , 35 , gave birth to an 8-pound , 11- ounce girl in the back seat of a taxi cab that got stuck in traffic en route to Mt . Sinai hospital . A New York City police officer and a passing doctor assisted in the delivery , police Comr . Robert Maguire reported . At New York ' s famous Fulton Fish Market on South street in lower Manhattan , Mark Rudis , owner of Beyer Lightning Fish Co. , looked unhappily at the carcases of a dozen sturgeon on the wet , wooden floor . " This is killing us , " he said of the transit strike . " Traffic is discouraging even truckers . And restaurants are losing business , so their retailers aren ' t buying from us . " Journeymen normally kept busy hauling fish across and around the icy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , their grappling hooks hanging from their belts . On a typical Thursday , Rudis said , he sells 5000 pounds of swordfish caught in seas from Florida to Massachusetts . Yesterday he sold 2500 pounds . New York City officials said yesterday that estimated business losses due to the transit strike have now topped $1 billion . When the transit workers went out , conventional wisdom held that taxi drivers stood to gain handsomely . Not so , a number of cabbies reported yesterday . " A bonanza , my foot , " taxi driver Alexander Kouris of Brooklyn said as he looked scornfully at bike riders on the 59th Street bridge . " Time is money in this business , and with all the traffic , I ' m making less than I was before . It should take 40 minutes to get from Queens to Wall Street ; now it takes two hours and I don ' t get any more money . "                     