@@668490

Three hospitals who employed an anesthesiologist who lost his license for drug addiction are under investigation by the New York State Department of Health . At issue is whether the hospitals failed to meet their legal obligation to report misconduct or fraud . At the same time , the Health Department is increasing its staff to cope with what Health Comr . David Axelrod called an " overwhelming " problem of misbehavior by physicians ranging from habitual drug or alcohol abuse to plain incompetence . Dr. Axelrod says there is a backlog of 1400 complaints , some going back four or five years . And the spokesman for the Health Department says 1982 was " a record bad year " for the number of doctors punished for malpractice . During the year the department ' s licensing agency , the Board of Regents , revoked the licenses of 17 doctors , put another 21 on probation and fined a further 10 . Five doctors surrendered their licenses voluntarily after investigations began . This compared with 8 revocations , 2 surrenders and 8 probations in 1981 and 3 revocations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Health Department received 670 complaints in 1982 and investigated 356 of them , but officials believe that many more cases went unreported . " The number of cases that were reported and that we were able to process through to final adjudication last year was just the tip of the iceberg , " said a department spokesman yesterday . The failure of hospitals and other members of the medical profession to report cases of misconduct has been sharply criticized by Axelrod . And in a recent speech , he estimated that as many as 10 percent of the state ' s 45,000 practicing physicians were mentally or physically impaired or otherwise incompetent , often as a result of drug or alcohol addiction . The State Medical Society and the State Hospital Assn. issued a joint statement accusing Axelrod of exaggerating the problem and challenging him to name the hospitals he alleged were covering up for erring doctors . But department officials pointed out that of the 670 cases reported last year , only 33 came from hospitals and 28 from doctors , the remainder having been reported by patients or their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bring charges against hospitals that cover up . The first to come under investigation are three at which an anesthesiologist who lost his license last year for drug addiction is known to have practiced . These are the State University Hospital at Stony Brook , Long Island , the Bronx Municipal Hospital and St. John ' s Queens Hospital at Elmhurst . Health Department records disclose that among the 17 doctors who lost their licenses to practice last year were the following : - A cancer specialist with impressive credentials who " lured " patients into a private hospital with " fraudulent representations , " then gave them treatment that was both " negligent and incompetent . " He prescribed laetrile and other unapproved drugs , subjected a 10- year-old boy dying of brain cancer to " abusive human experimentation " and gave promises to other terminally ill patients which were " tantamount to quackery , " said the Board of Regents . The board said he was negligent and incompetent in eight cases , and ruled that " desperate cancer patients and their families . . . must be protected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , nose and throat specialist who recommended surgery to at least 22 patients whose only symptoms were a sore throat , earache or a runny nose . In one case , he told a patient she has polyps in her throat when , said the Board of Regents , he " knew or should have known that no such polyps existed . " He falsely told another patient she had a potential malignancy , and in a further case he advised an immediate mastoid operation for a patient who only needed eardrops . In view of this doctor ' s experience and qualifications , the board found his practice of recommending " useless and unnecesssary " surgery appeared to constitute " deliberate fraud . " - An anesthesiologist who was " a habitual user of Demerol , " a powerful and addictive sedative . He was so impaired during an operation last October that he failed to realize that the breathing tube was blocked and a patient was literally turning blue on the operating table . Other doctors had to clear the tube and restore the patient ' s breathing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                