@@668525

Peter Tosh has been highly critical of the Rolling Stones in recent interviews . He has accused them of ignoring his career while he was on their label , Rolling Stones Records , and has gone so far as to say he feels ripped off and humiliated . Now it looks as if his candor has come back to haunt him . Head Stone Mick Jagger is furious at Tosh ' s remarks , according to a source , because Jagger has just been in Europe working with his lawyers to recoup $78,000 in royalties for Tosh . Jagger had also planned to see Tosh ' s recent New York concert , but stayed away as a protest . In addition , Tosh ' s new American label , Capitol-EMI Records , wants him to tone down his words , proving once again that knocking the Stones in music circles is akin to taking potshots at the Chase Manhattan Bank . Tosh , for his part , is not backing down . He ' s holding onto his anger , which perhaps explains Saturday ' s tumultuous , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' s ever given in Boston . Amid withering heat that caused several fans to faint and have to be carred out , Tosh boomed out 90 minutes of soul-churning reggae , Rastafarian rhetoric and marijuana anthems . With his long dreadlocks streaming from side to side , the so-called Bush Doctor cast an overpowering spell . Tosh had the further distinction of being the first performer to play at the massive Plaza Castle , an old armory now owned by the Park Plaza Hotel . This was an experiment to see how well music would go over in the 90-year-old hall ; and from all indications it went very well , even if the sold-out crowd of 2400 often felt like tightly packed sardines . ( This may have been only a one-shot event , depending on neighborhood reaction , said promoter Jack Hooke of Strawboss Presents . ) The biggest surprise was that the sound quality was decent . Most of Tosh ' s radical rallying cries and incantations were heard even from the rear of the aircraft-hangar-like space . After a beguiling set by the local favorites the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reggae remake of Dionne Warwick ' s " Walk on By " ) , Tosh appeared during an unexpected intro of the Hallelujah Chorus from Handel ' s " Messiah . " Hardly an average reggae song , it caught the crowd flat-footed , though the subsequent " Pick Myself Up " ( a song of renewal that fits Tosh ' s post-Stones life ) was a lot more familiar . The better part of the night was spent in pro-Africa philosophizing ( " African " and the therapeutic gospel fervor of " Mama Africa , " the title of his new album ) ; urgent calls for justice ( " Get Up , Stand Up " and " Equal Rights and Justice " ) ; and the more happy- go-lucky refrains of " Walk and Don ' t Look Back " ( his Temptations cover tune ) , " Johnny B. Goode " ( showing that Chuck Berry can be adapted to reggae after all ) and " Legalize It , " the pot smoker ' s credo , which found many red-eyed fans singing along with gusto . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this above his other local sets was not just the atmospheric setting ( reminiscent of tropical Jamaica , as many said ) but the sheer intensity of the program . His band also merited special mention this time , especially the heavy metal reggae guitarist Donald Kinsey ( whose solos were like rocket launchings ) ; versatile percussionist Vision , who was on leave from Carlton Bryan &; Crossroads ; bassist Fully Fullwood , who played a sonorous stick bass ; and drummer Santa Davis , whose thrills-and- chills style was enhanced by special , upward-facing floor lights silhouetting every cymbal shot onto the ceiling . Anchoring it all was Tosh , who surmounted his Stones hassles and proved to the sweaty crowd that he ' s not to be taken lightly .                     