@@734649

txt The failure of the attempt to rescue the hostages in Iran stirred up a predictable storm of reports and rumors about what went wrong and who was to blame . An army of armchair commandos . desk-bound helicopter pilots and cocktailparty strategists marched forward with their assessments of why the mission failed . After all , nothing succeeds like failure in provoking speculation and investigation . This is particularly true in Washington . where politicians and journalists search for scapegoats with the noisy zest of an English faxhunt . To be sure , the Washington chase lacks beagles , horses , redcoats and other colorful trappings . But the capital hunt has its own exciting style  --  leaks , press scoops and congressional hearings . These investigations are n't surprising . They spring naturally from the combination of ambitious politicians and a free press , all of whom see good reason to question official explanations after the Vietnam war and Watergate . And the fact that many Congressmen and journalkis also regard President Carter as weak , inconsistent or incompetent strengthens the urge to look for a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mission of such significance to the nation failed . But the reason it is important goes beyond the satisfaction of finding somebody to blame . The investigations will be worthwhile only if they help the nation learn how to defeat future acts of terrorism . For the Central Intelligence Agency predicts increases in the frequency , boldness and soplustication of terrorist activity over the next decade . So far , though , the investigations of the unsuccessful mission have produced little but frustration . Nobody has cornered a scapegoat yet . The full dimensions of the plan , including details on training , equipment and methods for capturing the emhacsv , , and removing the hostages , remain secret . " We need to know more about the overall plan to determine whether or not it was a wise and prudent move , " Democratic Sen. Henry Jackson of Washington complained after the closed-door appearance of Defense Secretary Harold Brown before the Senate Armed Services Committee . " Secretary Brown ca n't deny that he 's withholding information from the Senate . " Mr. Brown does n't deny it . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ details of how the operation would have unfolded if it had n't ended prematurely because of helicopter failure . " I 'm convinced that in a decade when terrorism , kidnappings and the need for special operations to counter them may well become more important than they have in the past , it would be a mistake to compromise the security of such techniques and procedures by spreading knowledge of therm " Mr. Brown explained . So the Pentagon 's response to inquiries from Congress and the press has been to make available detailed information on only the part of the mission that failed  --  the attempt to get six working helicopters from the aircraft carrier Nimitz in the Gulf of Oman to a desert site some 200 miles from Tehran . From there the choppers were to carry 90 commandos to a staging area closer to Tehran . Pentagon reports , plus testimony by commanders of the mission , have helped counter many early allegations about why the mission failed . Military leaders at the desert refueling site say that they recommended the termination of the mission after it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to diffuse speculation that President Carter canceled the mission because his nerve failed . All the Pentagon will say about the uncompleted part of the mission is that success depended on stealth and speed . " Secrecy was paramount , " the Joint Chiefs of Staff told Congress in a report on what led to the disaster on the Iranian desert . " The planners lev-oguized that a lean but adequate force that struck swiftly and unexpectedly stood a good chance of rescuing the hostages . " Much information about the mission has been leaked to the press . Many of these leaks  --  such as reports that the success of the operation depended on the use of disabling chemicals  --  appear to be wrong . " There 's a great deal of information in the media and not all of it is correct , " Mr. Brown notes . " So that the presence of something in the media by no means is the same as an official statement to that effect . " Some of the leaks apparently came from within the Defense Department . The Pentagon is investigating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some Senators have also asked the Justice Department to probe the disclataires . The administration 's resolve to resist pressure to disclose techniques that might defeat future acts of terrorism is understandable . It makes little sense to reduce the chances of future success while providing full details of a past failure . A recent CIA report forecasts that terrorist activity will increase and become more dififcult to counter as radical groups seeking to publicize their grievances improve their organization and equipment . One sad impact of the Iranian crisis may be to encourage other groups to take U.S. hostages . After all , the militants in Tehran have humiliated the U.S. for six months while Washington 's diplomatic and mili. tary efforts have failed to free the hostages . Successful counter-terrorist operations , like the Israeli raid on Entebbe and the re cent British defeat of Arab radicals holding the Iranian Embassy in London . share common elements . Good intelligence . se crecy. political decisiveness , discipline and military readiness are keys to success . The Congress and the press have n't shown much respect for these qualities in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that these are precisely the attributes the nation must nurture  --  not de stroy  --  in order to protect its interests .                     