@@669839

MADRID  --  Spain remains a country split between the pride of its history and the hope of real modernization . Its economic boom of the ' 60s was an exception to the permanent frustration of poor countries fighting toward development . The turning point of economic liberalization in 1959 and its consequences produced a country that looks extremely young . A young population and a modern mentality , along with the industrialization , give Spain the appearance of an urban , civilized society , developing in ways similar to the rest of the world . But young Spaniards still faced serious troubles until recently . Everyone looked at the end of the Franco regime with pessimism . Most of the population had not witnessed the Spanish Civil War , but it , despite the economic optimism , remained a nightmare of the collective unconscious . This fear seemed nearer every day as the fascist political structures were losing their grip amid increasing social unrest . The current economic crisis here  --  unemployment is 18%  --  and the ETA terrorists ( Basque separatists ) have clearly been the major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many , has flourished under King Juan Carlos I. At the same time , the post-Franco generation of Spaniards has seen the welcoming of democratic Spain into the European Community and the international cooperation to combat murder and extortion as the natural consequences of the generation ' s own widely applauded efforts . Furthermore , reducing the government ' s bureaucracy and authoritarianism represents a rejection of Franco ' s regime and has brought a fresh taste for freedom . Free-market economics and constitutional liberties were a commonly agreed upon program to go beyond the regimentation of the Francoist economy and politics , with all its protectionism and intervention in the economy , and its tight control of political life . Incidentally , this also led to the eclipse of the Communist Party in Spain . An additional fear , the outcome of an eventual electoral success of the Socialist Party under Felipe Gonzalez , has disappeared with the year-long experience of Socialist government . As a matter of fact , the political uncertainty in the business and economic community through 1982 , due largely to the fear of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a firm basis for optimism . Tourism , foreign investment and the remittances of emigrant workers have spared Spain the bottleneck of foreign currency that has plagued the development policies of most countries . They allow Spain to afford a permanently negative balance of trade , the only way to pile up the stock of capital necessary for a successful industrialization . When the Franco regime ' s days of decadence came about , 1972-75 , the country was already in a new position in the international economy and society . The economy had been growing at an annual average rate of more than 7% since 1961 , second only to Japan . Exports included industrial goods , along with the traditional agricultural products : sherry , oranges and dried fruits . By the time of Franco ' s death , Spain had become an intermediate country , exchanging natural goods for technology and capital with the most developed countries , and medium-level industrial and capital goods for raw materials with the developing world . The annual per-capita gross national product had gone to $1 , 900 in 1973 from $333 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But economic problems obviously haven ' t disappeared and , most importantly , the compensatory effects of tourism , remittances and capital imports have been losing weight in relative terms and seem increasingly unable to finance the permanent commercial deficit . The foreign debt has climbed to $28 billion , still bearable by the Spanish economy , but the dangers of this trend are obvious . Everybody knows the seriousness of the problems , particularly the government . It has convinced the population of the unavoidable necessity of tough economic measures , and the inflation rate has fallen to 12% from 27% in the past five years , while severe adjustments are under way , especially for industry . People are accepting these policies with sacrifice and hope . But there are dangers threatening the feeling of Spanish solidarity : resentment caused by all the years of painful begging for admittance to the European club and the proven incapacity to control terrorism by means of the Spanish police alone . Even Spain ' s entry into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is resented by most Spaniards . Should Spain not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prove difficult to convince the population that it pays to be a trustful ally of the Western industrial countries . The old rhetoric of " tercermundismo " and neutralism , preached by Franco ' s regime , could again be the trend . This would be to the detriment of Spain ' s economy and hopes for its future democratic stability.  --  - Mr. Florensa is a career diplomat and teaches international economics at the University of Madrid . From 1978 to 1981 , he was a foreign-affairs adviser to President Adolfo Suarez.                     