@@735169

txt A child deserves a retreat TEARS AGO a child 's bedroom was likely to be a depository for odd pieces of furniture and hand-me. , downs . But today 's parent is apt to view his young . ster 's . room as a special hideaway deserving of decoration and planning . The wise parent wants to stay within a budget while , creating a space for the offspring to grow in . Such is the case of one woman who asked for help , with her son 's bedroom . " Just as the dollar is steadily shrinking , so are the room sizes in new homes , " she said . " We are ready to decorate and furnish our 5-year-old soil 's room and are stumped in ? lacing the furniture and ? tanning a room that will : eke him through his : eens , " INTERIOR designer Lorraine M. Bragg of the firm , Cuesta Bragg Fields Design , tackled the problem . She said that the client in this case , the 5-year-old , must bp provided with a private space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ store his possessions and certainly to daydream . " R he who will give life to the space , " she said . " We must simply provide a background for a develop- . , mg personality and growing body . " The designer ' first paid attention to the closet . She recommended installing two rods at different heights to double the storage space . The lower rod should be at a height a ' youngster can reach . ? " Also , , most closet heights wilt allow the in ; stallation pf two shelves above the hanging rods . The upper , less-accessible shelf can be used to store seasonal clothing and ) sports equipment . To one side , a stand of narrow , deep shelves can be useful for shoes , , roller skates I and football helmets , " Bragg continued . " Add a few hooks . You might con , alder a shoe rack on the floor ; but , after all , the closet floor is the only place to shove things when . you , have to tidy up in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pointed out that " there is no such thing as inexpensive furniture today . Cheap furniture is made but not sold inexpensively . Furniture is a major investment . There . fore , select furniture with simple lines . " , SOME ? TIPS on buying furniture for a youngster , ? Aveld " cute " and trendy ' pieces that will become dated . ? Furniture with less detail will result in less clutter in a room . ? Modular , interchangeable pieces are easier to live with over extended periods because they allow flexible arrangements . Also , they are easy to move , The new plastic laminates come in attractive colors and durable finishes and are easy . td maintain ; Jo : Wm i KNahFNdggr NOMP.Pare                     