@@669048

Hubert Beuve-Mery is dead . Few outside France , or outside the practice of journalism , are likely to recognize the name of the founder of a great newspaper , Le Monde . Yet his career richly illustrated the pain and contradictions of France ' s remaking of its own political life and conscience after the second world war , and the tension of France ' s relationship with the United States in the early postwar years-renewed , in a measure , in the American relationship with all of Europe , " 1992 Europe , " today . Not many people are presented with a newspaper . Beuve-Mery was , by Gen. Charles de Gaulle . As a journalist , he had before the war outspokenly criticized the complaisance of the French press toward Hitler , and then he had fought in the Resistance . In 1944 , the information minister in De Gaulle ' s first government called him in and invited him to take over the plant of the main prewar daily , Le Temps , which had been suppressed for collaborating with the Nazis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , credible in France and in the world , " a mission defined by De Gaulle himself . Beuve-Mery hesitated , demanded complete independence and was given it . He rapidly made of the new paper more than De Gaulle had perhaps expected . It became not only a journal of reference but of conscience , a critic of the government and a counter-power to it . De Gaulle was subsequently to speak gloomily of its " spirit of constant negativism . " Beuve-Mery ' s quarrel with America , which rapidly emerged in the proposition that France adopt a policy of " neutralism " in the emerging Cold War , was moral in origin . To Beuve-Mery , and those who thought like him , the United States seemed a totally materialistic society , and the Atlantic alliance a form of blunderingly benign , but ultimately fatal takeover by the United States of Western Europe . This , if it succeeded , threatened what was essential and unique in Europe ' s own civilization . He was one of a generation of Europeans for whom capitalism meant social injustice and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States seemed to represent . Communism , at least , had an ethical impulse behind it . He was one of a number of 1930s Catholic intellectuals who sought a new definition of social justice in cooperation and corporatism . Thus , at the beginning of the Vichy period , he became director of studies for a school that drew on both the prewar traditionalist and monarchist Catholic right , and the liberal Catholic " personalists " with whom Beuve-Mery himself was connected . It was suppressed by the Vichy authorities in 1942 , and the whole school went into the armed Resistance , the maquis . Le Monde challenged the Atlanticism of French governments in the 1950s , the war in Indochina , and in the late 1950s , in what became a bitter political controversy with echoes heard even today , it exposed and denounced the French Army ' s use of torture in Algeria . On the latter question , Beuve-Mery himself remarked , " I was in the maquis and I know that a certain kind of struggle makes ( atrocities ) inevitable . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them from recurring , and to stop those who talk about them from being treated as traitors or fanatics . " Le Monde , however , was treated as treacherous and fanatic and was several times suppressed . It nonetheless retained , as it retains today , two decades after Beuve-Mery ' s retirement , a privileged role with respect to France ' s political elite . It is an essential factor , not in France ' s government , but in its governance-both close to power and power ' s perpetual critic , defending Beuve-Mery ' s editorial position , in this writer ' s opinion well worth defending : " Objectivity ? It doesn ' t exist . What is necessary is to strive for a disinterested subjectivity . " To understand the European current of thought represented by Hubert Beuve-Mery it is necessary to step out of the Anglo-American intellectual tradition into the one which formed him , and into the drastic economic circumstances which shaped both the Christian Democratic and Social Democratic parties which were to dominate postwar West European politics , and which dominate the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ president of the European Commission , is from this tradition , as is Protestant Socialist Prime Minister of France Michel Rocard . Spain ' s Felipe Gonzales is such a Socialist , while Italy and West Germany are governed by Christian Democrats . All are in the camp which finds American ( or Thatcherite ) submission to market forces ultimately unacceptable on moral grounds . This conflict of values is not often articulated but it is a crucial factor in Europe ' s relationship with America today , as in the 1940s and 1950s . What lies behind many transatlantic trade conflicts , and even the argument between the U.S. and Europeans on a free market in television programs and films , is an argument about cultural and social values versus the wholly economic priorities of the marketplace . The argument is one Beuve-Mery would passionately have joined.                     