@@668322

Nils Lofgren sang the Carole King and Gerry Goffin tune " Goin ' Back " at his first Paradise show Saturday . Long one of Lofgren ' s best covers , it was a gentle , but stirring and determined song about recapturing better times and renewing direction . " Back , " sang Lofgren , " to things I learned so well . " It recalled another moment in time , a jog back in Lofgren ' s career . The moment was 1975 and Nils Lofgren had seized it . In the early ' 70s , the Washington DC-based guitarist had achieved cult status through his work with the band Grin and his playing with Neil Young . But in 1975 Lofgren , then 22 , released his debut solo album , " Nils Lofgren . " One of the year ' s best , it was a record of exquisite balance - musically , between infectious melodic pop and cutting hard rock , lyrically , between wistfulness and defiance . The album quickly became an FM radio favorite and many thought it would be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that way . " Nils Lofgren " was not so much a promise as a pinnacle , and Lofgren ' s latter albums , including the current " Night Fades Away , " are in that first album ' s style , but without its substantial content . The high voice is familiar and warming , the themes are familiar and cogent , the guitar playing is familiar , fluid and tasteful , but the songwriting is not up to that early , wondrous standard . That feeling dominated the first soldout Paradise performance . Although Lofgren remains a satisfying ( and athletic ) entertainer , the satisfaction is somewhat muted . Lofgren and his five-piece backup band did bring the show to a rousing , firey climax , but they took a circuitous route to get there - and the old songs were the ones that mostly did it . " Moon Tears , " a song from the Grin days , shook with hard guitar chords from his brother , Tom , as Nils and pianist Stuart Smith attacked with flurries of notes . With the final encore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for love and devotion credible ; the simple melody exploded as Lofgren exclaimed , " I found out ! " Those were dynamic peaks , but the concert had few early on . Lofgren and company often politely coasted at a medium-fast speed and Lofgren didn ' t have the charisma that could keep you tuned in through the more mediocre material such as " No Mercy , " " Beggars Day " and " Code of the Road . " Lofgren is cut from same cloth as San Francisco folk-rocker Greg Kihn . Both artists embrace pop melody first and foremost and when they fail they fail because the hooks don ' t register strongly enough . Both are romantics who write many of their songs around romance and failed romance . Tough , punky attitudes are offset by soft , tender sentiments ; frenzied guitar rave-ups are contained by classic , carefully structured arrangements . The albums and concerts of both are dotted with superb tunes , but neither artist has been able to put together a truly powerful succession of songs . It ' s competent rock ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particularly , that frustrates . It ' s hard to forget that glorious thrust into the A- levels . Cambridge comedian Barry Crimmins opened . What the Dictators are to rock ' n ' roll , Crimmins is to comedy - a visceral all-out assault on " good taste " that hits home and hits hard . Jack Gallagher , another local comedian , will open tonight ' s show .                     