@@735860

txt In 1943 , an exhibition devoted to Jewish daily life opened in Prague only a short train ride from the Terezin concentration camp . The exhibition was curated under duress by Jewish museum officials and attended by a special audience of SS officers . One of them , Sturmbajinfuhrer Gunther. vias irritated with the show 's respectful , positive tone and insisted on an additional section on kosher butchering . All but one of the curators were liquidated shortly thereafter . Their story and that of the Jewish community in Prague is the subject of " The Precious Legacy : Judaic Treasures from the Czechoslovak State Collections , " an exhibition of 350 ceremonial objects . books . paintings and embroideries now at the Smithsonian 's National Museum of Natural History . Paradoxically , this story of the Czech Jews could not be told with such forceful detail were it not for the Nazis ' mania for documentation , which reached a level of gruesome efficiency . As the Jews of Moravia and Bohemia were sent to concentration camps , any objects they owned of historic or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish Museum in Prague ( which absorbed a fine collection started in 1906 by a Czech Jew ) . There they were catalogued and tagged in the way a sane world might classify dinosaur bones . The ritual Torah scrolls . vestments and Hanukkah lamps became lab specimens in what was officially described as " a museum to an extinct race . " Before the Nazis were succeeded in Czechoslovakia by the Soviets , the confiscated material filled eight Jewish community houses and about 50 warehouses . At the end of the war , the decimated Jewish population , unable to take care of its fragile heritage , turned the collections over to the Czech state . Today , about 2% of the accumulated objects are displayed in the synagogues that make up the State Jewish Museum in Prague 's old Jewish quarter . Two years ago , I saw a small permanent show of children 's art from Terezin there . Its impact , unfortunately , was slightly dampened by labels that insisted the youngsters were taught by brave and talented communists . ( The Czechs , however admirable their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to their political possibilities . ) The Smithsonian exhibition , free of such cant , is a time-line through Jewish history . from the Middle Ages to the Nazi domination that began in 1938 with the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia . Religious objects dominate the show . A lavishly embroidered 19th-century Torah curtain displayed at the start of the show leads on to remarkably crafted Torah pointers . finials and binders . But there are also secular items : an 18th-century cookbook , for instance . containing 111 Jewish-German recipes , and a laundry book belonging to one Nett Winter , who as visitors to the show will note , had some neat ideas about how to keep track of her household linen . Prague 's Jewish community flourished for more than a millenium , and numbered about 11,000 by the 18th century . Jews have prayed in the Altneuschul synagogue for 700 years , led by such rabbis as the 16thcentury Judah Loewe ben 13ezalel , whom legend credits with the creation of the golem , an artificial man shaped from the mud of the Moldau River a few hundred yards @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story in the newly published " The Golem . " ) The exhibition includes a photo of Rabbi Loewe 's tombstone in the astonishing graveyard no one who has been to Prague will ever forget . Restricted in burial space . the community was forced for several centuries to inter its dead layer on layer . Countless thousands of people are buried in this tiny cemetery , and the 12,000 tomb- stones , one squeezed against the other . break out of the ground like surreal mushrooms . The 16th century also brought forth another unusual figure : Solomon Molcho , a Portuguese convert to Judaism and selfproclaimed messiah who did not survive an ill-advised meeting in Regensburg with the arch-Catholic Emperor Charles V. Molcho 's refusal to recant led to his death at the stake in 1538 . One large section is devoted to the Jewish holidays and includes , among other things , a humble matzo roller with tiny nails that dates to a time before matzo , the unleavened bread of the Passover . came in boxes . Another sizable display treats the charitable burial societies that prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paintings show sick- rooms , coffin making , ritual grooming and burial . This contained way of life began to fray as the 19th century progressed and the Austro-Hungarian empire bequeathed civil rights to all its citizens . The ghetto was formally abolished in 1848 and community bonds began to be strained by the disparate political views of Zionists , Jewish Austrophiles and Jewish Czech nationalists opposed to Vienna 's dominance . Franz Kafka , for instance , who lived virtually his entire life in Prague , wrote in German and was little known in the Czech community when he died in 1924 . A small photograph reminds us of his existence , though one might have expected more mention of this extraordinary individual , who left such harrowing depictions of soulsickness and bureaucracy-induced trauma . ( For that reason , probably , the Czechs are not overwhelmingly fond of him : when a friend asked her guide in Prague whether she was acquainted with Kafka 's writings . the woman responded : " Oh , madam , it is a little bit forbidden . " ) The last rooms are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mural-sized photograph of a boy being deported from Prague . Attached to the mural is a small battered suitcase as if to say : This is your Wandering Jew , a small boy on the road to Terezin . There are also very plain ceremonial objects fashioned by Jewish adults abandoned in camps , locking onto their faith , and small crayon drawings by children . Ilona Weissova , who perished in Auschwitz , left behind a drawing of a marriage of butterflies , which is attended by a happy duck in an apple-dominated landscape . To convey a bit of Prague 's atmosphere , the exhibition uses architectural motifs and photomurals . Their number might easily have been increased to contrast the civilized cityscape with the cruel incivility that tainted its handsome streets and is , heaven knows , hardly a thing of the past . In Prague today , the flamboyant stucco swirls decorating , say , the Parizska Street that leads into the melancholy remains of the Jewish quarter are mute mementos of happier , more sociable eras before the fascist and communist vises squeezed all life from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this show , there is the incongruity that these tributes to survival have been sent to us by a client state of the Soviet Union .                     