@@668013

Robert Kennedy was sitting on a couch in a Dubuque hotel room with four governors going at him about Vietnam and Lyndon Johnson and why they thought Kennedy should run for President of the United States . This was in 1967 , before Iowa became famous . The politicians were trying to disguise their selfishness behind a show of concern over the growing death toll in Indochina . Each of them knew that rage in a voting booth could extend right across a ballot and sweep them from office . " Why didn ' t you say something ? " Kennedy said to his friend , John Reilly , when the governors had left the suite . " What was I supposed to say ? " Reilly asked . " You know , " Kennedy said . " Ask them what they were going to do ? " " Going to do ? " said Reilly . " Yeh . Like , how many delegates they ' d commit to me ? How much money they ' d raise ? " " But Bob , " Reilly told @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or anything like that . I ' m just traveling with you . " " I ' ll tell you what the problem would be if I ran , " Kennedy said . " I wouldn ' t have a me running the campaign . " This is brought up now because , yesterday , I was dwelling on the huge personal bias I have concerning this race for the Presidency . Carter is clearly an incompetent who is riding the wave of a crisis that began in his hands ; Brown is a man who needs to be deprogrammed ; and the mere thought of voting for a Republican would leave me ineligible to receive the sacraments of my church . Edward Kennedy would , by far , be the best man for that office . But his campaign to this point has been described in many of the public prints as something resembling The Gong Show , a traveling circus of camp followers and the curious , all shuttling across the country behind a man who , we are told , does not know how to use a verb @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and this is not 1968 . The action and passion of our times have more to do with the Dow Jones averages than with green vinyl body bags , weighted down by the corpses of a generation of American youth . And Edward Kennedy has no Robert Kennedy running his campaign . He has no " me " to handle delegate counts , to say no to well- intentioned incompetents who still think it is 1960 . He has no one who is willing to risk being disliked , to be labeled as ruthless because a job had to be done . Watching Ted Kennedy run in the winter of 1980 is watching a man who seems afraid of his own emotions . Looking at and listening to his campaign is seeing and hearing a candidate who seems hesitant at truly letting himself talk about what he feels is happening to America . He is losing Iowa . It is much closer than anyone ever anticipated in New Hampshire . Finally , after 17 years , some Massachusetts Democrats are going to get the chance to vote against Ted Kennedy without @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accumulated grievances , real or imagined , will end up in Carter ' s column on primary day here and Kennedy could be out of the picture one day later . Kennedy is probably a bit leery of speaking with his soul and his stomach not because he is an illiterate but because he thinks that much of the press in this country would label his efforts as part of a nostalgia trip . But if the things that he has stood for and spoken for in the United States Senate mean that he is a prisoner of the past , then give me nostalgia . Who knows ? Maybe he thinks that to arouse the emotions of a people who have been ruled by a government of clerks or crooks since 1968 would be to risk arousing the mind of an assassin . Maybe he is afraid that the country has become so jaded , turned so far inward , made so selfish that to talk about the pain and damage - economic or spiritual - in the United States would lose votes . Perhaps one of the few times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shah of Iran . For this , he was denounced with adjectives that ranged from traitor to fool . Yet two months after Americans were kidnapped , we hear only the talk of how wonderfully cool and collected our President is and the shah has found a home in Panama where he hides from his crimes , protected by American influence , his billions hidden away , his friends , Rockefeller , Kissinger and Carter , still ducking the hard question : Why was he allowed into the country in the first place ? Maybe Edward Kennedy doesn ' t talk about the immorality of a money system that puts the burden of inflation on the paychecks of the middle class while the oil oligarchy and the agriculture conglomerates and the economic royalists reap huge profits because he thinks any mention of morality from him would be thrown back in his face because of what some think happened at Chappaquidick . He has already been asked to make new public confessions only about 347 times since last November . So , instead of raising his voice over and over again about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , about injustice and unemployment , about the damage done to the middle class and the sheer destruction of the underclass ; instead of this , all he seems to be doing is raising his voice as he tries to make himself heard over the collective din of Iran . He is thinking in terms of days instead of the decade ahead . Maybe he thinks that a loss to Carter would forever destroy what people always call " the Kennedy legacy " , and the thought keeps him awake at night wondering why he ran in the first place . But he has already gotten a good head start on that by spending the first two months of his campaign telling us what is in his prepared statements instead of what is in his stomach . It is sadbecause he is a better man than the one we ' ve watched since November .                     