@@668978

Anthony Hazlitt Heard , formerly editor of the Cape Times , is a free-lance columnist on South Africa . South Africans are trying to get used to the prospect of having a new leader . This follows President P.W. Botha ' s stroke in mid-January and his bowing out of the ruling National Party leadership , but not yet the presidency . Change at the top could create a new atmosphere of opportunity . Whites-the minority , who hold power-are excited and expectant . A new leader could mean , in their terms , important shifts in policy and lifestyle , even touching on their survival . Blacks-the majority , who claim power-are relatively unconcerned , seeing whoever leads white South Africa as of little significance to their lot . For blacks , a new white leader , coming inevitably from the ranks of Afrikaner nationalism and committed in one form or other to segregation , will be a distinction without a difference . The security forces ' rule over their lives will continue . Many in the outside world probably incline to this view , too . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s new " ? The truth , I think , lies somewhere between the perceptions of whites and blacks . A new political situation could arise overnight . A South Africa without Botha could be a more exciting place to live in , offering a wider window for change-in the direction of justice . Botha , recuperating after what was termed a " mild " stroke , is surely near the end of his rule . At 73 , having dominated a turbulent country for a decade , he is unlikely to continue much longer . The race to succeed him is on . His resignation from the post of leader of the National Party is the first step . F.W. de Klerk , a machine politician of modestly right-wing but pragmatic disposition , has emerged as the most likely successor , by winning the leadership post by a narrow margin . De Klerk , however , will be put to the test in coming months , and there are others in the wings who could overtake him when Botha leaves the presidency . Meanwhile , the rather awkward arrangement whereby @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the hands of De Klerk could lead to conflict-and neglect of critical problems that are building up . These include a renewed liberal clamor to have the Group Areas Act , which enforces residential segregation , repealed in view of a right-wing campaign to hound people of color out of " white " homes bought or rented in disregard of the law ; the delicate , problem-ridden path to independence in Namibia ; the vital question of when to call a general election , which by law must be held by March next year ; and how to deal with widespread allegations of official corruption . These problems have to be tackled soon , and with resolution . Will it be done Botha ' s way , or De Klerk ' s ? Botha ' s era is clearly ending . It will be remembered for successes in some parts of Africa . However hostile the world in general has been , Botha got on better with African countries than might have been expected , resulting in a thriving though clandestine South African trade with many of them . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Internally , his success has been more modest . He has drawn some mixed-blood " colored " and Asiatic people into his new constitutional scheme for limited power sharing and , at the time of his health setback , was preparing a new attempt to draw in blacks-something always thwarted in the past by the guerrilla movement , the African National Congress . Botha ' s South Africa has been racked by racial unrest , which alternately simmers and surfaces . Government repression has been greater than under any of his predecessors . Black statelets sporting " independence , " the government ' s quid pro quo for denial of full-scale rights for blacks , have become rickety , corrupt , warring regions reminiscent of the worst parts of Africa . The South African economy has suffered double-digit inflation all the years Botha has been in power , unemployment is high enough to threaten social peace and a recent Carnegie-backed study found a staggering degree of abject black poverty . This , for a well-endowed country , is an indictment . Whoever emerges as the next leader will have to form @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule this almost ungovernable country . The military could even take over , de facto if not de jure . Yet military options have their limitations , as experience in South America and elsewhere has shown . Sooner rather than later , a new leader will face the awesome choice : Either risk a full-scale race war or broaden the base of government by offering meaningful rights to blacks . There are signs that the steam has gone out of white South Africa . The hegemony of Afrikanerdom , painstakingly forged in the 1930s and ' 40s , has given way to political division and class differences . Factors such as the rapid growth of Afrikaner urbanization and business have cracked the monolith . The police and army still guarantee white security , but the ideological self-confidence of past years has declined . Few young whites can realistically look forward to pensions in a white-dominated South Africa . Blacks , by their numbers and their labor ( if not by a successful guerrilla war ) , are showing increasing clout . Despite repression and denial of rights , there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Someone , sometime , somehow will have to break the news to white South Africans that their elaborate system of patronage and privilege , backed by the security forces , must give way to social and political justice for all . It might be De Klerk , or it could be someone like Foreign Minister Pik Botha , of the liberal wing of the party , who-badly beaten in the party leadership vote-could break away and lead a new , more enlightened alliance . Whoever breaks the news , P.W. Botha ' s moving from the scene could bring the day closer.                     