@@668000

KABUL , Afghanistan - Diplomatic sources reported the Soviet Union has moved additional men and armor into Afghanistan , and Moslem guerrillas were said yesterday to have closed a strategic highway linking the Soviet Union with the capital city . There also were reports that an Afghan army brigade fought with Soviet troops in Kandahar , in southwestern Afghanistan , and both sides suffered heavy casualties . The reports could not be confirmed independently . Afghanistan ' s new pro-Soviet government broadcast a letter to President Jimmy Carter accusing the United States of " trying with all its force to work against us . " The official Soviet news agency Tass said in a dispatch from Kabul that an American Roman Catholic mission here had been functioning as an " underground center " for recruiting " counterrevolutionary agents " to circulate " subversive literature . " Tass claimed the mission was part of the American cultural center run by the US embassy . Meanwhile , Babrak Karmal , installed as president of Afghanistan during the Soviet-backed coup , praised the Soviet Union yesterday as " our sincere and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ principled and deeply peace-loving , " Tass reported . In a dispatch from Kabul , Tass quoted Karmal as saying during a news conference , " The USSR has never interfered and is not interfering now in the affairs of other governments . . . The Soviet Union is our sincere and reliable friend , which is decisively supporting the achievements of the April ( 1978 ) revolution . " Afghanistan , a poor mountainous country whose people are overwhelming Moslem , is surrounded by Pakistan to the south and east , Iran to the west , and the Soviet Union to the north . It shares a tiny border with China in its northeastern corner . Historically , Afghanistan has been nonaligned . But a succession of three pro-Soviet Marxist governments have ruled the country in the past 20 months , prompting Moslem Afghan rebels to declare " holy war . " Some observers speculate the government ' s inability to halt the rebellion prompted the Soviet intervention that began in late December . Afghan sources and Asian diplomats in Kabul , quoting Afghan military officials and travelers recently returned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tuesday by fighting near the Doshi or Khenjan bridges , about 90 miles north of Kabul . The sources also said the Soviets poured three more divisions into Afghanistan this week , bringing to seven the number moved in during the past two weeks . Heavy military traffic also was heading south into Afghanistan from the Soviet cities of Torgundi , in the Turkoman Republic , and Termez , in the Uzbek Republic , according to diplomatic sources . They also reported fighting in Nangahar province , east of Kabul , and said Soviet troops had attacked rebel units near Saidabad , about 50 miles southwest of the capital in Wardak province . The Associated Press of Pakistan , a Pakistani news agency , reported from the border city of Chaman that Afghan army troops and Soviet troops engaged in an " armed and bloody encounter " resulting in heavy casualties on both sides after the Afghan brigade revolted in Kandahar . After the clash , the brigade joined the rebels , according to the report . Contradicting the rebel claims of widespread defections , Tass quoted the defense minister of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Afghan armed forces " unanimously back the new leadership . " US analysts in Washington also say the rebel claims of army defections appear exaggerated .                     