@@734664

txt TIRED OP DEARING about all those neat short-term investments that are paying high interest rates ? Are you just a bit nervous about the future ? You already have financial venldes fur inflation protection now . But what about the long run ? Maybe you should consider annuities . They offer both the luster of investments , since they provide fairly high interest rates , and the security of pension plans , since they make regular payments to you after retiremtht . A big added attraction  --  annuity plans allow you to defer taxes . You do n't pay taxes on annuities until you begin drawing from your account . THE REALLY nice thing about annuities Is that the longer you live , the better the return on your initial investment . That 's the opposite of life insurance policies . With life insurance , you are really betting that you are going to die before you pay the full price of the policy . The popularity of annuity plans Increased in the 1970s as more consumers began looking hard for tax shelters . Traditionally , most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of large corporations , and offered relatively low interest rates . But as consumers began flocking to annuities , the interest rates took off as well . While interest rates on annuities vary with the options available , rates on ' ost plans currently range between l0 and 12 per cent . Attracted by the growing market , stock brokerage firms recently invaded the annuity market , and now both life Insurance agents and stockbrokers offer a wide array of plans . WITH ' I1TE Increased consumer Interest , annuity sales have skyrocketed from $1.9 billion in 1974 to an estimated $4.65 billion in 1979 , according to the American Council of Life Insurance . " We expect to see sales up again this year , despite a slowdown in the economy , " says a council spokesman . There are dozens of variations on the theme , but here 's essentially how annuities work : First , you sign a contract with a life insurance company or a stock brokerage firm to make regular payments , usually monthly or quarterly , for a specified periodo normally until you retire . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years , but both the principal and interest remain tax-free until you start drawing from the account . AFTER RETMEMENT , you begin receiving regular payments from the annuity . Those payments will keep coming until you die . If you die soon after you retire , your wife or other beneficiaries can receive the balance left in your annuity account , That 's just the bare bones . Annuity plans are extremely flexible , investment specialists say . But all the details of your plan should be spelled out In the annuity contract . " An annuity plan can be designed to do anything you want It to do , " says Howard Hirschfield , a Miami investment counselor , The spokesman for the life insurance council says , ' There is really no rule of thumb on what annuity plans can offer . " WHILE THERE are several options available on most plans , there are two basic types of annuities , single-premium payment and deferred payment , plans . Under a single-premium plan , you make one payment into the Enmity account . At a time of your @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the rest of your life . Under a deferred annuity , you make regular payments over a number of years and normally begin drawing from the account when you retire . Some companies are considering increasing the withdrawal penalties on their plans to stop investors from " parking " their funds in tax-free annuities for a few years . " We still market them primarily as a retirement investment tool , says Robert Morton , spokesman for Aetna Life and Casualty Co . " The basic purpose of an annuity is still to protect you from outliving your income . "                     