@@669884

Why did George Bush have to reveal his income-tax returns ? After all , his assets are in a blind trust , constructed according to the strictest regulations , so that there is no possibility of his using his office for private gain , no possibility of his being involved in any conflict of interest . Mr. Bush himself did not know what was in his tax returns , since he was not permitted to see them . So why did the media clamor so insistently , and in the end more or less successfully , for publication of those returns ? In part , one supposes , it has simply to do with the liberal bias of the media , which by now is so pervasive that most journalists are blandly convinced it is prescribed by journalistic ethics itself . Geraldine Ferraro had run into trouble with her own misreporting to the House Ethics Committee of her financial condition and history . Wouldn ' t it be nice , therefore , to " balance " the scales by finding a taint of seeming scandal in Mr. Bush @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though they made as much of it as they could . If the media were genuinely interested in protecting the public interest from corruption by private interests , there was another tack they could have taken . They could have demanded that all public officials , elected and appointed , above a certain level , be required to place their assets in a blind trust similar to Mr. Bush ' s . That would solve the problem once and for all . But , while solving the problem , it would deprive the media of what they take to be their major function : " making news . " Not reporting it , and certainly not reporting it objectively , but making it . Coercing a public official into revealing his income-tax returns , especially if that someone is relatively affluent , is one way to make news . In journalism schools today , and in casual conversation among working journalists , one will hear frequent expressions of contempt for the more staid journalism of yesteryear . That , it is said , relied heavily on press releases from government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the officials , also summarized uncritically . The new journalism , it is said in contrast , does not permit itself to be " used " in this fashion . It is skeptical , critical , investigative and inquiring rather than a passive instrument of communication . This is all poppycock , of course . The portion of " hard news " that reaches the American people is still derived mainly from official press releases and conversations with officials . But this is a shrinking portion of the news that reaches us . Journalists are uncomfortable doing such stories , and their editors give them little credit for writing or broadcasting them . They are " dull , " they lack a " cutting edge . " What the new journalism seeks is what once upon a time was called " sensationalism , " though no one in today ' s media would permit that term to be used . It wants scandal , it wants heated controversy , it wants excitement , it wants titillation , above all it lusts for human sacrifices and the destruction of reputations . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , not ( as used to be the case ) in sex . Sexual scandals are actually treated gingerly by the media , since the new generation of journalists finds it hard to argue with a straight face that anything about sex could possibly be scandalous . So keen is the appetite of the media for such rich food that they will occasionally ( if reluctantly ) savage a liberal politician to satisfy it . Poor Geraldine Ferraro can testify to that . There must be at least a hundred members of the House of Representatives whose financial reports are shoddier than hers . And there was nothing in her financial finagling that reflected on her ability to serve in public office : Having to meet claims from the Internal Revenue Service for more taxes , or misstating one ' s net worth to the House Ethics Committee is not regarded by the American people as necessarily impugning anyone ' s integrity . Neither of those institutions is exactly revered by most Americans . Certainly , there was not the slightest suggestion that Ms. Ferraro had ever used her office for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her nomination , they just could not help themselves : They bloodied her . Not , to be sure , with as much sustained fury as they bloodied Ed Meese , who turned out to have done nothing wrong . But , then , Mr. Meese is a conservative . Even when there are no bodies around to be savaged the media will continue to " make news "  --  almost always , it goes without saying , as defined by the approved liberal perspective . And , since demand creates supply , a whole new industry has emerged in Washington to cope with the media ' s appetite . For example , take the United Press International story on page five of the Oct. 6 New York Times . The headline reads : " Study Says Blacks Have Lost Ground . " The subhead reads : " Finds Reagan ' s Policies Have Hurt the Poor and Imperil Emerging Middle Classes . " The story itself then goes on for half a column providing the statistics to " prove " the case . Now , anyone who is familiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that he is reading propaganda based on twisted statistics . But that is not really the point . The point is : What is the source of this " study " ? The Times tells us that it was done by the " nonpartisan , nonprofit Center on Budget and Public Priorities . " That immediately identifies it as a liberal organization , since only liberal organizations are ever clearly designated as " nonpartisan , nonprofit . " Non-liberal research organizations are always identified as " right-wing " or " conservative , " never as " nonpartisan , nonprofit . " But one would like to know more . Just what is this organization ? What scholars are associated with it ? Who wrote that report ? Why should anyone pay attention to it ? There are no answers to these not unimportant questions . The reporter , in fact , was summarizing a press release  --  but since it was a press release issued by liberal critics of the administration , it could be uncritically transmitted . It was " news . " In Washington , these days , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent " women , the environment , peace , social justice , et al . They will often have prestigious names on their boards or advisory committees  --  that is easily done . Below that , the organization will usually consist of a handful of graduate students who are delighted to discover that in Washington it really is easy  --  and such fun !  --  to " participate in the political process . " All you have to do is feed the media with the kind of " news " they seek . Congress has taken note of this phenomenon and has wasted little time getting into the action . It has multiplied the number of subcommittees that can hold the kinds of hearings the media will ( I hope ) find interesting . The committees themselves now hold hearings on an almost continual basis , so that the heads of departments and agencies may find themselves spending , on average , one day each week giving testimony and trying to survive uninformed and malicious cross-examination . None of this will have the desired effects , however , unless one " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the House committees and subcommittees are getting most of the media attention , while the Senate is largely ignored . Poor Sen. Orrin Hatch ( R. , Utah ) has been holding hearings for months now on the Equal Rights Amendment  --  serious hearings , with opponents and proponents getting equal time . So far as the American public is concerned , all of that testimony could have been given " in camera . " One of the main functions of all this congressional activity , however , takes place offstage . It involves aiding reporters in the pretext they are vigilantly and persistently engaged in " investigative journalism . " Now , anyone who knows anything about journalism knows that reporters rarely are in a position to investigate anything . They lack the authority to subpoena witnesses , to cross-examine , to scrutinize official records . They are lucky to get their phone calls returned . But staffers of congressional committees do have such authority , and are eager to help the press corps " make news "  --  of a kind . So we have now a symbiotic arrangement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the staffers " leak " juicy little tidbits of a sensationalist nature  --  whether true or half-true or false is beside the point  --  to a journalist who then " makes news " as a result , apparently , of his dogged " investigative reporting . " At the very highest levels of American journalism today , the task of making news the liberal way is conducted with appropriate solemnity . It will usually involve what might be called " issue management " rather than simple people-eating . Thus , when President Reagan met with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko , we heard it said over and over again on the network news that this was the first time Mr. Reagan had met with a Soviet leader . Somehow , the fact that this was the first time a Soviet leader was willing to meet with Mr. Reagan didn ' t deserve mention . Similarly , one reads endless editorials and hears innumerable comments to the effect that Mr. Reagan , while running for reelection , is refusing to inform the American public exactly where he stands on this , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an incumbent president have to provide the American public with such information ? It knows where he stands on the issues it cares about . He has been in office for four years , after all , and is running on his record , as all incumbents do and must . But in this case the media would rather that Mr. Reagan didn ' t run on his record . They believe this would make the election more interesting  --  would make more " news "  --  and might just lessen his chances of being reelected . Is it any wonder that representatives of Mr. Reagan and Walter Mondale vetoed more than 100 reporters when they sought four interrogators for the presidential debates ? Is it any wonder that the percentage of the American people who regularly watch the network news seems to be on the decline ? Is it any wonder that more and more newspaper readers turn first ( and , more often than not , also last ) to the sports pages , where it is athletes who still make news , not journalists ? This is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unnatural elements . That body politic will survive all right  --  one need have no doubt of that . But when and how will American journalism go about providing us with the news rather than so strenuously " making " it for us ?  --  - Mr. Kristol is the John M. Olin professor of social thought at the NYU Graduate School of Business and a senior fellow of the American Enterprise Institute.                     