@@734569

txt A UNIVERSITY of Illinois researcher has discovered a factor in the blood of rheumatoid arthritis patients that may help explain the mysterious disease and lead to better treatment . " The finding is very exciting because It opens the possibility of finding a rational treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and other auto-immune diseases , " said Dr. Marius Teodorescu , professor of microbiology- and immunology . The factor , called polyclonal B cell activator , appears to stimulate the activity of certain white blood cells to turn against the body , damaging joints , he said . If the factor is found to trigger arthritis , techniques may be developed to block the activity of the factor , thereby controlling arthritis , he said . WHILE PRELIMINARY results appear promising , Teodorescu cautioned that more studies need to be conducted to verify the findings . Rheumatoid arthritis , an often crippling disease that causes inflammation , swelling and destruction of joints , afflicts more than 6.5 million Americans . Teodorescu and Dr. John Skosey , chief of rheumatology , have launched the second phase of their investigation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor may play in causing rheumatoid arthritis . " It is an interesting and hopeful observation , " Skosey said . " It is hopeful enough that we are willing to put a major amount of effort into tracking it down . " THE FACTOR was found in the blood of 19 of 21 rheumatoid arthritis patients . The other two patients were in remission . The factor also was found in the blood of a number of patients suffering from what are believed to be auto-immune diseases , such as multiple sclerosis and lupus . In the auto-immune diseases , the body 's natural detense system goes haywire and instead of protecting the body against germs , it attacks certain cells , such as joint tissue , as if it were an invading enemy . The white blood cells thought to be involved in the destructive auto-immune attacks are B cells . These cells manufacture chemical weapons called antibodies to destroy germs or foreign material . But they can be tricked into making antibodies against the body 's own tissues . The factor isolated by Teodorescu was capable of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a major characteristic of arthritis and other auto-immune disorders . THE FACTOR is also being studied by scientists from the National Institutes of Health in Washington . " It is an important finding , but we ca n't say yet that the factor is the cause of rheumatoid arthritis , " a federal researcher said . Teodorescu 's work may shed new light on the cause of arthritis . Many medical investigators believe that another white blood cell , called the T cell , plays a vital role . T cells produce two factors . One is the activator that stimulates B cells to produce antibodies , and the other is a chemical that suppresses the activity of the B cells . MOST EXPERTS believe that the absence of the suppressant factor allows the B cells to run wild , causing joint inflammation and destruction . Teodorescu 's work , however , indicates that it is not the suppressant factor but the activator factor that leads to excess production of destructive antibodies . The technique may also be useful as a fast , simple , and inexpensive method of diagnosing rheumatic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a blood sample from a patient is incubated for about four hours . If excess activator factor is present , the B cells will still be active after four hours , indicating that the patient has arthritis . If levels of the activator factor are normal , the B cells will become inactive , he said .                     