@@668629

Heels clicked on bare floors littered with the debris of a failed retailer Tuesday as Chicago Public Library board members ventured into the empty Goldblatt ' s store and viewed plans to transform the structure into the city ' s new central library . " The first floor space at this point is not particularly inspiring , " said one architect during the presentation to board members . The remaining nine floors hardly resemble a library , scattered now with rubble from dislodged floor tiles , scraps of worn carpeting and dusty orange plastic cashier stands that once were the heart of the business at 333 S. State St. But within the vast merchandising space , which stretches openly for almost a block on each floor under high ceilings , architects have envisioned the $66 million new home for the city ' s books and their readers . An integral part of the plans displayed Tuesday , however , depends on the city ' s acquisition of property owned in partnership by Cook County Sheriff Richard Elrod . The building occupies only about 40 feet of the South @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site for a library auditorium , said Thomas Welch , an architect at Holabird &; Root . The main Goldblatt ' s building has structural columns that stand only 20 feet apart , leaving too little open space for an auditorium , he said . The architects designed an addition to the main structure at the north end of the building for the auditorium and an atrium entrance  --  on the property now occupied by the Elrod building . The city is trying to take possession of the building through the power of eminent domain , said Kenneth Cortesi , assistant corporation counsel , who could offer no estimate of how long requisite court proceedings will take . Earlier this year the city made a $900 , 000 offer to the Elrod group , which rejected the sum as too low . Elrod said in an interview last month that he thinks the building is worth at least $1. 5 million . The library board met to review the plans in a brightly painted room partitioned from the rubble of the store , but they took little formal action on building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to pay $2. 6 million to the design team , led by Lester B. Knight and Associates , because board President James Lowry said he wants to work out a plan to guarantee board members and the library commissioner an active voice in construction . A standing joke among some staff members , who wondered where in the all- open space board members would retreat to hold their customary closed session , was resolved when the board huddled for half an hour around a table placed in an alcove behind a stack of books . Board members discussed a contract matter privately , they said , which left staff members and visitors free to wander in the partitioned area that had been painted as a " mock-up " to test different interior designs . Three columns in the area displayed ornamental trim painted bright gold ; three others were an experiment in a pink and purple " Egyptian style " ; and three others were decorated with an attractive red , pink and blue pattern . " A lot of people don ' t like the Egyptian look , " acknowledged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ plans for the new library through years of delays . " I ' m here to reassure people , " noted a library maintenance engineer who ferried visitors on elevators that he said " haven ' t been used for so long , sometimes the hardware sticks . " The bank of elevators , according to the plans , will be removed , but they worked Tuesday without incident long enough to take passengers to a dingy subbasement , the location of the only working washrooms . Thomas O ' Neill , president of Lester B. Knight and Associates , told the board that the firm hopes to finish the documents needed to seek construction bids on the project by Feb. 1 , 1986.                     