@@734854

txt Is n't it time ? past the time , really ? for Jimmy Carter to let t is all in on the secret ? Just what is in this package deal being worked out with the Iranians for release of the 52 American hostages ? The Iranians know . The Algerian go-betweens know . We do n't know . But we are the ones who are going to have to wear the shoes after Carter goes back to Plains , Ga. , next Tuesday . And it would seem to me we should get to try them on before he buys them . The only reason we have any solid idea at all about what sort of bargain Carter is trying to strike is that the Iranians ? not our own government ? broke what miffed administration officials said was an agreement to keep the negotiations secret . As a consequence the administration made public during the Christmas holiday the formal proposals it had made to Iran . Since then the bargaining has intensified and , presumably , details have been clarified , positions changed , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself has set an unofficial deadline of this Friday for reaching final agreement , if one is to be reached before he leaves office . Yet the American citizenry is being told nothing official or formal about what is going on . Instead we are getting the standard flow of leaks and speculations from the standard squads of anonymous officials . We are also getting heavy loads of the ritual nonsense about how delicate the whole business is and how crucial to it secrecy is . Horsefeathers . Who is there we have to keep it secret from ? The Bolivians ? The Tibetans ? There are only two parties to the deal ? we and the Iranians . And it is the kind of deal that the American public is entitled to know every detail of in advance ? not after it is signed and sealed . Secrecy can only produce sourness and post-mortem recriminations And on the basis of the documents reluctantly released in the last days of December there are plenty of questions that still need to be answered about the negotiations and the commitments Carter is prepared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insist there will be no " ransom " paid for the hostages since the money to be handed over is Iran 's in the first place , the assets frozen by Carter more than a year ago . But the published U.S. proposals also call for this country to " cancel and nullify " all claims by American individuals or institutions against Iran , even those already filed in U.S. courts . No one has explained yet just where Carter thinks he got constitutional authority to cancel people 's lawsuits and claims . The U.S. proposals also call for " binding third party arbitration " of claims not settled by mutual agreement ? again an idea of dubious legal validity . But even if Carter had the authority he seems to be asserting for himself , it would seem likely if not inevitable that some of the people and institutions with claims against Iran might then make their claims against the U.S. government . And if the U.S. government starts paying off the claims , or even absorbing the tax writeoffs from people whO ca n't get their money from Iran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill for the whole agreement . And that would be " ransom . " no matter what the departing Carterites might choose to call it . It would be ransom , too , to let the Iranians off the hook for the destruction done at , the U.S. embassy , but that apparently is part of the bargain , too . It is degrading for the United States even to be in the position of negotiating with the Iranians . They committed a crime . Freeing the hostages may be worth suffering a little degradation . We all want them home , yesterday . Being softhearted is fine . Being soft-headed is not .                     