@@734760

txt I witrrE AS President of the American Long Association to request that smoking be completely forbidden for passengers and crew members on all commercial flights within the United States and on all commercial flights of American carriers throughout the world . This request is being communicated to chief executive officers of airline companies , to appropriate governmental boards and agencies , and to concerned union officials . While there are many factors in setting smoking regulations for air carriers , oar main concern as a voluntary health agency is the health factor . I do not refer in this instance to the profound long-range health implications of smoking for the one who smokes . I do refer to the consequences of " second-hand smoking , " the inhalation by the nonsmoker of the smoke created by the smoker . The nonsmoker can not escape secondhand smoke whenever smoking is allowed anywhere on the commercial aircraft . A SURVEY CONDUCTED by the Federal Aviation Adminis ? tration and the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Ilealth demonstrated that 60 per cent of nonsmoking passengers reported annoyance from second-hand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the eyes , irritation of the sinuses , and allergy-related hypersensitivity . Even more crucial is the fact that recent objective studies Ilk-hard Sinsheimer is a I.os Angeles attorney who is presin dent of the American Lune As ? fociation.have increasingly demonstrated that the inhalation of secondhand smoke may well entail significant health hazards . The American Lung Association and its medical section . the American Thoracic Society , are continuing to explore as thoroughly and as objectively as possible the health CMISV ? consequences of inhaling second-hand smoke . Preliminary data indicate meaningful adverse effects for substantial numbers of sensitive persons . Data recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine suggest that nonsmokers working at the same job sites as smokers exhibit a reduction in pulmonary function to a level found in smokers of at least la cigarets per day . Therefore , as a unique environment , the passenger cabin of commercial aircraft may contribute to the nonsmoker 's exposure to tobacco smoke and consequent ill health effects . IT TOOK MANY years of scientific Investigation to demons . strate that the inhalation of smoke into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hazards . Long before this thesis was unequivocally demonstrated , there were sufficient data to establish a reasonable probability that smoking hurts health . As this point has been reached and surpassed with respect to second-hand smoking , it is submitted that the burden of proot shifts and that healthy lungs should not he exposed to second ary smoke unless it can be demonstrated and proved that such healthy lungs will not be adversely affected . So long as smoking on commercial aireratt poses a risk to the health and safety of all passengers and crew , the right to smoke must yield to the right to health and safety                     