@@668189

Dr. James Clarke White , chief of the Neurosurgical Service at the Massachusetts General Hospital between 1941 and 1961 , died Wednesday in his home in Brookline , after an illness of several months . He was 85 . Born in Vienna of American parents , Dr. White was educated at the Groton School , Groton , and was graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard in 1917 . He obtained his medical degree from Harvard Medical School in 1923 . Six years of postgraduate study were spent at the Harvard Medical School and at MGH , but also included periods in pathology at Johns Hopkins University Medical School and in research on the autonomical nervous system at schools in Paris and Strasbourg , France . His death marked the end of three consecutive generations of affiliation with MGH by illustrious doctors in his family . His grandfather and namesake founded the hospital ' s department of dermatology , and was America ' s first professor of diseases of the skin , holding that position at the Harvard Medical School . Dr. White ' s father , Dr. Charles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department . During his career at MGH , which spanned more than half a century , Dr. White created a training program in his specialty that gained world acclaim . Seven of his trainees have become full professors in charge of their own training programs at various medical schools in the country . Described by colleagues as the world ' s premier surgeon and contributor to knowledge in the field of the autonomic nervous system , Dr. White wrote the first edition of " The Autonomic Nervous System : Anatomy , Physiology andSurgical Applications , " and later coauthored second and third editions as colleagues joined in helping to develop the subject as a field for surgery . In addition to some 180 scientific papers , Dr. White was primary author of two major volumes on pain and its neurosurgical control . The second volume , published in 1969 , numbered a thousand pages . Contributions to a better understanding and treatment of intractable pain constituted his major area of endeavor during his productive medical career . Dr. White was appointed to the faculty of Harvard Medical School in 1926 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ s largest neurosurgical organization , the Congress of Neurological Surgeons , names a neurosrgeon as an Honorary Member each year . In 1965 Dr. White became the 13th neurosurgeon in the world to be so honored . In 1917 he served as an ensign in the Navy , spending 18 months overseas . He was discharged as a lieutenant in March 1919 . During World War II , he served in the Navy Medical Corps from 1941 to 1946 with the rank of captain . Much of that time was spent as chief of neurosurgery at the naval hospitals in Chelsea and in St. Albans , New York . He was a member of many of the major New England and national neurosurgical , neurological , and surgical societies , as well as three French senior societies of neurosurgery and surgery . Dr. White was also a member of the Harvard Club of Boston , the Tavern Club , and a former member of the Thursday Evening Club , and the Somerset Club , Boston . He leaves his wife , Camilla L. ( Morgan ) ; two daughters , Camilla @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Smith of Brookline ; a son , Michael M. White of Boston ; 13 grandchildren , and 10 great- grandchildren . A memorial service is being planned .                     