@@734918

txt AFL-C10 PRESIDENT Lane Kirkland Insisted Thursday that the Reagan administration ha ? no public mandate to impose massive budget cuts and labeled as " fantasy " theories that the cuts will reduce tax burdens and improve living standards . In a speech at the Hyatt Regency-Chicago , Kirkland unleashed his harshest attack to date on President Reagan . He spoke at a dinner for top Midwestern labor chiefs gathered for one of seven AFL-CIO regional conferences . After warning of possible dangers resulting from the proposed cuts , Kirkland said : ' Today we are being told that these cuts represent the will of the people . We are told that we are running against the popular mood . We are told that the administration has a mandate won on Election Day . It is my view that the President has no such mandate . " If the President has any popular mandate , it is a mandate to bring down inflation and unemployment , to spur econoniic growth , to improve the productivity and competitiveness of the American economy , to broaden the horizons of opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense . " It is not a mandate for monetarism . It , Is not a mandate for the meat ax . It is not a mandate to perform occult economic experiments on the American people . We are not a nation of guinea pigs who can be expended in the interest of testing unproven economic hypotheses . " . KIRKLAND WARNED that reductions j in education and welfare programs would increase pressure on financially strapped Individuals and state and local governments . Also , welfare costs would rise if unemployment insurance and trade ad , ' justment assistance are reduced . lie also warned of soaring commuter costs and wasted energy if operating subsidies for mass transit are slashed and he foresaw higher education costs and possibly fewer education opportunities if stu.dent assistance programs are reduced . He predicted higher rents for the poor because of cuts in subsidized housing and higher health-care bills for hospitals and patients as a result of cutbacks in Medicaid and health planning programs . " I am not comforted by the President 's . assurance that his budget cuts will not hurt the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction between the ' needy ' and the ' truly deserving needy ' . " KIRKLAND NOTED that President Reagan did not campaign for these various cuts affecting workers and their families in last fall 's election . " If the candidate did n't seek a mandate on these programs in November , j then the President ca n't claim a new ? found mandate in March , " he said , Reagan 's economic policies are " the wrong medicine applied at the wrong time and in the wrong manner . " " Why not , instead , decrease the unemployment rate by 1 per cent and thus bring about a $90 billion reduction in the . federal deficit ? A 1 per cent drop in unemployment would be enough to bal1 once the original budget for fiscal year 1982 . It would also alleviate the national disgrace of a jobless rate of 7.4 per . cent . "                     