@@668313

The trick is to be outrageous , and David Savageau and Richard Boyer perform it masterfully . Shock , you see , sells . Savageau and Boyer , in case you missed , have rated the best places to live in America . In one glorious compendium , which not only mixes apples and oranges but bananas and kumquats too , they have probably managed to alienate most of the nation . Oh , their book will sell , because it ' s bungled up enough to be bizarre , and carries a veneer of academe . From an incomprehensible interplay of criteria , point awards , rankings and cumulative scores , Boston emerges with a ranking of 18th in metropolitan areas , behind such exciting , romantic and intellectual citadels as Pittsburg , Cleveland and Cincinnati ( forgive the parochialism ) . We have been able to figure out even " distressed city indexes , " but the " Places Rated Almanac " baffled us . Accordingly , as reporters do , we placed a call to David Savageau ' s office in Lexington for a possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ client . . . he won ' t be able to answer any questions . . . you ' ll have to speak to his publicist ( a New York number was given ) and ask for an appointment . " With the clairvoyance that comes from a phone-governed life , we knew that it would be easier to get John Updike or President Bok at Harvard than Savageau . And " publicists , " like speed traps , we attempt to avoid . But before hanging up , we had the wit to ask the young woman if she had received many calls following last Thursday ' s Globe story . She laughed lightly , and said , " Swamped . " We have no doubt that most came from Lowell and Lawrence , which the authors , with considerable courage , rated the pits - 274th and 277th out of 277 . This , we are sure , must delight Sen. Paul Tsongas , who has channeled millions of federal dollars into Lowell , earning it national recognition for historic restoration ( not , however , one of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry must be similarly thrilled , as the book suggests that university graduates use it to determine where to locate . We understood with no difficulty that nine factors were used for evaluation - climate , housing , health and environment , crime , transportation , education , recreation , the arts and economics - but not why , or the rationale for the points system . Atlanta , for instance , chosen number one , offers its residents 3.29 years less life expectancy than Boston . Savageau and Boyer , in support of their Atlanta selection , quote Chicago Tribune writer Paul Gapp ' s description of the city as " of compelling physical beauty and charm . " A check of that story showed , however , that Gapp also referred to it as " no southern Shangri-la , " adding , " Crime is a serious problem , the public school system a failure and housing segregation persists . " Those points weren ' t mentioned . The authors claim that everything is based on metropolitan area SMSA data ( not comparable in New England ) , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ statistics as well . For example , Boston is listed as having a public school enrollment of 9l,973 students as of 1977- 78 , which is 20,000 more than was the case , which distorts student- teacher ratio figures . Another section tells of the number of doctors per thousand population , but on hospitals simply lists total numbers without per capita qualification . It ' s the same with colleges . Massachusetts is listed as one of the worst business states in the nation , denied even by the First National Bank . The data are as loose as a rogue balloon . Savageau and Boyer admit in an introduction that some may prefer H. L. Mencken ' s rating system , published some 50 years ago , which put Massachusetts first among the states . We wouldn ' t go that far , but we would also advise readers not to take the newest rating effort any more seriously .                     