@@734680

txt THE CHICAGO Historical Society , a home for some ? most attractive and interesting small art exhibits in the last few months , is housing through June 29 a clear , cleanly mounted survey of 31 paintings organized around toe tneme of  --  the working American . " This traveling show , described as the first major art exhibition organized by a labor union in this country , is a collaboration of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service ( SITES ) and District 1199 , National Union of Hospital and Health Care Employes , which put ' up the exhibit as part of a two-year Bread and Roses project in the arts and humanities . Accompanying it is an excellent , informative catalog , containing black-andwhite reproductions of each painting , which can be purchased for KM at the museum store . The original show of 42 paintings , borrowed from public museums and private collections , has been slightly reorganized for its Chicago . visit and reduced to 31 works , none of which is a " major " creation . Nonetheless , the paintings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ make up a lively assembly , containing everything froin idyllic pastoral landscapes to angry urban social commentary . Each painting , moreover , is graced with a concise caption on the artist and the work . A few of the paintings , such as Boardman Robinson 's 1926 " Subway Digging , " with its strong lines formed by steel beams , edge into abstract art , and a few others , such as " A Breezy Day , " Charles Courtney Curran 's sunny view of two young women airing white sheets on a grassy field , are pleasant examples of American Impressionism of the late 19th Century . THE MOST FASCINATING paintings , however , are social narrative works , spawned in lean and angry years of American economy . . This includes the exhibit 's dominant work , " The Strike , " a large canvas from 1886 by Robert Koehler , a German-born artist wh5se smaller portrait of " The Socialist " also is included in the show . Masterfully organized as-a story , " The Strike " shows a factory in the right background and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ left foreground . Between Alan G. Artner is on vacation . those buildings are strategically placed the central figure of a woman in anxious conversation with a worker , an ill-clothed mother huddled with her two children at one side of the painting and a laborer reaching down to pick up a stone at the other side , and several middleground figures of workers raising clenched fists in protest . , A similar story ? is contained in Philip Evergood 's brightly colored , almost cartoonish painting - of 1940 , " Through the Mill , " showing in detail the scores of men , , women , and children brutalized by passing through the life cycle of the mill town . Honore Sharrer 's large polyptych of 1951 , " Tribute to the American Working People , " presents vivid , almost medieval group portraits of country and city folk , while Moses Soyer 's " Girl at Sewing Machine " focuses on the solitary figure of a young woman hunched over a piece of work she clearly is not enjoying . We do n't see much of this vivid , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have passed away with the Federal Art Project of the Depression , But it is welcome here , as a picture , more " real " than a photograph , that captures the personal and public history ? of a large segment of American life . Richard Christiansen                     