@@668714

A substantial portion of the solid fuel in Challenger ' s right booster rocket was below the 40-degree temperature limit set by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the booster ' s safe operation , according to estimates by a Brigham Young University rocket expert who is a Navy consultant on solid-fuel missiles . The likelihood that the temperature of nearly 10 percent of the fuel core inside the 1. 3 million-pound booster rocket was below safety levels at the time the shuttle was launched raises a number of new possibilities about the primary cause of the midair explosion that blew apart Challenger and killed its seven crew members . One possibility is that the unusually cold weather might have caused the fuel core to contract , resulting in deterioration of the fuel itself or separation of the fuel from some of the flame-retardant " inhibitor " material that fills the gaps between fuel segments . Either development could have created a channel through which flame could escape from the booster ' s inner chamber and reach the casing , burning through it . Flame burst through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ launch and about 14 seconds before the catastrophic explosion of the shuttle ' s huge external fuel tank . ( Aviation Week &; Space Technology magazine reported Friday that NASA engineers are investigating the possibility that a tiny leak of supercold rocket fuel from the external tank chilled the ship ' s right-hand booster enough to cause a failure . ( Aviation Week said in its Feb. 17 edition that ice inspection teams sent to the launch pad 1 1/2 hours before liftoff recorded temperatures of 7 degrees and 9 degrees on the lower section of the right-side rocket . The magazine also said launch managers were not informed of the readings . ( The instrument used to make the measurements is being checked for proper operation , but Aviation Week said NASA investigators were looking into the possibility that leaking rocket fuel several hundred degrees below zero could have chilled a crucial joint between two fuel segments . ( That , in turn , could have interferred with the operation of the rubber seals designed to prevent flame from burning through the side of the rocket . Such a flame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight . ) The new temperature estimates also appear to raise questions about the thoroughness of the testimony given thus far by NASA officials to the presidential commission investigating the causes of the Challenger disaster . Last week , Judson Lovingood , deputy manager of the Shuttle Projects Office at the NASA ' s Marshall Space Flight Center , told the commission that space agency officials had calculated the booster ' s " mean " temperature at about 55 degrees , well within the boundaries of 40 to 90 degrees set by the NASA . Lovingood said the 55-degree figure had been calculated based on the surrounding air temperature , which had dipped below freezing overnight but had risen to 38 degrees by the time the Challenger was launched . No instrument was attached to the booster for measuring its internal temperature , he said . In a telephone interview with The Tribune , Merrill Beckstead , a BYU chemical engineer who is a consultant to the Navy on its submarine-launched Poseidon rocket , which uses a solid fuel almost identical to that used in the space shuttle ' s boosters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To throw out that kind of number is irresponsible , " Beckstead said . It is meaningless because it refers to the average temperature of the fuel and not the temperature extremes that may have existed , he said . Beckstead said his computer calculations showed that while the interior of the Challenger ' s solid-fuel core was warmer than 40 degrees , the temperature of the outermost 2 1/2 inches was still between 35 and 40 degrees at the time of launch . Robert Ruhl , a spokesman for the Marshall Space Flight Center at Huntsville , Ala. , which oversees development of the rocket boosters , said the center could not immediately respond to the new low temperature report because it was " overwhelmed " with media requests , freedom of information inquiries and requests from the presidential commission . Since beginning its investigation a week ago , the presidential commission has been focusing ever more sharply on the possibility that the unusually low temperature , the coldest ever for a space shuttle launch , might have caused a failure of the rubberized O-rings used to seal the seam @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A loss of elasticity from the cold could have allowed hot rocket exhaust gases to escape through the joint , possibly leading to the burnthrough . But NASA officials and nongovernmental experts alike have declined to speculate on whether an O-ring failure , if one occurred , might have been the primary cause of the explosion or simply the effect of another problem elsewhere in the booster rocket . NASA released new photos Thursday taken of the Challenger at the moment of liftoff that appeared to show a puff of black smoke escaping from the suspect right-side booster near the seam that joins the booster ' s aft and center fuel segments , the same place where a white hot plume of gas and flame was photographed in the seconds before Challenger exploded . Even before these latest photos were released , however , some rocket experts said they did not believe the O-rings played a significant role in causing the explosion and that it is more likely that the low temperature either caused some of the solid fuel or the inhibiting material to become brittle , separate or crack @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might cause a crack or contraction in the solid fuel , " said Jim Mizell , a NASA spokesman at the Kennedy Space Center . " I feel quite sure that that is one thing the review team ( presidential commission ) is looking at . " The temperature at the time Challenger lifted off its Florida launch pad was 13 degrees lower than the coldest previous launch . Morton Thiokol Inc. , the Chicago-based company that manufactures the 149-foot tall boosters at its plant in Utah , initially set the safety limits on firing the rockets at between 40 and 90 degrees , limits that were later adopted by the NASA . The operating specifications refer to the temperature of the fuel and not the outside temperature . The unseasonable weather at Cape Canaveral worried NASA launch directors enough for them to call Morton Thiokol officials in Utah the day before the ill-fated launch about the advisability of launching Challenger . Lawrence Mulloy , project manager for the solid-fuel booster rockets at the Marshall Space Flight Center told members of the presidential commission that Morton Thiokol officials originally advised against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous lowest launch temperature , 51 degrees . After NASA and Morton Thiokol officials discussed the cold factor problem , Mulloy said , everyone concurred that it was safe to launch . Some observers have suggested that the NASA may have been under pressure to launch Challenger because some previous flights had been delayed and the space agency was planning 14 launches this year , the most ambitious launch schedule ever planned for a single year . Beckstead said that two different computer programs that took into account the thermal conducting properties of the solid fuel and the temperatures near the launch pad for five days prior to the launch , as well as the preceding 15 hours when the temperature dropped to a low of 24 degrees , showed that the booster ' s steel casing and a layer of fuel 2 1/2 inches thick all around the rocket was lower than 40 degrees at the time of launch . The rubber inhibitor used to cover the ends of the solid fuel where they come close to each other in a joint was also in the freezing temperature range , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) near the casing nor the inhibitor were sufficiently flexible , " Beckstead said . " That could lead to the separation of the inhibitor from the fuel , forming a gap that could allow the hot flame to reach the casing and burn through . " Neither Harry Hilton , a University of Illinois rocket expert , nor John Osborn , a solid rocket expert at Purdue University , said he had been persuaded by the considerable speculation in recent days that a failure of the O-rings may have led to the Challenger disaster . For either of the two O-rings to leak in the first place , they said , there would have to have been some malfunction involving the fuel core itself , such as a gap between the core and the inhibitor . " For the fire to get to the casing wall you have to have a crack , an opening , a debonding in the propellant so that the flame can reach the wall , " Hilton said . " At that point the O-rings aren ' t going to save you . Nothing would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cloud of black smoke had escaped from the booster at the moment of liftoff appeared to support the possibility that some channel or pathway had rent the interior of the fuel core either before or at the moment of launch.                     