@@668880

While the games remain the centerpiece of the Winter Olympics , arts lovers are having almost as succulent a time . Dozens of major performances range from Calgary Opera ' s current " Porgy and Bess " to appearances by the Joffrey Ballet and the Juilliard String Quartet . A potential audience of 1. 2 million people is expected to attend more than 600 performances and exhibitions in 17 arts disciplines in a five-week span , the largest arts festival ever held in conjunction with a Winter Olympics . Though sports fans normally focus on the games , the Olympic charter requires host countries to give significant attention to the arts and literature , and the Canadians are treating this with extraordinary verve . They have budgeted more than $10 million to import performers and commission and produce several world premieres . " Our big surprise was the appetite that we ' ve found for these cultural events in what is actually such a small community , " said Harvey Chusid , arts festival spokesman . " We ' ve so far sold 125 , 000 performing-arts tickets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The main events include six modern-dance impressions , the Alberta Ballet Company ' s " Snow Maiden , " and a rare combination of two of Canada ' s leading companies , the National Ballet of Canada from Toronto and Montreal ' s Les Grands Ballets Canadiens in George Balanchine ' s " Symphony in C. " In a display of international accord , " The Snow Maiden " features rising Soviet dancer Vadim Pisarev . Another special combination will see the folkloric Capella Banduristiv dancers from Kiev join Canada ' s famous Shumka Dancers . In the area of classical music , Ottawa ' s National Arts Centre Orchestra makes its first national tour to the ski area of nearby Banff . Also coming to Calgary are the Toronto Symphony , the Manitoba Chamber Orchestra , the Edmonton Symphony and a concert combining all four of Canada ' s professional choirs . The Calgary Philharmonic will offer two major choral-orchestral works , Verdi ' s " Requiem " and Mahler ' s " Resurrection Symphony . " In theater , Montreal ' s Le Cirque du Soliel will present a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Shaw Festival imports the classic " You Never Can Tell , " and Peter Brook ' s famous " Le Tragedie de Carmen " has been brought from Paris , featuring Patricia Miller , who also performs in " Porgy and Bess . " Numerous local and regional companies have written comedy and musical revues based on the Olympics . Film star Gene Hackman came to Calgary ' s concurrent Olympic Film Festival for the world premiere of his " Split Decisions , " and a list of 40 international films also included the premiere of " Cowboys Don ' t Cry , " filmed in Alberta . The only arts casualty so far has been cancellation of a rock concert at the Calgary Saddledome when a skimpy lineup of two acts-Canadian rocker Neil Young and Soviet rock group Avtograf ( Autograph ) - resulted in media criticism and paltry advance sales . But plans are proceeding for a variety of jazz , country and folk concerts , including Chinese opera and an assortment of international percussionists . Fourteen architects submitted entries in an unprecedented Olympic Arches competition staged throughout the city @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in ice and snow sculpture competitions . Native arts , art in technology and athletic art are included in various exhibitions , along with rodeo performances and artistic displays of famous hockey goalie masks . CAPTION : PHOTO : Tribune photos by Charles Cherney . In a blending of sport and art , copies of hockey masks line a hall in the Olympic Saddledome . PHOTO : Former Blackhawk Murray Bannerman ' s game face . Illustration PHOTOS 2 <>                     