@@735488

txt When it was first told in Gath and published in the streets of Ashkelon that James Michener had written a novel called " Space , " my immediate thought was that it was the first place he had written about that he could n't go and live in for a while as has always been his wont . Also , since frequently he began those big novels approximately with the creation of the Earth , it seemed possible that he might begin " Space " with the Big Bang itself or what has been much written about as the crucial three seconds thereafter . Actually , in " Space " ( Random House . 624 pages , $17.95 ) , though his opening sentence speaks of Earth following its orbit for some five billion years , the day is Oct. 24 , 1944 , and the chapter recounts events in both the European and Pacific theaters of World War II . Mr. Michener , by any standards , is a phenomenon . The enormous sales of his books put him inescapably into the category , now much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of what falls under that definition is the impure schlock of the Harold Robbinses , Sidney Sheldons , Judith Krantzes et al . By contrast , Mr. Michener 's books are not trashy , make only minimal concessions to the coarseness of our age , present large casts of well-realized characters , a vast amount of information from his deep delving into his material and at the same time keep plots spinning and interlocking like the gears of a 10-speed bike . What he gives us is a history of the space age , starting with the allied bombings of the reputed Nazi heavy water experimental facilities and the very real rocket factories at Peenemunde off the Baltic coast of Germany . It is fiction insofar as his principal characters are persons whom he has invented to act out the essential factual drama . This enables him to synthesize , elide and interpret as a novelist must do . but at heart it is distinctly a documentary novel , a history essentially sound in the large frame . It is a contrast to what may also be considered a kind of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " That book , far narrower in scope than Mr. Michener 's , was called nonfiction and was based on much good reporting within the license of what was once called " the new journalism . " Yet because of Tom Wolfe 's strong personality and idiosyncratic angles of vision , it has almost as many " interpretive " elements and essentially novelistic devices as " Space . " A few actual persons make fleeting appearances . Wernher von Braun naturally being the most important and visible among them . The novel 's principal characters , scientists , engineers , astronauts and politicians give it an aspect of the roman a clef ; the more a reader knows of this history the more he will enjoy trying to identify some of the elements Mr. Michener has adroitly mixed to make up many men and women . His novels always contain striking set pieces within the larger pattern . One such here is the whole sequence involving Peenemunde and the German rocket program at the time when the Third Reich was crumbling . This includes the desperate efforts of Mr. von Braun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than the Russians , and the account of their early days in the U.S. He also describes a stirring naval battle off the Philippines , which serves to introduce a war hero later turned senator . My favorite among many highlights is the introduction of John Pope , also my favorite character , met as a boy discovering , first on his own initiative and then with the help of a discerning professor , the wonders of astronomy . Mr. Michener , as well as being a storyteller , is a natural teacher , as seen in that luminous early passage . It isconfirmed once more in the final pages where Pope , once an astronaut now a professor , participates in a workshop conference on space  --  a sequence filled with both solid balanced thought and mind-expanding extrapolations . Pope tells a college class : " You live among the stars whether you think so or not . Like ships adrift at sea , you identify your place on Earth through your relationship to the stars , and when you leave Earth and enter the air , your plane @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . I insist that you know where the stars are and how they look , so that you can know where you are . " One prominent character , calling himself Leopold Strabismus , passes through so many chameleon-like varieties of charlatanry as to seem much overdone , until we accept the fact that Mr. Michener is using him adroitly as a composite embodiment of many currents of irrational , anti-science , antiintellectual feelings that arise partly from fears and partly from reaction to errors or arrogance among scientists . Some men of science and technology " had blindly pursued their own narrowly defined interests while ignoring the vast , sloppy , stumbling universe of people who could not keep pace with their discoveries . " There are moments of comedy and some good funny lines , as when , viewing the extraordinary Voyager 2 close-ups in color of one of Saturn 's uninviting moons , a scientist says , " I 've seen a pizza that looked better than that . " But Mr. Michener again is lyrical about those space probes . He pays tribute , also , to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ M. Miller Jr . ' s " A Canticle for Leibowitz " ? an opinion I have long held . For legitimate purposes of story , Mr. Michener gives us one Gemini flight , and more importantly , one Apollo flight to the moon , that never took place but could have . " Space " is one of his best books . Here , as many times before , he holds us as storyteller , teaches us much and compels us to think largely about large things .                     