@@668772

Opposition leader Benazir Bhutto was arrested Thursday after she called for a return to democracy and led a protest march marking the 39th anniversary of independence from Britain . Three of her supporters were fatally shot by police and many were reported wounded during clashes in Lahore , witnesses said . They said the three died when police fired on about 1 , 000 members of Bhutto ' s Pakistan People ' s Party who had tried to overrun a police barricade . Security forces in Karachi and Lahore , Pakistan ' s two largest cities , fired on demonstrators and used clubs and tear gas to quell the worst political unrest since eight years of martial law ended and a civilian government was installed 16 months ago . Bhutto , 33 , whose father , former Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto , was deposed by President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq in 1977 and executed two years later , was arrested at her home in Karachi for violating a ban on addressing a public meeting . She was taken to jail as supporters watched . Police said she would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would launch nationwide protests to force her release . In Lahore , police armed with tear gas , machine guns and rifles opened fire at crowds attacking a police station and burning vehicles . Police reinforcements in armored cars moved in and fired on the crowd , wounding an undetermined number of people . Screaming , " Death to Zia ! " and " Zia is a Dog ! " demonstrators fought with police in both cities . Protesters in some places also yelled " Death to the Americans , " because of Washington ' s support for the Zia government . Bhutto ' s arrest came after she tried to lead about 7 , 000 supporters in an antigovernment march from her home , but they were turned back after about 1 , 000 yards by police who fired warning shots and pelted the marchers with tear gas . Zia ' s government had banned all demonstrations marking independence day to keep order , but Bhutto had vowed to go ahead with her speeches . Bhutto left her home a second time and managed to reach an opposition meeting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fought with protesters . Two people at the rally died when the roof of a building they were standing on collapsed . Bhutto , an Oxford-educated politician who returned from exile in April and is considered the most popular opposition figure in Pakistan , denounced the government and said the opposition would not rest until it was ousted . " In spite of all repression , arrests and detentions by this so-called democratic government , the caravan of democracy will go forward , " she told the cheering crowd . " Nobody can stop it . " Several top opposition leaders were arrested by police as they tried to reach protest meetings to make speeches , including Ghaous Bakhsh Bizenjo , head of the Pakistan People ' s Party . Bhutto and her allies in the 11-party Movement for the Restoration of Democracy have demanded elections and the removal of Zia ' s government by year ' s end . Zia , who seized power from Bhutto ' s father in a 1977 coup , remains president and army commander since lifting martial law last December and appointing Mohammad Khan Junejo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bhutto was tried on a charge of conspiring to murder a political opponent following the Zia coup and hanged in 1979 . Zia is on a Moslem pilgrimage to Mecca , in Saudi Arabia.                     