@@668706

The future of the reform movement now underway in China hinges on many complex factors  --  some of them , like the weather , entirely beyond government control . Record harvests in 1979 , spurred on by exceptionally good weather , overinflated the success of the rural reforms and helped buoy the movement . A series of bad harvests now could touch off a violent backlash against China ' s current leaders and be used by a new group as a pretext to take power . Although the Chinese leadership has begun to question the relevance of Marxist-Leninist-Maoist thought to China , it has not challenged the relevance of the party , which remains the nation ' s most durable institution . The wave of reform is a curious blend of centralization and decentralization that leaves party members on the top and peasants on the bottom , squeezing the cadres and functionaries in the middle . Since 1949 , this middle layer has served as the most important link between the people and the leadership . Now the central government is asking middle- and low-level cadres to implement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far less power than they are accustomed to wielding . As the peasants gain more economic freedom , the cadres lose considerable power over them . Ironically , the local officials remain the greatest hope for , and pose the greatest threat to , the reform program . The new system , which has no other institutions to fall back on , must depend on the party . Rural cadres are still the most important check on the peasants , who may be " getting carried away with their new freedom , " as one Western scholar explained . The leadership has increasingly tried to bind peasants with formal , written contracts stipulating what crops are to be raised and how much of the harvest peasants must turn over to the collective and the state . It is unclear , however , just how binding those contracts are . Despite recent attempts to strengthen legal codes , Chinese law remains embryonic , imprecise and often capricious . As China expands its legal system , it is being forced to acknowledge more of its citizens ' legal rights , many of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . From the founding of the Chinese Communist Party , five decades ago , law and politics have been virtually identical in the People ' s Republic . In moving to differentiate between the two , the nation may unleash a demand for broader individual rights , which will be followed by a government crackdown . Just as the implementation of reforms has fostered disputes between peasants and local leaders , so it has raised tensions between local leaders and Peking . The central government is walking a tightrope , trying to encourage greater decentralization while maintaining a comprehensive state plan that unambiguously upholds Peking ' s position as the final arbiter . Arguments between the central government and local leaders over raw materials , investments and distribution of products and surplus probably will increase . The reforms also have fostered tensions between the party and the army . Next to the Communist Party , the army , or PLA , has been the hardiest institution in China . The party has expected soldiers to play a valuable ideological and organizational role ; in return for their loyalty , they receive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ jobs and education . The economic reform movement , which began shortly after civilian leadership re-emerged following the Cultural Revolution , threatens the army ' s privileged position . Although the recent shake-ups and retirements in the army attest to Deng ' s strength in reducing the army ' s role in Chinese politics , his efforts could be reversed quickly . The current leadership faces what has been a centuries-old dilemma for China : the great income disparities that result from the wide differences around the country in natural and human endowments . As the central government relinquishes its control over local production , it will become increasingly limited in its ability to play Robin Hood . Some have contended that the recent reforms have raised the nation ' s " threshold of tolerance for inequality . " Defending the changes , a top agricultural researcher argued that all the peasants would stay poor if the more successful ones were held back . " So some peasants have become better off first and the others will be helped to catch up with the goal of achieving common prosperity , " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities and the surrounding countryside , have not become glaring yet , so inequities have not been widely challenged . But if the peasants are allowed to move about more freely in the future , China ' s very poor may become more discontented and rebellious , seeing the great gap between them and the groups that have prospered . In giving away some of its economic prerogatives , the government may also lose some of its power to enforce its birth control program . The plan has depended on strict adherence to draconian measures that deeply touch the local and personal affairs of the Chinese people . As the party loses control over crop production , it will have fewer inducements at its command , such as wages , work points and ration coupons , with which to induce peasant women to agree to sterilization and abortion . The Chinese people  --  beaten , inspired , traumatized , run over , embraced and discarded by nearly four decades of zigzagging political movements  --  are often more able than outside observers to realize how wide the gap is between the ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ virtue , indeed the necessity , of being yang feng yin wei : compliant on the outside , defiant on the inside . They are like the peasant who in 1982 was asked by a cadre why he had not yet spread fertilizer on the orchard he had contracted to take care of under the new responsibility system . " I ' m waiting for the 12th Party Conference next month , " he replied . " I ' ve got to see if there ' s any policy change . " By calling for a more realistic look at the major threats and challenges to the economic reforms , I am not making yet another argument that China is inherently unstable and unpredictable , and thus that these reforms are doomed to fail as others have before them . Nor am I attempting to belittle what clearly is the promise of a new era of maturity and good sense in Chinese domestic policies . The recent changes have been dramatic and refreshing . All too often , however , the drama of current Chinese politics beguiles some Chinese and China-watchers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is quite remarkable and significant that last year the People ' s Daily questioned the universal validity of Marxism and its relevance to modern China . Yet one must not overlook what the Chinese leadership was saying about Marx on the centenary of his death only three years ago , when the reform movement was already well underway . In a national address entitled " The Radiance of the Great Truth of Marxism Lights Our Way , " General Secretary Hu said that even though " Marx and Engels have passed away . . . Marxism has developed with increasing vigor , " and that " the history of Marxism is one of triumph over . . . antagonistic ideological trends . " Even Mao from time to time had to remind his colleagues of the abyss between propaganda and reality . In the 1950s , when he was denying in private what he was vehemently claiming in public  --  that an attack from the United States or the Soviet Union was imminent  --  he chided them , " We must not be misled by our propaganda . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , N J She was in China from 1981 to 1983 , teaching at a university in Xian , and recently returned from a month-long visit there This is the second of two articles ( copyright ) 1986 , Nation Associates Inc reprinted by permission from the Feb. 1 Nation magazine.                     