@@669971

WASHINGTON  --  The Federal Communications Commission might rule in September on Turner Broadcasting System Inc. ' s bid to take over CBS Inc. , according to FCC Chairman Mark Fowler . Mr. Fowler mentioned a target date for action on the issue for the first time during a House hearing yesterday on the commission ' s role in the takeover of media properties . The FCC must decide whether a company that is bidding for a target that has television and radio licenses is qualified to hold those licenses under the agency ' s rules . Turner Broadcasting has offered to buy CBS with high yield , high risk " junk bonds " and other securities with a face value of $175 a CBS share , or $5. 41 billion . But Turner ' s chairman , Ted Turner , said Tuesday that CBS ' s plan to buy as many as 6. 4 million of its shares for $40 in cash and $110 of debt each is a potentially fatal blow to his takover bid . Last week Mr. Turner asked the FCC to speed up consideration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ indicate when or if the agency will respond to that request . Members of the House Commerce Committee ' s telecommunications subcommittee suggested that the FCC should decide soon on a set of guidelines to govern hostile attempts to take over media properties . Earlier this week , the commission asked for public comment on what its criteria should be , but it said a final decision is unlikely before the end of the year . " I ' m glad you ' ll have procedures , but I hope you ' ll have them before the last raid is completed , " said Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell ( D. , Mich . ) . If the rules aren ' t ready to be put in place soon , he said , they will aid only in an " autopsy " of the mergers . Subcommittee Chairman Timothy Wirth ( D. , Colo. ) asked Mr. Fowler whether the commission should consider the impact a takeover might have on television programming , and therefore on a station or network ' s service to the public . The financial resources of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it will produce good-quality shows . To finance his bid for CBS , Mr. Turner has proposed selling many of the network ' s assets . " Generally , investors will look very carefully at a company ' s financial health . If they can ' t produce programming , they won ' t succeed , " Mr. Fowler replied . RCA Corp. ' s chairman , Thornton Bradshaw , argued , however , that such marketplace forces won ' t work for TV networks and could eventually harm affiliated stations . " A cash-short network , managed after a takeover with an eye to servicing excessive debt , wouldn ' t have the resources to serve the public in all program areas , " he said . " There might well be no money for long-term sports programming . News coverage  --  expensive to produce and seldom a revenue generator  --  might suffer . As for entertainment , quality would suffer , " Mr. Bradshaw continued . Other witnesses criticized some FCC proposals aimed at keeping the agency neutral during hostile takeover attempts . The commissioners are considering a plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company ' s stock until they decide whether the buyer qualifies to hold the target company ' s licenses . " Corporate democracy doesn ' t mean the evisceration of the public interest , " said Henry Geller , director of Duke University ' s Washington Center on Public Policy and a former assistant secretary in the Commerce Department . " The use of a temporary trustee doesn ' t suffice , if it ' s employed to get around the requirements of notice and public participation . " He referred to the process that lets any interested party ask the FCC to withhold broadcast licenses from a particular company . The consideration of such petitions usually has delayed commission decisions in takeover cases . Credit : Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal                     