@@735155

txt There 's a certain kind of pleasant , lightweight movie that one is hard put to make a critical case for , largely because it does n't say or do anything special or offer big laughs or major thrills . Nevertheless , good-natured , free and easy , such a film has a way of catching you up in its spirit and fun . " W.W. and the Dixie Dancekings " was such a film , as was Steven Spielberg 's On Film " The Pursuit of D.B. Cooper " " Time Bandits " " Sugarland Express . " So , too , is the currently released " The Pursuit of D.B. Cooper . " Directed . by Roger Spottiswoode and with a screenplay by Jeffrey Alan Fiskin ( " Cutter 's Way " ) , the film takes its inspiration from an actual occurrence : On Thanksgiving eve , 1971. a man using the name " D.B. Cooper " highjacked an airplane , demanded $200,000 in ransom and , cash in hand , parachuted out of the plane somewhere over the state of Washington . As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) offer from Universal Pictures of a " ONE MILLION DOLLAR " reward for information resulting in the hijacker 's arrest , " Cooper " was never apprehended or even identified . And so the film  --  which begins with " Cooper " floating happily through the air with his packets of twenty dollar bills  --  takes the liberty of supplying its own solution . " D.B. Cooper " ( played brightly and energetically by Treat Williams ) is an allAmerican Peck 's Bad Boy , a charming and troublesome ne'er-do-well who pulls off this job as a lark and who becomes  --  like Jessie James or Billy the Kid  --  a kind of folk hero . He 's also , however , a Vietnam vet and here lies the rub , since his tough-asnails exsergeant ( Robert Duvall ) is now employed , coincidentally enough , as the insurance agent for the airlines . Putting two and two together quickly , if a bit unconvincingly . Duvall begins the pursuit dominating the film . Chases are , of course , grist for the movie mill and have an appeal that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has an appealing airiness and a low-keyed nuttiness . There are no bad guys or good guys , no one gets hurt or loses and we end up liking just about everybody : Irresponsible D.E. , his spunky and not particularly law-abiding wife ( the attractive Kathryn Harrold ) and even D.B. 's drugged-out , near brainless and thoroughly dishonest war buddy ( very well done by Paul Gleason ) who also joins the chase . Moreover , there 's a lot of amusing imaginativeness in the way the chase keeps changing as our hero proves not only able to drive a car in daredevil style but to gallop on horseback , fly a plane and guide a boat down treacherous white waters . The film also has a nice feeling for its hero 's world  --  the down-home types and flimflam men  --  that are as much a part of the American landscape as the mountains and forests and rivers of its Northwest setting . " The Pursuit of D.B. Cooper " is n't without soft spots and low points . The direction is nowhere as sharp as the script @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outset . Certainly , too . Robert Duvall could have given his tough sergeant/ insurance man considerably more distinction  --  that overly familiar sidewise grin is getting tiresome . But somehow the movie persuades us to overlook these flaws . The chase is so enjoyable and the characters seem to be having such a good time that we end up wishing we were in the movie ourselves . This is precisely the kind of feeling that " Time Bandits. " directed by Terry Gilliam and featuring others of the Monty Python crew , tries to elicit from its audience . But the film seems to be very confused as to who that audience is . Presenting us with a " Wizard of Oz " - " Alice in Wonderland " - " Snow White " type of adventure in which an 11-year-old boy and six actual dwarfs travel through time to various eras and places , the film would seem to be aimed at the very young . But its unsavory ending , which leaves our hero 's parents burnt to a crisp , as well as a good many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ altogether  --  one that 's older . more sophisticated and less susceptible to nightmares . Admittedly . some of the jokes are amusing  --  this is after all Monty Python  --  and so are some of the cameo appearances by Sean Connery as a twinkle-eyed King Agamemnon or Ralph Richardson as a business-suited Supreme Being . But with rare exception . these would-be funny bits and pieces are not funny enough and too much of the film is given over to simple child-like adventures  --  the kind that do n't work Alice-style on two levels at once . Rather than feeling delighted to travel along with this band of Time Bandits , we 're more likely to feel robbed of our time .                     