@@734954

txt It might be possible for the Soviet Union to conduct its Japanese diplomacy with a higher degree of incompetence . But sometimes that seems hard to do . Just what the Russians want from Tokyo is seldom explained  --  beyond the banal hope for " friendly relations "  --  but it can be argued that maladroit handling of these ties works directly against what should be Moscow 's main objectives . One result is an easier time for the Soviets ' main adversaries , the Americans and Chinese . Whatever the reasons , there is n't any doubt that relations between the USSR and Asia by Robert Keatley Japan are poor and are n't improving . Just the other day Soviet Ambassador Dmitn Polyansky , for example , accused the Japanese government of " fanning anti-Soviet feelings " by seeking negotiations about four small islands seized by the Red Army as World War II ended . Japanese suspicions about the USSR 's Asian intentions are growing , and many now see their nearneighbor as something of a military threat . Even trade  --  though large and lucrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Japanese ( more so than most Europeans ) followed the American lead in applying selective sanctions against the USSR . Beyond that , there is a general wariness here about ever depending on the Soviets as major customers or important suppliers of critical raw materials . All this has produced a relationship about which " we can not be satisfied , " concedes a Soviet diplomat , who adds : " Unfortunately , things are not going well . " The causes are complex and each side has its own explanations . Much of the trouble has arisen since the early 1970s , when the Russians got suspicious about closer ties developing among China , Japan and the United States . Before then , things were n't so bad from the Soviet viewpoint . The Kurile Islands issue was always a potential problem , but it seemed under control . After grabbing the islands at war 's end . Moscow had some 20,000 troops there by 1962 for unclear reasons . But later this force was reduced to 2,000 or so , and negotiations about the islands ' ultimate disposition  --  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible . Meantime , there was much talk about Japanese participation in grandiose Siberian projects , requiring huge loans to the USSR and feeding back vital resources to Japan , partly produced and transported by Japanese-made equipment . In addition , Japan shunned any regional military role for itself , kept its defense budget minuscule and experienced much public opposition to an American nuclear role in the area . The military alliance with the U.S. remained a subject of controversy , while Japanese-Russian relations seemed reasonably good . Then came the rapprochement among the U.S. , Japan and China , which fueled Russian fears about a Peking threat . A 1973 communique between Japan and the USSR was partly revised by the Russians , who said a pledge to settle " outstanding issues " so a peace treaty could be signed did n't mean they 'd talk about the islands . This 1973 revision irritated many here . who think those frigid bits of land near their northern island of Hokkaido are rightfully Japanese . But the Soviets then increased the irritation . In 1976 , they began demanding special visas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ islands . Previously , these were n't necessary . In 1977 , they created a 200-mile fishing zone off the islands , depriving many Japanese of traditional fishing grounds . In 1978 , they offered Japan a friendship treaty , resembling pacts signed earlier with India and Vietnam but which ignored the territorial issue . Japan rejected it . And in 1979 , the Soviets further fortified the islands for unknown reasons . The Red Army now has a division placed there , with airfields , armored vehicles and other gear ? enough to worry Japan but not enough to have any serious offensive significance for the Russians . But the Soviet military buildup elsewhere in East Asia  --  particularly naval missile and air forces  --  does have significance . Meantime , the problem is compounded by the man Moscow chose to represent its interests here . Governments generally like to receive ambassadors who have influence back home , and Japan is no exception . But Ambassador Polyansky , once considered something of a political star in the Soviet Union . was sent here in 1976 after being fired from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ( The recent Soviet party congress also dropped him from the larger central committee . ) This Communist careerist had little previous experience with foreigners and his rather blunt , insensitive ways do n't win friends here . His March meeting with the Japanese foreign minister was his first since 1977 . He has n't met a Japanese prime minister since 1978 ? astonishing for the ambassador of a nearby superpower . Moscow 's diplomats earn much criticism . A senior aide to Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki said recently that the Russians " creep around within their own small circle , refraining from joining Japan 's open society , and therefore , I presume , they do not understand the way things are done in Japan . " Results of this decade of often contentious diplomacy seem opposite to what Moscow must want . Japan has drawn closer to the U.S. ( and the industrial West generally ) in both political and strategic terms , abandoning some previously noncommital attitudes . Tokyo 's defense budget is rising . Despite problems , many Japanese seem more interested in closer economic ties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasingly critical of Soviet designs in Asia . such as those concerning Vietnam and Afghanistan . To a noticeable degree , the Soviets have helped push Japan off the fence . There may be some Soviet master plan for seeking world-wide dominance , as alarmists often claim . But if Japan is any guide , this plan needs repair .                     