@@668112

Ronald Reagan is expected to arrive in this convention city on Monday , opening day . That is early by the standards of candidates who have the nomination locked up . But when he comes here , the plan is not to make the rounds of the delegate caucuses asking for their support or thanking them for their help - though there may be some courtesy calls . Rather , Reagan will campaign among the voters in the streets of Detroit , mostly Democrats , asking them for their votes and telling them that he would be a better man in the White House for them than Jimmy Carter . Jim Munn is a hard-nosed conservative from the state of Washington who is a member of the Platform Committee . On the opening day of the full Platform Committee hearings Wednesday , he rose to make a general statement . Every place where the word " Democratic " Party or " Democratic " program came up for criticism in the platform , he proposed it should be changed to " Democrat . " But before the move got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to object . He reminded Munn the word was offensive to some Democrats and , since Reagan hoped to attract many defectors from the other party this year , there was no need to offend them . He asked Munn not to pursue the matter . In the Republican labor plank , called " Fairness to the Worker , " the theme is commitment to full employment without inflation . There is an absence of labor-baiting which is common in past Republican platforms . There is the traditional reaffirmation of the " rights of states to enact right-to-work ' laws " under the Taft- Hartley Act . But there is also a commitment to the right of unions to organize " and to represent them ( workers ) through collective bargaining . " Martin Anderson , Reagan ' s chief domestic adviser , said that there was a conscious effort to avoid offending the blue-collar workers in fashioning the labor plank and that it took some discipline to keep out the hot language of the right-to-work advocates in the Republican Party . There was nothing to amend or fight about . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there to begin with , " said Anderson . There are other invitations in the platform to the blue-collar workers : an antibusing clause , a tough antiabortion stand which supports both a constitutional amendment against abortions and an immediate end of federal financing of them . The Reagan forces tried to get moderate language in defeating the Equal Rights Amendment , but they note with some satisfaction that in any event there never was a great deal of enthusiasm on the part of blue-collar male workers or their wives for the Equal Rights Amendment . In private sessions with the young Reagan campaign workers , there is not much talk of a Southern strategy which they assume is in place . Rather , they talk of carrying the states of New York and California in November . They believe any candidate who carries both wins the election . They are still boiling at President Jimmy Carter ' s unveiling here Tuesday morning - during a one-hour stopover en route to Tokyo - of a plan to restore economic health to the auto industry . Both industry and union officials have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems , and the Reagan people now believe they can make capital of it with the workers when Reagan comes here on Monday . It is , of course , not a new strategy for the Republican nominee to work on the blue-collar vote . With some help from George McGovern in 1972 , Richard Nixon pulled together his " silent majority " for the election , and sent Spiro Agnew to chase liberals . Some of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy ' s inside group admit that the liberals have fallen on their faces in the primary contests this year and that Kennedy should have made some accommodation to the right-to-life people at the outset to win the blue-collar and ethnic votes . The Reagan people are not naive about the blue-collar vote , which in the past has gone about 70 percent to the Democratic presidential nominee . They don ' t expect miracles . But Charles Black , a Reagan coordinator , says that if they could get that down to about 60 percent for the Democrats , they would be " home free . " But there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the campaign , the objective is to win the traditional blue- collar votes and at least cut into the traditional Democratic vote in the cities which they believe Carter has never really brought into camp in his presidency .                     