@@774372

txt  | If the original documents in Pugh and James had been merely letters , Judge Johnson would have referred them elsewhere ? as was his custom in the wake of Newman . Crudely drawn though they were , however , these documents tracked the language and form of complaints drafted by lawyers to initiate lawsuits . Judge Johnson accepted them in that way and promptly set in motion a series of events that would see two protests from individual inmates merged in a powerful attack on current conditions and practices throughout the Alabama prison system . Early developments can be grouped in four parts . First , Johnson appointed aggressive lawyers to represent the prisoners concerned . Those attorneys , in turn , orchestrated the lawsuits into major class actions for the purpose of achieving sweeping and permanent penal reform . In this , the involvement of the National Prison Project and , later , the federal government , proved to be critical . Second , Judge Johnson provided the prisoners ' lawyers with an early evaluation of the constitutional claims they developed and , indeed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cases to proceed . The judge focused the litigation on physical conditions in large penitentiaries and , in so doing , dampened hopes that he would order fundamental changes in state penal policy ? even as the lawyers generated evidence exposing the flaws in that policy . Third , state officials disclosed their initial reactions to the threat that the prisons for which they were responsible were to be examined in a federal courtroom . Those reactions , evident both in the state 's own lawyers ' preparation of a defense to prisoners ' claims and in more public statements and activities on the part of the commissioner of corrections and other principals , provided an advance glimpse of arguments and themes to be repeated in succeeding years . Finally , the lawyers on both sides of the new lawsuits began the long and tedious task of preparing for trial .  | The complaint in Pugh , hammered out on an old prison typewriter , described an assault at the hands of other prisoners , not state authorities . Yet it nonetheless laid the blame for Pugh 's injuries on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Pugh demanded not only an injunction establishing new standards for inmate treatment , but $2 million in money damages . Hard upon the uprising in which George Dobbins had been killed , such a claim commanded serious attention . In February 1974 , Judge Johnson appointed a young Montgomery practitioner to represent Pugh in the lawsuit . Robert D. Segall was of a new generation of Alabamians . A 1971 graduate of the University of Alabama Law School , he had served as Johnson 's law clerk the year the Wyatt case was tried and the Newman complaint was filed . After the clerkship , he had taken a graduate degree in law at Harvard and then joined a prestigious law firm in his hometown . Knowing of Segall 's interest in civil rights cases , the judge naturally thought of him when he needed an energetic lawyer to handle unpopular litigation . Johnson had appointed Segall in Lynch v. Baxley , ' a challenge to the procedures used in Alabama for the commitment of persons believed to be mentally ill , and now , in Pugh , he turned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant . Segall read the complaint to present an explosive allegation ? that state prison authorities were constitutionally obligated to protect inmates from each other . He took the assignment as a clear signal that Judge Johnson was concerned generally about assaults on inmates in the Alabama prison system and would permit the expansion of Pugh beyond the confines of the episode described by this single prisoner . ' In his earliest meetings with Jerry Pugh , Segall proposed two related strategies . First , he suggested that the prayer for damages be severed from the request for injunctive relief . That action would not only dispense with trial by jury , to which the defendants would be entitled if sued for damages , but would also redirect attention away from Pugh 's personal injuries and focus it on the larger picture of violence throughout the prison system . Second , Segall proposed to convert Pugh 's individual lawsuit into a class action on behalf of all Alabama prisoners subject to the kind of violence that Pugh himself had experienced . The prisoner agreed to both maneuvers , and Segall promptly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pugh had second thoughts . He apparently hoped that a lawsuit geared to his own , personal interests might create the leverage required for early parole and worried that a broader lawsuit might dilute the usefulness of the litigation for his own purposes . Acting on that possibility , Pugh wrote to Judge Johnson in  | late April , denying that he had authorized Segall 's changes and asking for a different attorney . Johnson summoned Segall and , after a few meetings , the confusion sorted itself out . Pugh reaffirmed his satisfaction with both Segall and his tactics , and Johnson scheduled a pretrial conference for late summer . ' Having settled the nature and scope of the litigation , Segall next arranged logistics . His law firm gave him permission to devote his own time to the project . For funding , Segall turned to the Southern Poverty Law Center , a civil rights organization established a half dozen years earlier by Morris Dees , a wealthy young Alabama lawyer . Dees represented Joanne Little charged with homicide in North Carolina , Vietnamese refugees threatened by Klan violence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital punishment . Joseph Levin , the center 's director , agreed to provide financial assistance and to work with Segall in the Pugh case . Moreover , through Levin , Segall met Roy Haber , counsel for the Mississippi prisoners in Gates v. Collier , ' the case that had served as a precedent in Newman . Over the succeeding weeks , both Levin and Haber offered useful advice on the way in which the new case , Pugh , might be prepared for trial . ' Segall was creative in fashioning a theory on which to proceed . In his view , the episode described in Pugh 's original complaint was not an isolated event , but part of a pattern of violence at Fountain and throughout the Alabama prison system . In particular , the practice of housing large numbers of prisoners in crowded dormitories , without regard to the violent propensities of individuals , had made brutality the common currency of prison life . The fault , according to Segall , lay not solely with the inmates who fought with each other in the dormitories , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew , or should have known , that the consequences of their policies would be violence , injury and , in some instances , death . The conditions in Alabama 's prisons , conditions plainly ascribable to deliberate decisions by state penal officials , thus ensured that prisoners would be subjected to assault on a routine basis . That cold insight must be captured in legal argument . The obvious vehicle was the Eighth Amendment 's prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment . Segall proposed to argue that Alabama penal authorities punished prisoners in violation of the Eighth Amendment by placing them in threatening circumstances without safeguarding them from attack . In due course , he ranged afield from that " right to protection " contention but , in the end , returned full circle to it . The immediate problem was to identify some standard against which conditions in Alabama could be measured . As he reflected on  | that question , Segall came to the view that he could best explain what was wrong with the Alabama prison system by explaining what must be done to set things right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for judgment by describing a state of affairs in which prison violence would be unlikely to occur and then contrasting such a regime with the status quo . The effect would be to merge two matters that lawyers typically hold apart : what must be shown to win a lawsuit and what the winner obtains in victory . Anticipating the kind of decree that he would ask Judge Johnson to issue after judgment , Segall laid in place , at least temporarily , the linchpin connecting what may be called the negative version of his case ( the claim that conditions in the prison system produced unconstitutional violence ) and a more affirmative version of the case ( a claim that , in order to be free from unconstitutional violence , prisoners were entitled to something positive ? something that , if granted , would prevent violence ) . The literature had already given that something a name . Segall borrowed that name in his own deliberations and in his conversations with advisors . He formulated the contention that prison inmates had a constitutional right to " rehabilitation . " If @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be attained only by reducing prisoners ' frustration in confinement , and if prisoners ' frustration could be reduced only through educational and vocational programs , then " rehabilitation became a prerequisite to the elimination of violence and , thus , a constitutional right . " Plausible as such an idea was , Segall could not persuade the penal specialist he consulted , Dr. Stanley Brodsky , the associate director of Dr. Fowler 's Center for Correctional Psychology . Despairing that he would be able to convince the judge of his " rehabilitation " theory without expert witnesses who would testify in support , Segall reoriented his thinking around the simpler " right to protection " thesis with which he had begun . ' Not to say that the " right to protection " theory to which Segall retreated was unambitious . It was not . Segall rather boldly proposed that " when a state denies people their liberty and forces them to live in confined quarters and without self-defense , . . . that state assumes a corresponding duty to protect these people from physical and mental harm .... " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he might have relied , in the end he put forward the familiar , commonsense proposition that " incarceration is the punishment established by law . . . . Correction officials are not entitled to add to that punishment more than what . . . are necessary concomitants of incarceration . " Routine violence in the dormitories and cell blocks , by Segall 's account , constituted such additional cruel and unusual punish- ment . On this , much would rest . Segall insisted that prisoners ' right to protection existed apart from the defendants ' personal knowledge or intentions regarding institution violence and , perhaps as important , apart from their financial capacity to make necessary changes . ' Moreover , the even more far-reaching " right to rehabilitation " theory found its way into the attack on Alabama 's prisons by a different route . In retrospect , it is hardly surprising that a proposition that could attract Segall , even temporarily , would enjoy an even warmer reception among prisoners themselves . At the very time that Segall was considering the " right to rehabilitation " idea , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argument was actively being discussed within the inmate population . Only a month after Segall 's consultations with Brodsky and just as Segall was reconciling himself to abandoning the rehabilitation claim , it was squarely presented to Judge Johnson in a new complaint filed by a different prisoner . Worley James had little in common with Segall 's client . Jerry Pugh was a young Caucasian , first convicted in 1969 and sent to prison in 1973 only after violating the terms of probation . He was 27 years old when he filed his complaint . James was born in 1894 , the son of a black sharecropper in a rural area of south Alabama . His string of felonies began in 1925 . In 1944 , he was sentenced to death for the murder and rape of a 12-year-old child . That sentence was commuted to a life term . He was released on parole in 1969 , but was returned to prison three years later after yet another conviction for assault with intent to ravish . In June 1974 , with the help of another inmate whose name was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judge Johnson 's court ? faulting the state 's failure to meet his medical needs and to " rehabilitate " him in prison . In addition to George Wallace , the complaint named Sullivan and William Long , James ' warden at Mt . Meigs , as defendants . On the day the complaint was filed , Judge Johnson appointed a local law professor , George Taylor , to represent James in future proceedings . Taylor was no stranger to Judge Johnson , to the great cases in which the judge had been involved , or to the institutional reform litigation those cases had encouraged . He was not a radical . Judged by contemporary standards , his political outlook was moderate . Yet he had been there when it meant something to be there . As a young lawyer in Birmingham in the 1960s , Taylor joined with David Vann and Charles Morgan to form the Young Men 's Business Club , which challenged Bull Connor for political control of the city . He and Vann negotiated a peaceful settlement between Dr. Martin Luther King and city authorities in 1963 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ,  | Reynolds v. Sims , ' in the same year . After a brief career in the Peace Corps , Taylor went to Mississippi to head the field office of the Lawyers ' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law . During his tenure , that office handled Roy Haber 's litigation in Gates and the Mississippi version of Reynolds , inherited from another lawyer , Alvin J. Bronstein . Drawn back to Alabama in 1973 to become assistant dean at the University of Alabama Law School , Taylor paid a courtesy call on Judge Johnson , mentioning in passing that he would be available periodically to accept court appointments in cases in which litigants could not afford to hire a lawyer . A year later , Johnson asked him to represent Worley James . ' The judge mentioned the rehabilitation claim to Taylor , and it seemed to him that it was that issue that had caught Johnson 's attention . Indeed , Taylor thought he had been appointed not because of his experience in massive class action suits , but because of his academic post . He had access @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an answer to an exciting new issue in legal theory ? whether prisoners had a " right to rehabilitation . " Accordingly , Taylor anticipated that the bulk of his work in the James case would be done in the law library . He , like Segall , immediately amended his client 's complaint to state a class action challenge on behalf of all Alabama prisoners . Yet Taylor 's action , unlike Segall 's , was motivated by concerns tied tightly to the client 's individual claim instead of by a grander plan to challenge the Alabama prison system on a wide scale . His initial interview with James generated serious doubts that a lawsuit on James ' behalf alone could survive to judgment . Charged by the court to explore an innovative legal theory , Taylor found himself representing a sickly , elderly man ? hardly a candidate for the rehabilitative opportunities the complaint apparently demanded . Even if Taylor could contend seriously for James ' right to rehabilitation , moreover , the poor man might die before the litigation could be completed . The only course was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as much as possible , Taylor asked for and obtained his permission to eliminate allegations regarding his personal medical care and to locate other , more suitable representatives of the class to be named in an amended complaint . Notwithstanding its motivation , this shift to the class action form promised to transform the case from an isolated dispute between a man and his keepers , albeit a dispute over a novel claim of right , into a powerful engine for social change not unlike forerunner cases such as Wyatt and Newman . Working with James , the younger prisoner who had actually drafted the original complaint , and Steve Suitts , director of the Civil  | Liberties Union in Alabama , Taylor identified several inmates to represent the class along with James himself . Taylor was not alone in his work . Students at the law school helped him maintain contact with his inmate-clients and to research the legal issues . Taylor 's approach , more academic than Segall 's , began with the rich literature on the general matter of rehabilitation in prisons . The object to " reform @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the colonies . Firmly rooted in the Pennsylvania and New York systems , reformation had been the vital element in the Jacksonian asylum that had gained such complete acceptance in nineteenth century Alabama . Penal authorities in Alabama were not turnkeys or guards ; they were " correctional officers . " Prisons were not gaols ; they were penitentiaries or reformatories . Misbehaving citizens were detained , in hospitals and prisons alike , ostensibly because they were ill and required treatment for their cure . Like most other states , Alabama had long since written rehabilitation into the state criminal code , identifying the " treatment " of criminal offenders in a " correctional institution " as the normal sanction for violations of the law . Alabama court decisions also recognized that the punishment of offenders was understood to be in aid of their " reformation " and " rehabilitation . " The federal courts , too , acknowledged the role that rehabilitation had come to play . In 1949 , the Supreme Court had identified rehabilitation as one of the " important goals of criminal jurisprudence , " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Court had reiterated that penal officials were responsible for " rehabilitating " prisoners " to the extent that human nature and inadequate resources allow . ' Inasmuch as the language of penology linked prisons with other institutions in which people were held against their will , Taylor thought it unremarkable to propose that the " right to treatment " theory in Johnson 's own decision in Wyatt could and should be extended to the prison context . Indeed , he was tempted to place primary reliance on the due process clause rather than the Eighth Amendment ? this to underscore the intellectual relationship between Wyatt and James . At bottom , the argument in James could be precisely what it had been in the mental health case . Government must act rationally , employing means substantially related to the purposes sought to be achieved . Hence , if the objective of incarceration was the rehabilitation of criminal offenders , then inmates must have an affirmative right to various beneficial progams now denied to them . Indeed , Taylor speculated that Judge Johnson wanted him to test the power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that had given rise to it . Said yet another way  | and on a more dramatic scale , the James case might present an opportunity to collect the various strands of midcentury thinking about institutionalization generally and to weave them together behind a single legal theory ? the proposition that citizens involuntarily detained for the purpose of treatment were constitutionally entitled to be treated . As Taylor and his students probed more deeply into the literature , however , and when they approached Fowler and Brodsky for advice ( tracking in this respect the path that Segall had followed only weeks earlier ) , they became discouraged . However well accepted the treatment idea had been until recently , the country was now growing cold to it . To begin , respected studies had lately concluded that rehabilitative programs had been unsuccessful in changing offender behavior . Conservatives now insisted that raw punishment , unadorned by liberal attempts to " help " criminal offenders , constituted the better weapon against crime . At the same time , those who had held out hope for rehabilitation now submerged their disappointment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had failed to work , but because it posed a threat to the libertarian concerns of the very progressives who had been its primary proponents . Criminal offenders were not necessarily ill or in need of any cure in the medical sense ; to propose that they were was to deny their integrity as individuals responsible for their own thoughts and actions . The notion that offenders were incarcerated for treatment , moreover , comtemplated not merely that prisoners should benefit from programs provided for them , but that the state , too , had a legitimate interest in forcing inmates to endure programs to which they might object . The spectre of " drug aversion therapy " and other " behavior modification " schemes caused many supporters of rehabilitation to reevaluate their postitions . Finally , Taylor 's research turned up no solid judicial precedents in support of a " right to rehabilitation " claim . While many judges had mentioned rehabilitation , none had translated what might be a marginally good idea into an affirmative constitutional right . Johnson himself had explicitly distinguished prisons from mental hospitals in Wyatt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ persuade the judge to reconsider that part of his opinion and extend to prison inmates the benefits of the Wyatt theory . The alternative that suggested itself was to redirect the litigation in James away from the due process claim that prisoners were entitled to the rehabilitation for which they were ostensibly confined and toward the Eighth Amendment theory that had been so successful in previous suits over prison conditions . In that framework , educational , voca- tional , and other beneficial programs for prisoners could be sought as remedies for prison conditions that currently constituted cruel and unusual punishment . Taylor now felt his case growing beneath him . If James were to become an Alabama edition of Gates , it would demand heavy expenditures of time and funds ? resources that , for Taylor , were in short supply . The answer to that dilemma lay in cooperation with Segall , whose work in Pugh plainly overlapped with the litigation in James . Judge Johnson had mentioned the Pugh case to Taylor , who had telephoned Segall only five days after his appointment . Now , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if Segall and Levin were already committed to a sweeping attack on conditions in the prisons , it only made sense that Taylor should join forces with them . Segall , for his part , was pleased . The inauguration of James mitigated any regrets he harbored about having abandoned the rehabilitation issue in Pugh . If the resulting joint project promised to blossom into major litigation , Taylor and Segall could take comfort in knowing that they would have help from a mutual friend in Tuscaloosa , Ralph I. Knowles , Jr . Another graduate of the University of Alabama School of Law , Knowles had gone into practice with a classmate , Jack Drake , and together they had been involved in various civil rights cases , among them Wyatt . Knowles was a principal figure in the ACLU 's Alabama affiliate and , with Steve Suitts , was committed to the maintenance of an ACLU voice on matters touching individual rights . He brought to the litigation not only a personal , ideological perspective , but keen intelligence , sound judgment , and an heroic capacity for hard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , organizing the relevant information in exquisite detail , and orchestrating the participation of others into an efficient , single-minded enterprise . Sensing that the men and ideas swirling around the Pugh and James cases demanded coordination , Knowles set about arranging a meeting of interested parties . The conference was scheduled for early August in the Montgomery law office of another ACLU activist , Howard Mandell . By now , Taylor faced a motion to dismiss , filed in response to Worley James ' original complaint . Instead of meeting that motion forthrightly , he carried through with the plan to convert the case into a class action and to omit James ' claims concerning his personal medical disabilities . Anticipating all the difficulties his research had unearthed , he articulated the rehabilitation claim in alternative forms . Initially , he alleged that the defendants had violated the Eighth Amendment in that they had " failed . . . to provide facilities , programs , and personnel for the treatment and rehabilitation of prisoners . " He thus posited an  | affirmative right to rehabilitation , albeit a right based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He was pessimistic that any such right could be established , but he felt compelled to assert it nonetheless . He hoped that his references to inmates who needed help would diffuse concerns that prisoners might be subjected to manipulative programs against their will . Next , Taylor set forth a more complex , second-level argument constituting yet another , indirect approach to the rehabilitation claim , but one that diverged sharply from what Segall had considered . Taylor argued that state penal authorities had violated the Eighth Amendment in that they had " failed . . . to eliminate those conditions which make impossible the ... rehabilitation ... of prisoners . " If he could persuade Judge Johnson that penal authorities were constitutionally obligated to rehabilitate prisoners , Taylor would be glad to take that victory . If , however , the judge should decide against such an affirmative duty , Taylor still hoped to persuade him that the authorities could not validly place barriers in the way of prisoners attempting to rehabilitate themselves . If that point were accepted , then he hoped to convince the judge to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners were entitled constitutionally to be rehabilitated but on the alternative ground that existing circumstances frustrated voluntary , individual efforts at self-improvement . This second-level argument still sounded the theme in Wyatt . Yet Taylor 's avoidance of the due process theory employed in the mental health context and his substitution of the Eighth Amendment theory cited in other prison cases evidenced his doubt that the precedent in Wyatt would be helpful , or even significant , in James . Judge Johnson promptly overruled the motion to dismiss on the ground that Taylor 's amendments superseded the original complaint to which the motion had been addressed . That was the posture of the case on August 9 , when Taylor met with the group that Knowles had brought together . Discussion at the meeting in Mandell 's office centered on the conceptual underpinnings of the two cases and , to a lesser extent , on the way in which the litigation could be funded.16 Everyone agreed that the cases should be taken beyond the confines of most prison litigation to date . This was an opportunity to demonstrate the inherent flaws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idle criminal offenders were incarcerated for lengthy sentences served in massive , rural penitentiaries , and to force state authorities to adopt penal policies that might actually succeed ? decently and fairly . Knowles and Suitts in particular suggested that the cases could have national significance and , to that end , they urged the group to spare no expense in developing them for  | trial . Levin was already committed to support his own and Segall 's work in Pugh , but he hesitated to do the same for Taylor in James . That turned attention to Alvin J. Bronstein , Taylor 's old friend from their days in Mississippi and now director of the National Prison Project . Bronstein had been approached on prior occasions , by Taylor , Knowles , and especially Suitts , who was insistent that the ACLU 's special project for prison litigation should play a major role in the Alabama cases . Bronstein had consented to journey south for the meeting and used it to determine the likelihood that a sizable investment of effort in Alabama would be worthwhile . AI Bronstein had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The son of Russian immigrants , he was reared in New York City , where he worked with the War Resistors ' League , the Congress of Racial Equality , and the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee . After graduation from the New York Law School , he went to Mississippi with the Lawyers ' Constitutional Defense Committee . During the next four years , he worked in various southern states , including Alabama , and appeared before numerous southern judges , among them Judge Johnson . He continued his involvement with civil rights groups during a few more years at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard . In 1972 , he was selected to be the first director of the Prison Project . After two years , Bronstein had grown weary of pursuing the discrete claims of individual inmates and frankly wished to challenge the overarching policy of long-term imprisonment in the United States . He was not averse to considering Alabama as the site for a new and ambitious campaign against the status quo ? provided lawyers in that state were willing and able to do the necessary field @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Tuscaloosa , which also boasted a long , exciting history of success that suggested an organization many times its size . Most of the credit for that record was owed to Suitts , the group 's first executive director and a match for Knowles in his capacity for sustained labor . Under Suitts ' leadership , the local affiliate had attacked racial discrimination , election law violations , and various forms of censorship . More recently , the organization had taken an interest in prisons . Volunteers corresponded with inmates , collecting reports of mistreatment . In the year before Pugh and James were instituted , Suitts published a study of the racial makeup of the state 's inmate population ? demonstrating that blacks accounted for a disproportionate number of the men and women held in state custody . Yet the local affiliate lacked the resources needed to put its concerns about the pris- ons in the form of a lawsuit . Bronstein 's program offered the wherewithal for legal action , and Suitts did what he could to entice the Prison Project to Alabama . He courted the older @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases arose , he urged Bronstein to seize the opportunity they presented.18 Bronstein listened intently during the meeting in Mandell 's office , then agreed to participate , primarily because the Alabama cases would come before Judge Johnson . There were no illusions about this judge . Whatever else he was , Johnson was a reserved southerner suspicious of litigation with an explicit policy orientation . Yet if he could be persuaded that the circumstances warranted action , he might issue the kind of injunctive decree he had entered in Wyatt and Newman . In turn , that might advance the cause of prison reform immeasurably . Bronstein thus made the decision to go forward as soon as he could hire an additional staff member to carry the weight of the new cases . He had already interviewed Matthew Myers , a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School who had worked part-time on the Wyatt case . When Myers joined the Prison Project in September , the commitment to the Alabama cases was sealed . Myers assumed responsibility for the brunt of the preparation in James ; Knowles served @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyers for the prisoners were organizing , the defense crept along seemingly without appreciation for what plaintiffs ' counsel were planning . The defendants in Pugh were represented by Larry R. Newman , an assistant attorney general in Alabama , and Robert Lamar , a local practitioner appointed as a special assistant attorney general only for purposes of this single case . Neither man initially grasped the threat posed by Segall 's argument ; indeed , the matter was handled in the same manner in which states ' attorneys might have responded to a lawsuit pursued by an inmate without professional representation . If anything , the defense in the James case was handled more casually . The case was assigned to William M. Bowen , a junior member of Baxley 's permanent staff with no background in prison litigation , who then found himself opposite George Taylor , an older litigator of considerable experience . The two met for the first time in September when Judge Johnson heard argument in Montgomery on Bowen 's motion to dismiss Taylor 's amended complaint . Taylor took the floor first ; Bowen followed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lawyer whether there might be merit in Taylor 's second-level argument which , in Johnson 's understanding , amounted to the contention that prisoners had a right " not to be deprived " of an opportunity to rehabilitate themselves .  | Bowen confessed he could not understand that theory , and Taylor left the courtroom thinking he had survived this early test . He was right . On September 30 , Johnson issued an order overruling the motion to dismiss , accompanied by an opinion explaining his understanding of the lawsuit Taylor would now pursue . This opinion , Johnson 's first in either Pugh or James , was essentially a blueprint . Myers put it succinctly : " As we all agreed , Johnson has provided us with a basic outline which we would be wise to follow . " That is precisely what the judge intended . He had always expected that the lawyers would refine the issues in these cases and set before him whatever support they could locate . When Taylor arrived in court having dressed his client 's original claim in a sophisticated theoretical framework but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it appropriate and timely to register his preliminary reaction . The judge was not prepared to launch a critical examination of Alabama penology and to substitute his own judgment , or Taylor 's , for that of the state officials concerned . By contrast , he was predisposed to tolerate whatever penal policies Alabama authorities wished to pursue , so long as the resulting conditions in the state 's institutions did not slip beneath minimal decency . This , then , was the legal rule on which Johnson would rest . State officials were entitled to make choices in this field , but they were not free to institute a mindlessly brutal and oppressive regime that denied the essential humanity of the inmates in their charge . Taylor had now had his chance to demonstrate a link between an affirmative , constitutional " right to rehabilitation " and the " decent " conditions to which prisoners were entitled . He had produced very little . Such a claim , therefore , presented the very attempt to second-guess penal decision-making that Johnson wished to avoid . At the same time , Taylor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his blueprint opinion to " put the parties on what he thought was the right track . " That track led to Taylor 's second-level argument ? the version of the claim for rehabilitative programs that the judge himself had put to Bowen two weeks earlier . This Court is compelled to reject plaintiffs ' claim of absolute entitlement to the provision of rehabilitative services on the ground that persons convicted of felonies do not acquire by virtue of their conviction a constitutional right to services and benefits unavailable as of right to persons never convicted of criminal offenses . So long as treatment , rehabilitation , and reformation services and facilities may not be demanded of the state as of right by her free citizens , this Court is unpersuaded that such services may be demanded by convicted felons.  | Plaintiffs ' amended complaint , however , advances other theories and allegations which do state cognizable claims and which , if proved , would entitle them to relief ... . On the basis of the allegations set forth , plaintiffs would be permitted to introduce evidence tending to show that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the plaintiff class from , or refused to allow them , the opportunity to rehabilitate themselves by means not inconsistent with the orderly operation of the correctional system . Again , while Taylor 's second-level contention resonated with the due process analysis in Wyatt , the linkage Judge Johnson found to the requirement of decent living conditions thrust the " right to treatment " trappings of the claim in James into the background . A claim that prisoners had a right " not to be deprived " of the opportunity to rehabilitate themselves could rest , in Johnson 's view , on Eighth Amendment precedents already on the books ? precedents purporting to find constitutional fault not with state penal policies , but with primitive living conditions standing alone . In particular , Johnson relied upon Holt , in which Judge Henley had said that the absence of training and similar programs may " militate against reform and rehabilitation . " That insight , according to Judge Johnson , suggested a further , related proposition of fundamental importance . Where conditions within a prison are such that the inmates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ less able to adapt to conventional society as the result of their incarceration than they were prior thereto , cruel and unusual punishment is inflicted . Johnson admonished Taylor that the burden of proof would be heavy . Yet if the prisoners ' lawyers could make the required showing , he would compel the state to provide " basic rehabilitative services and facilities . " Finally , the blueprint opinion took account of Taylor 's list of the prison system 's flaws . Johnson said that he would consider evidence that the few rehabilitative services available to Alabama prisoners were being administered in an arbitrary manner , that prisoners with " mental or emotional difficulties " or with " geriatric problems " were being denied appropriate care and , in an obvious overlap with Pugh , that prisoners with a propensity for violence were being housed indiscriminately with others , leading to assaults on weaker inmates . The road ahead now seemed clear . Taylor told his clients that " Judge Johnson pretty well told us that if we can prove certain things , we are going  | to win . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce the evidence to support the statements we . . . made . ' Not even Johnson 's blueprint opinion yet impressed the lawyers for the defense , who still failed to comprehend the importance of the Pugh and James cases . Two events illustrate the point . Apparently disturbed that state authorities should be called to account in Pugh for physical assaults carried out by prisoners themselves , Larry Newman filed a counterclaim , contending that prisoners actually engaged in violence should be enjoined from assaulting others . The tactic sorely mistook the gravity of the " right to protection " claim that Segall was making . The judge was furious . His quick order dismissing the counterclaim was laced with harsh language , denouncing what he took to be " bad faith " and an " unprofessional approach " to the litigation . Newman 's stratagem thus backfired . It only prejudiced Judge Johnson 's courtroom for any future moves the defense might wish to make . The second event took place in Johnson 's chambers , when the judge appointed Bronstein 's Prison Project to serve as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the extent that any party is authorized to participate in all future matters . " Bowen 's performance in that setting was so inept that Johnson candidly asked him whether he expected to " have help " from other defense lawyers . Bowen had been outclassed by Taylor from the outset . With the introduction of Bronstein , Myers , and Knowles , he was hopelessly overmatched . His solitary position in James thus underscored some state officials ' failure to recognize the lawsuit 's true scope . Commissioner Sullivan , by contrast , was fully aware that these cases had the potential to expose his system 's many weaknesses . Yet the commissioner did not react negatively . He might have preferred to avoid interference from civil rights lawyers and Judge Johnson , but he understood that litigation could provide a catalyst for needed change . At all events , he refused to wait for plaintiffs ' counsel to identify the prison system 's flaws . He took the offensive , just as he had two years earlier in the wake of Johnson 's order in Newman . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Staff members gave interviews to draw attention to praiseworthy developments and , at the least , to cast the prison system in a favorable light . Newspapers published stories applauding Governor Wallace for assigning federal revenuesharing funds to the Board of Corrections and describing the system 's better institutions to the public . The Birmingham News reported on new educational programs at Holman , and the Tuscaloosa News presented the Frank Lee Youth Center as " more like a camp " than a penal institution . Next , the commissioner revealed the system 's darker side ,  | in hopes of obtaining financial support from the legislature to implement corrective measures . In this , he had support from board members . The outgoing chairman , Dr. Max V. McLaughlin , said publicly that he , too , believed it was time to " let people know what was happening to get their support , " and the new chairman , Dr. Staton , declared that current conditions in the prisons made a new federal court order " a definite threat . " Now , it became routine to insist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system would face an Attica-class uprising or a federal court order ? and probably both . Particular emphasis was placed on the intractable problem of crowding . The prison system , Sullivan said , was " like a bag . . . . When you keep stuffing things into it , sooner or later it 's going to burst .... " Warden Harding was even more graphic : " Anytime it 's overcrowded , you 've got an explosive situation ... and I do n't care whether you 're talking about prisoners or preachers . " Harding asked visitors to imagine " living like this day in and day out ; so close you ca n't move , so close you ca n't help but bump into somebody with every step .... Sooner or later it 's going to get to you and you 're going to explode . " John Hale , Sullivan 's public information director , said that penal authorities were " sitting on a powder keg that could explode at any time . " The primary " bottleneck , " in Hale 's words , was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of that institution was to receive new prisoners , hold them for a short time for testing and classification , and then channel them to appropriate assignments elsewhere . It was reported in February that as many as sixty-eight inmates at Mt . Meigs were sleeping on the floor . Three days later , there were ninetynine , with twenty more expected the next day . The assistant warden confessed that " prisoners were sleeping in the hall , in the showers and between beds . Anywhere you can put a mattress , we put it . " Five days after that , the population swelled yet again with the arrival of more than 100 new prisoners , sent south by Sheriff Mel Bailey in Birmingham . Bailey said that he hesitated to add to Sullivan 's difficulties . But the buildup of prisoners in the Jefferson County Jail promised to spawn litigation there if nothing were done to reduce the population . A pattern was developing . Jails across Alabama were funneling sentenced prisoners to Mt . Meigs far faster than that institution could absorb them . In early @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor " for about four months . " As yet , he said , there was " not much of a discipline problem .... " But that was " probably because the men . . . were new in prison " and the weather had been " pleasant . " During the approaching summer , he warned , " things would probably get pretty  | bad . " In June , Warden Long reported that more than 200 prisoners had slept on the floor the night before and that a riot might be triggered " at any time . " In July , a press release warned that Mt . Meigs had " long passed the danger stage and that the likelihood of serious trouble at the prison was increasing with each additional inmate forced into the vastly overcrowded institution . " Four days later , nineteen inmates were injured in an outbreak of violence . Newspaper reporters invited into the prisons elaborated on the conditions there . Ted Bryant of the Birmingham Post Herald reported that prisoners were served " thin slices of a tasteless , compacted cornbread , turnip @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peas that seemed to be cooked in a sweet , greasy jelly and dried lima beans . " The authorities explained that the system 's farmlands could produce better provisions for prisoners , but that cash crops were grown instead to be sold for needed revenues . The Herald reacted with an editorial warning that if Sullivan 's message were ignored there would certainly be riots and that , in the end , " the federal courts would step in with additional orders to clean up the present conditions . " The Eastern Shore Courier expressed the hope that it would not be " violence and bloodshed " that would finally awaken the state to " the problems of our prisons . " The Advertiser compared Alabama 's prisons to Devil 's Island . The media were not hesitant to name the officials with the duty and responsibilty to take action . The Birmingham News declared that George Wallace should finally " take an interest " in the prison system and see that it was properly funded . The Mobile Register reported that one of the visitors at Mt . Meigs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help Gov . Wallace 's presidential aspirations if another Attica were to take place in Alabama . " Primary attention , however , centered on the legislature . Few legislators attended the tours , and those who did were unwilling to commit themselves publicly to expensive reform measures . Sullivan offered specific proposals for change ? addressed primarily to the crowding issue . On one level , he tried to reduce the sentences of some inmates and to obtain more space for all . Thus he asked that prisoners be credited on their sentences for time spent in jail awaiting trial and that a new facility for the " criminally insane " be established to house mentally disturbed inmates . He also suggested that abandoned school buildings , an old ordnance plant near Childersburg , and an air base at Courtland should be refurbished for use by the penal system . Politics always controlled , however , and the suitability of any particular  | structure for use as a prison was routinely subordinated to the predilections of citizens living nearby . Courtland residents , for example , insisted that they would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One other possibility for absorbing the system 's burgeoning population was taken more seriously . For years prior to the 1970s , the Alabama Highway Department had operated road camps at which prisoners were employed . Road gangs had been abandoned so recently that some of the facilities were still in existence and might accommodate prisoners , whether or not inmates maintained the public roads . In fact , Sullivan argued that at least a part of his current population problem stemmed from the closing of the road camps without alternative housing for the prisoners concerned . The possibility of reopening some of the camps was discussed in various quarters , but the Alabama Highway Department refused to agree to any such plan . In the end , Sullivan was forced to ask Wallace and the legislature for funds to build at least one new prison . On another level , the commissioner attempted to persuade state officials and the public to abandon Alabama 's heavy reliance on large , rural prisons and to explore alternative penal policies . He said he hoped local judges would make greater use of probation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crime cases , and that more " half-way house-type programs " would be established for nondangerous offenders . He said he favored a thorough review of state sentencing policies at all levels , to the end that the prison system might receive fewer prisoners to hold for shorter terms . In the same vein , Dr. Staton declared that " work release " centers such as those established under the authority of the legislation sponsored by Maston Mims constituted the " only hope " for reducing the population in the state 's major prisons . Sullivan was gambling . He meant to establish in a public way that conditions in the prisons were bad and getting worse and thus to characterize the claim in James as unrealistic . He insisted that rehabilitative opportunities for prisoners were impossible in the present circumstances . With " neither the space nor the personnel , " he could not hope to provide any such programs . In this , the commissioner was modestly successful . Most editorials accepted the argument that serious discussion of rehabilitation was premature . At the same time , Sullivan understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conceded the key factual points that Segall was making in Pugh . He acknowledged that he had little defense against claims of that kind . Indeed , the only defense he offered publicly was that he was doing his " best " with what he had . To underscore the point , Larry Newman  | proposed that if something were not done soon , the state would have to turn " murderers , bank robbers and rapers sic . . . out on the streets . " Finally , at least , Sullivan 's own concern had captured his lawyers ' attention . In February , Lamar assumed responsibility for the James case and , in short order , the defense in both Pugh and James took on a serious cast not previously in evidence . " As spring wore on and the lawsuits churned toward trial , some movement was discernible in Montgomery . Dr. Staton reported that Wallace had promised to address the board 's many needs . And , in due course , the governor recommended that the legislature set aside $2 million in each of the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allotted the board another $6 million in a new state bond issue . In the legislature , a new Joint Interim Committee was formed to take up Sullivan 's proposals . Chaired by Senator George D. H. McMillan , Jr. , of Birmingham , and including Representative Brooks Hines , the new committee demonstrated surprising enthusiasm , prompting one reporter to ask whether there was " a new awareness " in Montgomery regarding the prisons . Not everyone was so optimistic . The Birmingham News recalled that similar groups in the past had made little progress against the inertia elsewhere in the government . McMillan 's committee managed to push a few bills through a special session , notwithstanding Wallace 's failure to support them . One permitted state prisoners to serve sentences in federal prisons ; another , following Sullivan 's suggestion , granted prisoners credit for time spent in jail pending trial ; still another authorized the release of prisoners having ninety days or less remaining to serve . " Even as Sullivan 's efforts enjoyed moderate success in the Alabama legislature , reversals on three other fronts undercut @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisons in 1975 to advance his proposals . To begin , the Alabama Advisory Committee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights published its highly critical report in April . The charges and recommendations struck heavy blows against a prison system housing a large proportion of black prisoners . This notwithstanding that Governor Wallace had recently appointed Dr. Marion Carroll , a black dentist , to be the Board of Corrections ' next chairman . At a meeting with the board , one of the advisory committee 's members , Father Albert S. Foley , exchanged rhetoric with Dr. Staton , and the result was hard feelings all around ? undercutting Sullivan 's purpose to obtain public support . " Then there was the proposal by Cutter Laboratories in California , which asked to purchase blood from Alabama prisoners . Suitts and // Myers urged the board to reject the idea , primarily because the peculiar circumstances of prison inmates would render their participation inherently involuntary . Attorney General Baxley also expressed doubts , and the board ultimately rejected the plan without lengthy discussion . Coincidently , however , the plan @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ira DeMent to become involved in James . Taylor was increasingly concerned that his own and Bronstein 's efforts would be inadequate and pressed DeMent to participate in order to have the benefit of the federal government 's enormous resources . DeMent requested authorization to " get involved immediately . " His chief reason , curiously enough , was not that conditions in the prisons justified federal participation , but that the Cutter Labs " blood sucking " proposal required forceful federal opposition . Officials at the Justice Department acquiesced , and , paradoxically , the short-lived and otherwise inconsequential blood plasma plan was in large measure responsible for the introduction of the local U.S. attorney into the James litigation . DeMent 's involvement was not without controversy in the plaintiffs ' camp . There were advantages . Resources were in short supply , and DeMent could recruit the FBI to service . Segall pointed out in addition that DeMent could summon the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) to support the charge that the Alabama prisons posed health and safety hazards . Desperate as he was for assistance , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ordinary course of business , agents were allied with state law enforcement authorities . In this instance , then , they would be asked to make inquiries about officials they knew personally . Taylor worried , accordingly , that they might not bring to the task a full measure of enthusiasm . Bronstein and Myers shared Taylor 's concern about the FBI and extended it to other federal agencies . They balked , for example , at DeMent 's suggestion that the U.S. Bureau of Prisons be asked to evaluate the Alabama prison system . While the bureau had no direct stake in the state institutions under attack , federal penal authorities might see their own facilities and , indeed , themselves as the Prison Project 's next targets . The threat of one day being in Sullivan 's place might motivate federal officers to defend even poor conditions in Alabama . The proposal to ask the EPA to survey the prison system raised similar concerns . In the end , neither federal agency was asked for assistance . " DeMent 's personality also generated conflict . In the eyes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ go his own way without consulting the other lawyers and addressing their concerns . Myers found him frankly " unpredictable " and , for that reason , threatening to what oth- erwise was a thoughtful and efficient enterprise . At some point , DeMent might break ranks and lead Judge Johnson in the wrong direction . Bronstein did not share those concerns . If DeMent became difficult , Bronstein anticipated that he could prevail on friends in Washington to rein him in . At any rate , any risks associated with DeMent 's impetuous ways were outweighed by the suspicion , shared by all the other lawyers , that he enjoyed a special relationship with Judge Johnson . If DeMent did not actually discuss the cases with the judge , the others believed he was at least in a better position than they to appraise Johnson 's reaction to developments . Accordingly , his participation was invaluable . This last may have rested more on hope than on evidence . DeMent does not recall discussing the prison cases with Johnson ; those who thought he was a conduit to the judge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not so unambiguously frustrating to Sullivan as the civil rights commission report and the Cutter Labs episode . In a new decision , McCray v. Sullivan , " the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a judgment by a district judge in Mobile , Judge Brevard Hand , in which Hand had rebuffed prisoners ' complaints regarding crowding , violence , and poor medical care at Holman and Fountain . On the one hand , the circuit 's action lent support to the plaintiffs in Pugh and James . Many of their allegations had now been acknowledged by the appeals court to warrant serious attention . On the other , the circuit court sent the McCray case back to Judge Hand ? who probably would not be sympathetic . After all , Hand had previously disposed of these very issues in summary fashion ; that is why the circuit court had reversed him . Even if he now held hearings under order , the results might well be dissatisfying . Judge Hand scheduled hearings to begin in June , and it seemed that he might well rush ahead of Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the defense before Pugh and James came to trial . Such a judgment and order might bar further proceedings on the same questions in Montgomery . Ultimately , this incident , too , proved to hold no value for state authorities . For when Judge Hand began to hear evidence , his reaction stirred events in an unexpected direction . Holman and Fountain were housing twice the number of prisoners for which they were designed , and violence , particularly homosexual rape , could not be controlled . At the conclusion of a single day 's trial , Hand informed the state 's attorneys that if they could not rebut the testimony he had heard , he was prepared to enter an order forbidding the authorities to admit more inmates to either facility until the population in each was reduced to  | " design capacity . " That statement " shocked " state officials but , in further proceedings a short time later , Sullivan confessed that his four major institutions were now holding 1500 more inmates than they were intended to accommodate and that his staff was far too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concluded that something must be done . He blamed neither Sullivan nor the board  --  nor Governor Wallace , whom he did not mention . In Hand 's view , the fault lay with the legislature , and to drive that point home he threatened a stringent decree if the legislature did not provide needed funds in its current session . He scheduled yet another hearing for August 29 and ordered Sullivan , the members of the Board of Pardons and Paroles , the Superintendent of Education , and the commanding general of the Alabama National Guard to appear . The parole board might , of course , release prisoners earlier and in that way alleviate crowding ; the superintendent might make abandoned schools available to house prisoners ; the National Guard might supply other facilities , including military tents , to be used on a " temporary basis . " Paradoxically , Judge Hand 's delay was fatal to his participation in later events . By August 29 , Judge Johnson 's work in Pugh and James had overtaken Hand 's treatment of McCray . An order entered jointly on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terminating Hand 's involvement for any significant further purpose . The task of preparing the Pugh and James cases for trial was painstaking . On the plaintiffs ' side , Myers prepared formal written questions , called interrogatories , and requests for concessions , called stipulations , to be put to Lamar and Newman , as well as questionnaires to be sent to prison inmates . Taylor visited the institutions frequently and collected letters , notebooks , and similar documents suggesting the testimony that individual inmates might provide . His appearance in the halls was a constant reminder that the lawsuits , in which all prisoners had some stake , were still alive and moving toward trial ? when , prisoners hoped , the truth about their plight would finally be uncovered . All the Alabamians , and occasionally Myers , conducted formal interviews , called depositions , with prison authorities and other potential defense witnesses , in order to learn what their testimony would be at trial . Lamar was accommodating . He made arrangements for the plaintiffs ' lawyers and expert witnesses to tour the prisons and provided information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most interrogatories in the time requested and agreed to hundreds of factual stipulations describing prison conditions . Some of those stipulations ,  | such as Lamar 's acknowledgment of the number of inmates the major institutions were designed to house , did serious damage to the defense . But Lamar saw nothing to be gained by forcing the plaintiffs to present formal proof of matters that no one could reasonably contest , and he anticipated that , if he insisted that the plaintiffs do unnecessary work , he would only anger Judge Johnson ? a man who would not suffer gladly the antics of querulous advocates . The development of evidence thus proceeded efficiently through the spring and summer . " Some of the information provided by state officials was defensive , but a fair share of the materials obtained prior to trial actually aided the prisoners ' cause . Individual officials , including Sullivan and Staton , were unwilling to defend the most egregious conditions . Sullivan conceded that the system was grossly overpopulated and was operating " in the red . " He could not afford to provide more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tensions among inmates . Violence , he confessed , was likely in the circumstances . Staton conceded similar points and , in a revealing exchange with Taylor , he offered his own , and perhaps the board 's , response to the rehabilitation claim in James . Staton declared that prisoners required " moral " reform . That attitude , which gave little weight to circumstantial causes of crime and placed emphasis instead on the individual 's blameworthiness , ultimately explained Alabama 's penal policies , whatever the level of financial support from the legislature . Ralph Knowles pursued another means of bringing the severity of prison conditions home to Judge Johnson ; he hired a professional photographer who toured the institutions and prepared an album of photographs to which the plaintiffs ' expert witnesses could refer during their testimony . Other judges had been known to visit prisons personally to see for themselves whether conditions were really so bad , but Johnson resisted , ostensibly because he preferred to rest judgment on evidence that would be available to the Fifth Circuit should there be an appeal . Accordingly , Knowles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? graphic pictures of prisoners ' living quarters . The scheme worked extremely well . At various times during trial , Johnson was seen examining relevant pictures as witnesses were testifying . " The other lawyers concentrated on the expert witnesses who would explain to the judge what the pictures revealed . Segall decided to call Robert Sarver , then on the faculty at the University of Arkansas , but formerly director of the Arkansas Department of Corrections . In the paradoxical fashion of legal proceedings , Sarver 's name had been forever attached to the infamous Arkansas prison case , Holt v. Sarver , even  | though he had become the primary defendant in that case after being hired to address the problems identified in court . Roy Haber had worked with Sarver before and urged him on Segall as an experienced professional who would be persuasive to Judge Johnson . In Washington , Myers selected John Boone , then at Boston University and formerly commissioner of corrections in Massachusetts ; William G. Nagel , then at the American Foundation and formerly associate superintendent of the New Jersey Correctional Institution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Problems and formerly a research specialist for the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration and the California Department of Corrections ; and Norval Morris , dean of the University of Chicago Law School . Taylor and Knowles selected Dr. Carl Clements , a faculty member at the University of Alabama and a member of Ray Fowler 's staff , and another local psychologist , Dr. John M. McKee , who had served as a consultant to one of the human rights committees appointed in Wyatt . Most of the experts toured the Alabama institutions in August . Curiously , and in this respect his docile attitude was injurious to the defense , Lamar did not interview the plaintiffs ' experts prior to trial . His failure to do so arguably led him to underestimate the power of the testimony those witnesses would give . In turn , that miscalculation may explain why Lamar listened to so much damaging testimony before conceding defeat . " The tours were often eventful . Professionals had only to pass through the institutions , examine records , and talk to prisoners and staff to conclude that conditions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The experts were not dismayed by what they saw ; they were shocked . After visiting the deplorable punishment cells at Fountain , Clements found it impossible merely to take notes for future reference . He pressed Myers to write an angry letter to Lamar , complaining that he had found as many as five men confined in a single cell ? when nearby cells were empty . The letter insisted that Sullivan be notified immediately and that something be done to " rectify the situation administratively . " The lawyers were alarmed as well and none more than Ira DeMent , who took up David Tanner 's cause when he initiated his independent lawsuit in early summer . The results of the experts ' tours demonstrated that the situation at Mt . Meigs was deteriorating just as rapidly as Sullivan maintained . Johnson 's response was to appoint DeMent amicus curiae " with full rights of a party " in the Tanner case . The U.S. attorney now worked even more closely with Taylor and Segall , developing evidence useful to all plaintiffs and permitting his office in Montgomery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to serve as a base of operations for lawyers in town for the cases . At approximately the same time , DeMent attempted something more dramatic . Concerned with the problems developing in local jails , now overflowing with prisoners bound for Mt . Meigs , he attempted to squeeze state authorities from both directions at once . Even as he and the others attacked Sullivan and the Board of Corrections for crowding at the state penitentiaries , DeMent attempted to challenge the conditions in local jails in a single , class action lawsuit in Judge Johnson 's court . He proposed to expand the plaintiff class in Adams v. Mathis , 45 a pending case involving only the Houston County Jail in Dothan , to include every jail prisoner in Alabama and , in an even more dramatic maneuver , to name all the state 's sheriffs as defendants . The sheriffs , for their part , actually approved DeMent 's action , understanding that they were sued only as a matter of form and that the real targets of the plan were state officials who controlled the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ locally . Judge Johnson , however , decided that it would be inappropriate to entertain a single lawsuit touching so many facilities at once . Although it was widely conceded that most jails were at least crowded , the judge could not assume that they were so similar in other respects that evidence regarding some could be taken as evidence regarding all . Accordingly , Johnson appointed DeMent as amicus in Adams , but he refused to permit that lawsuit to cover all 200 of Alabama 's local jails . In consequence , DeMent , and several Justice Department lawyers , among them Steve Whinston , were forced to litigate in Alabama on a jail-by-jail basis . They focused their attention on Adams and another case , Thomas v. Gloor , 4b involving the Jefferson County Jail . Elsewhere , private attorneys and the ACLU carried the load . All this proved too much for L. B. Sullivan , who resigned in late July . In one motion , the board agreed to Sullivan 's request to be appointed deputy commissioner for the remainder of the year and appointed the current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as commissioner . On the same day , Attorney General Baxley assailed the legislature for failing to respond to Sullivan 's request for funds . Echoing Larry Newman 's earlier statement , Baxley warned that , if something were not done soon , his staff would be unable to defend the prison system at the upcoming trial . As to Sullivan , he was sympathetic . Six months later , the former commissioner joined Baxley 's staff as an investigator . Sullivan remained at the Board of Corrections only long enough to testify in Pugh and James and to make one last plea for a larger bud- get . He was addressing the legislature on the day the trial opened at the other end of Dexter Avenue . The prisoners ' lawyers met in the U.S. attorney 's office for a strategy session on August 6 . DeMent gave the impression that he had talked to Johnson and understood that the judge was prepared to " do something . " Here again , the recurring suspicion that DeMent had Johnson 's ear encouraged the other lawyers . They discussed the witnesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pieces of evidence that still remained to be collected , and a few important assignments of responsibility . DeMent promised to send FBI agents to Mt . Meigs to gather last minute information on the assault rate there and to contact Norman Carlson , director of the U.S. Bureau of Prisons , to ensure that no federal penal authorities would testify for the defense . Bronstein agreed to prepare a draft motion for immediate relief in anticipation that the plaintiffs might wish to demand some instructions to state officials promptly on the conclusion of the trial . He also agreed to prepare a draft motion to name the members of the Board of Pardons and Paroles and the Alabama State Board of Education , the state treasurer , and the comptroller as additional defendants . If Lamar raised the familiar excuse that the penal system lacked the money needed to make improvements , the prisoners ' lawyers would be prepared to broaden their net to reach authorities who controlled the state 's purse strings . It remained only to file pretrial briefs to delineate the issues on which evidence would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way he had previously . Incarceration is the punishment established by law . Correction officials are not entitled to add to that punishment more than what , as a practical matter , are necessary concomitants of incarceration . Certainly , then , to place a prisoner in an environment where reasonable care will furnish him not even a likelihood of protection and safety from his fellow inmates , in and of itself , constitutes cruel and unusual punishment . Segall concentrated on the circumstances bringing about violence , steering clear of anything that might be construed as an attempt to secondguess penal policies in general . " For purposes of injunctive relief , " he declared , " the only question for this Court to determine is whether conditions at Atmore constitute cruel and unusual punishment . " To make that determination , Johnson should consider evidence with respect to crowding , classification , staffing , and various other matters , including the " lack of rehabilitation programs . " In sum , the plaintiffs in Pugh should win if prisoners ' living of conditions , taken in cumulative effect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutionally entitled to protection . Taylor took a different route in James . It has been the plaintiffs ' contention throughout this litigation that the real issues go much deeper than correction of inadequate plumbing , though that must be done , or improvement in education , vocational , and counselling programs , though that , too , needs to be made . Reformation of the entire system must be made to eliminate all conditions which cause a deterioration of those persons who enter the system . The basic proposition was , of course , the idea that Judge Johnson had accepted in the blueprint opinion a year earlier . Taylor claimed that inmates were constitutionally entitled to improve themselves if they chose to do so ; prison conditions that frustrated self-improvement and , indeed , caused deterioration could not be sustained . This contention , like Segall 's , focused attention on a rigorous investigation of conditions at each of Alabama 's institutions , with success under the Eighth Amendment turning on just how bad prisoners ' circumstances actually were . The restraint evidenced in the memoranda filed by Segall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Bronstein and Myers for the National Prison Project , which took responsibility for raising more dramatic contentions that all the lawyers on the plaintiffs ' side of the cases wished to put before the court . By agreement , Bronstein and Myers bowed steeply at the outset to Johnson 's blueprint opinion , extracting from it several overlapping claims on which the plaintiffs were entitled to relief . They cited a hopelessly inadequate system for classifying prisoners , the absence of facilities for elderly and emotionally disturbed inmates , the assignment of prisoners to housing units in which they were subjected to violent assault , and unreasonable restrictions on visitation between inmates and their families and friends . Then came the heart of James ? the Eighth Amendment argument that prisoners were entitled to living conditions in which self-improvement was possible . First , Bronstein and Myers promised Judge Johnson evidence that the conditions in Alabama 's prisons were intolerable , as measured by any reasonable standard . In this , they reiterated the offers of proof made by Segall and Taylor . Second , however , Bronstein and Myers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the prisoners in Alabama are incarcerated in large , rural prisons , subject to a maximum amount of regimentation and a minimum amount of independence , far from family and friends , far from the com- community to which they will inevitably return , and forced to spend the overwhelming majority of their time idle , living in large dormitories with no privacy and in constant fear of assault . Merely improving these conditions will not be sufficient to remedy the Constitutional violations of the rights of the plaintiff class . The fundamental issues raised ... will not be resolved by simply improving the sanitary conditions , or the quality of medical care , increasing the number of vocational , educational , social and psychological programs and remedying the overcrowded situation in the major prisons in Alabama . The problems inherent in incarceration in Alabama 's prisons necessitate fundamental changes in the Alabama prison system . This went well beyond Segall 's contention that prisoners were entitled to protection and beyond Taylor 's argument that prisoners were entitled to an opportunity to improve themselves . The National Prison Project proposed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inquiry into underlying penal policies adopted by Sullivan and the Board of Corrections . The point was explicit : " The very existence of the present Alabama prison system is what is being challenged .... " This surely was an occasion , and an important one , on which lawyers acting on behalf of prison inmates served notice of a frontal assault on Alabama penal practices taken as a whole . This litigation , they declared , was meant to produce a judicial decree that would order state authorities to abandon reliance on incarceration in large , rural , secure prisons and to develop alternative responses to crime . Lamar and Newman answered with a memorandum of their own , which moved quickly through the issues raised by Segall and Taylor , conceding deficiencies on occasion but denying that any conditions dipped beneath the constitutional floor . Then the defense lawyers turned to the National Prison Project 's arguments and met them squarely . The battlelines of this case will be drawn along an attack not merely on the prison system in Alabama , but upon the traditional American system of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purpose of a prison , but it is not the only purpose , and society , through its elected officials , has the right to determine what it shall do about those who steal , murder , main sic , rape and rob . It is not a province of a Court to say that because traditional incarceration does not rehabilitate prisoners , traditional incarceration should be abolished ... . Even assuming that alternatives to incarceration would more effectively achieve the goal of rehabilitation , the Courts have no authority  | under the Constitution to decide what methods the State should use in accomplishing its corrective goals and purposes . Lamar and Newman meant to protest an explicit inquiry into the advisability and efficacy of Alabama penal policy . If the National Prison Project turned the litigation in that direction , they hoped , first , to convince Johnson of their clients ' attempts to make improvements and , second , to underscore the risks of judging the wisdom of policies unrelated to the physical conditions of confinement . After more than a year of preparation , the Pugh and James @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on three levels . First , the parties were fiercely divided on the essentially political question whether penal authorities could shift responsibility for poor conditions to the legislature . While the plaintiffs contended that neither Sullivan 's alleged good faith nor the board 's inadequate budget was relevant to the legal issues at bar , the defendants insisted that Judge Johnson must acknowledge that many of the system 's deficiencies could and would be remedied voluntarily if sufficient funds were available . The debate at this level , initiated in Newman , promised to extend well beyond the present context and to influence events and behavior for years . Second , the parties were just as sharply divided over the extent to which Segall and Taylor could write the propositions in their two cases into the Eighth Amendment . Segall 's argument that poor conditions produced violence and Taylor 's contention that prisoners could not be denied an opportunity to rehabilitate themselves were problematic as matters of policy . The plaintiffs ' project to establish them in constitutional law was still more vexing . The apparent conflict between the parties on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examining the wisdom of Alabama 's penal policies apart from the physical conditions in the state prisons , was in large measure misleading , even false . Notwithstanding the grand manner of the National Prison Project 's brief and the sweeping vision it called forth , any suggestion of altering state penal policy so fundamentally had already been rejected in Judge Johnson 's blueprint opinion . Viewed realistically , the attempt to set the court 's sights higher , albeit prior to the opening of trial , was already too late . Events immediately following demonstrated as much . All the rhetoric , all the imagination , all the emotion embedded in that pretrial brief were subordinated at trial to the pedestrian effort to establish the deplorable physical conditions in the prisons . Once the litigation was focused on physical conditions , larger aspirations receded into insignificance ? not to be explicitly revived .  | Judge Johnson presided at trial in the firm style for which he was famous . Anyone in the room must be vitally concerned with the business at hand ; marshals instructed spectators to stop talking and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proceedings over glasses that seemed to slip lower as the hours passed . Occasionally , he rose , stood behind his chair , or walked back and forth behind the bench ? perhaps to encourage circulation , perhaps to register disapproval . Johnson showed no favorites . He was severe with all the lawyers , intending , as he had throughout his career , to strike an intimidating posture in order to foster the appropriate decorum in his courtroom . By contrast , he was extremely cordial to witnesses . Johnson understood that the expert witnesses had inconvenienced themselves to testify and made it clear that he appreciated their efforts . If anything , the judge was even more sensitive to the prisoners whom Taylor and Segall brought to Montgomery . Unlike other judges , who preferred to maintain tight security when prison inmates were in court , Johnson allowed no distracting precautionary measures . During trial , Worley James and another named plaintiff in the James case , William Campbell , were in the custody of federal marshals . Yet there were no handcuffs , no chains . At recesses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside . Inmates called to testify were also well treated . In was inconceivable that anyone , even a convicted felon , would dare disturb proceedings before Judge Johnson . The marshals anticipated that prisoners would behave themselves , and they did . ' The gallery was typically crowded . Many employees of the Board of Corrections were in attendance . And , of course , the press was represented in strength . Local newspaper and television reporters were eclipsed at times by camera crews from the national networks and special correspondents for the New York Times and the Wall Street Jour- nal . Public opinion regarding the testimony was important to both sides . To ensure that reporters accurately registered the significance of the proceedings as they progressed , Steve Suitts and Al Bronstein routinely made themselves available at recesses . This was the formal test of the case against the Alabama prison system . Future events were ever affected by the testimony at this lengthy trial , the strategies chosen by the two sides and , certainly , Judge Johnson 's judgment and injunctive order , which followed the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wednesday , August 20 , Segall 's first witness was Horace C. Sutterer , one of several inmates and former inmates whose shocking testimony established emotional momentum in the trial 's early hours . Sutterer had been convicted of minor drug offenses and had served only a year in prison . Yet he had been assigned to most of the institutions in the system . Now a college student in Birmingham , he was able to reflect on his experience in a credible , convincing manner . He recalled that designated inmates , called " strikers , " were given supervisory authority over other inmates in the agricultural fields adjacent to G. K. Fountain and that , when recalcitrant prisoners refused to work , the " strikers " assaulted them with " hoe handles , " " broomsticks , " or " home-made knives . " Other prisoners , called " flunkies , " had responsibility for breaking up fights in the dormitories . The guards , according to Sutterer , dared not enter large dormitories at night and preferred to rely on armed flunkies to keep order . That , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other prisoners afraid to challenge them on their rounds . The influence of money in the system was dramatic . It was possible , according to Sutterer , to purchase virtually anything ? drugs , weapons , women . Prisoners responded to the need for funds by developing ingenious schemes to earn it . Sutterer himself had ghostwritten term papers and taken tests for some guards . There were other things , gruesome things . Sutterer said that a rat had once been found in a vat of food , that sexual violence was common , and that most prisoners he knew carried makeshift weapons for self-protection . Another inmate-witness , Jimmy Mason , confirmed most of Sutterer 's testimony . Under questioning by Taylor , he said he had seen rapes and other episodes of violence at Mt . Meigs , worked in the fields at Fountain under the eyes of mounted guards with shotguns , and spent several weeks in the punishment cells at Holman . These last , according to Mason , were much like the cells in the doghouse at Draper ; that is , there were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Prisoners sat naked on the floor in tiny cells opened only once each day for a meager  | meal . Later , Mason had been placed in the " lockup " at Holman , where he was kept in a " cage cell " for twenty-four hours a day , with one hour a week free for exercise in an adjacent yard called the " sun parlor . " He had been transferred to Fountain after violence broke out in the Holman lockup , and he had witnessed guards beating the inmates responsible . There , in midwinter , the windows had been broken in the dormitory , and there were no blankets . He slept on a concrete slab , and at night saw rats " as big as cats . " From Fountain , Mason had been sent to a " road camp " at Troy , Alabama , where he had narrowly escaped being stabbed in the back , to Mt . Meigs again , and then back to Fountain ? where he finally was stabbed by another inmate . He recalled being awakened on another occasion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chased around Mason 's bunk . It is questionable whether these " horror stories " from prisoners were effective . Segall speculates that Judge Johnson may have discounted inmate testimony entirely or , at least , preferred to rest on evidence given by others . In particular , the judge may have doubted the testimony of a third inmate-witness , whose explosive testimony caused such concern even to the lawyers that he was asked to pass a polygraph test before taking the stand . Known in the prison system as " Big John , " the witness acknowledged that he was one of the flunkies or strikers described by Sutterer . Armed with a knife , he had patrolled the dormitories and supervised inmates in the fields . Big John described routine violence of all kinds ? assaults by some prisoners on others and beatings at the hands of other flunkies or the guards themselves . He accused one warden of ordering him to keep frightened prisoners in their cells and to " knock the shit out of " anyone found out of his cell . He accused another of threatening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fountain and of permitting the guards to club prisoners after the melee that took Dobbins ' life . And he accused still another of using him as a household servant , sometimes grilling beef stolen from the institution kitchen . This testimony , if believed , made explicit what earlier evidence had only suggested . Men with important administrative positions in the Alabama prison system were now associated with the deliberate , in some instances criminal , mistreatment of inmates in their charge . ' Judge Johnson was almost certainly moved by the testimony of a fourth inmate , a 20-year-old prisoner whom the parties conceded to be " mentally retarded . " 4 This inmate had been found and prepared to testify by Ira DeMent . Now , in open court and in time for the afternoon  | headlines , the prisoner delivered the most gripping testimony of the trial . Convicted of burglary and sent to prison for three years , he became a victim on the very day he arrived at Mt . Meigs . DEMENT : Would you tell the court , please , what happened ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to my cell . . . there was a black male came up there ... and asked me where I was from and that he wanted to talk to me ... and asked me will I come down to his cell .... So I went to his cell ... he started talking about having sex with me , and I said no . And he said well , we are going to have sex with you anyway , and I said no again . Then I left and went back to my cell .... DEMENT : Where were the guards ? WITNESSES : I do n't know .... Well , after I went back to my cell there ... another guy came up there , what they call Conversation . . . grabbed ahold of my wrist and led me to the next cell . And inside the cell there was an older black male , inside the cell there , and asked me to pull off my clothes and I say no .... And the one they call Conversation said that he had a knife and he would n't mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ me a little bit more so I pulled off my clothes . DEMENT : What occurred then ? WITNESS : Then they continued to rape me . DEMENT : How many of them raped you ? WITNESS : Four .... DEMENT : Where were the guards all this time ? WITNESS : I do n't know ... . DEMENT : Now , were you ever beaten up ... ? WITNESS : Yes , sir .... By a white inmate ... started beating on me and said that he do n't like fuckboys and snitches ... . DEMENT : Where were the guards at that time ? WITNESS : I do n't know . . . . And then he tore part of his cover off his blanket , ... put it around my neck , was going to hang me ... tore it down like that in a strip , ... put it around my neck .... DEMENT : Where did he put the other end ?  | WITNESS : Around the bars . DEMENT : Did he pull it tight ? WITNESS : Yes , sir .... And that 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , you know , do n't . . . hang him . . . . And then he was talking about making some money off of me right there in that cellblock and that they would take care of me .... DEMENT : How were they going to make money off of you ? WITNESS : Selling me ... sell my ass ... . DEMENT : Did you ever talk to the assistant warden out there about this ? WITNESS : Yes , sir .... He made a sarcastic question to me . He asked me did they get a little pussy .... I did n't , I did n't know what else to say to him but yes . And then he said there is nothing I can do ... . The courtroom was unusally quiet during and immediately following this testimony . Participants and observers who had not previously been touched personally by the evidence now felt the dread , and the utter hopelessness , of a young man thrust into intolerable circumstances with no recourse , no hope of rescue . There was nothing to be said . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ name of the officer who had been so callous , but he waived cross-examination . The other lawyers sat in stunned silence . Then , slowly , they shuffled back to the work at hand . Bronstein called the next witness and the trial continued . The presentation of expert witnesses was for the most part successful and according to plan . ' Their testimony placed in the record the great body of evidence on which Judge Johnson based his findings of fact . Under Segall 's questioning , Sarver condemned the prison system in blunt language . Fountain , he said , was " very , very dirty and unbelievably overcrowded . " Prisoners there existed in a " veritable jungle , " living on food he could not " attempt " to eat himself . The officials with whom he spoke were " defensive " and seemed to consider inmates " something less than human . " Black prisoners were routinely called " niggers " by the guards . Conditions were not merely bad in Sarver 's telling . They were " terrible . " Especially in the dormitories @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to satisfy even minimal standards of decency : " The mattresses were old and filthy . The bedding was filthy . The floor was dirty . It was a very unwholesome , demoralizing , degrading and debilitating place to house human beings . "  | Crowding was an overriding concern . Sarver declared that every prison inmate should be allotted between sixty and eighty square feet of living space . Accordingly , dormitories at Fountain could accommodate approximately eighty , instead of 200 beds . Crowding contributed , in Sarver 's telling , to the incidence of violence in the dormitories . Starved for privacy , prisoners hung sheets and towels down over lower bunks , making it impossible for guards to monitor what was happening in and behind those bunks . Even if that practice were banned , according to Sarver , the current system for maintaining order could not hope to be successful . Guard stations were few and poorly placed . On the day he visited Fountain , two officers had responsibility for supervising nearly 1000 prisoners . Verifying the testimony given by Sutterer and Mason , Sarver @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , for their own safety , those who were on duty did not venture into the dormitories after dark . At a minimum , Sarver told Judge Johnson , there should be two guards inside each dormitory , reinforced by other officers just outside the door and at other strategic locations . Even if crowding in the dormitories were eliminated , Sarver went on , fundamental structural flaws would remain . Dormitories , he said , enjoyed no support within the profession : " It 's a bad system . It 's just cheap ; cheap warehousing . " The only safe use of dormitories , in his view , was for carefully screened prisoners who posed no risk of violence . Alabama had no rational program for the classification of prisoners and certainly had not screened the inmates assigned to dormitories at Fountain ? or anywhere else . Prisoners were simply thrown together and left to settle among themselves the rights to a bed , a blanket , or a place in line for the rare urinal or toilet that would still flush . The only exceptions occurred in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general population by their own request or for " mental problems . " On his tour of those cells , Sarver came up on a teenaged prisoner whom he understood to be " badly mentally retarded . " The young man had been there for some time , but had no idea why . For the run of prisoners , there was very simply no classification at all . Sarver was blunt : " There is no classification ; there is no segregation ; there is no maximum ; there is no minimum in this system . They all do time side by side . " Beyond crowding and inadequate classification , Sarver complained about faulty plumbing and poor food . The kitchen at Fountain was particularly shocking ; Sarver said he could not " imagine human beings trying to eat in that situation . " His account of the Fountain version of the doghouse was sobering . Sarver had found five black prisoners in a  | cell not large enough for one . Once again , prisoners in punishment cells had no mattresses or bedding , no running water , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a guard could flush from the outside . They were allowed to shower only once in eleven days . The captain of the guard actually seemed to be " proud " of that . In the end , Sarver said that the conditions in these cells were the worst he had ever seen , until he visited the doghouse at Draper . Forced idleness , Sarver maintained , could not but cause inmates to deteriorate psychologically . Some prisioners , to be sure , worked in the argricultural fields in season ; others were employed in clerical , janitorial , and similar capacities within the institutions ; and a comparative few were enrolled in grossly inadequate educational and vocational programs . In the main , however , prisoners in the Alabama prison system were asked to do , and did , nothing ? day after day , year after year . Prisoners were like " caged animals . " Theirs , Sarver insisted , was a " demoralizing , debasing , degrading and ultimately destroying existence . " To reduce the incidence of violence , the system should , at a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to occupy their time and to keep them from dwelling on the fact of their incarceration . Commenting more generally on the prison system in response to questioning by Myers , Sarver decried the way in which " aged and infirm " prisoners were housed in an upstairs dormitory at Draper , the absence of adequate educational , vocational , and recreational programs there , and the " negative attitude " of the staff . He insisted that 60 to 70 percent of the Alabama inmate population should not be in prison at all but should be housed in minimum security facilities in the community . He conceded that dangerous offenders must be kept apart from society ; but he pointed out , by way of illustration , that murderers rarely repeated their crimes and posed no significant threat to the community on release . Finally , Sarver explained that rural whites recruited from small towns near the major institutions made poor supervisors for black prisoners and that the board should hire more black guards . Carl Clements was equally effective . He had worked closely with Knowles in preparation for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more detail than could be achieved through Sarver or other out-of-town witnesses who had spent only a short time in the institutions . Moreover , Clements could draw inferences from his own evidence and , like Sarver before him , give Judge Johnson his professional opinion about the effects of those conditions on inmates forced to endure them . Clements described shocking crowding in the dormitories and idleness relieved only by occasional assignments to the agri- cultural fields . That work was hard , and some prisoners escaped it by enrolling in bible-reading courses at the chapel ? typically the only clean room available . Occasional rehabilitative programs were set apart from the " mainstream " of prison life and operated as " satellites , " affecting few prisoners . A professional psychologist from Mobile was on the payroll , but he spent his limited time with emergency cases . And , of course , inmates seemed always to be heavily armed . As one prisoner explained to Clements , it was better to risk being caught with a weapon by a guard than to chance being caught without one by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the J. F. Ingram Trade School , where some prisoners took vocational training . The number of inmates enrolled in that program was small , however , and Clements judged the enterprise grossly inadequate . He expressed the same view of the " token programming " at Holman Prison . The formal classification system at Mt . Meigs , developed by a former staff member , Hugh Swafford , was tolerable in design but frustrated in practice . Clements was astonished that prisoners ' " adjustment " to life in the notorious North Dormitory was taken to be a fair measure of their ability generally to live peaceably with others . Relying heavily on that kind of information and little else , classification teams ignored their own procedures in a rush to move prisoners through the system . When Clements was there , the new director of classification , John E. Nagle , told him that forty men had been processed in only two hours ? hardly long enough for deliberative decision-making . Classification touched on Clements ' field of expertise and , to capitalize on that point , DeMent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trial . He sent his deputy up to establish that , if asked , the Center for Correctional Psychology could design a classification scheme for the penal system ? thus placing in the record at least one possibility for addressing the classification problem . Other witnesses contributed important details . Walt Lindsey , a former classification officer , explained that Swafford had resigned when he was placed under the authority of the warden at Mt . Meigs , and , thereafter , Nagle had made classification a " rubber stamp " for the predilections of wardens . The warden at Frank Lee Youth Center , concededly the best institution in the system , now had authority to select prisoners for assignment to that facility . John McKee , a consultant to the Bryce Hospital human rights committee appointed in connection with Wyatt , reported that the facilities for " aged and infirm " prisoners at Draper reminded him of the " worst " of the wards at Bryce prior to the Wyatt order . John Boone gave a graphic description of the doghouse , and Bill  | Nagel insisted that Alabama @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were reduced to what state authorities maintained was their " design capacity . " Norval Morris and John Conrad blamed outrageous conditions on poor management and urged the appointment of a professional administrator to institute reforms . More powerful testimony came from a surprising source . Theodore Gordon , a public health officer from the District of Columbia , delivered crushing blows to a prison system already reeling from the testimony of earlier witnesses . Gordon had no expertise in penal policy or mental health ; he was a professional inspector of institutions who relied on standards established by the U.S. Public Health Service , supplemented by a widely followed handbook prepared for the U.S. Bureau of Prisons . He had toured each of the institutions in Alabama and now reported a laundry list of health and safety hazards throughout the system . Crowding , faulty wiring , inoperable plumbing , and inadequate waste disposal could only breed disease . Filth and vermin were everywhere . Aside from ubiquitous flies , Gordon reported mice in the food storage areas at Fountain and Draper , a bug " as big as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and roach infestations everywhere . There was never enough hot water to keep the institutions , particularly the kitchens , clean and free of disease . Prisoners had no eating utensils at Fountain , slept on the floor near leaking toilets at Draper and Mt . Meigs , and languished in their own feces in isolation at Draper and Holman . Poor lighting damaged prisoners ' eyesight ; poor ventilation promised airborne diseases ; dirty mattresses guaranteed fungus diseases . Gordon wasted little time . In just the way he might have written a report in Washington , he ticked off hazard after hazard . Asked in the end for his conclusions regarding the institutions he had described , he was blunt . If he found facilities of this kind in the District of Columbia , he would have them closed as " unfit for human habitation . " He frankly doubted whether the older structures , Fountain and Draper , could ever be brought up to minimal public health standards . In planning a defense to the powerful case against the Alabama prison system , Bob Lamar was realistic . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no hope of rebutting their testimony regarding the physical conditions under which prisoners lived . Indeed , he had stipulated to some of the most damaging points prior to trial . The important issue now was the scope of the relief that would be awarded . Perhaps in consequence of that focus , Lamar 's cross-examination of the plaintiffs ' experts was rarely thorough , often inartful , and occasionally actually damaging to the defense . Even when he identified weaknesses in wit- nesses ' testimony , those same witnesses were often able to convert unfriendly questions into opportunities to make points valuable to the plaintiffs . ' For example , Lamar forced Sarver to acknowledge that the institutions for which he had had responsibility in Arkansas also housed prisoners in dormitories , that , at the time , the Arkansas system had no classification officers at all , that he , too , had used primitive cells to discipline recalcitrant inmates , and that violence had been a serious problem in Arkansas just as it was still in Alabama . On this last point , however , Sarver embroidered his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmates who " creeped up on " other prisoners and stabbed them in their sleep . To avoid creepers , prisoners developed a defense ? " catching the bars . " They came to the front of the dormitories and stood there all night , grasping the bars in view of the guards . " It 's not wise , " Sarver said , " to sleep in one of those barracks if you have been threatened . " Stories of this kind hardly undermined Sarver 's testimony that prisoners should not be housed in dormitories . Similarly , Lamar established that Clements subscribed to the basic tenets of behavioral psychology popularized by B. F. Skinner and suggested that he faulted Alabama 's " Christian " theory of penology only because it was inconsistent with his indiosyncratic perspective on good penal policy . The tactic was frustrated , however , when Judge Johnson himself asked whether rehabilitative programs were linked to prisoners ' psychological state . That question permitted Clements to explain that human motivations for self-improvement could be frustrated by the absence of such opportunities , thus neatly tying the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Judge Johnson interjected with his own questions on other occasions . For example , when Jimmy Mason described a dormitory at Fountain , Johnson pressed the inmate for the precise number of prisoners held there . On other occasions , Johnson interrupted to steer counsel in the direction he wished the trial to move . At times , he complained only of repetition . For example , when Myers asked Sarver whether the conditions at other institutions were similar to what he had seen at Fountain , the judge urged him to move on . Even in this , there was substantive significance . It was critical to the plaintiffs that Johnson should conclude that conditions were poor in all the prisons so that any relief awarded could reach the entire system . By cutting off questions touching other institutions , Johnson did not so much frustrate Myers ' attempt to prove what he had to prove ; the judge signaled that the evidence already offered was sufficient .  | In still other instances , Johnson interrupted to foreclose counsel 's attempts to explore issues that , in their judgment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ criticize the use of rural white guards to supervise urban black prisoners , the judge bristled at questions linking the location of the state 's major insititutions to poor visiting opportunities . That line of questioning , he declared , would not " get Myers ' Eighth Amendment case . " The comment was ambiguous . Yet it suggested , once again , that Judge Johnson was not prepared to second-guess the state 's policy of incarcerating offenders in large , rural prisons . He was interested primarily , perhaps exclusively , in the physical conditions of life in the institutions the state had chosen to employ . Johnson reacted in a like manner when DeMent and Bronstein ranged into sentencing and parole policy in their interrogation of John Conrad . When Bronstein replied that plaintiffs ' counsel might yet name the Alabama parole authorities as defendants , Johnson nonetheless refused to hear testimony about what might be accomplished if parole policy were changed . In due course , he rejected Bronstein 's motion to involve the parole board , and that body never assisted significantly in the drive to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he summoned John Braddy , now the prison system 's planning coordinator , to explain to Judge Johnson that the highway department 's decision to close the old road camps had exacerbated crowding in the prisons . Johnson showed interest in that issue and asked pointedly whether some of the camps might be reopened . In describing the work that would have to be done to refurbish the camps , however , Braddy mentioned that the National Advisory Commission on Criminal Justice Standards and Goals , appointed by President Nixon , had recently suggested that prisoners be accorded a minimum of eighty square feet of living space . Lamar recognized the danger and quickly asked Braddy whether floor space devoted to showers and recreational activities was included . Braddy read directly from the text , which referred explicitly to single rooms " with a floor area of at least eighty square feet . " The judge gave his interpretation of that language on the spot : " That 's talking about personal space . " With respect to other defense witnesses , Lamar 's strategy was devoted to persuading Judge Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sweeping judicial order to force change . He offered evidence calculated to assure the judge that the men in charge of the prison system were capable , responsible public officials who could be relied on to make needed improvements on their own , but with additional financial support . Lamar thus chose as his first witness the sys- tern 's highest-ranking black administrator , Courtney B. Crenshaw , then directing a work release center for female offenders . The tactic was transparent and ultimately counterproductive , largely because Lamar asked Crenshaw about his earlier involvement in the employment of prison system employees . That opened the defense witness to a withering cross-examination , which demonstrated that those programs were fundamentally flawed . On direct examination , for example , Crenshaw said that new employees must now have a high school diploma , that he had attempted to recruit black applicants for prison jobs , and that a new training program promised to produce " correctional counselors " badly needed in Alabama 's institutions . On cross-examination , he was forced to concede that current employees were exempted from the new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held high school diplomas , that his efforts to recruit blacks had been largely unsuccessful , and that " correctional counselor " was only a " high sounding name for a guard . " Most important , Crenshaw acknowledged that most of the new training program was devoted to law enforcement skills unrelated to work in the prisons . Indeed , he confessed that much of the instruction was a " waste of time . " Lamar 's similar strategy regarding another defense witness , John Nagle , was equally unsuccessful . Nagle attempted to portray his classification program as basically sound , but overburdened . It was true , he said , that many prisoners were passed through without the screening that Swafford 's plan envisioned . Yet Nagle insisted that his staff could do no better in the crowded circumstances at Mt . Meigs and that prisoners were properly classified after they reached long-term institutions . On cross-examination , however , he was forced to concede that most prisoners were automatically classified " maximum security " on entry to the system , that inmates of all custody grades were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that line personnel at those institutions usually decided what work , if any , prisoners should be assigned to do . Finally , in a revealing exchange with Bronstein , Nagle acknowledged that the system was so desperately crowded that most staff would welcome a judicial order forbidding the acceptance of more prisoners . Lamar 's best witness was L. B. Sullivan , who tried , as he had in Newman , to blame others for the many problems besetting the prison system . Sullivan said the prisons were poorly maintained because he had been forced to use scarce funds to purchase food , clothing , and medical supplies . He ascribed prison violence to inadequate custodial staff and declared that by his own calculations he needed 700 guards to  | supervise the 4000 inmates for whom the major institutions were designed . At present , he had fewer than 400 guards to contend with a population of more than 5000 . During the last year , the prices of the goods and services the prison system must purchase had risen sharply . Yet the budget established by the legislature was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Certainly , Sullivan insisted , there was no money with which to make improvements . If , indeed , the population of the prisons could be reduced to " design capacity , " he would still need more than $26 million per year simply to meet operating expenses ? apart from the funds needed for capital construction . As it was , he was allotted only about $12 million . Sullivan claimed that he had tried to make changes . He took credit for Swafford 's classification system , although he confessed that crowding had frustrated Nagle 's efforts to use it . He embraced the system 's scattered educational and vocational programs , all of which , he pointed out , were financed by the Alabama Department of Education . And he boasted of the work release centers in several communities . After Sullivan , the defense called only three wardens . Bill Long denied that he controlled Nagle 's classification decisions and that he had ever ordered Big John to assault prisoners . He conceded , however , that crowding and violence were problems at his institution and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guards to protect him . Bill Gilmore , warden at the Frank Lee Youth Center , denied that he exercised a veto over assignments to that institution . He explained that only first offenders under 23 years of age and serving sentences of ten years or less were eligible for Frank Lee . Under cross-examination , Gilmore conceded that the prisoner population there was predominantly white . Finally , Marion Harding denied that strikers and flunkies were given authority over other inmates or instructed to assault other prisoners . He specifically denied significant parts of Big John 's testimony about the George Dobbins incident , including the allegation that he had allowed guards to beat prisoners thought to be involved , and blamed prison violence on " revolutionaries " within the inmate population . Lamar recalls that he offered this testimony from the wardens because Long , Gilmore , and Harding were the state 's best ? to show Judge Johnson that the prisons were in the hands of reliable administrators . The testimony the wardens actually gave , however , is consistent with the view taken by opposing counsel ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if unrebutted , might have threatened personal liability for the mistreatment of prisoners . ' As the defense witnesses were giving evidence , decisions being  | made outside the courtroom were rapidly bringing the trial to an end ahead of schedule . The critical point was Wednesday evening , August 27 , just after the plaintiffs had rested their case . The prisoners ' lawyers were confident now of victory . They believed that Judge Johnson had been convinced by their evidence and that for the remainder of the trial he would merely " go through the motions " to accord the defendants their " day in court " before deciding in the plaintiffs ' favor . On that supposition , it seemed timely to ask for a preliminary order regarding a range of pressing issues . Bronstein drew up a motion asking the judge to appoint a " Receiver or Special Master " to make dramatic changes in the prison system , including the elimination of dormitories housing more than sixty minimum security prisoners and the renovation or abandonment of the system 's older facilities . ' Also on Wednesday @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Long 's home across town . In contrast to the plaintiffs ' assessment , Lamar , Sullivan , and Baxley reached the judgment that all was not lost , that defense witnesses to date , particularly Sullivan himself , had been effective , and that their original objective in the litigation might yet be achieved . The idea was not to avoid an injunction altogether , but to limit the breadth and specificity of the decree that Judge Johnson seemed certain to issue . Having attempted to establish that the prison system was in responsible hands and that the real blame should be ascribed to inadequate funding by the legislature , the defense team hoped that the judge would concentrate on financial support instead of on matters that , in the defense view , touched on penal policy . Specifically , they hoped that the judge would not specify the space that must be allotted to each inmate or the number of guards that must be posted at particular places within the institutions . They hoped instead that he would order the expenditure of much larger sums of money on various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Mr. Locke , would be able to take the decree to the legislature and succeed with a judicial order where Sullivan had failed without one.10 Lamar had expected to offer his own expert witnesses . Yet one possibility , Dr. George J. Beto , formerly director of the Texas Department of Corrections , had refused him , and others failed in the end to appear . Accordingly , the group at Long 's home chose an alternative tactic . They would put the three wardens on the stand the next morning , and then they would concede that the plaintiffs had proved their case . It was possible , of course , merely to rest the defense and end the trial . Confessing a constitutional violation was a superior stragegy for three related reasons . First , it would demonstrate that Sullivan , Locke , and the others  | fully appreciated the gravity of the problems in the prison system . The chances of persuading the judge to trust the ability and good faith of state officials might , accordingly , be enhanced . Second , a concession might permit the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be decided . Lamar might be able to avoid a decision resting on the theories proposed by Segall and Taylor and guarantee one relying more concretely on the system 's physical conditions . Lamar anticipated , in this vein , that he could couch the concession in a way that would make it difficult for Johnson to recognize any " right to rehabilitation " in these cases . Finally , a concession would focus attention on the scope of relief . In light of the defendants ' willingness to admit sins of the past , the judge might accept their pledge to do better in the future and thus enter a narrowly drawn order . " Next day , Lamar met Bronstein in the hallway during a recess and told him that he was ready to concede . Bronstein was cautious . He asked Lamar bluntly whether Baxley had agreed to this move . Lamar responded that he was , in fact , acting on the attorney general 's " instructions . " When the last defense witness , Harding , was finished just before noon , Bronstein asked a marshal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Johnson invited them to meet with him immediately after lunch . It was then that Lamar informed the judge of the decision to acknowledge defeat . Memories are in conflict regarding the plaintiffs ' reaction to this unexpected development . Bronstein recalls that everyone agreed that acceptance of Lamar 's concession would at least protect a favorable judgment from reversal on appeal . While Lamar remained free to object to the relief Johnson might issue , his concession would presumably bar an appeal regarding the threshold determination that conditions in the prisons were unconstitutional . For that reason , the plaintiffs should welcome the defense decision . Others report that the concession was raised , made , and accepted so quickly that serious discussion of it did not occur . Segall recalls that a newspaper reporter informed him of Lamar 's decision to " give up " only a few minutes before Segall returned to the courtroom after lunch . Whatever the better recollection of events , no one saw reason to enter an explicit objection . The conference with Judge Johnson was brief but memorable . Lamar formally announced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we are able to put on more testimony . Most of it will be cumulative and , frankly , we do n't see any point in going on . . . . I have talked it over with the other lawyers in the case . . . . At this point the  | Board of Corrections and Attorney General 's Office feels that a totality case has been made out . We do oppose , and I think the testimony has shown that we deny , certain . . . theories on which the plaintiffs are seeking relief . But we think that relief is appropriate by any conscionable judgment on the evidence under a totality concept , and that 's it . Lamar purported to speak for the Board of Corrections and , accordingly , board employees such as Sullivan and Locke , and for Baxley . He did not mention Governor Wallace , a named defendant in the James case . Moreover , Lamar apparently meant to embrace only the broad proposition that the " totality " of the conditions in the Alabama prison system constituted cruel and unusual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not mention rehabilitation ; nor did he concede that any particular aspect of prison life was unconstitutional . Nor , indeed , did he articulate the more precise Eighth Amendment theories on which the cases had been litigated by Segall and Taylor . No one probed beneath Lamar 's statement , however . Judge Johnson , for his part , seemed only to be concerned that Lamar repeat it in court , so that the public might hear that the officials responsible for the prison system now agreed that conditions there were unconstitutional and , accordingly , that the court had authority to act . " Johnson turned next to Bronstein 's motion . He said he preferred not to " piecemeal " relief in cases of this kind and , for that reason , he refused to deal early with most matters . Yet he warned that some things could not wait . In a revealing statement , Johnson made clear his immediate and ultimate intentions and , in so doing , invoked the precedent that had lurked in the background of the prison cases from their inception : There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are entitled to relief .... They are entitled to wide-scale , long-term relief . Now , ... what constitutes immediate relief depends upon whether you 're in one of these isolation cells or . . . down here in an air-conditioned courtroom .... I 'm going to issue . . . a far-reaching injunctive order designed to eliminate the Eighth Amendment violations and give the plaintiffs the relief to which they are clearly entitled , and designed to put the defendants in a better position insofar as securing the means through which they can comply . We are in the same position in this case that we were at the close of the evidence in the Wyatt-Stickney case , precisely the same position . Then and there , Johnson gave oral instructions that , effective immediately , disciplinary cells must measure at least forty-five square feet in area and must be equipped with working toilets and hot and cold run- ping water . Prisoners must be provided with basic toiletries , fed three times a day , and permitted regular showers , visitation , and exercise . Inasmuch as the cells @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they must be closed . Johnson hesitated to order the state to cease accepting new prisoners . He said that he wished to avoid the perception that he was " trying to run around " Judge Hand , who was scheduled to consider a similar decree in the McCray case next day . Accordingly , Johnson said he would talk to Judge Hand . With that , the conference ended . The judge and the lawyers went back into the courtroom for Lamar 's public statement . When it was in the record , Johnson gave the lawyers a schedule for post-trial briefs and adjourned the proceedings . Counsel on both sides gathered for cocktails and more talk . The trial of the Alabama prison cases was over . The next day , Johnson joined Judge Hand in a decree enjoining state authorities from " accepting or permitting the acceptance " of new prisoners into the system until the population of the four major institutions was reduced to the " design capacity " of those facilities . In a separate order , Johnson granted a motion to transfer Big John to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his sentence . Johnson denied a similar motion regarding the young man who had been raped at Mt . Meigs because prison authorities assured the judge that the inmate would be protected from reprisals within the Alabama system . A few days later , Sullivan filed an affidavit with the court , declaring that the Draper doghouse had been closed and that all the prisoners still being punished were in cells meeting the specifications that Johnson had fixed during his conference with counsel . Press accounts of the trial had reported witnesses ' testimony in great detail and , as the proceedings wore on , many newspapers offered editorial conclusions . The Alabama Journal lamented that the " most telling commentary " on the prison system was that reporters could sit through hours of " horror stories " and " shrug it off with a so-what-elseis-new attitude . " It was plain , and it had been plain for a very long time , that the state 's prisons were the sites of " pervasive fear , violence , and degradation . " Now , with what the Montgomery Advertiser called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local press pushed hard for immediate action ? from someone . Penal authorities still blamed the legislature . In a prepared statement , Lamar insisted that " this unfortunate situation " might have been averted if the legislature had heeded Sullivan 's pleas for assistance . He pronounced it a " sad day " for state government " when a federal court has to step in and take control of an  | entire state agency " because elected officials refused to appropriate sufficient funds . The national press was also disturbed that judical action was necessary in Alabama , but equally resigned to reliance on the court in the face of intransigence from state government . The Washington Post worried that federal judges had only " blunt " tools with which to effect social change , but insisted that those tools must be used in situations the Constitution could not tolerate . Myers ' post-trial brief pored over the testimony taken at trial and matched it to factual findings the plaintiffs hoped Johnson would make . Inasmuch as the National Prison Project 's pretrial brief had treated the legal issues in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the theories put forward earlier , spotlighted Lamar 's concession , and concentrated on the particulars of an injunctive decree that would bring the prison system into compliance with the Eighth Amendment . Myers reviewed the history of the Holt case in Arkansas , in which Judge Henley 's failure to issue a detailed order in the first instance had apparently delayed necessary improvements and generated years of additional litigation over compliance into the bargain . The point was clear . Johnson should not be taken in by Lamar 's strategy ; the state officials responsible for the Alabama prison system would not act without an order specifying precisely what they must do . Most of the things the judge was asked to do now had been noted in Bronstein 's earlier motion . Johnson should make permanent the preliminary orders he had already issued placing a " cap " on the system 's population and fixing minimum conditions in segregation . In addition , he should order a number of changes , some to be effected immediately and others within specified periods of time . He should order the defendants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cell , to ensure that any new cells measured at least eighty square feet , to house only " minimum security " prisoners in dormitories , to ensure that each prisoner assigned to a dormitory was accorded at least sixty square feet of " personal living space , " to hire sufficient guards and other personnel to staff the prisons according to national standards , to establish educational and vocational programs sufficient to allow every willing prisoner to participate , to establish employment programs sufficient to give every willing prisoner an opportunity to work , to create recreational programs and facilities adequate to accommodate all inmates on a regular basis , to improve mail service and visitation for prisoners , to enter a contract with the Center for Correctional Psychology to " implement " a proper classification program , to establish sufficient " community facilities " to house all offenders found to be " eligible " for work release or similar  | programs , and to prepare a plan for renovating or closing the four major institutions and Tutwiler , the institution for women . Finally , Johnson should appoint a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his order and , perhaps , a " panel of experts " to develop the plans for refurbishing the system 's physical facilities . Lamar 's response conceded that the prison system was " besieged with a number of problems and shortages , " but argued that " deficiencies " were a function of crowding . The system had too many prisoners , too few guards , and too little money to reduce the numbers of the one or to increase the numbers of the other . Lamar said he had conceded " only " that the " totality " of conditions in the prisons constituted a violation of the Eighth Amendment and intimated that , with the infusion of more funds , the system would meet constitutional standards apart from the other matters the plaintiffs had asked Judge Johnson to address . He reiterated the state 's refusal to recognize any " right to rehabilitation " and condemned most of the plaintiffs ' other ideas as attempts to change " penal philosophy " better left to the board . For the moment at least , the lawyers ' work was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's judgment . Others , by contrast , were immediately affected by the action the judge had already taken . Jail prisoners and county sheriffs were the first to feel the impact of the cap on the prison system 's population . Criminal offenders newly sentenced to prison terms could not be shipped to Mt . Meigs but must , instead , be kept at local jails , exacerbating crowded conditions in those facilities . With more crowding came not only human suffering but additional expense . Baxley 's office declared that the state treasury was responsible for the costs of housing sentenced prisoners in the jails , but the funds actually received from the Board of Corrections rarely compensated local authorities fully . Commissioner Locke admitted that local officials were in " serious trouble " and that the problem of backing sentenced prisoners up into the jails could only become worse . City and county officials echoed his sentiment with vigor . Sheriff Pearson in Lee County complained that Johnson " just did n't realize the problems he was creating . " Pearson and others did what they could , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end there was no coping with the press of more and more bodies . " The consequences of crowding in the jails were not all bad . Judges tended in some instances to be freer with bail ( thus reducing the number of pretrial detainees with whom the jails must contend ) and to sentence more offenders to probation ( thus reducing the number of sentenced prisoners to be incarcerated ) . There was even talk that the state 's sen- tencing policies might be changed to eliminate imprisonment as a routine penalty for " victimless " crimes . Sheriff Robert Turner summed things up bluntly : " We 've got to save . . . space in the county jails for those who are a threat to society . " From statements of that kind it was a short step to more controversial remarks such as those offered by Fred Simpson , the district attorney in Huntsville : " Today , it takes a minor miracle to put someone in prison .... It is disheartening to know even before you go to trial that if the man is judged guilty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ response to statements of that kind , Chief Justice Howell Heflin of the Alabama Supreme Court urged judges to maintain the sentencing policies they had always employed , and Governor Wallace proposed legislation actually to lengthen many criminal sentences . Fortunately for the Board of Corrections , Wallace 's bill died without action in what remained of the 1975 session . When the public debate turned more realistically to the prison system 's genuine needs , it was vexed by the intermingling of penal objectives and , as always , cold economics . Locke requested $70 million in the next fiscal year , to be spent on road camps , a new prison for women , and a " trusty barracks " for " minimum security " inmates at Draper . Those projects were not disturbing in themselves , but they implied a response to the Pugh and James cases precisely the opposite of what reformers hoped to see . It seemed that Locke meant to deal with crowding in state prisons not by reducing the population in existing institutions , but by building new facilities . Representative Robert M. Hill @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was time , he said , for state authorities to " come up with some alternatives " to long-term incarceration . Wallace agreed to sponsor a special bond issue which , if approved by the voters in an election scheduled for January 1976 , would bring the Board $6 million for additional construction . Reform groups like the ACLU opposed the bond issue on the ground that the money would be ill-spent on new prisons . The voters approved the governor 's plan , but by then the order in Pugh and James had been issued , and it was quite clear that the availability of a few hundred more beds would not suffice . Judge Johnson observed events from a distance . When he spoke , his message seemed oddly mixed . In mid-November , he disposed of several lawsuits filed by prison inmates claiming damages for the very unconstitutional crowding that he and Judge Hand had identified in late summer . Johnson insisted that violations of the Constitution would not be tolerated in his court , but he found it inappropriate to make prison authorities pay money damages for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same time , he took the opportunity of a speech at the University of Alabama Law School to repeat his admonition to anyone who cared to hear . With the legislature having clearly expressed its intention to once again abdicate its authority , it is now left to the federal court to work out a solution which will protect the constitutional rights which incarcerated citizens still retain . This is one responsibility the court would gladly relinquish to those who were elected to do it ... . A state is not at liberty to provide its citizens only those constitutional rights it feels it can comfortably afford . ... The budget approved for the Board of Corrections for the next fiscal year was the same as for the current year . " It 's a status quo budget , " said John Hale . " It 's just exactly what we spent this year . " That was not enough , and everyone knew it . " The Governor and his Legislature were happy , " said the Advertiser , " to let the prisoners stack up until there was no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The state is neglecting its responsibility , " said the Birmingham News , " but the federal courts wo n't let us get by with it for long . " The Post Herald took the same view : " The legislature talked a lot about the problems , but ended up doing nothing . . . . Meanwhile , city and county jails are filling with convicts the state refuses to accept . " The only political pressure truly felt in Montgomery apparently came from the citizens of Mt . Meigs , Alabama , who complained that the bad publicity given the institution near their town , and named for it , had depressed property values in the area . The legislature responded with a bill changing the name of the Mt . Meigs Medical and Diagnostic Center to the Kilby Medical and Diagnostic Center in honor of the former governor , Thomas Kilby . Legislation with a price tag was not , however , forthcoming . The time for action had come and gone and , as one reporter put it , prison officials were now " waiting on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would do . ' The judge issued his opinion and order on January 13 , 1976 . His conclusions tracked most of the arguments the prisoners ' lawyers had urged on him at trial and in their briefs . He declared that the four principal institutions were " horrendously overcrowded " and found crowding to be " primarily responsible " for the system 's " other ills . " Yet he went on to identify those ills with particularity : poor plumbing , substandard sanitation , inadequate recreation and visitation , and various other deficiencies . Johnson accepted Gordon 's testimony that the pris- ons were " unfit for human habitation " and warned darkly that if Draper and Fountain were not properly renovated he would order them closed . He concluded that Alabama had " no working classification system " and that prisoners were assigned to institutions " on the basis of available space . " In the absence of adequate staff to maintain order , prisoners were left to fend for themselves in a " jungle atmosphere " in which violence was " rampant . " The conditions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Relying on his own decision in Newman , the Holt case in Arkansas , and other decisions handed down in recent years , the judge said he had a " clear duty " to hold that there were " massive " violations of prisoners ' constitutional rights in the Alabama prison system ? demanding sweeping injunctive relief . His conclusion , in the main , 22 was that the totality of the conditions in the prisons constituted cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the Eighth Amendment . He referred to Lamar 's concession , but said nothing to suggest that he felt bound by the limitations that Lamar had hoped to build into his statements in court . Indeed , Johnson clearly embraced the more imaginative arguments put forward by Segall and Taylor : Prison officals are under a duty to provide inmates reasonable protection from constant threat of violence ... . The defendants in these cases have failed to carry out that duty . The evidence establishes that inmates are housed in virtually unguarded , overcrowded dormitories , with no realistic attempt by officials to separate violent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The tension generated by idleness and deplorable living conditions contributes further to the ever-present threat of violence from which inmates have no refuge . The evidence . . . also establishes that prison conditions are so debilitating that they necessarily deprive inmates of any opportunity to rehabilitate themselves , or even to maintain skills already possessed . While courts have thus far declined to elevate a positive rehabilitation program to the level of a constitutional right , it is clear that a penal system can not be operated in such a manner that it impedes an inmate 's ability to attempt rehabilitation , or simply to avoid physical , mental or social deterioration ... . Judge Johnson was not blind to the controversy his judgment would generate . Thinking , perhaps , of the press coverage his action would receive , he insisted that criminals were not to be " coddled " and that prisons were not to be operated as " hotels or country clubs . " State officials , however , " including the Alabama Legislature , " could not be  | permitted to maintain prisons that were " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unconstitutional punishment , and that , in turn , meant that they must be protected from violence and accorded living conditions that permitted self-improvement and did not , instead , cause deterioration . After months of work , Segall and Taylor had carried their burden of proof and established the substantive rights outlined in their amended complaints . The injunctive order accompanying Johnson 's opinion revealed his choices among the various options for attempting to cure the constitutional flaws he found in the prison system . True to earlier indications , he declined the National Prison Project 's invitation to order changes respecting the root elements of Alabama penology : long-term incarceration as the penalty for most criminal offenses ; large , rural penitentiaries ; and restrictive parole practices . Johnson would not use the Pugh and James cases as vehicles for establishing policy he himself thought was superior to that chosen by state penal authorities . Nor did he follow Lamar 's suggestion that he focus attention entirely on the need for additional funding and leave choices regarding the expenditure of additional money to state officials . In this instance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the conclusion that state authorities would not respond readily and must , therefore , be given explicit commands . Johnson 's focus was where he had said it would be . He held state authorities to a series of specific directions , most of which touched on the conditions of daily life in the prisons . Judge Johnson thus specified what must be done to meet constitutional standards . On first glance , he appeared to blur any distinction between conditions that constituted cruel and unusual punishment on the one hand and the entitlements that must be accorded to inmates to render the system constitutionally sound on the other . Indeed , he set forth a list of things to be accorded to inmates and identified them as the " Minimum Constitutional Standards for Inmates of the Alabama Penal System . " That label was misleading , however . Johnson 's holding was that the " totality " of circumstances in the prison system violated the Eighth Amendment , not that particular prison practices , taken in isolation from other conditions , were independently unconstitutional . Still , the effect was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the order , and however those particulars were characterized , the fact remained that state officials were ordered to make explicit changes in the prison system . Certainly , the system would not be considered constitutionally viable until those changes were made . Johnson was , indeed , explicit . New prisoners were not to be  | accepted at any institution until the population of that facility was reduced to " design capacity " ; prisoners were not to be housed together in cells intended only for one ; any cells used for segregation must be properly equipped . At present , isolation cells could be small , measuring forty square feet in area , but all cells must measure at least sixty square feet within six months . Prisoners assigned to segregation for " administrative " purposes must be released unless they voluntarily chose to remain . Older prisons , Draper and Fountain , must be refurbished forthwith ? meeting minimum standards established by the U.S. Public Health Service by the end of the year . Newer facilities , Holman and what was now Kilby , must meet the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the defendants only three months to present him with a plan for the classification of prisoners and only until mid-August to use that plan to classify all inmates in the system . The judge expected prisoners to be classified not only on the basis of their propensity for violence , but according to their mental and physical condition , their educational and vocational needs and , importantly , their qualifications for " community-based " facilities . He ordered the establishment of enough " community " programs to accommodate all the prisoners who might appropriately participate . Johnson said that inmates requiring care available only in facilities for the mentally impaired and handicapped must be transferred to institutions of that kind ; prisoners needing only " mental health care " must be given such care within the penal system . To make the scheme work , the judge ordered the defendants to hire at least the " mental health professionals and support personnel " recommended by Dr. Fowler 's earlier study . The judge said that " reasonable efforts " must be made to identify and segregate violent prisoners , that only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that frequent " shakedowns " must be conducted to discover weapons , that a " scrip system " must be substituted for the use of currency , and that guards must be stationed in all living areas . With respect to this last , he specified at least one guard inside and one guard outside each dormitory at all times . New guards must be hired in sufficient numbers to staff the prisons in the manner that Sullivan had said was necessary . There must be a plan for attracting new personnel whose presence would reduce " the racial and cultural disparity between the staff and the inmate population , " and all personnel must be given " appropriate and effective training " for employment in the prisons . The authorities must cease using prisoners to guard other immates and must , in future , keep accurate records of prison violence to facilitate monitoring the new scheme 's success .  | Moving to living conditions in general , Johnson said that prisoners must receive specified clothing , linens , storage lockers , and other personal items , that the institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be equipped with specified numbers of toilets and urinals . Each prisoner must have a " bed off the floor " and " a minimum " of sixty square feet of " living space . " All prisoners must be given three " wholesome and nutritious " meals each day ; to ensure as much , a registered dietitian must be hired to plan menus and supervise the storage and preparation of food . There were other things , new rules for visitation , recreation , and correspondence . Then , coming to " rehabilitative " programs , Johnson ordered that all prisoners must have " meaningful " jobs and a chance to enroll in " basic " education courses , " vocational training programs , " and " transitional " programs " designed to aid in their re-entry into society . " Finally , Johnson allowed the authorities six months in which to submit a " comprehensive report " setting forth their " progress " and the " reasons for the incomplete implementation of any standard " in the order . The problem of monitoring compliance with the many parts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisoners ' lawyers pressed Johnson to do in these prison cases what he had declined to do in Wyatt and Newman . Primarily , they asked the Judge to appoint a " master " to serve as his surrogate in the implementation stages ? to review reports from Locke and others , to hold hearings on the progress toward compliance , and to consult periodically with the judge should problems arise . In some sense , such an agent would serve as an assistant to Johnson himself , performing delegated judicial tasks in these particular cases . In the alternative , the prisoners ' lawyers proposed that a professional penal administrator should be appointed to assume direct responsibility for operating the Alabama prison system in accord with the order . Such a " receiver " would not merely monitor state authorities ' progress , but would displace Commissioner Locke and the board entirely , taking charge of the Alabama prison system until it could be brought into compliance . Lamar , of course , objected to both those proposals and insisted that state officials were competent to make needed changes on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He introduced two outside agencies into the prison system to operate under his authority . First , accepting in this respect a suggestion made by the plaintiffs , he ordered Locke and the Board of Corrections to contract with Fowler 's Center for Correctional Psychology " to aid in the implementation " of the classification plan . Second , Johnson established yet another Human  | Rights Committee ( HRC ) , similar to those he had formed in Wyatt , and assigned it to " monitor implementation " of the standards fixed by his order . In view of his determination that the standards developed in Newman had not been respected , he gave the new HRC the " authority and duty " to " monitor implementation " of that earlier order as well . He authorized the HRC to inspect facilities and records , interview prisoners , and review any plans developed by the defendants " to ensure that they comport " with the requirements of the order . At its discretion , the HRC could hire " independent specialists " and support personnel to assist in this work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compensated by the board , the latter at a salary commensurate with that of the commissioner . Initial reaction to the January 13 order ranged from jubilation on the part of the plaintiffs to outrage on the part of some local critics . John Conrad praised Judge Johnson 's " courageous and human decision " ; Al Bronstein said it was the " most sweeping " order " ever entered " ; Steve Suitts proclaimed that it marked the end of a century of " corruption , mismanagement , and inhumanity " in the Alabama prison system . Others , particularly the editors of smaller newspapers in Alabama , attacked the order and the man who issued it . The Livingston Home Record complained that criminals had " more rights than their victims " ; the Centerville Press insisted that Johnson was " again ... messing around with something about which he knew little , giving prisoners the red carpet , soft pillow treatment " ; the Montgomery Independent declared that inmates would now be " better situated and more secure than hundreds of thousands of people ... trying to make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ News compared prisoners ' " nice living facilities " to college dormitories at Auburn University . One columnist , Ruby Folsom Austin , said she could not " work up a good cry over thugs and murderers not having cake and ice cream " ; another , Tom Johnson , labeled the order " flummery " ? the work of a man driven by an apparent " obsession with cracker crumbs and peanuts . " 23 Some observers recognized that the prison system was in need of improvements , but objected that change should occur at the insistence of a single judge instead of through the ordinary political process . Locally , the Opp News insisted that the " judicial body " was intended to be the " equal " of the other branches of government , " not their master " ; the Eufaula Tribune reported that a local attorney had said " we might as well dissolve the legislature and appoint Judge Johnson " ; the Eastern Shore Courier asked rhetorically : " How far can judges go in running  | our country ? " That theme was repeated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began to speculate that Judge Johnson was the " real " governor of Alabama . Occasional reports linked the order to prison conditions elsewhere , generating admonitions that other federal judges might deal just as harshly with penal institutions in their states . That , of course , was precisely the message the National Prison Project hoped would come from the Alabama cases . Having obtained a sweeping order from Judge Johnson , Bronstein and Myers moved quickly on to further litigation before Judge Pettine in Rhode Island ? lest the public write Johnson 's order off as " just Alabama . ' Most state officials responded with caution . Lamar said it was " too early to tell " whether Judge Johnson 's demands could be met within the time allotted and pointed out that , however quickly changes could come , " whopping sums of money " would be required . Locke acknowledged that most of the improvements mentioned in the order were desirable and pledged a " good faith effort " to comply . Governor Wallace , by contrast , viewed the order as " just another example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " In a news conference held both to condemn Johnson 's action and to announce his intention to appeal , Wallace initially said that if the appeal proved unsuccessful he would comply with the order . In a later campaign speech in Massachusetts , however , he hinted that he might never bend . Wallace complained that Johnson had prescribed a " hotel atmosphere and catering service " for prison inmates . He said that he had tried to improve conditions but had found the " burden " " too great . " During the battles over segregation in the 1960s , Wallace had called Johnson " an integrating , scalawagging , carpetbagging liar . " Now , he said that " thugs and federal judges " had " just about taken over society . " Asked whether he thought the prison order would affect his presidential campaign , he said that " a vote for George C. Wallace might give a political barbed wire enema to some federal judges .... " The governor 's calculated rhetoric forecast his immediate intentions with respect to the January 13 order . He would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Board of Corrections and would ensure that the board obtained its share of the monies generated in the new bond issue , approved by the voters on the day of his press conference . He would resist , however , easy compliance with the specifics of the order just as he had resisted court orders of the past . Wallace assumed he could count on the public 's lack of sympathy for criminal offenders to distract attention from the evidence adduced in court . Johnson 's order posed no obstacle to this campaign ;  | like his desegregation decrees , this new injunction provided a rallying point . The enemies in the governor 's campaign were no longer " integrationists " and " liberals " ; they were federal judges and the " thugs " about whom those judges were concerned . " Wallace 's response to Johnson 's order invited the national press to understand the clash over prisons as another in a series of conflicts between the governor and the judge . The future must depend , then , on the dedication of the two men to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Johnson 's introductory remarks to the new Human Rights Committee . Standing at the podium from which the lawyers had interrogated witnesses six months earlier , Johnson told the HRC that its work would " not be easy . " He urged the committee to " take the high road " and to deal with penal authorities with " dignity and courtesy " as well as " firmness and resoluteness , " with an eye always on the " pole star " ? the elimination of the " barbaric " conditions in the prisons . Johnson admonished the committee not to be misled by criticisms of the January 13 order : " I say to you , " he said , that " the elimination of conditions that will permit maggots in a patient 's wound ... does not constitute the creation of a hotel atmosphere . " Nor , he insisted , did the " elimination of other physical and mental indignities " create a " hotel setting .... " Comments of this sort , plainly intended to respond to Wallace without mentioning the governor directly , fed speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prisons was another joust between two strong-minded men . That superficial understanding played better nationally than locally . Within Alabama , particularly among the reporters who had covered the trial , the matter was seen in a different , more substantive , light . This was certainly a repeat performance . Yet it was not merely another round in a personal rivalry between Wallace and Johnson but , instead , another instance of default on the part of state government in meeting its responsibilities ? calling forth another effort by a federal court to force state authorities to do what they had a duty to do . Thus the state 's best newspapers published articles and editorials refuting contentions that the prisons were less grim than Judge Johnson 's opinion made them seem and urging state officials to accept the January 13 order without complaint and set about meeting its demands . The Post Herald insisted that officials forego the " momentarily popular denunciation of Judge Johnson " and , instead , " find solutions " for the problems he had identified ; the Alabama Journal found " echoes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order ? and warned the public against Wallace 's hyperbole " when all Johnson ordered was a mea- sure of humanity in the treatment of prisoners . " A few legislators dared to take similar public positions . Representative Lynn Greer acknowledged that the state had ignored the prisons and that it was now time to " face up to " the problems identified in court , and Bob Hill again blamed the " executive branch " for the failure to address prison issues earlier . Still , it would be misleading to suggest that Governor Wallace 's rhetoric misfired or that moderate voices in Alabama convinced the public that prison reform was overdue . The world in which the January 13 order must exist was more complex than that . Wallace 's message was powerful ; it rang true to the citizens of Alabama he knew best . Other politicians had seen this same strategy succeed on countless prior occasions , and few were prepared to assume the political risks of a different posture . Instead , they treaded softly round the perimeter of the ground the governor had marked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful political forces to sort themselves out . The trial of the Alabama prison cases was at an end . Counsel for the defendants had conceded defeat . Judge Johnson had found the relevant facts , determined the pertinent legal issues , and entered judgment for the plaintiffs . He had issued an injunctive decree ordering state authorities to make numerous changes in the prison system in order to eliminate unconstitutional conditions . In a more traditional lawsuit , such an order would have been the end , or nearly the end , of the litigation . If the defendants balked , they would be forced to comply and , in due course , the plaintiffs would have satisfaction . These cases , however , were different . The January 13 order was not the victory the plaintiffs had sought for so many months . It was an initial assault on the fortress of state government , which would not be taken without lengthy siege . Events in the next year demonstrated to anyone who remained in doubt that the Alabama prison system would not be changed easily . The resistance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the strategy of placing blame for poor conditions on Commissioner Locke and the Board of Corrections ? reviving in the process an idea not widely expressed for a half century but nonetheless part of a primitive creed to which state officials unanimously subscribed . Prisons and prisoners should not need public funding ; they should support themselves . At the same time , Governor Wallace and Attorney General Baxley went back to court in an attempt to overturn , or at least to dilute , the order that Judge Johnson had issued .  | No one doubted that the January 13 order faced massive political difficulties . The sheer cost of implementation was formidable , and efforts to develop a reliable projection of that cost underscored the political complexity of the enterprise . Early on , the legislature commissioned Dr. Frank Toohey and the University of Alabama 's Center for Business and Economic Research to study the question . With help from Dr. Fowler 's Center for Correctional Psychology and the National Clearinghouse for Criminal Justice Planning and Architecture at the University of Illinois , Toohey marshaled the variables and reported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The expenses that would be incurred to comply with the court order depended on the penal policies adopted in Alabama in the near term . For example , if the state chose to incarcerate fewer offenders for shorter periods of time , and certainly if the state chose to house prisoners in small , relatively cheap facilities near employment opportunities instead of in large , relatively expensive , rural prisons , the cost of complying with the order might be kept down . If , however , the state chose to continue present policies , the very policies that had caused the inmate population to become bloated and operational expenses to soar , the cost would be much greater . At a minimum , according to Toohey , physical improvements at the major institutions would require an outlay of $79 million over and above the prison system 's current budget . ' Apart from the expense to the state treasury , moreover , Johnson 's order touched on state politics at a personal level . It was not so much that the public or state officials genuinely believed that the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on this occasion , that knowledgeable Alabamians resisted change at the instance of a federal court . Only Governor Wallace put matters in those familiar terms ? playing to visceral reactions to crime , criminals , and federal  | officials meddling in local affairs . More serious political obstacles to reform resided deeper within the personal rivalries generated by Alabama 's public life . Penal officials responded defensively to the charge , now widely repeated , that they had mismanaged the prison system , allowed it to deteriorate , and thus embarrassed the state in court . Commissioner Locke and the Board of Corrections were threatened both by the Human Rights Committee , established by Judge Johnson to superintend compliance with his order , and by other state political figures , who attempted to avoid personal responsibility for what had happened by fastening blame entirely on the commissioner and the board . The cause of penal reform in Alabama , now represented by attempts to implement the January order , was thus caught in a complex web of political relationships . Progress was frustrated not by any united front in opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for change , albeit with varying degrees of sincerity . Instead , progress was stalled by fierce battles within state government , waged by individual state officials jockeying for position in an omnipresent struggle for political survival and advancement . To understand what actually occurred in the first year after Johnson 's order , it is essential to probe beneath George Wallace 's rhetoric and to examine , first , the HRC 's efforts to gain the cooperation of penal authorities in the implementation of the order ; second , the clash between penal officials and state politicians , particularly Lieutenant Governor Jere Beasley ; and , third , the related shadowboxing between and among Wallace , Beasley , and Attorney General Baxley , each of whom used the controversy over prisons as a vehicle for political maneuvers within a long-term campaign for power in Alabama . In turn , these stories relegated two other matters , reduced crowding in the prisons over the course of the year and the ineffectual appeals from Judge Johnson 's judgment , to subordinate roles in the larger , and largely unpleasant , drama that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ January 13 order was to be taken seriously , it would have to be pressed on state officials in some effective manner . He might have attempted to enforce it promptly ? by calling Locke and the board into the courtroom , holding them in contempt and , perhaps , coercing action by imposing fines on individual state officials or jailing them if they failed to cooperate . Yet that was not Johnson 's way . His experience in the school desegregation cases suggested that it would be more fruitful to be patient , to give state authorities time and opportunity to make improvements , and then to prod them periodically until they completed their task . Moreover , the Wyatt  | and Newman cases suggested that the judge should not attempt to keep abreast of developments himself , but should establish agents in the field to monitor events and act on his behalf . Johnson 's primary tool in this instance was the Human Rights Committee . After the fashion of similar committees created in connection with Wyatt , the new HRC enlisted a large number of respected citizens not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but to make it their business to bring the order to the attention of state authorities with the duty and capacity to effect change . Judge Johnson hoped the HRC would fashion a working relationship with penal authorities and that the January order would be implemented , in time , through a relatively informal cooperative effort ? without , and this was critical , significant further court action . In a real sense , therefore , local people , state officials and public-spirited citizens alike , would resolve this most troubling of the state 's social problems . To ensure that the HRC would be persistent , Johnson added a special catalyst ? a particularly aggressive chairman . The man selected for this duty , M. Roland Nachman , had stopped by Judge Johnson 's chambers to offer best wishes at Christmas , 1975 . The judge , then deeply engrossed in his opinion in the prison cases , surprised him with an immediate and specific request for help . ' Rod Nachman was an obvious choice . A respected member of an old Montgomery law firm and an important @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both prestige and political discernment to the work of the HRC . He knew Commissioner Sullivan personally , having represented him in the celebrated libel case , New York Times v. Sullivan . ' And he was familiar with the problems now plaguing Sullivan 's prison system . In 1973 , as president of the Alabama Bar , Nachman had appointed the committee that later openly criticized the manner in which the prisons were administered and funded . More recently , he had followed the Pugh and James cases in the Montgomery Advertiser , which he served as general counsel . Nachman appreciated the enormity of the task ahead ? if he and the HRC were to be successful in achieving reform in the face of the current squalor in the prisons and a new commissioner , Judson Locke , whom Nachman believed would be more obstreperous than Sullivan . ' On Nachman 's advice , Judge Johnson appointed several former members of the bar committee , among them E. M. Friend , Jr. , Thomas Thagard , and Laurie Mandell , to serve on the new HRC . And he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Houston State University , to serve as the committee 's professional consultant . Nachman had once  | heard Beto address a conference in Texas and had invited him to speak to the Alabama Bar the previous year . The new HRC chairman found in Beto precisely what he wanted ? an intelligent , articulate man who could offer sound advice on questions about which Nachman alone could make no confident judgment . Beto was one of the best-known penal specialists in the country . He had administered the Texas prison system , one of the nation 's largest , for many years and now was comparatively free to undertake consulting projects elsewhere . Nachman phoned Beto immediately after the order was issued in January . His follow-up letter was explicit : " Judge Johnson and I feel that you are the best qualified person we know to act as . . . consultant . " 5 Beto was flattered , interested , and agreeable . In short order , he flew to Montgomery to confer with Nachman and Judge Johnson . Beto told the judge that he understood the order to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " able-bodied " prisoners , to provide inmates with " basic education , " and to ensure safety within the system . Johnson acquiesced in that appraisal , conservative though it was . Moreover , and to Beto 's surprise , Johnson acknowledged that some parts of his order , particularly the requirement that cells must measure sixty square feet and the requirement that the system employ the number of guards that Sullivan had requested , were not essential . If Beto had reservations about those points , and he did , Johnson was prepared to make changes . Beto was convinced that Johnson was not a " blazing reformer " but wanted only to achieve a " well-run prison system . " Accordingly , the Texan agreed to help put into action Johnson 's dominant instruction : " Let 's turn this thing around . " 6 However sure Nachman and Johnson were that Beto should be the HRC 's consultant , the lawyers for Alabama 's prison inmates were frankly annoyed at the prospect . Beto had himself been a defendant in numerous lawsuits attacking prison conditions in Texas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an expert witness for the defense in other cases around the country . In an Illinois case , he had countenanced holding a teenage prisoner in solitary confinement for as long as seventeen months ; in Indiana , he had approved shooting " buckshot " near prisoners staging a sit-in in the prison yard . If critics had dug deeper , they might have discovered that Robert Lamar had asked Beto to testify for the defense in the Alabama cases themselves . There was , then , some substance to the quip that the appointment of Beto amounted to putting " the possum in charge of the henhouse . " As a matter of fact , however , Beto had refused to assist Lamar in Alabama because he could not bring himself to defend conditions that , in his view , were worse than what he  | had seen in other states and tolerated himself in Texas . He was a tough , even hard , man . But he was not without scruples and , more to the point , professional judgment . Matt Myers collected critical information and funneled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the HRC and was likely to be sympathetic to prisoners ' interests . And in the initial meeting of the HRC , Murphy expressed reservations about the proposed appointment . She withdrew her objection , however , when Nachman explained that Judge Johnson had already made his choice . The motion to retain Beto was approved by voice vote . ' Nachman and Beto began their task in three channels . They approached the Alabama legislature in hopes of obtaining needed funding , the Alabama Board of Pardons and Paroles in hopes of generating more and earlier paroles , and the commissioner and the board in hopes of prompting other reforms mandated by the court order . Beto took special interest in the legislature , where he tried to forge personal relationships to serve his purposes . He formed the habit of walking to the capitol building every morning when he was in Montgomery and taking coffee in the Senate lounge with key legislators and members of the press . This was Beto 's element . He had experience in the vital business of stroking lawmakers , gradually bringing them round @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaker before the legislature itself . Beto was enough like the men and women who populated that body to meet them on their own personal and political ground . For this reason , he probably was more effective in his position than the more progressive candidates the prisoners ' lawyers would have preferred . What ground was gained for prison reform in the legislature was in no small part the result of George Beto 's ability to operate in those circles . ' Nachman and Beto labored together with respect to the parole board . Initially , Beto asked the board to end its policy of taking " good time " from prisoners whose paroles were revoked . " Good time " was , in effect , time off for good behavior in custody . The consequence of the parole board 's policy was to lengthen the sentences prisoners must serve after their return to prison upon a violation of parole . When the board responded in a letter Nachman found " meaningless , " Beto actually raised his sights . He obtained a list of prisoners who were eligible for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's office in hopes the judge would appreciate its significance . Johnson , for his part , recognized the opportunity to make a large dent in the prison population in Alabama in one motion . In a letter to Nachman , the judge acknowledged that " granting or denying parole " was a " discretionary matter . " Yet he could only assume that by leaving so many eligible inmates con- fined in institutions declared to be unconstitutional , the parole board was acting " arbitrarily and capriciously . " Johnson recalled that he had passed over an opportunity to bring the members of the parole board into the Pugh and James cases as parties and that it might be difficult now to insist that they respond favorably to entreaties to parole more inmates . He nevertheless instructed Nachman to approach the parole board " to see if something could be worked out ... in an informal way . " Nachman promptly conferred with Norman F. Ussery , chairman of the parole board , but he and the other board members were unwilling to take the political risks associated with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nachman that prison crowding was Locke 's problem . The parole board had no intention of exposing itself to public criticism or , worse yet , pressure from Governor Wallace merely to mitigate difficulties it was under no direct judicial order to address . Nachman and Beto attempted to apply pressure of their own , discussing their concerns about the low parole rate in public and raising the issue in legislative hearings . Further efforts , including periodic meetings with the parole hoard , pleas to sympathetic members for assistance in bringing others round , and coordination with the Board of Corrections , were similarly unsuccessful . Nachman and Beto pressed for a more liberal parole policy until the HRC was dismantled in 1978 . Still , there was no discernible effect . Attempts by Nachman and Beto to work with Commissioner Locke and the Board of Corrections began well but soon collapsed . Immediately after the January order was issued , Dr. Staton invited the HRC to meet with the board and pledged his " cooperation ... in a mutual effort toward the end " of providing prisoners the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a meeting on the day of the HRC 's organizational session . The committee met with Judge Johnson in the morning and with the Board of Corrections in the afternoon . At that time , Staton gave the impression that he actually approved Johnson 's decision to establish the HRC which , in his telling , would have the political " muscle " the board itself had long wanted . When he and others had gone to the legislature in the past to explain that the " patient , " that is , the prison system , had a broken back and needed a " body cast , " the legislature had responded with " a few bandaids . " Now , Staton said , the situation would be different . Nachman , for his part , seemed to embrace Staton 's description of the II RC 's role : " We are not and will not become the surrogate administrators of the prison system .... We will oversee the implementation .. .  | of the order and make it easier for you . " The only note of caution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " inordinate " power of federal judges even as he accepted the order as " the law of the land " and promised , perhaps grudgingly , " to follow it . " 1 Locke 's reaction was only to be expected . Staton and the other board members could reconcile the HRC with their role in the prison system . By contrast , Locke could only feel threatened by a man like Beto ? summoned to Alabama for the very reason that someone , perhaps everyone , thought that Locke could not handle his own job . One of Beto 's early public statements , to the effect that the Alabama prison system needed " creativity and imagination " as well as additional funding , hardly mollified the commissioner 's anxiety . Beto disclaimed authority to " tell anybody to do anything " and said that he might finish his assignment within six months . Yet Locke was intimidated and became all the more discouraged as Beto made progress in the legislature , where Locke himself had failed . The Alabama Journal summed it up . The board met only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's figurative " cellmate . " The two men were on a " collision course , " and Locke , for all his faults , understood well enough that , in the end , he was no match for George Beto . In truth , Locke soon learned , the chief threat to his position lay not with Beto , but with Nachman . Beto was given to tolerance where Locke was concerned ; he was slow to condemn , quick to excuse the younger , less experienced man . By contrast , Nachman regarded Locke as only another in a series of rank incompetents appointed to office by a governor who had no genuine interest in governing . It was Nachman who peppered Locke with complaints , questions , and demands for reports . " We were intrusive , " he recalls , because it was necessary to be intrusive . " We had to do more than just point out what was wrong . So much was wrong . There were terrible management problems . " Initially , Nachman limited himself to matters of general policy . When he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ searching for weapons , he demanded that Locke establish an effective " shakedown " program and explore the use of metal detectors to locate knives . He also dispatched subcommittees of the HRC , particularly Dr. Nace Cohen 's subcommittee on medical care , to monitor Locke 's progress . When Nachman received critical reports , he demanded explanations from the commissioner . Later , Nachman took up complaints from individual prisoners , channeled to him through plaintiffs ' counsel , family members , and prisoners themselves . He fed grievances to the HRC subcommittees or to Locke directly , always demanding a prompt investigation of an  | inmate 's treatment . In late spring , Nachman hired Laurie Mandell to administer the steady flow of prisoner correspondence , reports , and responses . The commissioner initially tolerated Nachman 's interference and , indeed , accepted the HRC chairman 's apparent authority to speak for Judge Johnson . For example , when Locke wished to know whether sentenced prisoners in county jails could be transferred to the prison hospital at Kilby for medical care , he contacted Nachman ? to ask @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forbidding the acceptance of more prisoners until the system 's population had been reduced to " design capacity . " Nachman , in turn , granted permission to take prisoners genuinely in need of care that could be provided only at Kilby . Later , however , Locke became more confrontational , refusing to bend immediately to Nachman 's demands and probing the limits of the other man 's true authority . A report that there were empty beds in some of the system 's work release centers provides an illustration . Nachman initially wrote to Locke , stating that he had discussed the matter with Judge Johnson and was " authorized " to advise Locke that the judge expected him to take " immediate steps " to fill those centers to " capacity . " On this occasion , the commissioner refused to accept Nachman 's instructions standing alone and , instead , directed one of his lawyers , Tom Radney , to approach Judge Johnson with an alternative plan . Locke was more suspicious of Nachman 's authority than he should have been . The record is clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson himself The judge received copies of HRC correspondence , memoranda , and reports , and often made his reaction known to Nachman . He approved or disapproved proposals for action and also seized on issues in which he was interested and gave Nachman explicit guidance ? with respect to matters great and small . For example , when it was reported in the press that the prison system kept Tennessee walking horses for recreational use at one of the rural institutions , Johnson asked Nachman to demand an explanation . And when the HRC subcommittee for Fountain reported that conditions at that facility remained poor , Johnson complained to Nachman that state authorities were showing " callous indifference to the basic requirements of this Court 's order . " Johnson told Nachman to send copies of the report and his letter to each board member , Commissioner Locke , and the warden at Fountain and to insist on a response within two weeks . Johnson continued to receive correspondence from individual prisoners as well . He maintained his practice of sending letters raising issues that might be the basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relied on Nachman to pursue complaints going only to the enforcement of his order in Pugh and James . In most instances , the judge merely forwarded letters to Nachman with the notation that he would make no response himself but expected Nachman to ask a subcommittee or the commissioner to investigate . But when Johnson issued affirmative commands , Nachman responded dutifully , precipitating Locke 's growing irritation . The paperwork was burdensome ; in the nature of things , the exchanges between Nachman and the commissioner gradually became truncated . Weary of detail , Locke offered vague assurances of good faith ; weary of generalities , Nachman responded with impatience . In one instance , the HRC chairman protested to Locke that he was " amazed that such simple matters as furnishing eating materials and toilets that work constitute such a problem . " On another occasion , Nachman threw up his hands over a further report by Dr. Cohen . To Locke , he wrote simply : " Is n't there something that can be done about this ? " In memos to Judge Johnson , Nachman was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure to repair toilets at Holman was " incomprehensible . " In the end , the flow of memoranda between and among Nachman , Locke , and Johnson generated sufficient hostility to sour relations with the commissioner beyond repair , eliminating all hope for a cooperative effort to improve the prison system . ' The vacuum in leadership within Alabama 's penal system was soon filled by the machinations of Governor Wallace , Attorney General Baxley , and Lieutenant Governor Beasley , who seized on the prison controversy not as an occasion for developing sound governmental policy in trying circumstances , but as an opportunity for furthering their own aspirations for political power . All three saw the potential for demogogic gain at roughly the same time ; after that , any advance on this front by one prompted a compensating maneuver from the others . None of the three dared leave the field on pain of finding himself in the background while others commanded the headlines with vote-getting rhetoric about the prisons and the court . When the January 13 order was handed down , George Wallace was committed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rivals in state politics , Baxley and Beasley , were maneuvering to succeed him as governor of Alabama . Of the three , Jere Beasley had the most to gain from exploiting the controversy surrounding the prisons . He needed public exposure to make himself a credible alternative to Wallace , as long as the governor was on the scene , and to Baxley . Beasley had already enlarged the historically insignificant office of lieutenant  | governor into a potent political force . He had kept himself and other legislators in Montgomery during the winter of 1975 to address the public issue that always held political promise : efficiency in state government . Now , in the wake of Judge Johnson 's order in early 1976 , he turned the attention of his Joint Interim Budget Control Committee toward penal affairs . In a series of hearings , Beasley linked the prisons and fears that improvements in them would be expensive to his larger theme of eliminating waste in government . He presented the prison system as poorly managed , even venal , and insisted that better management could effect change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beasley revived an old and familiar theme in Alabama . He had it that prisons and prisoners should support themselves . The lieutenant governor kept Locke and other prison officials on a " perpetual hotseat " with questions and observations about their handling of the prison system . Beasley proved to be a master at making headlines with " insinuations of far-flung wrongdoing within the penal system . " When Locke responded with appeals for more money , Beasley insisted that deficiencies in administration must be addressed before the legislature would provide more financial assistance to a demonstrably mishandled bureaucracy . In pursuance of this theme , Beasley conducted surprise visits to several institutions in hopes of finding evidence of maladministration with which to embarrass Locke . He accused the commissioner of organizing " dove hunts " on prison lands for senior staff , board members , and their spouses , of keeping the saddle horses about which Judge Johnson had raised questions for use on those occasions , and of serving caviar to his guests . Beasley complained that Locke used an antiquated " barter system " to exchange products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to maintain prisoners . In connection with food service , Beasley criticized Locke both for grinding the best cuts of beef and pork into hamburger and for feeding steaks and roasts to prisoners . Rarely did Beasley touch on the specifics of Johnson 's order . Yet he reacted in his own way to critics who had made the legislature the " whipping boy " with respect to the prisons , and he named a " nonlegislative scapegoat " of his own . Most important , he gained " publicity for a future attempt at higher office . ' The commissioner responded only weakly . At times , he " appeared on the verge of an internal explosion . " Locke " slouched and twisted in his chair when the questions got tough , spitting out strained , staccato answers that obviously left many thoughts unstated . " His performance , indeed , was so disappointing that he narrowly escaped losing his position before the next legislative session even began . After a disheartening  | trip to Holman and Fountain in late February , Beasley , Nachman , and Beto met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of forcing Locke out . That conversation led to an evening meeting in Wallace 's office , attended by representatives of the governor , the Board of Corrections , and key legislators . Wallace himself was out of town campaigning . At that meeting , Nachman and Beasley urged that Locke be fired and replaced by a more able administrator . There was resistance from the board members , particularly Vickers , and the group ultimately accepted Beto 's view that Locke should be given more time . Ironically , then , the man whom Locke had initially resented the most was the man who saved him from early dismissal . " When Beasley tired of attacking Locke and the Board of Corrections for political purposes , he stumbled into something with a measure of promise for prison reform . He appointed George McMillan and Brooks Hines to chair a subcommittee to study the problems surrounding the prisons and report to the full budget committee in early summer . The subcommittee , called the Legislative Prison Task Force , allowed its cochairmen to resume their earlier efforts to bring the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for several weeks and then filed a report endorsing most of the provisions in Judge Johnson 's order , quarreling only with the sixty-square-foot requirement , and proposing a series of reform bills , among them an authority to allow prisoners nearing the end of their sentences 90-day furloughs in order to search for jobs , a plan for prison industries to provide employment for inmates with their sentences still ahead of them , and a new " good time " program to give prisoners time off for good behavior if they performed well in the new industries . Those ideas were embraced by the legislature , but another failed to win support ? an attempt to remove higher positions in Locke 's organization from the state merit system in order to make it easier to dismiss the present occupants . The objective was plain . The men in charge of the prison system had been there for some time and were wedded to the very practices that had brought the system to its knees . Testifying in connection with the bill , Marion Harding conceded as much ? referring to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fountain " who operated that institution as a " family affair . " When Locke 's opposition frustrated the bill , McMillan insisted that the commissioner himself should " clean house where housecleaning was needed . " Apart from these few reform measures , however , the task force was anything but a progressive force . McMillan said at the outset that " it would be a cold day around " Montgomery " in the summer " before he  | would vote to appropriate funds to renovate prisons . And , as the hearings progressed , he adopted the same point of view that Beasley had pursued . Even if Locke could explain away the embarrassing matters raised earlier by the lieutenant governor , McMillan and the task force would not be satisfied until he explained something else : why it was that he needed money at all , why it was that the prison system was not selfsufficient . McMillan was impressed that inmates in Texas worked in agricultural fields , in prison industries , and on the Texas Department of Corrections ' own internal construction projects . Back in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Alabama prison system 's vast agricultural lands , marketing the produce , and channeling its revenues into other programs and services . Self-sufficiency for the prison system , the idea born in the nineteenth century , thus drove McMillan and the task force . It seemed to offer a relatively simple answer to all the problems facing the system and , not coincidently , identified in the court order . Judge Johnson assailed state authorities for permitting penal institutions to deteriorate while punishing prisoners with idleness behind the walls . Commissioner Locke complained that the legislature had not provided funds to maintain the prisons or to establish programs for inmates . The legislature and the public resisted the expenditure of tax revenues for the benefit of criminal offenders . The answer , plain enough to the task force , was to generate funds from inmate labor , satisfying all sides at once.20 The scheme failed both because it proved to be impossible to dislodge Judson Locke and other penal officials who knew and defended only what had been done in the recent past and , more fundamentally , because the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was one thing to have aspirations , to establish employment opportunities in hopes of encouraging able prisoners to respond favorably . That , after all , was what the National Prison Project had proposed since 1975 ; it formed the basis for Judge Johnson 's requirement that prisoners be given meaningful jobs . It was quite another thing , however , to expect success in a serious fraction of cases . And it was absurd to approach the matter of prisoner employment from the other direction , insisting that i n mates be required to work not to provide them with the chance for self-improvement , but to finance the prison system without an additional investment of tax dollars . Such a policy in the 1970s mirrored Alabama 's experience with the convict lease system 100 years earlier . Then , the state had generated revenues on the backs of prisoners condemned to the mines , where slave labor was actually profitable . Now , state authorities hoped to make profits in new employment schemes  | requiring a trained labor force . Alabama established a series of jerrybuilt economic enterprises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmate workers , however ineffectual , simply to remain viable . Of these , the farms were the worst offenders . In the teeth of expert advice that agricultural lands should be leased to commercial operators or sold outright , state authorities insisted on sending inmates out to pick butter beans by hand . Nevertheless , reform-minded observers were hopeful . Judge Johnson himself let it be known that the task force proposals were consistent with his order ; Nachman and Beto , who found McMillan 's ideas " absolutely splendid , " began meeting regularly with a new Board of Corrections Management and Performance Evaluation Committee , also chaired by McMillan and Hines , charged to monitor the establishment of the prison industries the task force had planned . Indeed , in a further burst of enthusiasm for McMillan 's work , Nachman persuaded the Alabama senate to ask Johnson to designate a new task force to join the HRC as an additional monitoring body to oversee compliance with the January order . The judge approved the senate 's request in an order Nachman drafted for him.21 Locke regarded this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assault . Responding in angry defiance , the commissioner promised to carry on in a " monumental struggle " in behalf of " corrections throughout the country , " challenged by " the federal court and now by the Alabama Senate . " If Beasley were elected governor in 1978 , Locke said he would resign without giving Beasley the " chance " to fire him . Members of the Board of Corrections resented both Beasley 's attempt to shift the focus of public discussion away from inadequate financial support and Nachman 's apparent willingness to be taken in by the lieutenant governor 's scheme . When the idea of making the new task force an arm of the court first surfaced , some members , particularly Ricky Robinson , threatened to resign if the plan were accepted . When , however , it was agreed that the task force would not be given actual authority to order the board about , the members who expressed themselves publicly acquiesced . McMillan promised to work with the board " in a spirit of harmony and cooperation " ; Vickers said the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legislature abreast of developments in the prison system.22 The board 's surface willingness to tolerate the task force was altogether prudent . The leadership of the Alabama legislature had little knowledge of , and less interest in , the operation of a prison system . It was unlikely , then , that this new body , another in a series of legislative  | committees , would interfere greatly with the board 's own plans , even if it bore Judge Johnson 's imprimatur . Reports of the task force 's first meeting supported this appraisal . Having just joined in an extraordinary offer to solve the prison system 's many problems , one of the key members of the task force , House Speaker Joe C. McCorquodale , said he had no idea what to do next and proposed that the task force approach the judge again for clarification of its duties . When McMillan scheduled a meeting , however , McCorquodale failed to attend , and Judge Johnson declined to provide specific instructions in any event . The task force operated through the remainder of the year and into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focus on the prison system 's inability to support itself financially . McMillan and Hines retained two investigators and occasionally loaned them to Nachman for following up complaints . Beyond assisting the HRC in that way , however , the task force had little influence on the prison system 's meager efforts to comply with Judge Johnson 's order.23 If the task force was ineffectual , the Board of Corrections was plainly inept . Stung by criticism from Nachman and Beasley , three members of the board went directly to Judge Johnson in an attempt to persuade him that they were not the incompetent hacks they were portrayed to be . The judge received them , but revealed in memoranda to Nachman and to his personal file that he doubted the success of the meetings that ensued . In early June , for example , Johnson told Dr. Staton that " lack of good management practices was a large part of the problem " and that Staton should retain a consultant " from outside the State of Alabama " to advise the board on the way in which to " put @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Staton and the board insisted , however , that Judson Locke had the " professional expertise . . . to see the system through this period of crisis .... " Reverend Vickers declared that he would no sooner look beyond Alabama for a penal administrator than for a " doctor , preacher , or lawyer . " The hoard did commission faculty at Auburn University to study the prison system 's agricultural holdings , but no major shifts in management occurred for some time . An exchange with Ricky Robinson was even less productive . Robinson phoned to ask whether the January order prevented the board from installing coin-operated pool tables in the prisons to generate revenues . Johnson was candid : " I told him there was nothing in the order about it .... However , I strongly suggested that the Board spend its efforts in getting educational programs and work programs available to all prisoners . . . before fooling around with pool tables . " Robinson convinced the board to approve the pool tables , but  | he suffered merciless criticism in the press for placing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more substantive proposals , Commissioner Locke put forward plans on two fronts . First , he presented the legislature with a budget ranging millions beyond what the prison system had received in the past . Nearly half the money would go , he said , for three new institutions , including the " trusty barracks " at Draper and a similarly unpopular work release center planned for Huntsville . If additional funds were not forthcoming , Locke warned , he would be forced to abandon those construction projects and would have to close one of the existing prisons . The response was predictable . Beasley derided Locke 's ideas , insisting that McMillan 's task force had " more ability in its little finger " than Locke and his cronies had " in their whole bodies . " Governor Wallace said he would rather discuss " the victims in their graves sleeping closer together than the prisoners . " On a second front , Locke followed Beto 's advice and announced a " three-point program " for reducing the population in existing institutions by 700 men . He planned to identify @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good time " credits to those who had lost them previously as punishment , and release eligible inmates ninety days early under the new law sponsored by McMillan 's task force . This plan was promising , if for no other reason than that it did not depend on the willingness of others to take action that might prove politically unpopular . Indeed , on the very day Locke announced his proposal the parole board declared it was " taking a new , get-tough stand on parolling convicted robbers . " Still , the scheme was resisted . Governor Wallace insisted that the prisoners to be released early must be carefully screened , and other officials raised sufficient concerns that Locke was forced to give broad assurances regarding the men affected . In turn , that led to conservative judgments about the danger presented by particular inmates . In the end , fewer prisoners were released than Locke originally envisioned . " Conditions in the prisons improved nonetheless . Even without the release of additional prisoners , the inmate population steadily declined as a result of Judge Johnson 's order forbidding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held only their " design capacity . " That welcome change came , however , at the price of ever-increasing crowding in the jails ? where conditions continued to deteriorate . Now more than ever , local sheriffs complained that they were being forced to operate maximum security prisons without adequate facilities and staff , county commissions and city councils complained that they were  | being asked to pay the costs of housing prisoners rightly the responsibility of the Board of Corrections , and prosecutors complained that they were being forced to skew their exercise of discretion in criminal cases in order to allot scarce space in local jails to the most dangerous offenders . In Montgomery , indeed , Judge William Thetford explicitly limited jail space to persons convicted of serious felonies . Once again , there were those who applauded the shift from incarceration to probation for minor offenses . Yet as the population of felons mounted , no one could defend the consequent conditions to which prisoners assigned to the jails were subjected . Attempts by local authorities to obtain relief from these difficulties in the state courts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Convinced that Locke had authority to shift prisoners between and among local jails as he saw fit , Judge Thetford ordered him to transfer a number of inmates from the jail in Montgomery to another in Dallas County . In response , Judge Edgar P. Russell in Dallas County forbade the sheriff there to accept prisoners from another jail . Caught between the two state judges , Locke asked Johnson for " instructions . " Earlier , of course , Johnson had ordered the commissioner to reduce the population at the Houston County Jail , where conditions were being challenged by DeMent and the Justice Department . Now , Johnson issued another order reiterating that Locke could make what transfers he thought appropriate to spread the pain of jail crowding evenly across the state . The judge was not mindlessly rigid . He continued to allow Locke to accept prisoners needing special attention and , when the jail in Lauderdale County was destroyed by fire , he allowed inmates there to be brought to Kilby . He steadfastly refused , however , to relax the " cap " on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the jails . As the pressure in the jails mounted , Locke and the board renewed their efforts to enlarge the prison system 's capacity , primarily by constructing new " minimum security " institutions in the northern area of the state . That policy was not chosen in response to reform advocates , who insisted that " community-based " programs were less brutal and less expensive than the large prisons on which Alabama had historically relied , but because community opposition tended to be less vigorous with respect to work release centers than with respect to maximum security penitentiaries . The same local forces that had frustrated L. B. Sullivan 's plans for new construction surfaced again , however , and the idea of building in the north collapsed . The Huntsville City Council , individual officials at all levels , and private organizations united in the  | effort to keep north Alabama free of any penal facilities . Sites in Madison , Morgan , Lawrence , and Limestone counties were identified , discussed , and then rejected in the face of local opposition . When it sometimes seemed that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lieutenant Governor Beasley and Governor Wallace forced penal officials to withdraw . Beasley typically repeated his charge that new institutions would not be needed if the prison system were well administered . Finally , for their own protection , Locke and the board disclaimed interest in building penal facilities anywhere against the wishes of nearby residents . That disastrous policy barred new construction even in Elmore County near Montgomery , where the board already operated four institutions . And it produced precisely what might have been expected : three extraordinarily poor sites where local authorities wanted prisons to generate economic activity . Now , in a paradoxical reversal of the pattern in the north , officials in Heflin , Wadley , and Union Springs , small communities in the depressed rural south , actively campaigned for penal facilities near their homes . There being money for only one new institution , the Board of Corrections took time to make its choice . Union Springs was not selected until the end of 1978 and , even then , construction was frustrated by demonstrations staged by the Alabama Prison Project , an affiliate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , like the ACLU , hoped to discourage the board 's " brick and mortar " policy . The project was ultimately derailed , and no significant new capacity was created in the Alabama prison system until much later when , under the direction of Governor Fob James , the state built several architecturally flawed facilities . So went prison reform at the hands of Commissioner Locke and the Board of Corrections . An extraordinary meeting of the HRC , held at the end of 1976 in the senate chamber and attended by all the principals , produced only more charges and countercharges . In speeches before the Alabama Bar Association and the legislature , Nachman and Beto focused attention yet again on " mismanagement " and seemed , to most observers , to join Beasley 's campaign to saddle Locke and the board with primary responsibility for the problems at hand . Locke , at any rate , understood his critics in that way and responded in kind , suggesting in an interview that Nachman and Beto were not genuinely concerned about improving the prison system . ' Frustrated in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly , Nachman turned public attention to Governor Wallace , who had been largely silent for months . Linking himself all the more tightly  | to Beasley , Nachman said that the HRC would have been much more successful thus far if it had received from the governor the kind of cooperation it had been given by the legislature , and specifically McMillan 's task force . In a contemporaneous memorandum to Judge Johnson , Beto said he had tried to cooperate with the board and with Locke but had come to the conclusion that his counsel was " not welcomed . " Now , he intimated , someone else must take action . The media agreed . The Montgomery Advertiser declared that it was within Wallace 's " domain to demand reform ? not to sit about and whine when a federal judge had to step into the vacuum the Governor had allowed to exist . " The Birmingham News complained that the men in authority had " formed a circle , with everyone pointing a finger at someone else . " Since Governor Wallace had appointed all the members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state penal policy was unquestioned . In theory , however , the board was an independent body . Wallace often disclaimed any official responsibility for prison conditions and , indeed , insisted that he was an improper defendant in James . 1 n the wake of Beasley 's success in using the prisons for political advantage , Wallace reexamined his posture and substituted two disingenuous tactics calculated to make it seem that he was taking charge in an emergency while at the same time preserving his ability to forestall serious action . First , the governor insisted , at once , that he still had no direct authority with respect to the prisons and thus could not be held responsible for them and that he genuinely wished to have such authority and intended to press the legislature to abolish the Board of Corrections and hand the administration of the prison system over to his office . As long as his proposal to eliminate the board was not enacted , and it was not , the governor had the best of two worlds ? disclaiming blame for the prisons and appearing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ startled a joint session of the legislature with a proposal to raise taxes to pay for improvements in the prison system . Here again , duplicity . The governor explained that he did not mean to renege on his longstanding pledge never to raise taxes " without a vote of the people . " In this instance , Wallace proposed an increase in the state income tax , the rate of which was fixed by the state constitution . No such rate increase could be achieved , accordingly , without a constitutional amendment requiring a two-thirds vote of the legislature and approval by the electorate . No serious observer anticipated that a proposed tax for the benefit of prison inmates could clear either hurdle . Once again , Wallace sought political benefits from conflicting initiatives . By proposing new taxes , he enjoyed the appearance of leadership ;  | by choosing a tax that could not realistically be increased , he avoided actual demands on the taypaying public . Moreover , his proposal shifted the problems of the prisons back to Beasley in the legislature , whom Wallace could blame should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ event that the legislature acted favorably on the plan , the governor could rely on the public to reject it . He then could cite the vote against new taxes to justify his own continued refusal to devote state resources to prison reform . Despite its brilliance , Wallace 's scheme was freighted with risk . Jere Beasley seized on the governor 's proposal for a revenue measure as a political self-inflicted wound . Beasley , too , appeared before a joint session of the legislature and admonished the public : " Do n't hold your breath until that tax passes . " The lieutenant governor condemned Wallace as simply " ill-advised " and promised to campaign against the tax if by some " miracle " it was approved in the legislature . Posturing himself as the protector of the public treasury against this new threat , Beasley encouraged citizens to " contact their local representatives and senators and let them know how they feel about new taxes .... " Throughout the remainder of the legislative session , Beasley alternated criticisms of the governor with further attacks on his own selected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lieutenant governor , too , was duplicitous . On the one hand , Beasley assailed Wallace for proposing unnecessary taxes ? knowing that the governor would be forced to tolerate attacks his own proposal had generated . On the other , Beasley insisted he could improve prison conditions without larger appropriations simply by dismissing Locke and recruiting a manager who would make the prison system self-sufficient ? knowing that the Board of Corrections would defend Locke precisely because it was Beasley , not Wallace , who called for his head . In the end , Beasley reaped enormous political profits , political blame fell on others and , of course , nothing of substance was done to improve prison conditions for which , skeptics observed , neither Beasley nor Wallace had any genuine concern . The next clash of political interests grew out of the new " good time " program sponsored by George McMillan 's task force . Under that plan , the Board of Corrections was authorized to reward well-behaved prisoners by deducting as many as two days from their sentences for every day served . Thus the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to release them early , whether or not the parole board acquiesced . Several objectives for the new scheme were advanced . George Beto said it would encourage discipline by giving prisoners an incentive to behave themselves . McMillan himself explained that the  | plan was designed to work in tandem with new prison industries . Special " good time " credits were to be the reward for prisoner labor in the manufacturing plants the board would shortly establish . In McMillan 's telling , this second objective accounted for the decision to enact a new " good time " law while leaving in place another statute , enacted years earlier , that already authorized sentence reductions for good behavior apart from participation in employment programs . By contrast , others discerned a quite different purpose . The district attorney in Mobile , Charles A. Graddick , condemned the " good time " plan as a ruse for the " wholesale release of prisoners " in order to reduce prison crowding and to provide space for more inmates now in local jails . Governor Wallace took essentially the same view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reached his desk , proclaiming that if it were to become law , " there would be rejoicing in the prisons . . . cooperate and graduate would become the motto of every inmate . " Still , at McMillan 's behest , the legislature overrode the governor 's veto , and the new " good time " program became law . Nachman and Beto promptly pressed Locke to recognize that the new law " could result in a substantial reduction of the prison population . " The commissioner took the hint . He asked Baxley for a formal opinion on whether " good time " credits could be awarded for good behavior exhibited prior to the date on which the new statute took effect . There was method in this . Locke did not ask whether the new law required the award of credits " retroactively " ; he asked whether it could be applied in that way . He plainly hoped not only to reduce sentences in a gradual way , crediting well-behaved inmates with three days for every one served in the future . He meant to take @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , under the new law , might justify a dramatic and immediate reduction in eligible prisoners ' terms . The request for an attorney general 's opinion was a bureaucratic device . Under Alabama law , state officials could not be held personally liable for actions taken under the authority of such an opinion , and it was common practice for administrators to pass questionable policies through Baxley 's office , where they tended to win approval for the very purpose of insulating the officials concerned from attack should their conduct generate litigation . In this instance , one of Baxley 's assistants , ( 1 . Daniel Evans , accommodated Locke in short order . The retroactive award of " good time " credits , Evans said , " could only further the intent and effectiveness of the statute . " That authority in hand , Locke instructed his staff to identify prisoners with " exceptional " records and to award them " good time " cred- its " retroactive to beginning date of incarceration . " Publicly , he proclaimed that at long last he had found a way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in the jails . Locke was cautious . He insisted that the " good time " law would not be used to release prisoners " wholesale " ; only the " cream of the crop " would have its benefits . At the same time , he and his staff estimated that hundreds of state prisoners would be discharged within a few weeks . Indeed , under an arrangement permitting local sheriffs to determine the eligibility of sentenced prisoners , it was possible to release inmates directly from the jails ? having served their terms , reduced by " good time " credits , without setting foot in a state prison . Within a month , approximately 600 inmates were , in fact , released . Finally , something substantive had been done about prison and jail crowding in Alabama . Ricky Robinson summed it up : " It 's the greatest thing we 've done in a long time . " And it was . By December , the population in the prisons was down to " design capacity , " and Judge Johnson issued an order allowing Locke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-run success bred political repercussions . McMillan now declared that he had never intended that the " good time " law would be applied " retroactively " ; Graddick and other prosecutors complained that Locke was assuming an effective power to commute sentences duly established by the courts ; and there were reports that due to mistakes in the computation of " good time , " some prisoners being released were ineligible even under Evans ' reading of law . Beasley blasted Locke for misreading the statute , for relying on a plainly incorrect opinion from Baxley 's office , and for discharging large numbers of inmates in the teeth of the laws fixing criminal sentences in the state . Other politicians , McMillan and Brooks Hines among them , quickly joined in the criticism . Norman Ussery insisted that the parole board had nothing to do with the " good time " law and pointed out in passing that the Board of Corrections was actually discharging prisoners before they were eligible for parole . Once again , Locke and the board were caught in a political cross fire from which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desperate circumstances that had produced the " wholesale " release of prisoners , no one would assume responsibility for that action . Locke himself now expressed doubts , recalling that he had told McMillan before the new statute was enacted that it was " too liberal . " He and Vickers claimed that Nachman and Beto had forced them to use the " good time " law to reduce crowding in the prisons . Nachman issued a denial , and so the debate ran , every principal blaming another for what now had become an embarrassment . The law was changed perfunctorily in the next legislative session .  | In the meantime , Bill Baxley found the temptation to redeem himself irresistible . In a startling reversal , he called a press conference and issued a second opinion on the " good time " law . He blamed McMillan for a pernicious public policy , proclaimed his own opposition to that policy , and then located what he himself described as a " technicality " on which to rest a new judgment . Conceding that he was " grasping at straws @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitution , which required that the content of legislative bills be identified in their titles ? the better to inform legislators of the substance of bills on which they were asked to vote . Inasmuch as the bill proposing the new " good time " law had not referred expressly to retroactivity , Baxley declared that aspect of the law invalid . This was a curious position to take . Baxley did not contend that Evans had mistaken the meaning of the statute . Nor did he suggest that the entire statute must be discarded . Only the aspect of the law that had caused such embarrassment , and of which he personally disapproved , must be rejected . Even at that , he was inconsistent . He said that the prisoners already released , ostensibly in violation of the state constitution , should not be recaptured and made to serve out their terms . On the contrary , Baxley insisted that the state 's resources would better be spent on managing inmates not fortunate enough to be illegally discharged . The result was intellectually chaotic , but politically expedient . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Beasley . He avoided any confession of error , declared his personal opposition to the release of prison inmates , blamed others for what had happened , and took credit for putting a stop to it . At the same time , however , he preserved for Locke and the board the little ground they had gained by taking advantage of Evans ' opinion for the two months it was viable . ' On the day before Thanksgiving , as many as 200 prisoners who had already been processed for release were sent back to their cells and dormitories , some to serve years longer as the direct result of Baxley 's action . Litigation was inevitable . Baxley himself confessed that his new position might not " stand up " in court . Several lawsuits were filed ; one , supported by the ACLU , provoked opinions from both Judge Johnson and the Alabama Supreme Court . In the end , however , the attorney general 's turnabout was sustained . Baxley had survived , the damage to his professional reputation offset by the fortification of his political position with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The appeals from Judge Johnson 's decision in Pugh and James provided an occasion for still further political posturing . Governor Wallace immediately announced his intention to appeal , notwithstanding I anmar 's concession that prison conditions in Alabama were unconsti- tutional . When Attorney General Baxley seemed unwilling to handle the legal work involved , Wallace retained a private attorney , Thomas S. Lawson , to ask the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals to overturn Johnson 's decision . The January 13 order had been widely reported , and an appeal was " an attempt to grab back some of the headlines the order took away . " Still , Johnson found the governor 's repudiation of Lamar 's confession to be duplicitous and , in response , required lawyers representing Wallace in future cases to produce written authority to act on his behalf . Attorney General Baxley was formally responsible for representing Alabama 's interests in court ; indeed , his assistants , including Lamar , had defended Locke and the board at trial . Yet Baxley initially chose not to appeal and , instead , attempted to " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order , namely the requirement that the board contract with the Center for Correctional Psychology to assist with the classification of inmates and various space-per-inmate standards . Baxley 's primary request was for relaxation of the requirement , stated firmly in the January 13 order , that cells housing single prisoners must measure sixty square feet in area . He pointed out that the prison system had only sixteen cells measuring sixty , a few dozen measuring fifty , and hundreds measuring forty square feet . He insisted that it was infeasible to enlarge those cells to meet the requirement that Johnson had fixed and that , if the sixty-foot standard were not modified , the board would be forced to abandon as many as 384 cells at a cost of millions of dollars . Accordingly , Baxley asked for permission to continue using forty-foot cells in existing facilities and to construct fiftyfoot cells in prisons to be built in the future . He supported his request with a memorandum prepared for McMillan 's task force by faculty members at Auburn University in Montgomery , among them Darrell Schlotterback and Dr. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accepted standards in the field . At first , Judge Johnson was adamant . He amended the January 13 order in some respects ? allowing the board to obtain expert advice on classification from someone other than Dr. Fowler and loosening a few other standards . Yet he refused to change the space requirement for individual cells ? for present or future prisons ; however , when Baxley 's representatives assured Johnson that the cell-space issue was the only question on which the attorney general could not compromise and that he would not appeal if his request were granted , the judge relented . For if only the sixty-foot requirement stood in the way of a bargain that would end the attorney general 's resistance to the January order and  | undercut the governor 's appeal into the bargain , that aspect of the order could be sacrificed . On a day when George Beto was scheduled to address the Alabama legislature on the limited progress toward meeting Judge Johnson 's demands , he stopped by Johnson 's office to ask for advice . When Beto said that he was about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " the judge handed him a new order to be issued that day . " Well , " Johnson said , " maybe this will help you . " The order , issued on May 20 , 1976 , declared that Johnson had never meant that all the cells in the prison system must actually measure sixty square feet , but that each prisoner must have that much living space , in either a cellular or dormitory unit . If the door to a forty-foot cell were kept locked , that sixty-foot requirement would , of course , be violated . If , however , a smaller cell were not locked and the prisoner were permitted to move in and out at will , that would suffice . Thus a prisoner might well be assigned to a forty-foot cell in which to sleep and to store personal items , provided that his total accessible space was at least sixty feet . Johnson reaffirmed his insistence that cells in future prisons must measure sixty square feet , but his acceptance of unlocked forty-foot cells in existing institutions plainly solved the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new order with him to the legislature , where it was received with enthusiasm , and for a brief time it seemed that the differences between Judge Johnson and Baxley , if not between Johnson and Wallace , might be resolved . The bargain , however , failed to materialize . Baxley accepted the success he had won in his negotiations with Johnson . Yet spurred by fears that the Wallace appeal would prove politically advantageous to the governor and that his own failure to participate might be taken as timidity , the attorney general soon joined in the governor 's effort to overturn the January order . From Judge Johnson 's standpoint , Baxley reneged on his agreement to forego an appeal in exchange for a relaxation of the order 's space requirements ? repeating in this respect his performance in Wyatt . The attorney general 's willingness to keep commitments to the court was tempered now and always by political expedience . Having decided to join Governor Wallace in asking the Fifth Circuit to reverse Judge Johnson 's decision in Pugh and James , Bill Baxley reconciled himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Lawson developed those arguments in an elaborate brief in which he acknowledged the dreadful conditions in Alabama 's prisons but insisted that the manner in which those institutions were administered was a matter of state policy not subject to judicial over- sight . Failing even to mention Lamar 's concession that prisoners in Alabama were suffering cruel and unusual punishment , Lawson denied both that conditions in the prisons were unconstitutional and that Judge Johnson had authority to issue such a detailed injunctive order requiring prison reform . Juxtaposing Johnson 's treatment of these cases to Judge Hand 's disposition of similar complaints about the Alabama prison system , Lawson highlighted three aspects of Johnson 's work as particularly disturbing . Judge Johnson 's own protestations to the contrary , Lawson contended that the judge had recognized a " constitutional right to rehabilitation , " that Johnson had formulated a list of " minimum constitutional rights " that actually represented only enlightened penal policies , and that he had effectively taken control of the prison system through the HRC . Lawson 's arguments on each front were tied to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for a court charged with constitutional adjudication and had assumed responsibility reserved for other branches of government . In Lawson 's telling , Johnson had acted " more like a legislator or administrator than a judge " and , accordingly , had improperly divested the citizens of Alabama of their opportunity to choose , through ordinary political channels , the penal policies they wished to pursue . Finally , Lawson raised a series of technical arguments , among them the claim that the Eleventh Amendment prohibited these lawsuits to the extent they sought federal judicial relief against the state of Alabama or the Board of Corrections as corporate entities . The contention that prisoners could not sue the state itself or one of its agencies , like the argument that Governor Wallace was an improper defendant , made no practical difference . Here again , it was clear that Commissioner Locke and the individual members of the board could be sued . Yet the claim was theoretically sound and in Lawson 's mind worth making for at least symbolic value . There were two briefs urging the Fifth Circuit to affirm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wallace and Baxley implicated not only Johnson 's order in Pugh and James , but his earlier decree in Newman , Steve Whinston offered arguments on behalf of the federal government , which had always taken the lead in the medical care case . Then , in another brief prepared by Bronstein and Myers , the prisoners ' lawyers met each of Lawson 's arguments in turn . They denied that Johnson 's order established an affirmative " right to rehabilitation , " insisted that the order 's specific requirements were amply supported by the evidence at trial , and portrayed the HRC as an entirely reasonable mechanism for ensuring compliance . They met Lawson 's more techni- cal arguments as best they could and dismissed his complaint that Judge Johnson had assumed administrative control of the prison system on the ground that the circuit court had previously approved the same kind of judicial behavior in Gates and in its earlier treatment of Newman . Some had doubts . Taylor thought that Wallace 's legal responsibility for the prisons was sufficiently remote that the governor should be voluntarily dismissed as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Human Rights Committee adequately and , indeed , left the HRC " naked to our enemies . " In the main , however , the arguments in support of Judge Johnson appeared strong and were strengthened again by other developments just before the Fifth Circuit 's decision.48 In this instance , as in the original appeal in Newman , the appellate treatment of Johnson 's work was colored by eleventh-hour decisions in other cases . After the briefs were filed , the Fifth Circuit handed down an opinion in Williams v. Edwards , yet another prison case involving the Louisiana State Prison at Angola . In Williams , the circuit court explicitly embraced the theory on which Judge Johnson had relied in the Alabama cases , namely that if the totality of conditions in a prison system amounted to cruel and unusual punishment , a district judge could issue a detailed injunctive decree redressing a series of shortcomi ngs no one of which would have been sufficient to establish an Eighth Amendment violation standing alone . The Williams decision thus provided Johnson 's order in Alabama with new support . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , could be defended in light of the overall conditions in the Alabama prison system , even if the same requirements would not have been justified if the prisons had been clean and structurally sound . A second new case , Jones v. North Carolina Prisoners Labor Union , decided by the United States Supreme Court , was much less supportive . In yet another opinion by Justice Rehnquist , the Court held that the federal courts should defer to the policies established by state penal administrators and thus suggested a revival of the hands-off doctrine . Both Williams and Jones figured in the appellate treatment of Pugh and James , although Jones proved to be less significant than Williams . ' The three judge panel scheduled to hear argument in the Alabama cases included Judge James P. Coleman , whose strong personality all the lawyers expected to control the court . Coleman was more politician than judge . He had held several elective offices in Mississippi , including the governorship , and had long been perceived as an opponent of civil rights lawsuits . He was of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ warmth that concealed a determined commitment to a  | way of life that had been under attack since the 1960s . In addition , Coleman was widely understood to regard Judge Johnson as a rival . Bronstein worried that Coleman might take the opportunity provided by the Alabama prison cases to frustrate the work of a man whose national reputation and prestige dwarfed his own . At the same time , Judge Coleman was an intelligent man , willing to check his political instincts with legal analysis . Appointed to the federal bench by President Kennedy , he could be expected to side with civil rights groups at least on occasion . Coleman had been on the panel that decided the Williams case and might well find the circuit 's judgment there compelling in these similar cases . Finally , he might find it most comfortable to affirm Judge Johnson , the better to polish his own image by association with a man he professed publicly to admire . Judge Coleman did control the court . He asked probing questions when Bronstein and Lawson appeared in New Orleans to argue orally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primary perspective was not , however , that of the doubtful jurist or the disgruntled rival . In examining these prison cases and Judge Johnson 's elaborate order , Coleman relied heavily on his personal experience with the administration of prisons when he was governor of Mississippi . On the one hand , he was concerned that Johnson had taken so much authority away from Commissioner Locke and the Board of Corrections ? both by issuing a highly detailed order and by giving Nachman and Beto wide-ranging functions . Coleman resisted the implication that state authorities were incompetent to operate prisons without federal judicial supervision and regarded Johnson 's interference with suspicion . On the other hand , he was persuaded that the authorities in Alabama had failed to meet their responsibilities . Conditions were plainly very bad , and precedents on the books , including Gates and Williams , authorized just the kind of injunctive relief that Johnson had ordered . Indeed , Coleman was unimpressed even with developments that Johnson accepted as welcome . As governor of Mississippi , he had discarded any attempt to make prisons pay their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the suggestion that Alabama could be successful in that vein . In the end , Coleman was convinced that Johnson 's actions were justified in the main . Only the language in his opinion , rendered in the spring of 1977 , was cause for concerns ' Judge Coleman began favorably enough , confirming that prison authorities could not withhold from prisoners the " basic necessities of life " and rejecting " legislative inaction " as an excuse for failure to maintain acceptable living conditions . He described Judge Johnson as  | " very able " and " highly dedicated " and , indeed , said that Johnson 's efforts to " put an end to unconstitutional conditions in the Alabama prison system " warranted " high commendation . " Accordingly , Coleman approved most of the provisions in the January 13 order . At the same time , however , he disparaged the very idea of " rehabilitation " in prison , declaring that prison inmates did deteriorate and that " no power on earth " could prevent it . Coleman also complained that by creating the HRC Johnson had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an outside agency when he might " more properly " have appointed qualified " monitors " to observe state officials ' efforts to comply with the order and to make periodic reports . Finally , Coleman agreed that Governor Wallace had no direct authority for the prisons and thus was an improper defendant . Lawson took Coleman 's opinion as a rejection of his most important arguments . The discharge of Wallace as a defendant was only a matter of form ; Locke and the board remained as appropriate parties to be given the responsibility of implementing Judge Johnson 's order . The elimination of the HRC was more important , but that had no effect on the reforms that state officials were still required to achieve . Coleman 's remarks about rehabilitation were equally unavailing . Indeed , the only genuine accomplishments Lawson could count from the appeal touched on minor matters : Coleman set aside some of the rules regarding the treatment of inmates ' family and friends during visits to the prisons , discarded the one-person-per-cell rule , and directed Judge Johnson to reconsider the sixty-foot rule for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Coleman had ignored his Eleventh Amendment contention . He decided , then , to ask the court to reconsider its judgment ; failing that , he resolved to seek further review in the U.S. Supreme Court . The prisoners ' lawyers were less certain where their interests lay . Bronstein 's primary concern was not the substance of Coleman 's opinion ; he , like Lawson , thought the appellate court had made very few changes in Judge Johnson 's order . Bronstein thus asked for reconsideration primarily in hopes of obtaining a second opinion without so much disparaging rhetoric . The Justice Department was unsure whether even Coleman 's language was troubling . Steve Whinston suggested that the government join Bronstein 's request for reconsideration , but Walter W. Barnett , Whinston 's superior in Washington , summed up what was in many minds . Judge Coleman 's product was " difficult " to " characterize . " The opinion was a " dog , " and the " question " was whether it would be a " sleeping one . " Newspaper headlines reflected a  | similar ambivalence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ understood quite the opposite . In time , Barnett 's appraisal proved sound . The circuit court denied both requests for reconsideration , leaving the Alabama prison cases where Judge Coleman had put them , and Judge Johnson treated Coleman 's opinion as affirming his work . In the end , any damage done by the appeal was held to a minimum . " Still , there was the Supreme Court . The drive to vindicate state prerogatives caused Lawson to seek review in Washington . At this point , the Prison Project 's national perspective came to the fore . Some members of the project 's steering committee urged Bronstein also to seek Supreme Court review in an effort to supersede Judge Coleman 's opinion . Others argued against risking a palatable circuit judgment before justices who , having just decided Jones , might be even less sympathetic to litigation over prison conditions . Even if Coleman 's opinion were viewed as unfavorable , it was at least confined to the Fifth Circuit and had not yet been given the national moment of a Supreme Court decision . Of course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions virtually without exception , particularly in civil rights cases . In addition , Chief Justice Burger admired Johnson and once had suggested that President Nixon name him to the Supreme Court . Still , by 1977 the Court had come to be dominated by other Nixon appointees who shared neither the Warren Court 's enthusiasm for civil rights lawsuits nor Burger 's special regard for this district judge . After a vigorous debate , the committee chose a strategic middle ground . Bronstein did not affirmatively ask the Supreme Court to review the circuit 's judgment . Nor did he wait to see whether the Court granted Lawson 's request for review . He immediately filed a statement telling the Court that if Lawson 's request were granted , the justices should consider not only whether the Fifth Circuit had given prisoners too much , but whether the circuit had undercut Judge Johnson 's order , in word or deed , and thus had given prisoners too little . " These elaborate tactics were wasted in the end . Late in the year , and without accepting formal briefs or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disposed of the Pugh and James cases in a summary order declining to consider most of Lawson 's contentions . The justices treated only the long-neglected Eleventh Amendment claim and , on that issue , held that neither the state itself nor the board could properly be ordered to comply with the January 13 injunction . That formalism aside , the Court 's treatment of the Alabama cases came to naught . The circuit judgment , described in Judge Coleman 's opinion ,  | became the law of the Pugh and James cases . Following instructions , Judge Johnson dismissed Governor Wallace , the state itself , and the board as defendants , diluted the rules regarding visitation , dissolved the HRC and , in an abundance of caution , limited the sixty-foot rule to penal facilities already in existence . He plainly implied an understanding , however , that his January 13 order had been sustained in all other respects . " Judge Johnson had not pressed for full compliance with his order while the appeals were pending . Far better , he thought , to " tread water " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risks . Johnson was under consideration for several prestigious appointments and , by the fall of 1977 , knew that President Carter meant to name him director of the FBI . Anything he hoped to accomplish in the Alabama prison cases must be achieved promptly or be left to someone else . Nachman understood as much and informed his committee members that the " attempted appeal " should not " deter or delay " the HRC 's efforts to enforce the January 13 order . Judge Johnson 's concerns about the appeal , however , were paramount . To underscore his resolve , the judge told lawyers on both sides that he would take no important actions in the short run and that he " or some other judge to whom the cases will be assigned " would proceed only after hearing from the appellate courts . Indeed , during the period in which he was distracted by the FBI appointment , Johnson transferred formal responsibility for the prison cases to Judge Pittman in Mobile . Uncertainty regarding his health ultimately caused the judge to decline the FBI post and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the interim , of course , Alabama penal officials and public figures responded to the January 13 order in their own , politically charged manners The sole exception to Johnson 's pause pending appellate review was the classification of inmates . Everyone , including Johnson , considered classification to be critical to genuine change in the Alabama prison system , and the judge insisted that an effective classification program be established and completed on an emergency basis . To that end , the Center for Correctional Psychology was ushered into the system to do what Locke 's staff had failed to do . The center 's experience , however , proved to be yet another lesson in Alabama politics . In a real sense , it was the frustration of the Prison Classification Project that signaled that efforts to implement Johnson 's order faced a long and bitter campaign against myriad forces seeking to derive only political benefits from the tragedy at Alabama 's penal institutions .  | By all accounts , the classification of prisoners was central to the task of reforming the Alabama prison system . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential to identify violent inmates in order to remove them from the dormitories which , pursuant to the January 13 order , could safely house only " minimum security " offenders . At the further level of the theory in James , it was necessary to discover prisoners ' needs and desires so that candidates for educational and vocational programs could be assigned accordingly . In form , Alabama had been committed to classification since the nineteenth century , when rehabilitation emerged as an objective of confinement . The practice of herding " together the boy and the man , the beginner in crime and the hardened sinner " was officially condemned as inconsistent with the object to " reform " either . The lease system substituted its own brand of classification . Penal authorities separated " dead heads " from prisoners who could be made to work and , within the class of working inmates , they distinguished " first class " from " second class " hands . Yet the objective then was not to identify the employment to which a prisoner should be assigned for his own good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for his services . The original , rehabilitative purpose of classification resurfaced with the inauguration of the old Kilby Prison . Convicts were interviewed by " trained experts , " who determined the course of their " reformatory treatment . " Once again , however , classification for the benefit of prisoners was short lived . The press of numbers and persistent demands that the prison system pay its own way resulted in the assignment of prisoners to whatever space was available and to whatever work needed to be done . ' The circumstances had not changed markedly decades later when , in January 1975 , Hugh Swafford developed an innovative scheme for classifying incoming prisoners at Mt . Meigs . Under Swafford 's program ,  | new prisoners submitted to intelligence and psychological testing , underwent physical and mental examination , and met with classification teams charged with assigning them appropriate " custody grades " and " rehabilitative programs . " On its face , the plan was promising , but in practice it was not followed . Swafford resigned after only four months when he lost direct access to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Swafford insisted that he could not function properly under the direction of a line officer and that he feared classification would revert " back to the old system . " That , it later became clear , is precisely what occurred . ' After Swafford 's departure , classification deteriorated into the intolerable state of affairs presented to Judge Johnson at the trial in Pugh and James . Prisoners still were classified according to whether they presented " maximum , " " medium , " or " minimum " security risks . Yet arriving inmates were routinely assigned the " maximum " label and thereafter were expected to demonstrate their fitness for some less secure status . Rehabilitative programs such as work release could accommodate relatively few inmates . In general , prisoners were assigned to any institution , any living quarters , and any program where space was available . Most flowed into the open dormitories at the four major prisons where visitors could distinguish " maximum " from " minimum " security prisoners only by checking institution records , and a move up or down in an inmate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of supervision he received . As Judge Johnson put it , there was no " working " classification program in the Alabama prison system . ' On the assumption that other elements of the January 13 order could not be addressed until prisoners were classified , Johnson made classification the first priority . Even though his temporary " cap " on the prison system 's population had now dammed the flow of new inmates , the task of reclassifying existing prisoners was still heroic . Johnson doubted that state authorities could be successful working alone and , accordingly , summoned Dr. Fowler 's Center for Correctional Psychology . That action may have been defensible as a reasonable means of establishing a rational classification program and making it operate quickly in trying circumstances . The events that followed , however , rendered the success of a " crash " classification program involving University of Alabama faculty and students modest at best . ' Difficulties surfaced immediately and continued in phases . At the outset , confusion and conflict over the precise role that Fowler was to play delayed the classification process for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in his order , requiring state officials to formulate a plan for classification and then to " contract " with Fowler 's center not actually " to implement " the new scheme as the National Prison Project had requested in brief , but " to aid in the implementation " of the plan . This in hopes that relations between Fowler and state authorities could be sorted out informally . Ambiguity bred disagreement , however , and much time was lost in a series of confrontations over the question of authority . Moreover , by the time Judge Johnson resolved doubts by placing Fowler in formal charge of the classification effort , wounded feelings on both sides frustrated future cooperation . Yet cooperation was essential . The barriers presented by bureaucratic routine , inertia , and rank incompetence in the prison system doomed any effort on the part of outsiders to effect change without the support of the officials concerned . Not only the conflict that developed between Dr. Fowler and state authorities , but the means by which antagonisms were addressed , caused continuing difficulty . Early on , Fowler @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ acceptance among state officials . Nachman responded , but a new series of letters purporting to speak for Judge Johnson only aggravated Commissioner Locke 's irritation with Nachman 's tendency to act as a surrogate for the judge . The informality of that practice , moreover , provided state authorities with an issue for their appeal from Judge Johnson 's order . Later , Locke , Fowler , and key members of the Board of Corrections abandoned attempts to resolve their differences by dealing only with Nachman and turned to the lawyers who had represented state officials and prisoners in Pugh and James . That action proved to be even more frustrating , because the lawyers lacked relevant expertise and could scarcely advise Judge Johnson on the way in which classification should proceed . They could perform , and did perform , only as problem-solving advocates . They initially contrived an interim peace between Fowler and state officials but , inasmuch as that plan failed to resolve underlying tensions , it proved ineffectual . Then , the lawyers simply faced off as adversaries and " settled " remaining conflicts through arms-length @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classified in the end , most of them according to criteria and procedures that Fowler 's center developed . Yet few permanent reforms were effected . After Fowler 's departure , evidence of his having operated in the Alabama prison system for more than a year disappeared with barely a trace . The experience with classification was thus a lesson , and an early one , in the monumental barriers faced by  | any outside agent introduced into an ailing state penal system to make changes opposed by resentful , recalcitrant state authorities . The choice of Dr. Fowler 's center was natural enough . The University of Alabama was itself a state institution , Fowler and many of his faculty and staff members were Alabamians , and the center had previously worked with the Board of Corrections in the development of the master plan and the study of the prison system 's mental health programs . Dr. Clements ' testimony at trial , albeit on behalf of the plaintiffs , established that the center could assist in new classification efforts and , most important , Ira DeMent assured Judge Johnson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could rely . As soon as the January 13 order was issued , Fowler and Dr. Brodsky assembled a group of graduate students to anticipate what lay ahead and collected materials on classification from other sources , notably the Federal Bureau of Prisons . They also contributed their estimates of what classification would cost to the university group organized by Dr. Toohey to predict the potential expense of implementing all aspects of the court order . Toohey accompanied Fowler and Brodsky to Montgomery in early February to discuss classification with Nachman and Beto . Unfortunately , the hoped-for cooperation between the center and penal authorities failed to develop . Shortly after trial , Commissioner Locke employed Dr. Kenneth Warren , a practicing psychologist in Montgomery . Warren was an intelligent professional , albeit of modest experience , whose presence lent credence to Locke 's insistence that his staff was capable of classifying prisoners without interference from the outside . In ordinary times , the decision to retain Warren might have been taken as a hopeful sign . Now , it was evidence that the prison system would not suffer lightly a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brodsky brought to their relations with state authorities a surprising , and dysfunctional , bellicosity . These were insightful men , who understood that success would depend on their ability to reassure distrustful state officials . Yet they revealed in their private memoranda and in their relations with Locke , Warren , and others that they regarded those officials with suspicion and understood themselves as having a commission from the court to bring more enlightened thinking to the Alabama classification program . ' Locke 's resistance to the center was reflected in Attorney General Ilaxley 's motion in late February , asking the judge to lift the requirement that state authorities enter a formal contract with Dr. Fowler . Johnson explained in response that he was adamant only that the state have some source of expert advice with respect to classification and , in  | fact , was indifferent whether Dr. Fowler 's center or some other " comparably qualified and willing " group supplied what was needed . When , however , Baxley proposed the four faculty members at Auburn University in Montgomery who had prepared earlier memoranda on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirement , the plaintiffs objected vigorously . Bronstein collected statements from knowledgeable professionals in the field , insisting that Fowler and his staff were far superior to Schlotterback , Osterhoff , and the others Baxley named . For example , John Conrad said that employing the AUM faculty , none of whom enjoyed a national reputation , instead of Fowler 's prestigious Center for Correctional Psychology , " would be like using a local high school football team ... when the Pittsburgh Steelers were available . " Judge Johnson attempted to satisfy all sides by ordering Locke to work with both the University of Alabama and the AUM groups , with Fowler serving as chairman of the joint " panel of experts . " That compromise did little to ameliorate tensions . Fowler and Brodsky failed to involve the AUM faculty significantly in the process . And , for their part , Locke and his staff exploited any remaining ambiguity regarding Fowler 's authority . ' Continuing conflict was evident in still further skirmishing prior to Fowler 's arrival . On the apparent assumption that Fowler was to assist in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the development of such a plan in the first instance , Locke and his staff formulated a new scheme and presented it to Johnson within a few weeks after the January order . On first blush , the plan seemed sound . It tracked the Swafford program in the main , departing from it on occasion to take account of guidelines that Johnson himself had mentioned . Dr. Fowler and others in Tuscaloosa were unimpressed . The plan 's very plausibility evoked concern that Locke might not mean to carry through with it . Fowler 's center might be drawn into an unworkable arrangement with state authorities and the AUM group and , when the joint effort failed , might suffer the blame . A memo from Carl Clements warning that the center should not be allowed to become the " fall guy " for the Board of Corrections underscored Fowler 's trepidation . His reaction was predictable . If he was to bear responsibility for classification in the Alabama prison system , he wanted an opportunity to review , and perhaps to modify , the plan with which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor and Knowles on the contents of Locke 's plan and , in reliance on Fowler 's advice , Taylor filed a motion asking Judge Johnson to delay approval of that plan until the " panel of experts " had an opportunity to examine it . Johnson granted the  | motion , setting the stage for Fowler 's initial efforts to gain control of classification at all levels , from the formulation of the basic framework through the making of actual classification decisions regarding particular prison inmates . ' Only now did Fowler make contact with the commissioner ? three and one-half months after the January order and only two and one-half months before the classification of inmates was to be completed . His manner was contentious . He wrote to Locke , stating that he understood that he was to have responsibility for classifying prisoners , that he intended to employ the AUM faculty and others to assist in the project , and that it would be " helpful " to have a list of " classification experts " already employed by the prison system who might be " assigned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a meeting to be held in early June at the university 's office in Montgomery and asked Locke and his staff to attend . Fowler sent copies of his letter to Nachman and Judge Johnson ; Nachman then sent Locke a letter of his own , stating that the judge had directed him to inform the commissioner that he was in " complete accord " with Fowler 's suggestions and desired that they he " carried out as rapidly as possible . " In these circumstances , Locke could hardly refuse even to meet with Fowler , but he did insist on shifting the meeting place to his own office and inviting not only staff members concerned with classification , but Lawson and David Flack , another attorney recently retained to protect state interests in the litigation . The participation of counsel gave the meeting an adversary flavor that , in turn , magnified the mutual suspicions already in evidence . Brodsky 's notes are revealing . Our first meeting with Judson Locke ... in his office . It 's an ambush . There are 17 people there : a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the higher level staff in charge of professional services .... Every time I 've gone to the Board of Corrections headquarters for a meeting , the strategy has been to bring as many people as they can to outtalk , outnumber , overwhelm . It 's an ambush , all right . ' Other notes taken by Brodsky suggest that Fowler struck a conciliatory posture , that he praised Locke and his staff whenever possible and minimized the extent to which he and the center would alter arrangements already in place . Fowler 's own rendition of the meeting presents a different picture . In a follow-up letter to Nachman , plainly intended to memorialize understandings reached in the meeting , Fowler recalled a " frank exchange of information in a generally cordial atmosphere . " When Lawson asked that commitments not be made to  | potential staff members , Fowler " informed " him that he could delay only for two weeks but then would need to employ " several people to begin work in July . " In response to questions from the AUM group regarding the existing classification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " and that he intended to submit a " revised plan " that would " specify the steps to be taken to implement each provision of the January 13 order with regard to classification . " Fowler said that he was willing to develop the revised plan " cooperatively , " so that the Board of Corrections might " stipulate its acceptance of the plan and its willingness to proceed immediately toward its implementation . " But he made it plain that he would submit his own scheme if agreement proved to be " impossible . " Locke 's follow-up letter to Nachman ignored Fowler 's specifics and reported only that the University of Alabama group would coordinate with Warren in the " evaluation of the techniques to be employed " in the classification program . Fowler , Brodsky , and the other university faculty had little respect for Locke or , by extension , those associated with him . Brodsky 's notes reflect their attitude . Judson Locke slouches for a long time and then sits up in his chair . It may be that his chair is just too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Perhaps his desk is too high . In any case , he appears to be nowhere big enough to fill the seat . " Locke , for his part , found the center 's involvement in the prison system irksome , something to be tolerated but hardly embraced . The initial meeting thus left the gap between the principal players wider even than it had been previously . Hovering in the background , Nachman voiced impatience . " I hope , " he wrote to Fowler , " that you will be able to impress upon those charged by law with the administration of the Alabama corrections system " that the adoption and implementation of a proper classification plan " is an absolute imperative and must be accomplished forthwith . " That impatience was warranted . Still , there was no acceptable plan for classification ; still not a single prisoner had been classified . ' Fowler understood that time was of the essence and thus quickly developed a " modified " classification plan in two phases . First , he and a small staff would devote the month of July @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions for the prisoners there , but would use the experience to develop and hone standards and procedures for use in the rest of the system . Second , beginning in early August and reaching into the fall , more personnel would be hired , trained , and  | charged to classify inmates at all the other institutions . This " modified " plan was little more than a timetable , at most an outline , for what Fowler meant to do ; the affirmative policies he would pursue and the procedures he would employ were not indicated . A timetable , however , was all that Fowler could muster in the circumstances . He presented his " modified " plan to Locke as a fait accompli . " Locke agreed to submit Fowler 's plan to the board for approval , but Fowler would not wait . He went directly to Judge Johnson 's chambers . His private description of his conference with Johnson not only illustrates again his attitude toward the work at hand , but reveals Fowler 's perception of the judge . The Judge as one might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exact center of the far end of a long room . The walk to his desk is long . The urge to bow on reaching his desk is overwhelming . The Judge was in fine spirits . He smiled , shook my hand , greeted me warmly , and obviously had no idea what I was doing there . I told him that I had brought the response to his request for a revised classification plan , and everything immediately clicked into place . He began to talk about classification with great intensity . He said that classification was the key to the entire prison problem , and that he was convinced that nothing could ever be done to improve the situation until the classification system was developed . He thanked me for taking on the responsibility , opened the envelope , and began to thumb through the material rapidly . After about a minute , he said , " Do you need any court orders on this ? " Raw power ! I had a mad impulse to ask him to make Stan Commissioner of Corrections , but , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going all right ... . When I told him that the classification would require eleven months , his reaction astonished me . He was not indignant , as I had feared , or resigned , as I had anticipated . Instead , he said quietly , " Could n't you do it just a little faster ? " He reminded me that the case was under appeal , and said that , whatever happened , " I 'd sure like to know that at least the classification has been accomplished . " Well , what do you say to a federal judge ? I told him that we would move as rapidly as possible , and make every effort to complete the classification . He seemed pleased . He wrote some notes , apparently reminding himself to read and to respond to the plan on Monday . He said , " I 'll look this over carefully and see if any judicial action is necessary . "  | Three days later , Johnson issued an order rejecting the defendants ' earlier plan and accepting Fowler 's " modified " plan in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sink Fowler ever more deeply into the business of classification , the judge ordered state authorities to implement the " modified " plan " through " the Center for Correctional Psychology and the AUM group . Fowler now had an approved plan of his own making and instructions to carry it out , but he lacked immediate financial support . Instead of losing more time wrangling with Locke about expenses , he persuaded the University of Alabama to underwrite his work through the summer , with the expectation that the Board of Corrections would reimburse the university when a new fiscal year began in the fall . Although it seemed that some students would participate , Fowler 's program was not presented as a teaching or research project . Another agency of state government simply could not , or would not , pay the bill for immediate action required of that department by a federal court . Yet university officials agreed , in the same spirit in which they had responded to the legislature 's request for assistance in estimating the cost of implementing the January order . Not only did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered the university another opportunity to preserve its special relationship to state government generally . In short order , Fowler received permission to establish a Prison Classification Project ( PCP ) , operating directly from the office of the president of the University of Alabama with Toohey as project director . Fowler and Brodsky now assembled a staff for Phase I. They held orientation meetings in Tuscaloosa , then moved the team to Draper Prison . When the PCP began work in July , the group numbered approximately twenty faculty and graduate students . The project shared " cramped , poorly ventilated , and overheated quarters " with a local junior college , which offered basic education courses to selected inmates . Fowler and Brodsky divided the staff into three-member " classification boards " to interview inmates and make recommendations regarding appropriate " custody grades " and program assignments . The boards began with few guidelines , leaning heavily on factors mentioned in Johnson 's order . They identified elderly and emotionally disturbed or retarded prisoners who needed special treatment or transfer to more appropriate facilities , and they located other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the community . Within the category of prisoners properly held at Draper , they separated potentially violent offenders from those appropriate for the dormitories . The cri- teria at this early stage were rough : age , offense , criminal record , mental stability , and aptitude . The process for making judgments was also simple . Prisoners were first provided with an explanation of classification and its objectives , this in hopes they would see their own interest in cooperation . Then they were given a battery of tests , their files were examined , and they were interviewed ? once by a single member of the staff and then by a classification board . Finally , either Fowler or Brodsky reviewed the board 's recommendations . " The work progressed deliberately . A few decisions had been reached by the end of the first week and , by the end of the month , several classification boards were operating simultaneously and turning out reasoned judgments in which Fowler and Brodsky had substantial confidence . Yet there were drawbacks . Institution records proved to be inaccurate and incomplete , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inconsistent conclusions in similar cases . Those difficulties were overcome slowly , as experience permitted the staff to sharpen substantive criteria and improve procedures . In general , inmates were given the least restrictive custody grades and program assignments consistent with serious security concerns . Prisoners came to trust and appreciate the work being done , and staff members enjoyed a measure of satisfaction that something worthwhile was being accomplished . The primary source of concern at this early point was the arduous pace of decision-making , which Fowler and Brodsky wished to make as reliable as possible . Early success bred its own problems . Now that at least some prisoners were being identified as dangerous and , accordingly , inappropriate for dormitory housing , it was necessary to place them in single cells , cells generally unavailable at Draper . At the other end of the scale , promising inmates were being selected for educational and vocational programs ? also in short supply . Fowler and Brodsky refused to take the number of single cells and places in rehabilitative programs as given , such that the boards could assign @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that could be accommodated under existing circumstances . The psychologists made their decisions in the abstract , based on each individual prisoner 's needs , and then expected Locke and the Board of Corrections to respond by making suitable situations available in the quantity required . With every prisoner given one of the PCP 's three custody grades signaling some potential for violence ( " maxi mum , " " close , " or " medium " security prisoners ) the pressure on the system 's scarce single cells began to build . The demand was even greater  | for opportunities appropriate for prisoners assigned to " community " custody ? educational and vocational programs and , in particular , work release . The result was more conflict , on two levels . First , at the personal level , the assignment of numerous prisoners who had previously been considered " maximum " security risks to community facilities in which they would be loosely supervised underscored the arbitrariness of the classification scheme the PCP supplanted . Warren and Nagle were incensed that their own work should be jettisoned in favor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level , the new assignments threatened to accomplish what Judge Johnson had explicitly refused to order ? the restructuring of fundamental penal policy in Alabama . State authorities were presumably entitled to operate secure prisons in which inmates were kept in cells and dormitories , so long as those institutions met minimal public health standards . Yet the classification judgments being made by the PCP contemplated that large numbers of prisoners would not be confined in that way and would , instead , be channeled to community facilities that state authorities wished to reserve for the privileged few . Fowler and Brodsky disclaimed any authority to use classification to thwart Alabama 's sentencing laws . Indeed , they worried aloud over the risks their judgments portended for the public at large . Nevertheless , they persisted in making classification assignments consistent with sound criteria . The result was that convicts who previously would have languished in prison were slated for transfer to less secure facilities . Warren in particular regarded Fowler and Brodsky as interlopers ? rivals for control of matters he had been appointed to oversee . He understood that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assist in classification and that state officials now must work with the PCP in some fashion . Still , Warren considered that fundamental responsibility for the enterprise was his and that he was called on only to cooperate with Fowler as he , Warren , performed under his own mandate . Warren repeatedly challenged Fowler , always searching for opportunities to demonstrate his own , independent authority and testing the full measure of Fowler 's support from the judge . Some tactics were successful for a time , then backfired . For example , Warren insisted that his own staff of classification officers was occupied at Mt . Meigs , now the Kilby Medical and Diagnostic Center , where escapees , parole violators , and other prisoners whom Judge Johnson had exempted from the " cap " order were being classified . As a result , Warren 's officers were not regularly available to work with Fowler 's group at Draper . By denying  | Fowler essential staff , Warren not only underscored the point that he controlled his own employees and , with them , the major share of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ severely restricted the pace at which the Draper project could progress . At the same time , however , Warren had considerable influence with the men and women who answered to him and could have an impact on classification assignments made by PCP boards in which they participated . When he kept his staff away from Draper , he lost the opportunity to affect that work and , as a practical matter , rendered it more likely that PCP boards , constituted by temporary psychologists and students worki ng alone , would reach decisions Warren found unacceptable . Warren was under pressure from wardens to retain stringent custody grades for most prisoners . " Hell , Doc , " one warden said to him , if they got a number , they 're maximum . " Thus when it became clear that the absence of his own staff from PCP boards effectively silenced his voice in the classification process at Draper , Warren shifted to a new and more effective strategy . At least in Fowler 's perception , Warren identified those members of the permanent staff who tended to agree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the time . Others , who were less sympathetic to the Fowler group 's views and more receptive to Warren 's influence , were sent to Draper with increasing frequency . If Fowler now had a larger staff from which to constitute his classification boards , he also must contend with a group of permanent staff working at cross-purposes with his own people . This tactic , too , may have backfired . For as much as Warren may have hoped to vindicate prior classification decisions and to pacify wardens by insisting that most prisoners receive " maximum , " " close , " or " medium " custody grades , his effectiveness in that vein necessarily prevented prisoners from being given " minimum " or " community " assignments . It was one thing to shun the " community " label ? and thus to avoid the need to find more places in the system 's oversubscribed work release programs . It was quite another to resist the " minimum " designation  - -  and thus to limit the number of prisoners who , consistent with Judge . Johnson 's order @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ success in keeping Fowler 's group from declaring arguably undeserving prisoners to present only " minimum " security risks actually undercut state officials ' overarching interest in finding the dormitories suitable for most prisoners . Conflicts also arose directly with respect to the custody grade and program assignments the PCP selected for particular inmates . Anticipating disagreements , Fowler agreed to forward PCP recommendations  | to Warren and Nagle and to consider any " objections " they might have . If they raised objections , he agreed to meet with them in an attempt to reconcile their positions with his own . The plan was simple enough and consistent at one level with the threshold understanding that classification was to be a joint effort . Yet the scheme also formalized the contentious nature of the enterprise and , moreover , produced delays . Fowler charged that Warren did not work fast enough after receiving files and , indeed , deliberately held files longer than necessary in order to postpone final decisions and , ultimately , the need to find placements for prisoners in the programs to which they were assigned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not devote immediate attention to files sent to him and that Fowler frustrated his attempts to keep pace by sending large numbers of files at once . " Warren and Nagle raised objections in two forms . Occasionally , they complained merely that mistakes had been made regarding individual prisoners . Fowler and Brodsky often agreed to modifications but , in some instances , they resisted in order to prove their resolve , and their authority , in " test " cases . When , for example , a 17-year-old prisoner pleaded desperately for an assignment preventing the authorities from returning him to Holman , where he had previously been assaulted , Brodsky telephoned Locke to demand assurances that the prisoner would not be removed from Draper and kept the inmate near his office while he waited for a reply , to ensure that the man was not shipped to Holman that very afternoon . If Locke did not respond by day 's end , Brodsky planned to contact Nachman ; if Nachman could not help , Brodsky intended to approach Judge Johnson directly . Locke did return Brodsky 's call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Brodsky 's satisfaction . In retrospect , however , the episode reflected a program debilitated by mutual suspicion , personality conflict , and an outsized tendency toward the dramatic . ' " In addition , Warren and Nagle insisted on several blanket policies applicable to all cases . First , in response to the system 's general emphasis on security , inmates were to be assigned at least to " medium " custody if they presented a risk of escape . Prisoners with " detainers " ( notices from other states informing Alabama authorities that the prisoners were wanted in those states after they completed their Alabama sentences ) automatically were to be considered escape risks . Second , on the theory that work release was a " transitional " program , only prisoners within eighteen months of their release dates should be assigned to placements in the community . Third , on the ground that the Frank Lee Youth Center was reserved for the system 's most corrigible  | inmates , prisoners who committed infractions of the rules there and were sent to any of the state 's other institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reassigned to Frank Lee . This out of concern that prisoners with experience elsewhere might corrupt the state 's best penal facility . Fourth , " aged and infirm " prisoners were not to be given " extended furloughs " amounting , in actual effect , to permanent release from custody . Finally , and most important , Warren and Nagle insisted that changes in custody grade could be employed as penalties for misconduct . Custody assignments made by the PCP at Draper thus could he countermanded by wardens and the penal system 's own classification teams at Kilby . Fowler objected to each of these policies in turn . His criteria for selecting custody grades placed emphasis on prisoners ' potential for violence , the better to identify those who might harm others in the dormitories or in the community , and subordinated evidence that inmates might attempt to escape . Fowler refused , moreover , to assume that every prisoner subject to a " detainer " was for that reason an escape risk . lie insisted on probing further to determine whether the basis of " detainers " in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fowler flatly rejected the eighteen-month limit on work release . Conditions in the major institutions being what they were , he refused to credit the argument that prisoners who presented no serious danger to others should nevertheless be denied work release assignments . Fowler also rejected the rigid rule governing assignments to Frank Lee . While he conceded that prisoners should be selected for that facility with care , he made no sense of an unbending prohibition on giving any inmate a second chance . He could find nothing in the controlling statute fixing time limits on " furloughs " and found it perfectly appropriate to use that law to release elderly and disabled inmates into facilities more appropriate to their needs . The use of custody grade changes as penalties for the violation of prison rules presented , in Fowler 's mind , the most flagrant disregard of the classification program he hoped to establish . This was the " old system " revived , the system in which wardens and other line personnel undercut rational distinctions among prison inmates in order to maintain their own severe , militaristic , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inmate 's behavior was , to be sure , relevant to the custody grade that should be assigned to him and , in that light , a prisoner who harmed another inmate might well see his custody grade stepped up . Yet in Fowler 's judgment it was the inmate 's violence , not the coincidence that his violent behavior ran afoul of prison rules , that justified  | the change . Of course , it was completely unacceptable that Warren and Nagle should be able to trump PCP assignments , even if it was to enforce discipline . If embraced , that proposition would render the PCP meaningless , frustrating Judge Johnson 's original order as well as more recent orders that , in Fowler 's view , gave him ultimate authority regarding classification . Finding himself at impasse with state officials , Fowler took his troubles to Roland Nachman , who conferred with Judge Johnson and then dictated a series of letters to both Fowler and Locke , supporting Fowler 's authority with respect to classification and insisting , in gradually escalating rhetoric , that Locke and his subordinates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forthwith . In July , Nachman wrote that Fowler had " final responsibility " for classification assignments and that state authorities had no " veto power " over the PCP . In August , he decried " this lamentable situation , " reiterated that Fowler had " sole responsibility " for classification , and declared that the judge wanted PCP classification assignments " put into effect immediately . " On the authority of Nachman 's letters , Fowler wrote equally strident letters of his own to Locke , demanding fuller cooperation in individual cases and an end to the blanket rules on which Warren and Nagle had been insisting . Both Nachman and Fowler challenged the commissioner to complain to Judge Johnson himself if Locke objected to what they , as Johnson 's agents , called on him to do with respect to classification . Locke , Warren , and Nagle would have none of this . They , too , were perplexed by their continual conflicts with Fowler ; their proposed solution was , however , quite different . Locke initially approached George Beto with a proposal to end the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was sympathetic , but stayed his hand when it became clear that , at least for the moment , Nachman was adamant that the PCP should remain in charge . Next , the commissioner accepted the challenge to complain to Judge Johnson directly . He was furious that Nachman and Fowler should meet with the judge in private and then purport to speak for him by letter . Locke had begun his relations with Fowler two months earlier with counsel present , and he now once again summoned Danny Evans and Gary Maxwell , the young lawyers Baxley had assigned to assist him . With their help , the commissioner framed a letter to Nachman , professing disbelief that Johnson intended the Board of Corrections to " abdicate " responsibility for classification , asserting that he intended to " maintain overall authority and control " of classification until " the Bench " notified him to the contrary .  | and declaring his intention to " seek a formal clarification " of the matter " as soon as possible . " Nachman responded with a note to Judge Johnson , joining Locke @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telling , the " attitude and directions of the Commissioner ... and his subordinates " had " seriously handicapped " Fowler 's effort . The disputes between the PCP and the prison system 's permanent personnel could no longer be contained within the informal framework Judge Johnson had devised for superintending compliance with this vital aspect of his order . Fowler could not achieve essential cooperation alone , and Nachman , Johnson 's chief agent in the field , had also apparently failed . Accordingly , the judge agreed to receive Evans and Maxwell in chambers . Inasmuch as lawyers would be present to represent Commissioner Locke , the judge invited Ralph Knowles to attend the conference on behalf of the prisoner-plaintiffs in the Pugh and James cases . Nachman also appeared , but neither Locke nor Fowler was present . The meeting offered little more than an opportunity for Locke 's point of view to be heard . Evans and Maxwell asked the judge to disclaim Nachman 's letters and to leave " final authority " for classification with the permanent staff . Johnson refused on both counts . By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently demanded ? confirmation from his own lips that Nachman was acting on his instructions . Johnson expressed concern , moreover , that Warren and Nagle were holding PCP assignments without action and reaffirmed his desire that the classification of all inmates should proceed promptly . To that end , the judge embraced a " compromise " procedure under which Warren and Nagle would notify Fowler of any objections to assignments within five days of receiving them . Then , the two sides would have an additional fifteen days in which to negotiate a settlement . If negotiations failed , Johnson would resolve disputes himself . Johnson declined to memorialize this new procedure in a formal order , perhaps because he thought Nachman 's letters , now personally reaffirmed , were sufficient . It is also possible , however , that Johnson hesitated to embellish the record with still further decrees that might attract attention in the Fifth Circuit . The judge was concerned about classification , concerned enough to press Fowler for speed and , in this instance , to subordinate the views of state authorities to the success of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classification might prove to be a troublesome issue on appeal . The less said formally about it , the better . Johnson 's failure to issue an order , however , left the lawyers free to record the conference in the way most favorable to their own interests .                     