@@774286

txt  | of technical elements . Immediately after completing his degree , Bruce was hired directly into the manufacturing department as one of a number of young engineers called " project engineers , " with responsibilities roughly equivalent to Bud Thrasher 's at Contronics . But , unlike Bud at Contronics , Bruce did not work continuously on the development of a single set of processes as much as on a series of occasional projects . As Bruce explained , Precision Metals " does n't hire engineers into this department to do engineering . " Rather , Bruce 's stint as a project engineer was intended as training for a career step to a position as foreman on the factory floor , which all the project engineers either make by the time they are thirty or transfer out of the department . The foremanship , too , is intended as training . Although most of the foremen at Precision Metals , as at most other companies , have been promoted out of union ranks and see a foremanship as a terminal position , for the engineers who serve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the route to positions in plant management . Bruce had followed this standard route ; when I met him , he was one of three superintendents , each of whom reported directly to the plant manager and each of whom had direct line responsibility for over half a dozen foremen as well as the production workers who reported to those foremen . Thus , Bruce is responsible for the daily operation of the Precision Metals New England plant within a particular product area . Bruce 's work life follows a weekly cycle . On Mondays , he has a morning meeting on production schedules . On Tuesday afternoons , he meets with a union representative to go over grievances . ( This was one of only two meetings I was excluded from during my research at Precision Metals . The other concerned the salary of ' an individual engineer . ) On Wednesdays and Thursdays , he has the time to spend on special projects or problems . And on Fridays , he " hustles to meet the weekly schedules . " The day I spent with Bruce was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attendance were Bruce , both of the other superintendents ( although one left partway through the meeting ) , the plant manager , two " expeditors , " a scheduling administrator , and ( the one woman present ) a clerk who worked for the scheduling administrator . The meeting was straightforward : The scheduling clerk read , from a computer printout , a list of outstanding or-  | ders and a corresponding list of where those products were in the production process . The expeditors made notes on what materials they would have to order . Occasionally , one of the superintendents would raise an issue of insufficient manpower or insufficient equipment to meet the planned schedule , issues quickly resolved by the plant manager 's either setting a priority or making a note to check with the sales department as to what the priority should be . Toward the end of the meeting , a ( nonengineer ) foreman came in to discuss a problem he had been experiencing with a high rate of rejections by quality control . He wanted to know if the problem could be solved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would require using a different press altogether . This was the most technical question raised at the meeting , indeed , the most technical question I heard discussed in the manufacturing department on any of the four days I spent there . It could have been answered by an experienced , skilled craftsman . The meeting had taken almost the entire morning , and Bruce adjourned for lunch along with the plant manager , one of the other superintendents , and an engineer-foreman . This group constituted a regular lunchtime foursome , apparently at the encouragement of the plant manager , who later explained to me that he used it as a way of binding his group and a chance to talk about issues that had come up at the plant in the morning . However , the lunch was not a formal affair . After a stop for Bruce at the bank and another to pick up the other superintendent 's laundry , we went to a local diner . Although there was some conversation about the plant , more talk centered on cars and a competition among the four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ working condition . After lunch , we returned to the plant , and I followed Bruce on a tour of the factory floor that was to occupy his entire afternoon . Bruce 's first stop was in the heat treatment area , where he had recently suggested that the operatives take staggered lunches so that the furnaces could be kept going all day . He had made the suggestion to a number of individuals , but on his stop , Bruce saw that they had not complied . As we walked away , he told me that he would try again , this time going through official union channels . From the heat treatment area , we walked to the assembly room , an area that concerned Bruce because of the unusually high number  | of rejections by quality control , a problem that Bruce said could be traced ultimately to the problems in the press room , which had been discussed earlier at the scheduling meeting . ( Bruce 's responsibilities include the one Precision Metals product line that requires assembly , that of two metal parts . ) Bruce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shoulders of the women as they worked . At one point , he paused to pick up a few assembled pieces , looked through them , and said to the woman who had put them together , " If you keep turning them out like this , we 'll have to let you go . " She glared back , saying , " Blame it on inspection , " and walked off . Bruce continued on to the foreman 's office to discuss the recall of assembly women , laid off a few weeks earlier , in order to meet a new assembly schedule . Officially , these recalls were supposed to follow , with some flexibility , a list based on seniority , a system of recalls established in the union contract . But , because the list consisted primarily of women who had worked the day shift and the recall was for a night shift , Bruce saw an opportunity to circumvent the list : By recalling women he knew would not accept a night shift , he could remove a number of assemblers from the list altogether , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what he saw as merit . Bruce and the foreman agreed to follow this strategy . In the assembly room , we see two related features of Bruce 's job that have been notably absent from the jobs of any of the other engineers we have followed so far : First , he had direct contact with production workers , rather than only with the skilled craftsmen of the machine shops ; second , the contact he did have with production workers was primarily antagonistic rather than cooperative . The rest of Bruce 's afternoon went quickly . He dealt with a plumber 's complaint about the distribution of overtime . He spent half an hour on the factory floor trying to find a few boxes of parts missing from his inventory list . He stopped briefly to check with the foreman in the press room to see how the day 's production runs had gone . Bruce 's job , then , is far more managerial than technical . The main use for his engineering degree , by his own account , is that " even if you 're a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have something they do n't . " ( Bruce would distinguish himself from the men and women on the factory floor not by his degree but by " the desire to get ahead . " ) Even more than Bud Thrasher 's job at  | Contronics , Bruce 's job involves " putting out fires , " a type of task that was in evidence on the day I spent with him and becomes even more prominent later in his weekly cycle . There are no direct equivalents to either Bruce , the other superintendents , or the engineerforemen among the engineers at Contronics . There are , to be sure , three young engineers acting as foremen on the Contronics pilot line whose daily routines look very similar to those of the engineerforemen at Precision Metals , but the day-to-day management of production occupies a far less prominent position at Contronics than at Precision Metals . There are considerably fewer production workers at Contronics than at Precision Metals and correspondingly fewer engineers responsible for them . Manufacturing is organized as a separate department at Precision Metals ( with some additional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reversed at Contronics , where manufacturing is subsumed within a larger process design department . Perhaps most important , the relationship between manufacturing and process design is reversed in the career histories of individual engineers : At Precision Metals , project engineering ( a process design function ) acts as an entree to positions in line management ( foremanships , superintendencies ) ; at Contronics , positions in line management ( foremanships ) are more typically starting points and entrees for an eventual career move into developmental work in another section of the process design department . Mark Lang : Research Engineer , Contronics If Bruce Kinn is an archetype of the engineer in an old industrial setting , Mark Lang is an archetype of one in an advanced industrial setting . With an M.A. in chemistry , he works in the research department at Contronics . Along with a group of three other engineers , he is responsible for the development of an electrochemical device manufactured by Contronics at a factory recently purchased from a major electronics company . Until a few months before the beginning of my research , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ research department had been housed at a separate site , some fifty miles away from corporate headquarters , the rest of the engineering staff , and the pilot line . But it had been moved to the New  | England site in a not altogether successful attempt by high-level management to integrate research and production . This was a move very much resented by most of the research staff , which , in any case , tended to keep to itself far more than any of the other departments at Contronics . I met Mark over breakfast in the company cafeteria , where I had been sitting with two other members of his small group and one of the department 's secretaries . Mark was wearing a jacket , but no tie , making him one of the least formally dressed employees in the entire Contronics office . We sat over breakfast for a leisurely half hour . While I listened , Mark , Max ( Mark 's supervisor ) , Greg ( another research engineer ) , and Barbara ( the secretary ) talked mostly about the move and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I followed Mark to the lab he shares with the rest of his group . Except for a few brief visits to his desk and a coffee break around Io:3o , we stayed there for the remainder of the morning . He instructed a technician in procedures for one series of experiments and prepared another series of experiments on his own . All were part of the developmental effort on one aspect of the electrochemical device and part of a project that Mark had been working on for two years with the expectation that it would be yet another year before it went into production . Although Mark will occasionally do a short job for someone else , this project occupies the majority of his time . Mark had originated the project on his own . He had come up with the idea and taken it to Bill T. , the head of the research department . ( Before the move , all engineering members of the research department had reported directly to the department head . ) After discussing the idea with Mark , Bill had given him the go @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Mostly , " according to Mark , " I 'm on my own . I know what kinds of things Contronics is looking for , and I can investigate it without much supervision . There 's some direction , but not much . " Indeed , at one point , a few months earlier , Mark had simply taken " two weeks off to work on some other ideas and just did n't bother to tell anyone . " Mark also reported that he spent a good deal of his time " following blind alleys on all levels " : He may spend weeks at a time on ideas that are never used in the final version of the component . Thus , Mark , far more than any of the other engineers we have considered so far ,  | is both autonomous in his work and insulated from the pressures of production . We broke for lunch with two other engineers and a technician , all members of the research department . As part of a regular Friday routine these four men shared , we went to a local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outside , enjoying one of the first warm days of spring . The four men all work together , but they did not discuss their work ; instead , they talked about the real estate market , prompted by one of the engineers ' recent purchase of a house . After lunch , we returned to the office . Most of Mark 's afternoon was occupied with following out the results of the experiment he had begun that morning , but he was interrupted on a number of occasions . At one point , Bob H. , from process design , ran into Mark halfway between Mark 's desk ( where he had answered a call from home ) and his lab . Bob H. had recently asked Mark to run an experiment for him , and Mark reported the successful results . On the way back to his lab , Mark stopped in another lab to say hello to Larry M. , a research engineer whom Mark had not seen in a number of days . Larry , who is responsible for the development of programs for integrated circuits , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " sitting in the lab for days on end , " staying late , and taking very few breaks . Mark kidded Larry about working too hard and moved on . Later , Bill T. , the head of the research department , called Mark into his office to talk to him about the work he had done for Bob : Bill cautioned Mark not to get too involved in helping Bob and explained that that particular process engineer had a tendency to go off in altogether unauthorized directions . Finally , Mark stopped at the desk of the head engineer in product design to ask for a sample to take to a meeting Mark was attending the following Monday . Though the afternoon was characterized by a somewhat wider range of contacts than had been made that morning , even these contacts were largely incidental to Mark 's main project . Two casual meetings had dealt with a minor project that had consumed just a few hours of Mark 's time to date ; a third ( with Larry M. ) was altogether unrelated to Mark 's work ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sample . In none of these cases did Mark have to work his way through a complex organizational structure span-  | ping nonengineering as well as engineering departments after the manner of process designers and product designers at his company . The research department at Contronics occupies a critical point in the product cycle . It does not perform research oriented to the " discovery of new scientific knowledge " as much as development " with specific commercial objectives . " This developmental work contributes to the design of every new product line manufactured by Contronics . At Precision Metals , research stands in a more distant relationship to the regular product cycles : Most products go through a cycle of order , design , and production without ever passing through that company 's research department , which makes only occasional contributions to new product lines . The research department at Contronics includes a larger proportion of that company 's engineers ( over a quarter ) than does the research department at Precision Metals ( roughly one-tenth ) . In these senses , the research department occupies a far more prominent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contronics is also more clearly distinct from the remainder of the engineering effort . Most important , the research engineers at Contronics work on an entirely different set of problems than do the process design or product design engineers : the development of high-technology components ( the electrochemical device in the case of Mark Lang , the integrated circuit in the case of Larry M. ) , rather than on either the production or " packaging " of these components . In contrast , at Precision Metals , the research engineers work on problems that are essentially continuations of the same design and process problems faced by the product designers and machine designers , albeit at a somewhat more leisurely pace and in a somewhat more innovative fashion . Until recently , the separation of the research department at Contronics from the rest of the engineering staff had been symbolized by its physical location , some fifty miles away from company headquarters . But even since the relocation , the research engineers have maintained themselves as a separate group , based in part on their relatively slight work-related contact with other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other 's company over coffee or lunch . In contrast , the research engineers at Precision footnote ' These are the definitions of " research " and " development " used by the National Science Foundation .  | Metals tend to have been drawn from other departments as a reward toward the end of a career : Three of the five research engineers included in my sample at Precision Metals had worked for the company in another department and their average age . ( fiftythree ) is eleven years higher than that for the company as a whole . Because of this recruitment pattern and their typically long tenure at the company , the Precision Metals research engineers tend to maintain much stronger ties , both functional and voluntary , to other departments in the company than is the case at Contronics . Despite the relative preeminence of research at Contronics and despite its more distinct character , even here we should not overestimate the differences between the two departments . The research department at Precision Metals , like that at Contronics , is insulated from the pressures of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the research engineers , at whichever company , are not called on to " put out fires . " Indeed , the often harried manufacturing engineers at Precision Metals clearly captured this characteristic of the research department in kidding me that I was going to that department to rest up after a week in manufacturing . Thus , like the Contronics research engineers , those at Precision Metals tend to work on long-term projects and with considerable autonomy from the immediate demands of either the market or production . Although research performs a far more critical function at Contronics than at Precision Metals , the actual content of research work and its characteristic routines may well be quite similar at the two companies . An Agenda Several themes have recurred throughout my descriptions of engineers , and we can view them as an agenda for the more analytic chapters to follow . First , administrative responsibilities , although not necessarily line authority , pervade most engineering positions outside of research and development . They fall to engineers at different levels within the bureaucratic hierarchy , in product design and process design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers are not as distinct from other administrative workers in either the content of their work or the style of their thought as some have held . I explore this question further in Chapter Four . Second , considerable evidence indicates that the engineers at  | both companies are largely autonomous in the day-to-day performance of their work . They are not tightly supervised ; they have some control over their own time ; they tend to go to their supervisors for advice as often as or more often than they are called in by their supervisors for direction . I explore the implications of these observations , both for the ability of engineers to resist proletarianization and for the tensions they experience at the point of production , in Chapter Six . Third , there is little evidence in these observations of systematic differences in the skill levels of engineers from old to advanced industry . Rather , there is a range of skill levels ? from the routine to the innovative ? in both industrial settings . I return to this issue in Chapter Five . Finally , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial settings may be both more complex and less dramatic than many analyses of engineers in particular and the middle levels in general imply . Indeed , within functions , regardless of which company we look at , we have found considerable similarities , which suggests that the primary differences between old and advanced industry may involve changing distributions of tasks and situations rather than the development of qualitatively new tasks and situations . This theme will persist throughout the succeeding chapters , although I will not turn to its larger implications until the concluding chapter .  | From the moment they first emerged in the early decades of the twentieth century , the advanced industries unquestionably required a distinctive kind of knowledge . The chemical and electrical industries , in particular , " both presupposed and stimulated advances in physics and chemistry and would have been unthinkable without some basic knowledge about the behavior of atoms , molecules , gases , light , magnetism , and electricity . " 1 If , in the early and mid ? nineteenth-century industries ? in textiles , the railroads , and machine construction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work of talented tinkerers , since then , it has emerged from research laboratories staffed by scientists and engineers , university trained and schooled in the methods of systematic investigation . All this , according to Daniel Bell , amounts to " the primacy of theory over empiricism . " 2 What is in question , however , is the significance of these developments for the kind of work that men and women in the sciencebased industries actually do . According to some , the effect is very broad . Blauner , for example , argues that the rise of science-based industry is transforming the character of blue-collar work , requiring higher levels of skill and encouraging the extension of autonomy . ' More frequent , however , are claims about the effect on whitecollar work . Bell argues that , in the advanced industries , " What counts is not raw muscle-power , or energy , but information " ; that technical skill has become the " overriding condition of competence for place and position " ; and that those who possess such skill constitute a " Scientific City , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no more than a " generalized symbolic competence . " In these settings , scientists and engineers have become the " archetypal " workers , and their work itself has become more abstract , based on education rather than experience , on general principles rather than specific applications.4 59  | In this chapter , I am more skeptical . My research is particularly well suited to address claims about the rise of science-based industry . We can see not only what the engineers at Precision Metals and Contronics know , but how they use that knowledge and whether or not those uses are different in older and more advanced settings . The engineers are not , to be sure , an elite of technical workers ; that position must be reserved for scientists in major universities and research laboratories . But they do clearly represent the workaday world of science and technology and are , for that reason , perhaps even more interesting . Thus , after a brief discussion of engineering education , I will return to the detailed analysis of Precision Metals and Contronics , but with a more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know ? How much do they use what they know , particularly of the lessons learned in school ? How distinct is their knowledge from that of administrators or managers generally ? How does their knowledge differ between advanced industries and older industries ? Engineering Education Contemporary undergraduate engineering curricula contain little of the humanities or the social sciences . According to a report issued by the American Society of Engineering Education , engineering and science requirements typically account for over threequarters of undergraduate course work ; humanities and the social sciences account for well under one-fifth . s Courses in management or business administration , few of which are offered in any case , are usually elective . Most engineering programs are institutionally isolated , organized either as separate schools with separate admissions , faculty , and requirements within larger universities or as independent schools specializing in science and engineering.6 The engineering and science programs that engineering undergraduates follow are not , of course , all of a piece . Rather , since the second half of the nineteenth century , there has been a tendency toward the fragmentation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Polytechnic College of the State of Pennsylvania offered the first degree in mechanical engineering ( as distinct from civil engineering ) in 1854 and the first degree in mining engineering in 1857 ; M.I.T. introduced electrical engineering in 188z and chemical engineering in 1888 . This process of increasing  | diversification has continued throughout the twentieth century , with the most recent additions of such fields as environmental engineering and biomedical engineering . By the late 1970S , the Engineers ' Council on Professional Development recognized distinct programs in over thirty fields of engineering . ' Despite the diversification of fields , there remains a strong common core within the engineering curriculum . A recent survey of freshman engineering programs found that 92 percent required physics , and all required mathematics . ' If this survey had been expanded to cover requirements in the sophomore and succeeding years as well as in the freshman year , it would , in all likelihood , have been able to identify an even more extensive common core . Approaching the same question from a somewhat different vantage point , LeBold , Perucci , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that 99 percent had formal training in calculus , 98 percent in chemistry , 99 percent in physics , 94 percent in strength of materials , 90 percent in thermodynamics , 91 percent in electrical circuits , and 8z percent in engineering design.9 In short , American undergraduate engineering programs are organized around a common intellectual core of math and general science as well as engineering science . Moreover , most engineering programs have adopted the recommendations of successive reports by the American Society of Engineering Education to emphasize the theoretical aspects of engineering by expanding math and science requirements.10 Thus , Roy , on the basis of a comparison of curricula at six leading engineering schools in 1947 and 1967 , concludes that " changes introduced in the last twenty years have required higher levels of accomplishment in mathematics and greater exposure to science . " 11 So , too , courses in shop practice have given way almost entirely to courses in experimental laboratory work . Perhaps most important is the doubling of graduate degrees in engineering over the course of a decade , from 10,169 in 1962. to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the extent of these developments . Over the same time span that graduate degrees in engineering doubled , four-year degrees in engineering technology nearly quadrupled ( from 1519 in 1962 to 5772 in 1972 ) . The programs granting engineering technology degrees are distinguished from engineering programs by a greater emphasis on " the practical side of engineering , " on " the end product rather than the conceptual pro-  | cess , " and a lesser emphasis on math and science.13 Although the number of both graduate and undergraduate degrees granted in engineering declined slightly in the mid-197os , the number of engineering technology degrees continued to increase , reaching 7943 by 1976 . In 196z , there was only one four-year degree in engineering technology granted for every twenty-three four-year degrees in engineering ; by 1976 , that ratio had risen to over one to five and has continued to rise since.14 There is also evidence that , whatever they learn in school , engineers do not use their more theoretical knowledge in the course of their industrial practice . Thus , when LeBold , Perucci , and Howland @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had used in the previous month , the most frequently cited were English composition ( 71 percent ) , algebra ( 6z percent ) , speech ( 51 percent ) , and trigonometry ( 51 percent ) . Only 23 percent reported having used calculus , 16 percent differential equations , and 10 percent modern physics . ' S Even more strikingly , when a 1977 survey of University of Alabama engineering graduates asked how often they had used various subjects over the previous year , only algebra , engineering drawing , plane trigonometry , public speaking , and vector analysis received mean scores as high as " seldom " or " occasional . " More scientific and theoretical subjects , such as calculus , differential equations , and complex variables , all received mean scores of " never . " 16 In citing these findings or in calling attention to the expansion of engineering technology programs , I do not mean to deny that engineering education has become more theoretical over the past few decades , only to qualify the implications of such a development . The expansion of graduate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of a bifurcation of engineering in which the countertrend represented by engineering technology programs is equally significant . Even more important , the theoretical content of engineering education does not seem to bear any direct relationship to engineering practice . " The Knowledge Engineers Use Not all practicing engineers are graduates of four-year degree programs . Some studies of engineers have included only such graduates in their samples , but this procedure is deceptive . ' No rules  | govern companies in their assignment of individuals to engineering positions , and it is common to find employees with two-year degrees , or no degree at all beyond high school , occupying the same positions in a company as other employees with four-year engineering degrees . The upper limit of estimates of the number of engineers without four-year degrees is represented by the census : In both the 1970 and 198o censuses , over 35 percent of the individuals counted as engineers on the basis of occupational self-reports had not completed such a degree . ' 9 The procedure adopted at Contronics and Precision Metals was considerably more restrictive than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include those individuals without degrees who were performing work equivalent to that of engineers with four-year degrees : I included as engineers all individuals with four-year degrees in engineering ( working in positions up to and including the level of department head ) plus all individuals without four-year degrees but in positions with the title of engineer and in which a majority of the other occupants of that and equivalent positions possessed four-year degrees in engineering . On the basis of this procedure , I included ten individuals without four-year degrees among the forty engineers at Precision Metals and eleven among the forty at Contronics . These figures are , in themselves , evidence that a formal education in engineering is not a prerequisite to the actual performance of " engineering " work . Although many of the engineers without degrees felt that their career mobility had been handicapped by the lack of a degree , few felt that the lack of formal education was a handicap in their actual job performance . One engineer , a process designer at Contronics , who had begun his career as a tool and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , expressed both these themes : I do n't have a degree but I 'm doing as well or better than the guys here with degrees . Maybe with a degree I could have gone even farther . . . . No , it does n't make any difference to how I do the job , none at all . The reward should come for how well a guy does for the company . I 've known guys with degrees I would n't give a nickel for , guys who were just duds . The very same themes appear at Precision Metals . The following is from an engineer in that company 's research department , like the  | engineer at Contronics just cited , an ex ? tool and die maker with no more than an occasional college course to his credit : I wish I could have gone to college , but there was no way I could afford it then . It 's held me back some . . . . The courses I 've taken have helped some , but the biggest thing was during World War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with people and get a product out . You could n't buy that at ten colleges . The statements of the nondegreed engineers , as well as their recognition as engineers by the companies that employ them , attest to the likelihood that the more theoretical knowledge other engineers acquire in the course of their formal educations is not essential in at least some engineering positions . More important , though , is the testimony of the degreed engineers . Although we might be tempted to dismiss the nondegreed engineers ' statements as justifications or rationalizations of their own lack of formal education , we could not remain equally skeptical in the face of similar statements from the engineers with fouryear degrees . Indeed , the degreed engineers do not insist on the importance of theoretical knowledge or formal education , except in highly qualified form . Many engineers at both companies do stress very general aspects of their formal education , an expression of what Gouldner calls the " culture of critical discourse . " 20 Emphasizing the contribution of engineering education to the development of a logical and systematic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this respect , typical : I do n't think there was any particular class or group of classes that was especially important . What helps most is that I learned how to persevere and concentrate . ( machine designer , Precision Metals ) One thing about engineering school is that it teaches you how to think . That 's the basis of an engineer 's success as an engineer . Your thought becomes logical . You cast off ideas at the extreme ends and look for what clusters around what 's reasonable . ( process designer , Contronics ) Note , though , that little in these formulations is specific to technical work . These engineers are not insisting on the importance of specific skills or on the importance of theoretical knowledge , only on the importance of intellectual discipline . It is easy to imagine business executives or administrators making similar statements about the value of their educations.  | A majority of the degreed engineers at both companies , while not denying the general value of their formal educations , stress the greater value of either industrial experience or personal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers , but also by younger engineers acknowledging their deficiencies . A twentythree-year-old Contronics engineer one year out of school said : I feel inadequate here . I feel like I did n't learn anything at school . The only thitig school 's useful for is that you know where to look for some answers , but nothing can replace experience . Other statements stress that engineering education is insufficiently specific to the particular problems and tasks that engineers face in industrial practice : When I went to school , there were no courses in what became my area . Most of what I know comes from working at the state of the art in industry . The most rewarding things I 've done have come from working in wholly new areas , from being able to assemble new technologies . Academic training is only very rough background for that kind of thing . ( process designer , Contronics ) Still others suggest that those aspects of engineering that require formal education and mathematical skills are often the least exciting , most routine aspects of engineering work : My background is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ miniature . I 've just got an instinctive interest in it . I have the background on the mechanization side of things too . My formal education 's not worth a damn . My very first job was the last time I did any stress analysis and that 's the closest I 've ever come to using anything from my formal education . On equipment you go through some calculations , but it 's not very difficult . I 've seen some people with a lot less education than I have who know a lot more than me. ( machine designer , Con-tronics ) A number of statements stress the importance of personal characteristics : My graduate work 's been no help at all . The first guy I worked for here gave me enough freedom to try my own ideas ; so I developed some confidence and learned I could get the job done and earn some respect for that . I do n't use any of my schooling much , just to read a blueprint and stuff like that . ( manufacturing engineer , Precision Metals )  | Formal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ counts is a feeling of independence and stick-to-itiveness plus a reasonable amount of dedication . ( product designer , Precision Metals ) These statements are by no means a complete rejection of engineering education . To the contrary , even in the course of claiming the greater uses of experience , the engineers reveal a number of lessons learned from their formal educations : basic skills ( " to read a blueprint " ) , the capacity to learn new skills ( " where to look for some answers " ) , and perhaps even an occupational culture ( " how to persevere and concentrate , " " independence and stick-to-itiveness " ) . But none points to the importance of what Bell calls " abstract systems of symbols that , as in any axiomatic system , can be used to illuminate many different and varied areas of experience . " 21 What the engineers do at work , then , is a long way from the primacy of theory over empiricism . A significant proportion of engineering work does not involve technical skills at all , theoretical or otherwise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ companies spent considerable parts of their days in casual meetings and conversation , in the administration and management of projects . This is especially so of engineers in the two manufacturing departments , where , by their own testimony , they do almost no technical work . To Bruce Kinn 's comments about his job as a superintendent ? that Precision Metals " does n't hire engineers into this department to do engineering " ? we may add the following statement from an engineer-foreman at Contronics : Before I came here , this job was done by someone with less technical education than me . It 's only about 25 percent technical , anyway , and the other 75 percent is all handling personnel . I 've made some mistakes , but I 've learned a lot too . I expected people to work at the same level I do , but they do n't . But you can use a lot of subtle methods to get them to put out . I learned how to treat unionized employees . Although the two manufacturing departments represent the extreme cases , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ administrative elements figure prominently in the engineers ' work . The engineers in the design departments at Contronics and Precision Metals must see that supplies are ordered , estimates prepared , mock-ups constructed , tests run , and reports filed . These  | tasks are ancillary to and a prerequisite of the engineers ' technical work , but they are not themselves so much technical as they are administrative . Moreover , the engineers do not design products or processes in isolation . Rather , they collaborate with and rely on the cooperation of other engineers , a marketing department , quality control , line managers , skilled craftsmen , and operators . In dealing with these facts of organizational life , the engineer will draw on a type of knowledge very different from that he acquired as an undergraduate in an engineering curriculum . The following statements , both from engineers without any formal line authority , stress this point . A lot of people who are smarter than me have come and gone because they do n't have the same energy or drive I do . You 've got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . Things get so involved with so many different talents , if you can put more people together , you can get a lot more done . I draw from different people , from the guy in the shop to the sales manager . I take their talents and put them together and make them feel as if they 're contributing to the company and the project . You can accumulate two hundred years ' worth of knowledge from other people . ( product designer , Precision Metals ) The number one thing is experience with people , meeting different kinds of people and understanding how they think , understanding why someone would seriously tell you to go to hell , why people get mad . Most of the other stuff I have to know comes from working with people who have more experience than I do . ( process designer , Contronics ) These engineers recognize not only that a considerable portion of their work requires working with other members of the organization , but also that their ability to do so may be more critical to successful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The " people work " aspects of engineering become even more prominent as engineers progress in their careers . As they assume positions with formal line authority ? even if that authority is limited , extending to no more than one or two subordinates and within an engineering department ? the administrative tasks come to occupy an increasing proportion of engineers ' time and energy . Charlie Dugan , discussed in Chapter Three , makes this point ex-plicitly : I used a lot of my technical skills when I first came here , when I was in test equipment , but not so much now . I 've grown away from engineer-  | ing . I 'm using more of my MBA than my EE Electrical Engineering Degree , maybe 8o percent to ao percent . Thus , both the degreed and the nondegreed engineers claim only a slight role for formal , certified , and theoretical knowledge in the actual day-to-day performance of engineering tasks . And there is little evidence that such knowledge sharply distinguishes engineers from administrators or managers.22 Research Engineers So far , I have discussed what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Precision Metals . This is justified in large part by the situation itself : Insofar as I am discussing process engineers or machine designers or product designers , there are few if any differences between the kinds of knowledge used by engineers at the two companies . This lack of variation is itself an important finding . Claims about the rise of science-based industry suggest that engineers in an advanced industrial setting would rely more heavily on theoretical and distinctively technical knowledge . Instead , in both settings , we have found engineers without degrees and an insistence by the degreed engineers on the limited uses of technical and , especially , theoretical knowledge . But I have so far excluded from the discussion the single group most critical to science-based industry : the research engineers at Contronics . This group , more than any other , should rely on theoretical and technical knowledge . Indeed , the growth of research and development throughout the advanced industries is itself often taken as a direct indicator of the increasing importance of theoretical knowledge . Consequently , even though we have not found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manufacturing engineers at Contronics and those at Precision Metals , the idea that the advanced industries require a different kind of knowledge than the older industries might yet be saved . I could not , to be sure , argue that the advanced industries require a distinctively technical and theoretical knowledge of all their engineers , only that they require that knowledge of a particular group . However , because that particular group , research engineers , represents an increasing proportion of all technical workers , even this is enough to lend credence to claims about science-based industry , if not as an  | established fact , at least as a developing tendency . Thus , I give special attention to the research engineers at Contronics in this section . At Contronics , distinctively technical skills do play a more prominent role in the work of at least a few of the dozen research and development engineers than in that of engineers in other departments . Recall , in particular , the rhythms of Mark Lang 's work life , described in Chapter Three . Especially when compared with engineers in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day engaged in technical work rather than in conferences , meetings , or administrative work . However , time allocation alone does not measure the significance of the technical in his work . Although engineers in other departments identify administrative elements as both more critical and more complex than the technical elements of their jobs , Mark places the technical at the core of his : Over the last ten or twelve years I 've actually been moving out of management . I did n't care for management when I was doing it . You have to do a lot of stuff that I find a lot more boring than what I do in the lab . . . . I started this project three years ago and I invented the device . But if they ca n't make a product out of it , so what ? For the engineers in other departments , the success of a design is intimately associated with its use ? and the engineer 's ability to ensure that his design is in fact adopted for use . Mark emphasizes that his role involves only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tasks necessary to carry that device through to production . Mark 's immediate supervisor , Max S. , expresses a similar conception of his own job , albeit in somewhat different language . In other departments , engineers appear to welcome increased administrative responsibility ? out of either an interest in career mobility or a perception of administrative tasks as more interesting and complex . In contrast , Max tends to see the administrative tasks that accompany his supervisory position as an imposition , an interference with his participation in the core technical tasks of the research and development department : I do n't like doing salary reviews and other things like that because they take away time from my other obligations . . . . My skills in physics are tending to wither away because I 'm only dealing in fundamentals . I have to call in specialists for the detailed work . . . . I have to write a lot ; some of it 's stuff that could be handled by a secretary .  | For Mark and for Max , indeed , for the research and development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technical , distinct from the administrative tasks that often occupy engineers in other departments . The central function of the research department is the development of components ; the application of those components in the final product ? and the complex tasks of administration involved in that application ? is left to engineers in other departments . Yet , even in the research and development department at Contronics , we should not overestimate the distinctive or theoretical character of the engineers ' knowledge . Research and development engineers are not engaged in either basic or applied research , at least as those functions are defined by the National Science Foundation , as " research projects that represent investigation directed toward discovery of new scientific knowledge . " Rather , the Contronics research and development engineers are primarily engaged in product development for specific commercial purposes apart from any discovery of new scientific knowledge . The descriptions of the kinds of knowledge they use in this developmental function differ little from those of engineers in other departments . As Mark Lang said : I do n't think a degree has any value @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing in terms of its usefulness for this job . Another of the research and development engineers is even more explicit in his insistence on the primacy of experience over theoretical knowledge : I 'm not falling back on physics or math . I learn from day to day . I do n't feel that I should be delving into books anymore . That just gives you knowledge without understanding . A lot of people are trying to absorb too much , stuff they can learn better by observation .... Unless you 're in a university , you do n't need all the physics and math you learned in school . Some research and development engineers , like engineers in other departments , suggest that their undergraduate educations provided a useful background but stop well short of claiming that the theoretical aspects of their education can be applied directly to their current work :  | I have a methodical mind , but I learned how to apply it in a scientific setting at school . Being a supervisor , I interact with a lot of people ; so what I learned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 'd like to feel I learned something at school , but the most important thing is that I learned how to think . Formal education 's valuable from the standpoint that I 've had sufficient variety to know where to look . But experience on the job is one of the better things that helps , too . It goes hand in hand with education . When you graduate , you know a lot but not a whole lot about how to apply it . Finally , a number of the research and development engineers are involved in functions that are essentially supportive of , rather than central to , the department 's core development tasks . This group includes one individual who oversees model construction by technicians and two young engineers who are acting as assistants to more senior engineers : I 'm not using much of what I learned in school , and I 'm not learning much about what I 'm doing . Larry just tells me what to do and I do it . In short , although their positions do tend to involve more purely technical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development engineers are little more ? perhaps no more ? dependent on theoretical , scientific knowledge than engineers in those departments . I do not deny the ultimate significance of theoretical knowledge to the advanced industries in general or even to Contronics in particular . Indeed , much of the work that the Contronics research engineers do presupposes certain scientific breakthroughs in solidstate physics and in materials science . Without these breakthroughs , the very product Contronics manufactures could never have been designed . In contrast , Precision Metals continues to rely , for the bulk of its product line and manufacturing processes , on the technologies of metalworking and machine tool processes developed in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries on the basis of craft knowledge and without the benefit of more theoretical science . But to say that theoretical knowledge is critical to a company 's product line ( or processes ) is not to say that it occupies a large  | proportion of that company 's engineering staff . However critical theoretical knowledge may be in a functional sense ? as a key element in a system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incomplete ? it is not necessarily critical in either the sense that it is particularly difficult to obtain or that it requires a major investment of time and resources . Thus , we may think of theoretical knowledge as critical to the advanced industries in the same sense that we may think of a wheel as critical to a car : A car will not run without a wheel ; the advanced industries might not " run " without theoretical knowledge . But the wheel is only one part of the car , and theoretical knowledge is only one part of the advanced industries . We would not necessarily characterize a car by the presence of a wheel , although a full description would have to acknowledge its presence ; so too we should not necessarily characterize the advanced industries by the presence of theoretical knowledge , although a full description would have to acknowledge its presence . In fact , only a small number of the Contronics engineers , even those in research and development , work directly with theoretical knowledge . For the rest of the engineers , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may influence the particular tasks they carry out but does not fundamentally alter the kind of knowledge they bring to bear on those tasks . Conclusion : The Scope of Technological Change In Automation and Management , now over two decades old but still the best study in its field , Bright found that the effects of automation on the skills of the manual labor force were little more than scattered and fragmentary.23 In contrast to many other social scientists , who , on the basis of more impressionistic evidence , have assumed that automated plants require thoroughly different skills from the manual labor force than do nonautomated plants , Bright found that automation has a direct effect on only a small proportion of the labor force . According to Bright 's careful study of thirteen of the most highly automated plants then in operation , automation typically pertains to only a few steps within a much longer production process . For example , if assembly is automated ? and  | thus requires a different set of skills from some workers ? the preparation and handling of materials , packaging , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same kinds of skills as they did before the automation of assembly . Thus , however new , however different one element of the production process may be , those other elements of the production process that support the newer element and in which it is embedded show considerable continuity . Bright was concerned primarily with what Hickson , Pugh , and Pheysey call " operations technologies , " and although the primary concern of this chapter has been " knowledge technologies , " many of Bright 's considerations apply with equal force to our subject.24 That the ultimate knowledge base of the Contronics product line is different from that of the Precision Metals product line is not in dispute : The design of the integrated circuits and electrochemical devices that go into the Contronics product do require a more theoretical type of knowledge than the various small metal parts manufactured by Precision Metals . However , the design of these hightechnology components , no matter how critical to the product , constitutes only a small part of the total Contronics engineering effort : The design of integrated circuits is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the electrochemical device occupies only a few engineers . Most of the engineers at Contronics are engaged in tasks , and use skills , little different from those of the engineers at Precision Metals , for there are considerable " old " engineering functions , even within the advanced industrial setting . Manufacturing , machine design , detailed product design , and testing may all have a slightly different content at Contronics than at Precision Metals , but they do not require fundamentally different skills . In both settings , engineers face the same problems of administration and coordination , problems that bear no discernible relationship to the ultimate knowledge base of their respective industries . These observations offer little support for claims about the significance of science-based industries . We have not found that the engineers ' knowledge is particularly theoretical , that their work is distinctively technical , or that there are significant differences in this respect between the older and newer industrial settings . We may yet find that engineers are members of a distinct stratum , or  | we may yet find differences between the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be based on a quality of knowledge . It is tempting , considering this argument , to suggest an alternative explanation for the importance of technical education , if not in the actual work of engineers , at least in hiring and promotion . Indeed , several social critics have suggested such an explanation , arguing that an emphasis on formal certification is ideological in character , a justification for the persistence of inequality , all the more effective for its appearance of universality.25 Yet , among the engineers themselves , there are only the slightest traces of such an ideology . Those without degrees , while readily acknowledging the limitations placed on their careers by a lack of formal education , hardly accept these limitations as fair or just . Aside from the few who stressed their ability to think logically , the engineers with degrees tend , if anything , to understate the importance of their certifications . In contrast to doctors and lawyers and even many architects , journalists , and teachers , the engineers do not jealously claim monopolies of competence based on formal education . Instead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : character , effort , experience . Claims of technical competence may play some part in the legitimation of inequality : Recall in this context Bruce Kinn 's comment that " the guys on the floor think you have something they do n't . " But this belief is the creation of the school system and perhaps of employers , not the engineers themselves . Among the engineers , not only is their knowledge surprisingly old-fashioned , but so are the claims they make for it .  | To argue , as I have in the previous chapter , that engineering skills are rarely theoretical and often not even technical is different from arguing that engineering is unskilled work . To the contrary , engineering often involves highly complex skills , many of which are learned only through industrial practice and over the course of a long career . But these skills require experience and a " feel " for things ? for a particular machine or process , for an organization and its personnel ? as much , if not more , than scientific training . Here , a comparison @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Craftsmen practiced their skills within a distinctive organizational context . Even into the early stages of industrial capitalism , " spinners , weavers , glaziers , porters , blacksmiths , tinsmiths , locksmiths , jointers , millers , bakers , etc. , continued to exercise the productive crafts they had carried on as guild journeymen and independent artisans . " ' In some cases , skilled craftsmen acted as contractors , working inside a factory with tools , material , and power supplied by the factory but hiring their own labor , setting their own internal schedules , and establishing their own division of labor . These contractors " agreed to manufacture a particular object or component in a given quantity at a designated cost and by a specific date . Otherwise they retained virtually complete control over the production process . " 2 Even skilled craftsmen in the regular employ of a factory and nominally responsible to foremen set the pace of their own work , hired their own " helpers , " and divided tasks between themselves and those helpers . Thus , whether as contractors or as factory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They ? not foremen , industrial engineers , or any other representatives of management ? determined how a product was to be made and the mix of skills required in its manufacture . The situation is different in contemporary industry . Since the 75  | early years of the twentieth century , albeit at different paces in different industries , with varying degrees of success , and in the face of considerable resistance , management has extended its control over the labor process . Using the twin tools of scientific management and the assembly line ? Taylorism and Fordism ? managers have attempted to separate the tasks of conception from those of execution , stripping the former from craftsmen and vesting them instead in foremen and industrial engineers , who decide what methods are to be used , by whom , and on what schedule . They have also imposed a detailed division of labor on the workforce : Individual tasks are broken down and simplified , making the autonomous , skilled craftsman an obsolete figure . It is this attack on the crafts ? their reduction to little more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutes " classical " proletarianization.3 The possibility that middle-level employees may now face a similar deskilling is fundamental to one line of thought about contemporary engineers . Mental and Manual Labor The origins of engineering , like those of any large and diverse occupation , may be found in a variety of older occupations , pursuits , and disciplines . Civil engineering , the first nonmilitary engineering specialty , emerged from surveying . Chemical engineering , recognized as a specialized field only at the beginning of the twentieth century , was largely the creation of academic training . In the middle and late nineteenth century , between the appearance of civil and chemical engineering , those subdisciplines of engineering that have been most important in the history of industrial organization and production , particularly mechanical , electrical , and industrial engineering , emerged from a different source ? the skilled mechanic.4 " American mechanical engineering , " according to Calvert 's careful study , " had its origin in the mechanic and designer occupations of the metalworking shop . " In these shops , the engineer and mechanic ( if such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century ) shared a common occupational culture and training . " Both men started side by side at the bench . Each gained the respect of the other and shared a common belief in the dignity of hand labor . The engineer who graduated ' from this sys-  | tern had an intimate knowledge of the technicians below him that was often lost in the later stages of industrialization . " 5 From the final decades of the nineteenth century and on , from the very moment engineering began to receive widespread recognition as a distinct occupation within industry , formal college and university training has come increasingly to replace the shop floor . But this replacement has never been complete . Even today , skilled manual work is an important source of recruitment to engineering . One-fifth of the engineers at the two companies ( nine of forty at Precision Metals , seven of forty at Contronics ) moved into engineering from skilled manual occupations , primarily machinist or tool and die maker . Some of these ex ? manual workers became engineers only after earning a degree , usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ benefit of a degree , through a succession of jobs as foremen , technicians , or draftsmen . But , for each of them , a career leading eventually to engineering began with skills learned and practiced in manual work , recapitulating an aspect of engineering history at the level of biography . However , engineering practice today is characterized by a near total absence of that physical , hands-on labor that is a central attribute of craft work . Engineers manipulate symbols that refer to physical objects , mostly equipment and products , but they do not manipulate those objects themselves . A few engineers may occasionally set up a laboratory experiment but none physically repairs or operates machinery or builds models of products and components . Physical manipulation is now the work of machinists , repairmen , mechanics , operatives , and technicians . The disengagement of engineers from the physical labor of the shop floor is enforced daily by provisions in the union contracts of the manual labor force . A passage from the agreement at Precision Metals is typical in this respect . If any supervisory personnel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replacement shall not engage in bargaining unit work except to train employees or to perform temporary emergency duties , provided that such engaging in bargaining unit work shall not displace , or cause a reduction of hours to a bargaining unit employee .... The Union may submit the issue of the activity of a nonsupervisory , non ? bargaining unit employee to arbitration without recourse to the grievance procedure .  | The strictness with which this ban on hands-on labor is enforced , and recognized by engineers , is illustrated by an incident at Precision Metals . An engineer , Frank , was in the machine shop with two machinists , watching a press operator run prototypes of a newly designed part . As the parts came off the press , they fell to the floor . Frank looked around for a container to place under the press to catch the completed pieces . Seeing a tub filled with scrap in another part of the shop , he walked over to get it . As he turned the tub to empty it , the scrap fell to the floor with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glaring at him . Frank turned to me and said , " I do n't want the shop steward on my ass . " Putting down the tub , he walked quietly back to the press and asked the operator to come back with him to carry the tub . The very triviality of the incident exemplifies the degree to which the union bars engineers from any physical work . Although the ban on physical manipulation is enforced primarily by unions concerned with their members ' job security , management not only agrees to this arrangement but for its own reasons discourages engineers from doing anything other than the " engineering work " for which they are paid premium rates . Thus , one engineering manager at Precision Metals criticized some of his subordinates for " plugging in plugs instead of getting the right person to do it . " The chief engineer of the machine design department , concerned that his engineers were spending unnecessary time on the shop floor monitoring the assembly of their designs rather than at the drafting board , had just initiated a procedure by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than directly to the engineer responsible for the design . In these cases , and in many others where policy had been established long before my research began , the engineer is relegated to thinking out a design , a process , or even a repair , and the actual physical execution of that design , process , or repair is left to others . Engineering , then , represents one outcome of the separation of mental and manual labor or what Braverman calls the " separation of conception from execution . " But Braverman and others have been concerned primarily with the impact of this separation on the de-skilling of blue-collar workers and the consequent " dequalification " of machine tending : They have focused on the effects of the separation of conception from execution on those who " execute . " 6 But what of engineers ? Surely this separation has not de-skilled  | them in the same sense it has craftsmen , for engineering is itself largely a creation of that separation ; it is a specialization in those aspects of conception that were once among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labor , as surely as the disengagement of craftsmen from mental labor , is consequential for the ways in which engineers experience their work . Samuel Florman , an engineer and essayist , argues that the satisfactions distinctive to engineering come precisely from encounters of the sort that occur only on the shop floor . He reminds us that " engineers are not mechanics or technicians " ; yet , he continues , in considering the emotional relationship of man to machine , the engineer shares a common bond with every fellow being who works with machines , understands them , and is entranced by them .... Every engineer has experienced the comfort that comes with total absorption in a mechanical environment . The world becomes reduced and manageable , controlled and unchaotic . For a period of time , personal concerns , particularly petty personal concerns , are forgotten as the mind becomes enchanted with the patterns of an orderly and circumscribed scene . ' But this total absorption in a mechanical environment is not possible if the engineer is restricted to the drawing board or office and barred from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mechanics or technicians once manual labor has been separated from mental labor , Florman 's existential pleasures of engineering must be understood as a very general potential inherent in technical work rather than a description of the actual conditions under which engineering is practiced . Engineers themselves sometimes suggest that the absence of manual labor in their work is a source of regret . These suggestions are rarely explicit , for the separation of mental and manual labor is so well established that the idea of combining them requires counterfactual thinking of a sort rare in the members of any occupation . Even if many of the engineers would prefer a situation in which they could both design and build , they are unlikely to think of it as a realistic alternative to their present situation . Nonetheless , about a fifth of the engineers , those who were once skilled manual workers , do have a reference point in their own experience against which they may assess the potential satisfactions in such a combination .  | The most explicit critique of the split between mental and manual labor that I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an interview or fieldwork ; thus , I have only a partial record of what he said . Nonetheless , his point was clear . He had begun his career more than thirty years earlier as a tool and die maker , after vocational school , and was now very pleased that he had been able to become an engineer without a college degree . But he was , at the same time , critical of those engineers who had never had shop training . Instead , his admiration and nostalgia were reserved for those fellow tool and die makers he had known in the small machine shops where his career had begun : The work he had done there , he argued , was both more highly skilled and more satisfying than the work he did as an engineer precisely because it combined machine work with design . Another ex ? manual worker expressed similar sentiments during an interview He had started in machine work because " it was just a natural thing to do . I always loved machines and working with my hands . " Although he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ promotion to engineer , he has lingering regrets . " When I first became an engineer , for a while I missed working with my hands , being involved with projects , things like that . . . . I enjoyed my job , but I wanted to get ahead . . . . I do n't like being relegated to a drawing board . " The rest of the engineers lack such points of reference . Nonetheless , many of them had set out to become engineers precisely because , as children , they had enjoyed craftsmanlike work that involved hands-on elements . Indeed , over half the engineers at each company ( 65 percent at Precision Metals , 55 percent at Contronics ) accounted for their entry into engineering on the basis of a special interest in things mechanical rather than for reasons of career advancement , personal influences , or simple drift . Time after time , this interest was explained as a special affinity for tinkering of the sort that is in fact not allowed in engineering as it is practiced . I have a propensity for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engines . Dad was a pattern maker . I was always mechanical and liked working with wood . . . . I was always a tinkerer . I was always interested in airplanes . I used to build models . It was a logical extension to go into aeronautical engineering .  | In a few cases , the engineers recognized explicitly that engineering represented a compromise , and subordination , of an original interest in " tinkering " to the demands of a career . ' When I was younger , I wanted to be a TV repairman . Then I decided to work for my associate 's so I could be a computer technician . After my associate 's , I decided to shoot for an engineering degree . And now I 'm beginning to realize I 'll be better off with an MBA . I 'm crazy about engines . But in an effort to be practical I took up mechanical design . The engineers are not actively demanding an opportunity for physical , hands-on labor at the workplace . For the most part , they accept the situation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particular sort to the exigencies of careers . But there are nonetheless indications that some engineers maintain an ideal of craftwork that involves both mental and manual labor . The separation of mental labor from manual labor has not , then , affected engineers in the same way it has craftsmen : The evidence is not strong that it has resulted or will result in as widespread a de-skilling of the former as it has the latter , for manual skills have never been as critical or distinctive a part of engineering as mental skills have been of craftwork . But to say that the separation of mental and manual labor has affected engineers differently from craftsmen is not to say that is has had no effects . To the contrary , it is the source of a pervasive , if often muted , disappointment with engineering practice . Here , though , the issue is not one of proletarianization so much as of the modalities of work satisfactions . The Divisions of Engineering The separation between mental and manual labor dates roughly from the final decades of the nineteenth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , an established fact of industrial work life and by no means distinctive to either old or new industry . Consequently , the previous section did not deal with differences between Precision Metals , the old company , and Contronics , the new one . In contrast , the development of a detailed division of labor within engineering is an ongoing process , made possible by the relatively recent concentration of large numbers of engineers within  | individual companies . Although this development occurs in both old industry and new , it takes a different form in each . Thus , the development of a division of labor within engineering may be traced by two methods : an examination of its history within individual companies and a comparison of Contronics with Precision Metals . The History of Two Companies Beginning with the division of labor at Precision Metals has an important advantage . The formation of Contronics is so recent that , at least in this respect , it is a company virtually without history . At Precision Metals , the situation is quite different , for there is a long @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the memories of the older engineers and in the superseded organizational charts that document those memories . Consequently , not only does a comparison of Precision Metals and Contronics tell us about differences between the division of labor in old industry and new , but the history of Precision Metals can tell us directly about the development of the division of labor over time . As late as 1932 , there was only one engineering department at Precision Metals . When engineering was divided into machine design and product design departments , engineers rotated regularly among the two engineering departments and the factory floor . Not until 1950 did the company hire an engineer to be a permanent member of the product design department . At that time , too , the organizational structure of the department was simple . There was a chief engineer , an assistant chief engineer , and a supervisor who assigned design problems to whichever engineer was free at the time . In the mid-195os , design was separated from application . Before , a single engineer had followed a project from its initial stages @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ design and up to the initial stages of production . Now , one engineer was charged with customer contact and the development of specifications while another , called a product engineer , was given responsibility for detailed design . An organizational chart of the product design department for 1959 ( Figure 1 ) , the first such chart available , shows a chief engineer and an assistant chief engineer at the top . Reporting to the assistant chief engineer are an assistant chief engineer for the product section and an assistant chief engi-  | neer for the applications section . One senior applications engineer and four applications engineers report to the assistant chief engineer for applications engineering . One service engineer , a senior product engineer , and three product engineers report to the assistant chief engineer for the product section . A few other engineers , primarily in testing functions , report directly to the assistant chief engineer for the entire department . With only a few minor variations , the department retained essentially this shape until 1967 , when each engineer , seven in the applications section and six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kind of application or product design ( Figure z ) . Thus , rather than a series of undifferentiated applications engineers , there were now seven engineers , each with a different title , each responsible for applications for customers in only one industry . Instead of undifferentiated product engineers , each now had a different title and responsibility for the detailed design of a particular product line . Finally , in 1975 , the entire product design department was divided in two , with one of the departments responsible for standard products and the other for special orders . The division of labor is not so fully elaborated in the other engineering departments at Precision Metals . To be sure , the departmental structure is itself an aspect of the division of labor in engineering among product design , machine design , research , and manufacturing . But within the machine design , research , and manufacturing departments , there are no further formal horizontal distinctions among the engineers . Although some will have an affinity for particular kinds of projects and tend to assume responsibility for them , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than one imposed on the engineers . Moreover , in the manufacturing department , where most of the engineers are younger men in a period of extended training before promotion to a position in line management , projects are assigned with the explicit intention of familiarizing the engineers with the full range of the company 's manufacturing operations . In one respect , the division of labor in engineering at Contronics is similar to that at Precision Metals : Engineers are divided into broad functional departments ? research , product design , process design . Divisions are elaborated to varying degrees within the departments . But this general similarity is deceptive because the en-  | gineering tasks that are divided up , in however similar a fashion , are in themselves very different . Precision Metals manufactures a variety of different , although related products , no one of which requires an extensive engineering effort . On a special order , the entire product cycle may involve as few as two engineers : an applications engineer who works out the general design with a potential customer and a product designer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more complicated product originating in the research department and requiring special equipment will rarely involve more than a half-dozen engineers . Although the Precision Metals engineers work side by side , often on similar projects with similar techniques , they do not depend on each other for the successful completion of their projects . Consequently , each engineer 's contribution to a project ? whether a design , a product concept , or a machine ? is easily identifiable . In contrast , Contronics employs all forty of its engineers in the design and manufacture of a single , highly engineered product . Here , in the multiplicity of components and the variety of processes that must be engineered to produce that single product , Contronics is typical of advanced industry . Much more so than at Precision Metals , each engineer 's work depends on that of every other engineer . The design of a particular component or process may represent an identifiable individual contribution , but neither the component nor the process has a use outside the wider product system of which it is a part . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a way that they fit ? in some cases , literally mesh ? with other components and processes . Research engineers often work on independent projects , but they are the exception . In other departments , Contronics engineers not only work side by side but must also work together . In this sense , even though there are fewer engineers at Contronics than at Precision Metals , the division of labor at Contronics is both more complex and more critical to the eventual success of the engineering effort . These observations bear in two ways on the analysis of developments in the division of labor within engineering . First , the history of the organizational structure at Precision Metals is by itself striking evidence for the progressively greater detail of that division over time . Second , a comparison of Precision Metals and Contronics suggests that the division of labor in old and new industry takes  | on different forms . However , these different forms can not be described as simply greater or less specialization in the sense of a progressive narrowing of responsibilities and expertise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even with the generalist engineer at Precision Metals before World War II , the engineers at both companies are specialized . But there is a difference in kind , which we might call a difference between a segmental and an interdependent division of labor.9 In a segmental division of labor , engineers are assigned areas of specialization , but within those areas , they perform roughly equivalent tasks independent of other engineers . This is the principle underlying customer specialization and product line specialization at Precision Metals ; there is no equivalent at Contronics . In an interdependent division of labor , engineers are also assigned to specialized areas , but they perform different tasks within them and can not perform at all except as part of a coordinated effort with other engineers . There are some interdependent as well as segmental elements in the division of labor at Precision Metals ( for example , in broad functional differences among departments or in the relationship of product specialists and customer specialists within the design department ) but at Contronics , interdependent elements constitute almost the entire division of labor . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers in his department , and each department must coordinate its activities with those of other departments . The intensification of interdependence in the division of labor may be explained as a direct result of the greater complexity of technical tasks faced in advanced industry . Skill The extension of the division of labor in either of the senses just described is not , however , incompatible with high levels of skill in engineering . The destruction of skills among craftsmen proceeded through the isolation and codification of specific and limited tasks , but engineering skills at Contronics resist such destruction . Because interdependent elements predominate in the division of labor , specifying fixed areas of jurisdiction is difficult : " Jobs do n't correspond to any formal organization chart . We 've been given license to transgress . " Moreover , the rapid rate of technological changes results in a constantly shifting configuration of tasks . Although these new tasks may be no more complex than those they replace , the very  | rate with which they change requires an adaptable engineering staff and precludes the codification of techniques or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering will become routine . Thus , the division of labor actually poses a greater threat to engineering skills at Precision Metals than at Contronics , in an older industry and a more stable technological environment . Only 13 percent of the Contronics engineers agreed that " some engineering jobs get too specialized to have much challenge in them , " but 35 percent agreed at Precision Metals . This is not simply a difference in quantity . On the rare occasions when they do identify overspecialization as an issue , the Contronics engineers do so abstractly , emphasizing a theme that is notably absent in the comments of the Precision Metals engineers : Overspecialization does not characterize particular engineers , particular positions , or even particular companies so much as engineering in general . It 's typical of large companies . They tend to take an individual and make him a specialist in an individual position . There are a lot of specialized engineering positions . I do n't know whether or not they 're challenging . In any industrial setting , you 've got to do what they want @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to how challenging it can be emphasis added . In contrast , at Precision Metals , overspecialization has a much more concrete point of reference . There , in the context of a stable technology and a segmental division of labor , engineering management can more easily isolate at least a few positions and codify the tasks required of them . This is what has happened in product design , and the engineers repeatedly single out these few positions as examples of routine work . The following statements , referring to that department , are typical in this respect . It 's in the nature of the service sector a group of three positions in product design , whose entire function is to analyze problems from customers and that 's it , looking at parts and details to see what went wrong . Some of the product engineers , they all sic get stereotyped . Probably there are some areas where they ought to give a little more recognition . Tony 's a product designer worked a long time doing the  | same thing and feels he is n't appreciated . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about his job too . However , even at Precision Metals , specialization may in some circumstances provide the opportunity for the development of skills through intensive work on a particular problem or set of related problems . Surely this possibility should not be difficult to imagine for academics , who typically prefer teaching specialized courses over general courses and prefer research over specialized teaching if it permits a narrower focus on their own concerns . Nor is this possibility lost on the engineers . For example , one older engineer at Precision Metals ? in a specialized position in the product design department ? argued , " They have channeled me a little bit here . But in the last few years I 've developed a high degree of proficiency . I do n't have any objections because the field is one that interests me emphasis added . " A younger engineer is even more explicit : " A specialized job means doing research on a new product . It means a challenging job . " Whether or not a specialized position allows for the continuing development of skill may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than on its location in a career . Careers act as a form of job rotation . Because engineers pass through a number of positions in the course of their careers , they experience the specialization of any one position only in the context of past work and anticipated futures . Consequently , the specialization of a position does not necessarily imply the specialization of the engineer occupying that position . Two examples make this point clear . After three years at Precision Metals , Ted H. became an applications engineer in the 1967 reorganization of the product design department . He remained in that position for six years , for part of the time with a technician as an assistant , before being made an assistant superintendent , a less specialized position with line responsibility on the factory floor . But Ted appears to have gotten along poorly with his supervisors , who criticized him for too great an attention to engineering detail , and two years later he was transferred back to a new position in product design . In this new position , Ted shares responsibility with one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ product line . In all , Ted has occupied four different positions at Precision Metals , two of which may be described as specialized . But Ted is not a specialist . Quite  | the reverse , his varied background has provided him with a broadbased training through which he has been able to develop his engineering skills . According to Ted , Because I 've had engineering experience in depth , because I 've had production experience in depth , because I 've had some experience in research , I feel as if I know how to tap the talents of people in different areas . That 's something you do n't learn sitting up in engineering . I think I 'm probably the most qualified engineer in the company , with maybe one possible exception , I mean of the young guys with some youthful vigor left , because I 've bounced around so much . The consequences of specialization are very different in the context of a blocked career , a situation Tony G. exemplifies . After a number of years as an applications engineer in the product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1967 . Since that time , he has been assigned to a single position as a product line specialist . There his work entails the repeated application of a limited number of procedures , involving routine calculation , to a narrowly defined area . Tony explains , After you 've designed the optimal , you just follow that example . You arrive at a design , and you can steal a little bit from different designs to create a new one . In applications , there were always some novel ideas that would mean talking to a designer to figure out the designs and delving into new areas , putting things together and coming up with a solution . You get a charge out of it . One of the big things is you know where the stuff is going . It 's not like the guy on the floor . You know when you see a product come out and you can point to where it 's used . . . . There 's so much paperwork in my job now . I 'd have liked to do more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to just sit and think . Tony 's job is routine in any circumstances , characterized by the regular recurrence of a small number of problems with minimal variation . It is one of the positions singled out by the engineers cited earlier as an example of overspecialization . But Ted H. had occupied a similar position , only earlier in his career . That Tony can not develop his engineering skills ? and the intensity with which he feels that limitation ? derives from his having entered a product design position later in his career and having remained in that position for over a decade .  | The difference between Ted and Tony is one of individual success and failure , but it also illustrates a more general consideration : The effects of the division of labor on engineering skills are mediated by career structures and labor markets . If the different fates of Ted and Tony are played out within the context of a single company , so too are there differences between companies . The lack of concern with overspecialization among the Contronics engineers may well be contingent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ upgrading of both technicians and engineers in order to meet expanded demands for their skills . So , too , the level and type of skill engineers exercise will depend on a national labor market : If there is to be widespread de-skilling , it will occur only when demand is low and engineers are not moving ahead rapidly in their careers . " This is , of course , a possibility . But , whether it occurs depends as much on changes in the supply of engineers ? on the expansion or contraction of engineering education ? as on the dynamics of the division of labor in industrial capitalism . In this , the process would differ from the classical proletarianization of the skilled crafts . Creative Ownership If the effect of the division of labor on skills is uneven and limited , its effect on engineers ' experience of work is more direct . Here the issue is not proletarianization but what C. Wright Mills calls " creative ownership " ? a psychological rather than a legal sense of ownership deriving from a workman 's knowledge of " what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and material and that his own sweat and skill are visible to him . " 2 This sense of creative ownership is an important ideal to the engineers at both companies and a recurrent theme in their discussions of satisfactions available in engineering . In some cases , it is expressed as a pride in a product , a bond between the engineer and his design . I like to see my machines running . I just designed a control for a grinder that was two months of drawing and six months to build and a couple of weeks to debug . Seeing the first couple of pieces come off was a good feeling . ( machine designer , Precision Metals ) My major source of satisfaction is completing a project where there 's a tangible , physical end product . I can say I 've done it and I 'm proud of it . ( product designer , Contronics )  | In other cases , the connection between the engineering process and the final product is even more explicit : What do I like about my job ? Getting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sales . It 's all one continuous thing from the initial phone call , writing specifications , building it , testing it , and hopefully getting an order . For an engineer , it 's almost better than a piece of taffy. ( product designer , Precision Metals ) The biggest thing is making decisions on the basis of previous results , making some creative decision and getting positive results , creating or designing something and seeing it through and then watching it operate . ( research engineer , Contronics ) Although creative ownership is an ideal to engineers at both companies , it comes closer to realization at Precision Metals . The Precision Metals engineers just cited speak concretely , referring to a particular machine and to the actual process of product design . The Contronics engineers speak more abstractly , referring to " some creative decisions " or to " a project where there 's a tangible , physical end product " without specifying either a particular decision or project . At Precision Metals , the segmental division of labor allows the engineers to identify their distinct contribution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this identification . Because the division of labor at Contronics involves a large number of engineers on a single , complex project , the bond between the engineer and the product of his work is severed . Although a sense of creative ownership may remain in regard to a component , even this is increasingly difficult in direct ratio to the number of engineers who share responsibility for that component . Contronics engineers do not express discontent explicitly in these terms , but they do experience , more generally , a difficulty in locating their contribution within the company and consequently grow critical of the organization as a whole in a way that Precision Metals engineers do not . In the single best measure of this difference , 38 percent of the Contronics engineers identified the organizational structure as a source of " morale problems " ; only 5 percent at Precision Metals did so . Even when the Precision Metals engineers do criticize the organizational structure , their criticisms are mild , directed more to potentially negative consequences for the effective utilization of engi-  | neering manpower than to consequences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ think they made a mistake when they divided up the two product design departments . What 's learned on special products could be applied to standards , and it 's not being done . The Contronics engineers make much more direct connections between the organizational structure and their own experience of work . Because all the engineers work on a single , large project , the quality of their work experience depends in large measure on how that work is coordinated . Here , the criticisms of the organizational structure are strident and personal . Here it 's a zoo . . . . Within our group , responsibilities were never decided . It 's one of the problems . There 's no clear delineation of responsibility and authority . All decisions are made by committee . I 'm doing a lot of unnecessary paperwork , and there 's a lot of it here . I do n't really mind , except the questions have already been answered twelve times before . It 's so bad because of the duplications of responsibility . They let it go too far . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It 's killing the guys in middle and lower management . There should be a person between myself and where the paperwork is generated . He has to be a technical type person . That 's where quality control and quality assurance are n't doing their job . Lots of the time I get problems that are n't really problems and it upsets the managers . They could take the paperwork and see that 90 percent of the products would have failed but did n't .... My idea of an engineer is not what I 'm doing . Thus , there is evidence of increasing specialization over time at Precision Metals and of a shift from a more segmental to a more interdependent division of labor between companies . But neither of the developments implies , as suggested by models of proletarianization , a de-skilling of engineers . To the contrary , the threat to engineering skills may be greater in an old industrial setting than in a more advanced one . However , if we look not to levels of skill but to experiences of work , the results @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of creative ownership that is an ideal for engineers in both settings . That this differs from classical proletarianization makes it no less significant .  | Engineers and Technicians In one important respect , the discussion so far has been misleading . Engineering is not the only technical occupation in industry ; it shares this function with a number of other salaried , white-collar occupations . Of these , scientists ( including chemists , metallurgists , and physicists ) are broadly comparable to engineers in training , status , pay , and skill level . Technicians , designers , and draftsmen have less training ( typically a high school diploma or occasionally a two-year associate 's degree ) , earn lower pay ( roughly two-thirds that of engineers ) , and receive less prestige . Most important , work of these latter occupations is typically subordinate to and dependent on that of engineers : Technicians perform the routine runs of tests that engineers originated ; designers and draftsmen complete the detailed designs that engineers first rough out . However , the distinction between engineer and technician is not hard and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and overlap . The title of engineer , as it is used in the United States both by individuals and in industry , is not , like the title of doctor or lawyer , protected by law or restricted to holders of fouryear degrees . Of the more than one million self-reported engineers listed in the r970 census , zo.6 percent had no more than a high school diploma , and another 20.7 percent had attended college but not completed the full four years.13 Even in the sample of engineers at the two companies ? identified somewhat more restrictively on the basis of job content rather than self-reports ? considerable proportions did not have four-year degrees ( 25 percent at Precision Metals , including ro percent with no college , and z8 percent at Contronics , including 3 percent with no college ) . A total of 41 percent were without four-year degrees in the census figures . Similarly , titles are often ambiguous . Some titles ? engineer , senior engineer , project engineer , research engineer , machine designer , even junior engineer ? clearly signify engineering positions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technician position equally clearly . But other titles lack this clarity . Thus , three recent engineering college graduates at Contronics , working as foremen on the pilot line , are called engineering aides . In addition to machine designers ( engineers ) and draftsmen ( technicians ) in the process design departments of both companies , there are also a number of positions , responsibilities of which are roughly equiva-  | lent at both companies , called tool designers at Precision Metals and tool engineers at Contronics . In the research department at Precision Metals , in addition to the research engineers , about half the personnel of that department are lumped together under the catchall grouping of engineers , associate engineers , and draftsmen . These titles ? engineering aide , associate engineer , tool designer , tool engineer ? are simply ambiguous ; others are altogether misleading . At both companies , the title of quality control engineer refers to positions typically occupied by personnel without degrees and with minimal technical responsibilities . The overlap between engineer and technician extends to the content of the work itself . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both companies . Engineers are generally responsible for the overall design of new machines and the modification of old ones . Draftsmen usually either fill in the details of these designs or work out the designs of simpler equipment on their own ? typically of the tools used in presses rather than of the machines themselves . But some engineers do their own detailing ; some draftsmen are occasionally assigned more complex designs ; and the line between simpler tool designs and more complex machine designs is itself often blurred . In some other areas , with relatively little work that would fall within their scope , there are few technicians or draftsmen . Consequently , when detailed design work or routine testing is to be done , this " technician 's work " is performed by the engineers themselves , particularly in product design ( other than testing ) at both companies and process design ( other than machine design ) at Contronics . But elsewhere , it is relatively easy to distinguish " technician 's work " from " engineer 's work . " At both companies , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are responsible for the routine repetition of tests on products or components during their developmental stages . These tests are roughly equivalent in complexity to the simpler experiments run in a high school science class . They are initiated and designed by the engineers and , especially if the technician is inexperienced , overseen by an engineer during the early runs . The technician records the test results and reports them to an engineer , who is responsible for their analysis . A few other technicians , at both companies , are found in quality control functions . They are responsible for examining finished products or components , accepting them or rejecting them on  | the basis of criteria established by the engineering staff . Finally , some technicians , designers , and draftsmen are assigned to particular engineers to act as general assistants . Although the exact content of these technicians ' tasks varies considerably , depending on the temperament , style , and needs of the engineers to whom they are assigned , these tasks rarely include overall conception or design of a project . " Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , technician offer less opportunity for craftlike work than engineering positions . Levels of skill are lower ; the work is more routine ; there is little creative ownership . Although the engineer and the draftsman are primarily creations of early industrial society , technician is a more recently recognized occupation . Both engineers and draftsmen have been listed by the census since its first enumeration of occupations in 1870 , but the census did not list technicians until 1920 , when it counted four thousand , or fewer than one for every thirty engineers . Over the long term , the growth rate for the lesser skilled technical occupations ( technician , designer , draftsman ) has probably outstripped that of the higher skilled technical occupations ( engineer and scientist ) . Unfortunately , changing categories for the classification of occupations make census data particularly unreliable for these purposes : Natural scientists other than chemists are not listed separately before 1950 ; medical and dental technicians are not distinguished from testing technicians until the same year . Nonetheless , even a conservative estimate ( excluding natural scientists other than chemists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sharp rise in the ratio of technicians , draftsmen , and designers to engineers and scientists , from .38 in 1900 to .97 in 1980 ( Table z ) . A more precise series , based on the distribution of technical occupations in manufacturing industry only , available for 1950 , 1960 , 1970 , and 1980 , is less dramatic but moves in the same direction , showing an increase in the ratio of the lesser skilled technical occupations to the higher skilled from .51 in 1950 to .65 in 196o and .79 in 1980 ( Table 3 ) . Despite their inadequacies , these data generally support a view that modal levels of skill in technical work are declining . The recent origins of technician occupations , in particular , suggest that some routine aspects of engineering have been increasingly separated and vested in individuals who are not responsible for the more complex tasks , which remain the domain of engineers and scientists . So , too ,  | disproportionately rapid growth of all the lesser skilled technical occupations relative to engineers and scientists is evidence for what Braverman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work into a proportionately shrinking skilled component and a proportionately growing unskilled component . 15 Insofar as their absolute numbers continue to grow , engineers are either untouched by or perhaps even benefit from these developments . Technicians , designers , and draftsmen ? like secretaries , research assistants , or , for that matter , a good custodial staff ? are , from the engineers ' point of view , resources that free them from the more routine aspects of their jobs . Consequently , although a number of engineers complained about their own assignment to what they considered technician 's work , none objected to the establishment of new positions for technicians . Rather , they saw a lack of technicians as a problem in the underutilization of their own skills , as a diseconomy for the company , that could be corrected by the further elaboration and solidification of the division of labor between engineer and technician . Recall the account of Tom Gorman in Chapter Three . Although Tom 's primary responsibilities are in applications in the product design department of Precision Metals , he is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a test the first time takes skill , but once it 's going , anyone with a good background and some electronics can do it . I 've gone on record to ask for a technician , but so far nothing 's happened . It 's a waste of my time . There 's even some setting up that a technician can do maybe better than I can . So far as the engineers are concerned , then , the progressively detailed division of labor between engineers and technicians not only fails to threaten their opportunity to exercise engineering skills , but actually enhances it . Craftsmanship Engineering has become a considerably more specialized pursuit than it once was . But so , too , have law , medicine , and college teaching , each of which has witnessed the demise of its version of the general practitioner with the rise of the large firm , the technologically sophisticated hospital , and the research-oriented university.16 Each of these occupations has also felt its position under attack ?  | but more from an increased supply of practitioners than from specialization , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No more so than in law , medicine , or college teaching does specialization in itself imply proletarianization in engineering . Insofar as the past experience of craftsmen is taken as a strict model for the proletarianization of engineers in the present , it is misleading at best . The effects of the division of labor on engineering skills differ from its effects on craft skills precisely because engineering is itself a product of the division of labor in industry . If the separation of mental labor from manual labor was critical to the destruction of craft skills , it helped create engineering skills . So , too , the growing division of labor between engineers and technicians has not undermined engineers ' skills , but permitted them to concentrate on the most complex and highly skilled aspects of their work . There is no evidence that the division of labor in advanced industries constitutes a greater threat to engineering skills than does the division of labor in older industries . If engineering is to undergo a de-skilling equivalent to that of the skilled crafts ? no more than a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from developments in the labor market , as is the case in contemporary professions , rather than from the reorganization of the labor process , as was the case in classical proletarianization . If , however , we treat models of engineers based on craftsmen more loosely , our analysis is different . Engineers are not craftsmen , and their work has never been organized as craft production . But engineers do express attitudes and orientations to their work similar to those often attributed to craftsmen . " Like craftsmen , engineers find satisfaction in the unity of mental and manual labor . Like craftsmen , they take pride in creative ownership . Thus , with Florman in his Existential Pleasures of Engineering , the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals are aware of the potential satisfactions in engineering that accompany a " total absorption in a mechanical environment . " 18 Precisely because their skills and training are technical , engineers are perhaps least likely of any occupation to experience as alien , mystifying , or threatening the technological complexities that characterize modern production . These attitudes and orientations we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to realize the ideals implicit in craftsmanship is very much in question . Mental and manual labor are almost entirely separate in industry today , their separation en-  | forced by both unions and management . In advanced industry more than in older industry , the interdependencies of the division of labor threaten the sense of creative ownership . This is no more than a trend as yet ; many engineers at both Contronics and Precision Metals do find satisfaction in their work . But as the highly engineered products of advanced industries come increasingly to require greater numbers of engineers on ever larger projects , the interdependencies of the division of labor will intensify . If this happens , the possibilities of creative ownership will grow concurrently weaker . I have abandoned the early industrial craftsman as a point of reference for engineers , suggesting instead as a standard an ideal of craftsmanship that is largely independent of any specific historical model of work organization . If craftsmanship were not an ideal to the engineers themselves , this standard might be dismissed as antifactual or formalistic . But this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ must be measured against the vitality of craftsmanship as an ideal and against the potential of technical work for its realization .  | As salaried employees , engineers are subject to the discipline of the market . They are rewarded for their performance at school and at work with jobs , promotions , raises , and security . They are punished for their failures with unemployment , blocked careers , and insecurity . But are they also subject to the discipline of the organization , not just in annual or biannual salary reviews , but also in the authority of supervisors over technical decisions , the pace of work , and the allocation of tasks ? Most contemporary speculation contends not only that they are , but also that they find such authority particularly problematic . Claims that technical workers are particularly prone to resent industrial authority are not new . In 1920 , influenced by the rise of the scientific management movement among engineers , Veblen observed that engineers are experts in industrial production , in the systematic and rational allocation of men and material . But , according to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ maximize productive capacity , is " sabotaged " by absentee owners who " continue to control the industrial experts and limit their discretion , arbitrarily , for their own commercial gain . " Where engineers would maximize production , their employers would maximize profit . Veblen considers this difference a potential source of conflict felt by engineers in their daily experiences at the workplace . ' When scientific management declined as an engineering ideology , Veblen abandoned these ideas , but others have since returned to them . In the 196os , a group of French Marxists , including Serge Mallet , revived a variant of Veblen 's argument . Like Veblen , Mallet stresses the tension between the logic of industrial production and the logic of profit maximization . But where Veblen is ambiguous as to the outcome of this tension ? implying at times a narrow occupational consciousness and at times a broader based class consciousness ? Mallet is clear . He argues that the distinction between IO2.  | blue-collar and white-collar labor is obsolete in advanced industries and that engineers will become the spearhead of a " new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ workers , that presses new demands for self-management and participation at the workplace.2 An opposing variant of this argument appeared at roughly the same time in the work of American academic sociologists . They formulate the tension engineers feel with industrial authority in terms of an incipient engineering professionalism ? as a strain between , on the one hand , " cosmopolitanism " and the free flow of knowledge in a professional community and , on the other hand , the " localism " of industrial employers and their demand for exclusive or patented knowledge in the service of profit maximization . This approach stresses the incompatibility , in Kornhauser 's terms , of " bureaucratic control " with " professional autonomy " : Industrial bureaucracy implies hierarchy , " supervisors who exercise direct control over work , " but professionalism implies collegiality and authority sustained by knowledge rather than position.3 However , neither arguments stressing the emergence of a new working class nor those stressing the conflict between professionalism and bureaucratic control have stood up well to empirical investigation . Thus , some studies show that the new working class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there.4 Other studies show that most engineers value their supervisors ' judgment more than that of their colleagues and are more concerned with advancement within an organization than on a " professional ladder . " s But old arguments die hard , and yet new variants have appeared again within the past decade . These newest claims even take technical workers as the focus for the " labor problems of postindustrial society " more generally . According to Bell and Freidson , among others , the complex and rapidly changing technologies of advanced industries require a freer flow of knowledge than can be handled by rigid bureaucratic procedures developed to manage the simpler and more routine tasks associated with older , more stable technologies . If only to perform effectively , technical employees in the advanced industries must press demands for greater participation , bypassing traditional industrial hierarchies . At the same time , according to Bell and Freidson , the imperatives of advanced industrial production place special weight on training received and certified outside the industrial  | organization . This training is a counterweight to managerial discretion ? both a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resource with which technical workers can resist hierarchical authority . Together , then , the increased importance of outside training and the altered character of effective industrial organization provide the basis for a " neoprofessionalism " whose norms are " a departure from the hitherto prevailing norms of economic selfinterest that have guided a business civilization . " 6 Thus , albeit by different routes , observers of both the left and the center have come to identify salaried employees in general and engineers in particular as the focal point for a putative crisis of authority at the workplace . While differing as to the outcome of this new " crisis " ? whether in militant syndicalism as part of a new working class or in a more exclusive emphasis on professional privileges ? all these observers expect that engineers , especially in advanced industry , will prove a major source of antiauthoritarian and antibureaucratic impulses , demanding greater autonomy and participation than management is prepared to grant . The Exercise of Authority All the arguments just reviewed suggest that authority is a palpably felt reality in the working lives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assign tasks , overrule technical decisions , and oversee the process by which assignments are carried out . They assume that the exercise of authority is transparent and immediate . But this is not the case at either Precision Metals or Contronics , where a number of features in the organization of engineering work make the most transparent exercises of industrial authority largely unnecessary . Rounds Unlike most manual workers and many white-collar workers who are posted at a station ( a particular machine , a set of machines , a control room , a typewriter , or a sales desk ) , most of the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals make rounds . Because their jobs involve the inspection of machinery and processes and regular meetings with other members of the organization whose physical locations reflect the variety of horizontal and ver-  | tical divisions within the organizational structure , the engineers must be able to move freely through the plant and office areas . They often work on the same project or group of projects over an extended period of time ; so their movements take on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organization of work as rounds ? primarily in the machine design sections of both companies , where the engineers stay close to their drafting boards , and in the research department at Contronics , where the engineers stay close to their labs ? most engineers work from a desk that serves as a home base and from which they circulate freely and often . The organization of work into rounds ensures that the engineers exercise a wide range of discretion . It would be inefficient , often impossible , for a supervisor to accompany his subordinates through these daily rounds . Consequently , although the results of work are often open to observation and inspection , the process by which these results are achieved is free from the watching eyes of a supervisor . The use and organization of time is largely the engineer 's own . Unless there is a pressing problem ( " putting out fires " ) , he chooses in what order he will work on particular tasks and projects and how much time he will spend on them on any given day . He takes lunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discretion over his time of arrival at work . It is not unusual for an engineer at either company regularly to arrive a half-hour after the official starting time . In only one case , after an engineer at Precision Metals had consistently come to work two or three hours late over a period of several months , did his supervisor decide to " remind " him , by posting a notice on the bulletin board that official hours began at 8:oo . Expertise Even were their work visible to supervisors , the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals would still have an important protection of their autonomy in technical matters , for each engineer , or group of them , possesses a specialized competence . This may be based on specialized training ( in electrical engineering or metallurgy rather than mechanical engineering at Precision Metals ) or on specialized experience within the company ( with a particular  | customer at Precision Metals or with a particular component at Contronics ) . In all these cases , specialized competencies both constitute the organizational structure and protect against the exercise of authority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of their subordinates . As one Contronics engineer put it , " The gentleman I work for simply does n't understand electronics or programming ; so he tells me he relies on my sense of professional ethics . " But even when supervisors do have general competence in their subordinates ' areas , they may still lack detailed knowledge of particular machines , processes , or customers . Consequently , supervisors are forced to rely on their subordinates ' judgments . This is not a matter of what Weber called the " administration of secret sessions , " the willful attempt of subordinates to protect their autonomy by withholding information . ' It is not a strategy of " resistance " on the part of subordinates . Rather , it follows directly at both companies from the establishment of a division of labor that encourages the development of specialized competence . At meetings ? whether between an engineer and his supervisor , between two engineers of roughly equal position , or among a larger number of engineers of unequal position ? the style of decision making at Precision Metals and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with each participant providing data or experience to which he has special access . Typically , the decision as to what course of action this information suggests ( if there is any decision to be made ) falls to the engineer whose responsibility it will be . Even when there is disagreement at meetings , it is usually resolved by discussion and eventual consensus . In no case , at either company , did I see a disagreement resolved by managerial fiat . Arguments that stress a tension between technical autonomy and industrial authority imply far more extensive supervision than is in fact the case . These arguments fail to notice that the division of labor , while itself an expression of managerial authority , also protects engineers from the intrusion of supervisors . Engineers are hired because they possess technical competence , because of their ability to resolve technical issues . If a supervisor interferes with or overrules this competence , he acts not in the interest of industrial authority but against it by disrupting the smooth flow of work within the division of labor .  | Work Flow In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have formal organization charts showing each engineer reporting to one , and only one , supervisor in an unbroken chain leading eventually to the company 's chief executive officer . If these charts provided an adequate account of authority relations , the relationship between a subordinate and his supervisor would be highly charged . But the charts are misleading . Each engineer does have one supervisor to whom he reports . However , " reports " means many things and different things at different times . In some cases , it means that the supervisor determines pay and promotions . In some cases , it means that the supervisor has authority for expenditures beyond a specified dollar value . It rarely means that the supervisor handles the daily assignment of tasks to his subordinate . Rather , assignments flow horizontally , between departments and among engineers located at roughly equivalent levels of the organizational hierarchy . Thus , although a direct order from superordinate to subordinate is a rare occurrence , an orderlike request from one engineer to another is a regular feature of the working day at both Contronics and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from a request for a piece of information taking only a few minutes to provide to one for the design of equipment that may take days , weeks , or even months to finish . These requests leave room for negotiation by the engineer of whom they are made : He may say that a request does not fall within his area of responsibility , that he does not have time , or simply delay compliance . Of course , no engineer can refuse requests consistently . For example , an engineer at Precision Metals whose job is to run tests on new product designs can set priorities among different requests but can not delay a particular test indefinitely . A machine designer at either company can not reasonably refuse to design a machine ; to do so would be to refuse to do his job altogether . However , a supervisor is involved in the administration of these requests in only two circumstances . First , if there is a dispute over the speed or quality with which a job is performed , the engineer who has requested the job @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effort ( not always successful ) to increase pressure for compliance . Second , if the request requires a sufficiently large expenditure  | of time or money , official approval may be required of the supervisors of both engineers involved . In the latter case , approval is usually pro forma , and , in both cases , the supervisor is involved only as a conduit of orders rather than as their source . Orders do not flow up and down an organizational chart , but across departments , where no official lines of authority are drawn . Thus , the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals may have only one official supervisor , but they have many " bosses " located at various points and levels of the organization . But because there are many bosses rather than one , and because these bosses do not possess formal line authority , there is considerable room for the engineer to negotiate his responsibilities . Authority is detached not only from particular individuals and vested in positions , a fundamental characteristic of bureaucratic organizations in general , but also from hierarchical positions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the product cycle : Requests are legitimate and take on their " orderlike " quality because they are necessary to design , develop , or produce a particular component , process , or product . At Precision Metals , as at any company that deals directly with customers , many requests among engineers may be traced directly to their ultimate source in their customers ' orders . Here , then , requests are justified by the authority of the market . This authority , whether derived from the product cycle or from the market , is different from bureaucratic authority : It requires only a commitment to general organizational goals rather than to any particular organizational form . It is ( or at least appears to be ) a matter of fact rather than of discretion : " My area of responsibility is . Whenever a problem comes up , it is directed to me . " It is legitimated by technical necessity rather than by hierarchical position : " You just do what 's necessary for the product . " Assignments Supervisors do assign their subordinates to particular positions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are made , the process by which they are made may be a point at which authority intrudes , a point at which authority becomes a palpable reality as it is not at other moments . However , even this possibility is limited . There is considerable latitude in the assignments that engineers  | receive . Although there are formal job descriptions at Precision Metals , these descriptions are often simply ratifications of duties the engineer had already established for himself . As one Precision Metals engineer explained the process by which his job description was written , " My boss just thought of the things I 'd been doing for the last three years . " In other cases , responsibilities are established mutually , in discussions between the engineer and his supervisor . As another Precision Metals engineer describes this situation : There are some guidelines . But there was a unique situation when the product design department split . There was some input from individuals as well as from management . A certain amount can be taken over by the individual . Such a situation , occasional at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because both the organization and the tasks required for the production process are new , there are no wellestablished rules or traditions as to what constitutes the responsibilities of a particular position . For the discontented and the ambitious , this creates plentiful opportunities to define and redefine those responsibilities . Two Contronics engineers made this point clear when asked how their responsibilities had been defined : In here , they got expansionist when times were good so everybody could try to get a slice of the pie . One of the refreshing things about management here is that it 's so aggressive . Responsibility accrues to anyone who grabs it . Jobs do n't correspond to any formal chart . We 've been given license to transgress . You could chalk it up as an experimental effort , but it 's my impression that people are turned loose . You establish yourself by gaining territories , like the head of process design has done . He 's established a widening perimeter and he 's managed to justify it to corporate headquarters . Assignment to a position is inextricably linked with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one of three circumstances : when they begin work at a company , as a promotion , or as part of a general departmental reorganization . A fourth possibility , demotion , apart from general departmental reorganization , is exceedingly rare . There are no cases of a clear demotion among any of the engineers interviewed at either of the two companies . ' In the first two circumstances , on beginning work at a company or in a promotion , supervisory authority is not exercised .  | For engineers coming to work at a company , whether out of school or from another company , there is typically mutual agreement on the general nature of responsibilities as a condition of employment . For engineers offered a promotion , there is typically the inducement of a pay increase ( as well as a potential for future advancement in both pay and position ) . The engineer typically has the option of declining a promotion , especially if , as occasionally happens , it involves relocation or a major change of function . Only in the third circumstance , assignment as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allocation of positions . Here a few engineers do receive demotions or assignments to positions less desirable than those they already held . But more either receive clear promotions or have the opportunity to influence the definition of their new duties . Moreover , these general reorganizations are rare . There have been none at Contronics since the establishment of the division with which this study is concerned ; aside from the various reorganizations of the product design department ( described in Chapter Five ) , there have been none at Precision Metals . The Authority of the Market In my research at the two companies , I witnessed only four incidents in which an engineer received a direct order from a supervisor . In two of them , both at Contronics , a manager assigned engineers to particular tasks . In a third incident , at Precision Metals , an engineering manager overruled a machine designer on a number of particulars in a design . In the fourth incident , discussed previously , another engineering manager at Precision Metals " reminded " an engineer that official hours began at 8:oo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to me , both in interviews and in casual conversation , the very fact that these incidents were thought notable is itself an expression of their rarity . In certain senses , then , the engineering staffs at Contronics and Precision Metals resemble what some sociologists call " professional bureaucracies " ? those " companies of equals " found among hospitals , law firms , and universities.9 As in professional bureaucracies , hierarchical command is notably absent . As in professional bureaucracies , there is considerable discretion and considerable reliance on expertise . As in professional bureaucracies , relations with  | colleagues are often as critical to effective performance as relations with supervisors . However , the engineering staffs ( or professional bureaucracies more generally ) are not authority free . The engineers are subject to the discipline of the product cycle : They must respond to a steady stream of requests , problems , and crises . They are subject also to the discipline of the labor market : Their pay , promotions , and job security depend on the skill and energy with which they perform . However , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the labor market is impersonal . Detached from human agency and built into " the nature of things , " it becomes , as it were , invisible . In contrast , the authority of supervisors is potentially visible , but it is invoked only in special circumstances or in the face of flagrant violations . For the most part , engineers simply do their jobs without being told what to do or how to do it . In these circumstances , authority is not a transparent aspect of their everyday experience . The Uses of Authority If , as subordinates , engineers encounter authority only rarely , and then in a mild form , their experience of authority is more salient in another role , when they themselves act as supervisors . Only a minority of the Precision Metals engineers ( 30 percent ) and a slight majority of the Contronics engineers ( 53 percent ) currently have official line responsibilities ? whether for production workers , technicians , or other engineers . However , these figures understate the extent of supervisory responsibilities the engineers at both companies exercise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ de facto responsibility for production workers or technicians in the course of working on particular projects . Although these engineers do not hire and fire , oversee promotions and pay raises , or even receive reports , they are nonetheless responsible for the deployment , coordination , and motivation of manpower . Moreover , the proportion of engineers with official line responsibility increases over the course of careers : to 40 percent of the twenty engineers at Precision Metals with ten or more years experience and to 65 percent of the seventeen at Contronics . Precisely because supervisory responsibilities are associated with career advancement , the engineers tend to emphasize the impor-  | tance of these responsibilities : They are more interested in justifying their present or anticipated role as a sut 2rvisor than they are in criticizing industrial authority from the perspective of subordinates . Thus , they see authority less as a constraint than as a resource . Bosses do not exercise control ; they offer assistance . Specialized competence does not prevent participation ; it ensures rationality . Lines of authority are not arbitrary ; they ensure efficiency @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like yours , how important is the supervisor ? " and then probed to specify the role of supervision . Only six of the engineers at the two companies answered that their supervisor had no impact on them whatsoever ( although more than half at both companies did answer that the supervisor was not of major importance ) . Nine answered in terms of the supervisor 's responsibility for the control of his subordinate ? making sure that work got done or got done properly . The rest put the supervisor 's role in a more positive light . These answers were of four types . ( See Table 4 . ) First , engineers lack both the technical competence and the detailed knowledge required to make sound business decisions . The supervisor is a welcome source of general direction on broad questions of company policy ( thirty-six engineers ) . I do n't know everything . I do n't know the total business workings of the company . There have to be some guidelines about whether or not what I 'm doing really benefits the company . There has to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , interdepartmental relations are difficult to manage . The supervisor manages these relations . He links the engineer to and protects him from the rest of the organization ( nineteen engineers ) .  | He 's a buffer . I actually have very little contact with Tom , but he 's the one who goes to all the meetings and finds out what new projects the company 's starting and what the parameters are . Third , projects within the department also have to be allocated and scheduled on a rational basis . The supervisor has an overview of individuals ' capacities and responsibilities . He coordinates activities within the group ( fifteen engineers ) . At Frank 's level , a supervisor is really important . He 's directing the thinking of the whole department . He is the leadership . Fourth , the engineer can not solve every technical problem by himself . The supervisor is an older , more experienced engineer who acts as a senior colleague ( twenty-nine engineers ) . A supervisor should be of assistance when a problem is beyond my ability . There 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge or ability . A few engineers do complain , often bitterly , about arbitrary interference in their daily work , but these complaints are directed at individuals , the " bad boss , " rather than at the more general structure of authority . The bad boss represents an unnecessary interference , a style of management rooted in the character of an individual rather than in the structure of the organization . This conception is clear in the story told by one engineer . Though highly critical of his own supervisor , he distinguishes his criticism from a critique of the system itself . Challenges are very important , and we do have a few people that do have enthusiasm and know how to stimulate a person 's thinking . But many people are more destructive than constructive in their criticisms . For instance , I came up with an idea . . . and presented it to four or five of the supervisory personnel . They carefully considered what I suggested and decided it was not functional . Six months later , in the presence of one of those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ someone else . Permission was granted and the idea was highly received . Now they 're using it in eighteen different machines because one person said , " Of course it will work . " The bad boss is not bad because he exercises authority . He is bad because he makes a technical mistake , and he is bad from the point of view of the company as well as that of the employee .  | Thus , the engineers do not reject authority . Quite the reverse , they welcome its proper exercise . Insofar as they press demands for greater participation or autonomy , they seek to rationalize rather than challenge authority , as becomes clear in examining the responses to two additional questions . Each engineer was asked , " Are there any kinds of decisions at ( name of company ) that you think you and other engineers should have more say in ? " The pattern of responses at the two companies was strikingly similar . At both companies , roughly half the engineers rejected the idea that engineers should participate more than they presently @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that they already had sufficient influence on the technical matters in which they were competent but lacked the competence to evaluate broader issues of business or personnel policy . In short , they accept the idea that participation should be based on competence and that competence is limited and specialized : Their idea of participation , as well as of authority , is functionally determined . I have a great deal of say , not in what the projects are , but in how they 'll be achieved . Engineers should have less say in anything that has to do with business . They just mess it up . Obviously , we should have no say in the overall goals of the company . The procurement of equipment is a thorny issue because it does involve capital outlays , and by nature engineers will want the best equipment . For engineers , I 'd have to say thumbs down on anything that 's not strictly technical . But more interesting , for our purposes , are the large minorities at both companies ( 35 percent at Precision Metals and 45 percent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say in specifically technical issues . ( See Table 5 . ) These engineers appear to be arguing for greater participation ; but this is the case in only a limited sense . Rather , like the engineers who reject greater participation altogether , these engineers also assume that participation should be based on specialized competence . They differ from the other engineers only in their belief that the present organization of authority does not lend sufficient weight to their own personal competence or , in a few cases , to the competence of their engineering department . This is not a challenge to the principle of special-  | ized competence , but an attempt to make that organization of those competencies more efficient . It 's a shortcoming of the management system . You do a job , establish procedures , write the customer , and inform the boss what you 've done . Then , in the future , you are n't called in when a similar problem comes up again . Industrial engineering 's not being used the way it should be . We should be involved in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Metallurgical people should be consulted more at the beginning of manufacturing . The way it is now they only come to me when there 's a problem . Only a small minority ? r 5 percent at Precision Metals and 13 percent at Contronics ? answered that engineers should have more say in matters of business or personnel policy . But even this group usually posed demands for greater participation in terms of complaints about particular policies rather than as general principles of decision making . Thus , of these eleven engineers , one was unhappy with vacation policies , another with a detail of the salary administration system , and a third with inadequate medical insurance . A few more , at both companies , believed that engineering departments should be more heavily involved in marketing strategies . But the lone engineer who argued that engineers should have more say " on the types of products Contronics wants to manufacture , on the type of organizational setup , on the bureaucracy " was exceptional in his suggestion that there might be something wrong with industrial authority in general . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' demands for participation came from the question , " Do you think  | things could be run more democratically at work ? " Before the interview stage of the research had begun , I had been unsure of the effectiveness of asking this question directly . It allows a variety of interpretations of what it would mean to run things " more democratically " ? whether as formal voting procedures or as less formal but broad based commitment to greater participation in decision making , whether in regard to personnel policy , investment decisions , job design , or even only technical issues . I had feared that this ambiguity would make answers difficult to interpret , but this was not the case . The very ambiguity of the question made it a far better indicator of a general orientation to participation than would have been the case with a series of more specific questions . I had also thought that the idea of a democratic workplace ? despite the wide attention it has received in some European countries ( and in some academic circles in this country ) ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engineers . But this was not the case either . Many engineers were familiar with a variety of experiments in industrial democracy , both in this country and elsewhere . Understanding the concept of a democratic workplace , the engineers almost unanimously rejected it . The exceptions ? those few engineers at both companies who answered that work could and should be more democratic ? did not suggest a democratic workplace as a value in itself . Rather , they argued in terms of the consequences of " democracy " for a more efficient organization . The organization could tolerate , and profit by , more collegiality in the decision-making process . If by democracy you mean that people get together and air things out , yes . At a previous company we had a once a week meeting for that , and it helped the organization quite a bit . No one 's ever asked me what we can do to make things better here . There could be more areas of discussion , not a majority vote or anything like that . There could be more feedback on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as policy . But the ultimate authority has to be in one person . Only one engineer , who had been relocated with the move of the research department at Contronics , answered in terms that suggest a systematic conflict between employee and employer in which " democracy " would serve to protect the employee 's legitimate interests .  | Sure , they could have had us vote on whether or not to move . It 's not a complete joke . I 'm sure they 'd like to close Eurlabs the research organization for another branch of the company but ca n't because of the social and political situation . It 's an effect of the rules of the game there versus the way they are here . Companies in Europe are less able to affect the work environment arbitrarily . There 's more defense against arbitrary industrial authority . In all ? even counting all ambiguous or qualified answers ? only eleven engineers ( six at Precision Metals and five at Contronics ) argued for any form of democracy at the workplace . An additional nine engineers at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not mean democracy in any formal sense , but simply in the sense that their opinions and the opinions of others were considered in various stages of decision making . At times it 's very democratic . I get my vote , so to speak . At other times I 'm not asked . I should be able to express my opinion on anything that has to do with my product . All in all , it 's very democratic . But a large majority of the engineers ? 7o percent at Precision Metals and 77 percent at Contronics ? simply rejected the idea of a more democratic workplace in any sense . ( See Table 6 . ) To these engineers , democracy implied inefficiency : drift rather than leadership , decision making without competence , an inability to respond quickly . And inefficiency , according to these engineers , is incompatible with the aims of a business organization . On the management level , the only thing that governs is the bottom line figure . You have to make a profit to exist . It has to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | It should be a dictatorship . If you want an opinion , fine , but you do n't develop equipment by vote . A majority of the engineers reject demands for increased participation or democracy at the workplace and argue for the necessary character of industrial authority . Nevertheless , on each question , a minority , of varying size but always relatively small , does express a demand for more autonomy , more participation , and more democracy . However , the difference between these two types of answers is more apparent than real . Both demands for participation ( or autonomy or democracy ) and the rejection of those demands are formulated within the same logic , a logic of industrial efficiency . When engineers reject the idea of a democratic or participatory workplace , they do so in terms of their incompatibility with principles of specialized competence . When other engineers suggest that the degree of autonomy or participation or democracy is insufficient , they do not abandon this principle . Rather , they implicitly argue that the actual exercise of authority in a given situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of tasks , with the proper application of the principle of specialized competence . Rarely does an engineer even suggest that a more democratic or participatory workplace might be a value in itself , apart from its contribution to what are assumed to be the shared goals of management and engineers . Thus , differences of opinion about participation , autonomy , democracy , and authority appear as differences in the assessment of what is most efficient in a given situation , as an issue of technical rationality , but no more . The Logic of Profit and the Logic of Efficiency The discussion so far assumes that engineers accept the ends of capitalist enterprise . It assumes that they accept not only a logic of efficiency , but also a logic of efficiency in the specific service of profit maximization . But such otherwise diverse observers as Veblen , Mallet , and Bell agree that engineers do not accept the logic of profit maximization . To the contrary , Veblen , Bell , and Mallet all suggest that the very commitment to a logic of efficiency leads to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ profit-maximizing orientations as a limitation on their technical autonomy . One question explored this possibility directly : " Do business considerations ever keep you from doing as good a technical job as you want ? " The engineers ' answers take on a now familiar pattern , a small minority identifying a systematic conflict between business goals and technical goals , another small minority answering that there is no conflict . Roughly one in seven of the engineers identified occasional interference with the achievement of particular goals from specific departments , usually sales or marketing : The people in marketing and sales often do n't understand what can be done in a technical sense . It may be impossible because of materials or costs . I fight tooth and nail with them . They just do n't have the technical background . This comment does not go beyond the level of daily operations . It is rooted in the dynamics of particular organizations and in departmental conflicts , by no means unique to engineering , over jurisdiction or " territory . " 10 It implies neither that interference with technical quality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is any objection to profit maximization per se . Rather , like the limited demands for participation or autonomy , it is a criticism of inefficient management within the framework of shared objectives . ( See Table 7 . ) Slightly less than one-fifth of the engineers identify a more systematic conflict between their own technical interests and the demands of employment in the private sector . These engineers do not  | see interference either as occasional or as a matter of the organizational dynamics of a particular company , but as a conflict inherent in the differences between technical virtuosity and profit maximization . The criteria I work with are dictated by the customer , what 's available to make parts and what it 's practical to build . . . . The bottom line is making money , so you just use tried and true designs . You repeat things that were successful in the past . Business considerations definitely keep me from doing the kind of work I 'd like to . However , even these comments do not suggest that the situation should be otherwise . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( " the kind of work I 'd like " ) , which may , at times , be inappropriate to the perceived realities of the world of work ( to " what it 's practical to build " ) . Thus , while these fifteen engineers experience business considerations as a constraint , they do not suggest that their own commitment to technical virtuosity represents a higher rationality around which industrial production should be organized . The majority of the engineers , approximately two-thirds of the total , do not acknowledge any tension between technical quality and profit maximization . For some , especially the more junior , business considerations are simply not a factor at the level of daily operations . These engineers work out technical problems within given parameters . The shape of these parameters , whether determined by business considerations or by broader technical considerations , makes little difference in how they experience the job . However , roughly the same number of engineers do encounter business considerations explicitly in their day-to-day work without perceiving a conflict between those considerations and the quality of technical work . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct from that of profit maximization . I 've always considered those things . I always made an effort to find out what they were . Everyone wants to design the ultimate machine , but you ca n't fly in the face of economic reality . When I decide what to do on my own , I do it on the basis of cost considerations ; and I can find something just as challenging . They are n't mutually exclusive . The engineers ' argument is a telling criticism of Veblen , Mallet , and Bell : They argue that their work is inherently economic in charac-  | ter ; cost is itself a criterion of technical efficiency . Cost is a parameter of their work , no different in principle from the physical properties of a metal . They do not experience a tension between the logic of efficiency and the logic of profit maximization precisely because their very conception of efficiency is shaped by considerations of profitability . Consequently , they suggest that there is no autonomous logic of efficiency : Technology and technological efficiency are matters of application @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Unlike science , which may involve a pursuit of the truth as an end in itself , technology has no purpose aside from its practical uses , which , in a capitalist society , are determined by the test of the market : " It 's no good making something the customer ca n't afford . " A few of the engineers do treat technology as if it were a science , designing a machine for its own sake , apart from the uses to which it is put . But these are a minority . For the rest , engineering evokes no " higher " rationality against which profit maximization may be judged . For them , engineering is a rationality of means , but no more . Conclusion In the long transition from early to mature industrial production , the extension of managerial command met with persistent resistance from skilled craftsmen : in the " soldiering " described by Taylor , in what Montgomery calls their " manly stance " toward foremen , and , most important , in strikes defending their traditional prerogatives . Even today , albeit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supervision , manifest in the welldocumented efforts of informal work groups to create a sphere of autonomy outside and in opposition to official work rules . " But among engineers , the clearest successors in modern industry to the older craftsmen ( and despite recurrent speculation to the contrary ) , authority seems to be particularly unproblematic . Unlike most manual workers , engineers enjoy a high level of autonomy . Assembly workers , for example , can not normally leave their positions or machine tenders their machines ; engineering permits a considerable degree of physical freedom of movement . Few manual workers have discretion over their use of time ; engineers do . Most manual work is assigned by foremen and , with few exceptions , leaves little room for control over the labor process ; not  | only do engineers exercise discretion in their methods of execution , but also to some extent in the choice of projects . To deny these differences is to miss significant variations in the organization of industrial authority . Where the labor process is subdivided and tasks codified , initiative passes to management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often necessary . But engineers possess expertise , even if only within a single area . Thus , supervisors often do not know as well as the engineers themselves either what should be done in a particular situation or how it should be done . Except as diffuse and general assignment of responsibility , rules can not cover these situations . Moreover , it is often part of the engineer 's responsibilities to create his own work by identifying potential problems and areas of improvement . In these circumstances , the effective exercise of industrial authority hinges on " incentives for workers to identify themselves with the enterprise , to be loyal , committed , and thus self-directed and self-controlled. " 12 Such identification can not be produced by direct orders as well as by the incentives of a career . For engineers , the critical form of industrial authority is not the discipline of supervisors , but the discipline of the labor market , which not only allows for self-direction , but requires it . Neither , though , should we make too much of engineering autonomy . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that characterizes engineering work creates a capacity to resist managerial authority in the name of participatory values , for there is little evidence of such values . Some engineers criticize particular supervisors , but they do not challenge the principle of supervision . Others make claims against particular departments for the extension of engineering responsibilities , but they do not challenge the principle of specialized competence in which their primary responsibility is technical . These criticisms and claims speak to the rationalization of authority : They are in no way incompatible with the present structure of authority or with the division of labor . They are not demands for participation as much as for the improvement of industrial efficiency . Quite the reverse of the arguments first suggested by Veblen and more recently revived by Mallet , Kornhauser , Bell , and others , engineering may be a style of thought uniquely unsuited to conceptions of " higher rationality . " The technical rationality that is the engineer 's stock-in-trade requires the calculation of means for the  | realization of given ends . But it requires no broad insight into those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are trained to be aware of , these limitations ; insofar as they do consider ends , they cease to act as engineers . If engineering is a profession at all , it is what Layton and others call a " business profession , " dominated by the interests it serves.13 Unlike medicine or law or teaching , which ( at their best ) generate ideals about health or procedure or truth , engineering generates no ideals distinctively its own to challenge the business executive 's concern with profit maximization . Engineers , individually , enjoy autonomy , but they do not use it to forge a collective identity or to resist the goals of the organizations that employ them . Rather , they use it to realize those goals . In this , there is little difference between older and more advanced industries . There is , however , nothing inevitable about the quiescence that currently characterizes the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals . If , as I have suggested , the critical source of control over engineers is not the discipline of supervisors but the discipline of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of labor market conditions would generate tensions that are not presently visible in either old or new industry . This is a possibility in which the sources of change are identified outside the workplace , in the macroeconomy and in the production of technical personnel at colleges and universities , rather than in the organization and reorganization of the labor process . This possibility implies a different set of issues from those of participation and autonomy .  | A long tradition in the sociology of occupations assigns a prominent position to the analysis of career structures and labor markets . This tradition looks to variations in training and points of entry to career lines , to structures of rewards , and to patterns of job changes for explanations of occupational commitments and solidarities . It has demonstrated , for example , the importance of medical schools and military academies in the occupational socialization of future doctors and officers , of rewards to seniority in the development of commitments to teaching , and of recruitment from manual labor as a source of strain for foremen . ' Yet , considerations of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ middle levels . Discussions of professionalization , for example , refer often to occupational socialization during university training , but locate the primary source of distinct occupational identities in the use of specialized skills at the workplace . They pay scant attention to career structures within industry ? to stages in the use of skills , to changing balances of technical and administrative responsibility , to expectations for promotions into management , or to the reality of those expectations.2 Discussions of proletarianization are hardly more attentive . They do imply a general weakening of the labor market situation of salaried employees , manifest in higher unemployment rates , shrinking opportunities for movement into management , and declining pay differentials between salaried employees and manual labor . But these developments are secondary in that they are seen as deriving from the reorganization of the labor process : Labor market phenomena are seen as an expression of proletarianization but do not themselves account for it . ' Both professionalization and I 2.4  | proletarianization refer primarily to " the content of work and characteristics of the work environment . " 4 So far @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the organization of authority , I have been concerned with similar issues . I have discussed Contronics and Precision Metals as structures , albeit complex and developing ones , that exist independently of the individual engineers who work in them . But men and women do not experience their work in an unmediated way . Rather , they bring to bear on the structures that confront them their own concerns and expectations , shaped in the course of often very different personal histories . This is a dimension of biography ? a dimension lacking not only in what I have discussed so far , but also in those claims I have been addressing . In this chapter , I begin to redress the balance by discussing careers in engineering . The " value of the concept of the career , " as Coffman explains , is its two-sidedness . One side is linked to internal matters held dearly and closely , such as image of self and felt identity ; the other side concerns official positions , jural relations , and style of life , and is part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ career , then , allows one to move back and forth between the personal and the public , between self and its significant society . ' The career , then , is a link between biography and structure . Indeed , experiences at the workplace are constantly modified by the career paths in which they are embedded . In Chapter Four , we saw that the knowledge engineers use is decreasingly technical over the course of a career , breaking down the distinctiveness of their occupational skills . In Chapter Five , we saw that the specialization of a position does not imply the specialization or de-skilling of the engineer who occupies that position , except in the context of a blocked career . In Chapter Six , we saw that the discipline of the labor market bears far more heavily on engineers than does the discipline of supervisors . Moreover , careers are themselves a focus of aspirations , even apart from their consequences for the experience of work content and work environments . They are a source of income and security , a measurement of success and prestige , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not more , than the content of their work .  | National Trends Salary Differentials In a 1957 study , The Demand and Supply of Scientific Personnel , Blank and Stigler reach the following conclusions : The downward drift of earnings in all professions ( except medicine ) is well known , and it is apparent that engineers have fully shared in this relative decline . The downward drift is known only for the period since 1929 , but one may reasonably conjecture that it began much earlier because the main force working in this direction ? the rapid expansion in the number of trained professional workers ? also began much earlier . From 1950 to 1954 the ratio of engineering salaries to wage and salary workers was about a third lower than in 1929.6 Although a few studies of the engineering labor market have been conducted since 1957 , they have not charted historical trends . ' Consequently , Blank and Stigler 's findings ? that there has been a downward drift in the salaries of engineers compared to the earnings of other wage and salary workers ? have gone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as evidence for the proletarianization of engineering.8 Blank and Stigler calculate median engineering incomes for eight years between 1929 and 1953 from three sources . For 1929 , 1933 , and 1935 , they calculate monthly engineering earnings from a 1935 Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) survey of over one hundred thousand engineers . They also calculate median engineering earnings for 1939 , 1943 , and 1946 on the basis of an Engineers Joint Council ( EJC ) survey of engineers conducted in 1946 . For 1953 , they use the first of what later became a biennial survey of engineering salaries , also conducted by the EJC . Although the subsequent EJC surveys are the most convenient comparable sources to extend the Blank and Stigler calculations to the present , their use presents a minor problem . The Blank and Stigler data are presented as median earnings , a figure available in the 1953 survey but in only a few of the subsequent surveys . Later surveys include median earnings for engineers in particular cohorts ( a given number of years after receipt of a bachelor 's degree @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ median for all engineers regardless of cohort . However , the median income of engineers ten years after graduation in 1953 was almost exactly equal to that of  | all engineers . Consequently , Table 8 uses the Blank and Stigler figures for 1929 through 1953 and medians for engineers ten years after graduation for 1956 through 1980 . Although the full range of medians , from 192.9 through 1980 , is not based on exactly comparable data ( and , with minor exceptions , includes only graduate engineers ) , it does provide a rough basis for examining trends in engineering incomes . For purposes of comparison , a BLS series of average weekly earnings ( multiplied by fifty-two ) for production and nonsupervisory personnel is also included in Table 8 . In addition to the series presented in Table 8 , a second series may  | be constructed from the 1940 , 1950 , 1960 , and 1970 censuses . Although this suffers from the census reliance on occupational selfreports , it has the compensating advantage of permitting a more detailed occupational breakdown . Table 9 presents annual income @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers broken down by specialty and for the census categories of craftsmen and kindred , of operatives , and of foremen . Both tables show a narrowing of differentials between engineering salaries and the income of manual workers since the 1930s . However , there is no evidence whatsoever of a decline in engineering earnings ? either for the occupation as a whole or for any specialty within it ? compared to those of manual workers since World War II . Critically , this period spans both the memories and the work experience of all but the oldest engineers now in the labor force . According to both tables , income differentials reached their lowest point over twenty-five years ago : In Table 8 , the ratio of median engineering earnings to average income for production and nonsupervisory personnel reaches its lowest value ( 1.69 ) in 1953 . In Table 9 , the lowest ratios of craftsmen 's ( . S7 ) , foremen 's ( .70 ) , and operatives ' ( .48 ) income to that of engineers all appear in 1939 . Since World War II , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially constant , although with minor and inconsistent fluctuations from year to year . A few individual engineers , especially younger ones , may receive lower salaries than some more highly paid foremen or craftsmen , but these are exceptions . Median differentials are considerable , with a typical engineer earning 6o percent more than a typical craftsman , roughly the same differential that engineers enjoyed thirty years ago . Salary Progress In addition to differentials in the amount of salary , the structure of salaries over the course of a career also distinguishes engineers from manual workers . For many manual workers , wages or salaries rise somewhat at the beginning of a work life but soon flatten out and even decline slightly in later years.9 In contrast , engineering salaries are characterized by an orderly progression over the full course of the working life . Table 10 presents median salaries reported in the biennial EJC salary survey ( with salaries standardized for 1967 values in parentheses ) for every other year from 1956  | through 1982 for successive cohorts of engineers graduating in those years . This table allows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as to follow specific cohorts for as long as twenty years . One can draw four conclusions from Table 1o . First , each cohort is characterized by consistent salary progress over the full length of  | the career . For the cohorts graduating in 1956 , 1958 , and 1960 , 1982 salaries in standardized dollars were more than twice as high as starting salaries had been . Second , rates of salary progress over the first ten years of the career have declined steadily across cohorts graduating from 1956 through 1970 before rising again for the cohort graduating in 1972 . For the cohort graduating in 1956 , salaries increased at an average annual rate of 7.7 percent over the first ten years of the career ; for that graduating in 1970 , the rate had fallen to 2.9 percent . However , these different rates of increase are compensated for by a tendency of starting salaries to rise for every cohort through that graduating in 1970 . Consequently , median salaries for the tenth year of each cohort are grouped in a relatively narrow range , between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show no clear direction of change . Third , rates of salary progress decrease dramatically after roughly ten years as an engineer . For the cohorts graduating from 1956 through 1962. , annual rates of salary progress for the first ten years of the career range between 5.8 percent and 7.7 percent . For the succeeding ten years , annual rates range from as little as .4 percent to no more than z.o percent . Fourth , although rates of salary progress slow after ten years , they do not stop . To be sure , engineers , especially toward the later stages of their careers , are vulnerable to inflation . However , only in the highly inflationary years from 1972 to 1974 and again from 1978 to 1980 did any of the cohorts show a decline in real salary , in the first case , limited to those out of school at least ten years and , in the second , to those out of school at least eight years . Otherwise , each cohort has experienced not only a steadily increasing salary , but an increase in real @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Closely related to rates of salary progress is the opportunity for movement into management . Here the evidence is least conclusive , but a comparison of three studies conducted over forty years does provide some support for the contention that opportunities are declining . In a 1925 study of over fifteen hundred engineers , Wickenden found that , of the engineers who had graduated twenty-six to thirty years earlier , 34 percent were executives or managers and  | 19 percent were owners or proprietors . A 1955 study conducted by Power Engineering showed that 48 percent of the engineers who had graduated twenty-one to thirty years earlier were in management by the time of the study . Finally , LeBold , Perucci , and Howland found that , of engineers who had graduated twenty to twentyseven years earlier , only 30 percent were in management by 1966 ( including only 4 percent in nontechnical management ) . These studies show a consistent decline in the proportion of engineers advancing to management , but they should be read cautiously because of varying definitions of management and sampling procedures.10 Moreover , Rae 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into management have actually increased . Twenty years after graduation , 21 percent of M.I.T. engineers were in executive positions in 1909 , 34.5 percent in 1939 , and 34.5 percent again in 1947 . Rae 's study has the advantage of consistency of definition and sampling procedures , but is difficult to generalize from because of its limitation to graduates of an elite school . " These engineers may have enjoyed expanding opportunities at the same time that opportunity was contracting for the graduates of less prestigious institutions . Unemployment A sudden spurt of unemployment among engineers in the early 1970S generated much concern among engineering organizations , in the press , and even in the federal government . ' ' Implicit in this concern was an assumption that engineers once made up a sufficiently small proportion of the labor force that companies could afford to carry their entire engineering staffs without great cost during brief slumps , thus retaining those scarce skills that were essential for renewed expansion at the conclusion of the slump . In advanced industry , this is not the case . There the cost of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ total costs ; companies can not afford to carry an entire engineering staff during a slump , but must lay off during downswings and rehire during upswings . However , the available national data supplies only limited support for this picture . These data are drawn from four sources . First , the 1935 Bureau of Labor Statistics study alluded to earlier includes estimates of unemployment rates for 1929 , 1932 , and 1934.  | Second , the BLS has provided the National Science Foundation ( NSF ) with an otherwise unpublished series of unemployment rates in engineering since 1963 . These two series are presented together in Table 11 , along with BLS reports of unemployment rates for the total civilian labor force in the same years . Third , since 1940 , the decennial census has listed proportions of occupations employed for fifty weeks or more in the preceding year . These findings are presented for engineers in various specialties , for craftsmen , for foremen , and for operatives in Table 1 z . Finally , a special NSF 1971 survey reports unemployment rates for engineers in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in  | Table 13 shows that unemployment rates , at least in 1971 , were higher in aerospace engineering ( 5.3 percent ) and electronics engineering ( also 5.3 percent ) , two specialties distinctive to advanced industry , than in engineering as a whole or than in any other specialty . But another " advanced " engineering specialty , chemical engineering , showed a relatively low unemployment rate ( 1.9 percent ) , and no evidence from the census data reported in Table 12 indicates that either aeronautical or electrical engineers had experienced unusually high unemployment rates before 1971 . Tables 11 and l z suggest two additional points . First , although unemployment rates among engineers have been consistently higher in the 19706 than in the 196os , in neither decade have these rates reached the even higher level , up to 10 percent , of the Great  | Depression . Unemployment among engineers is not , as suggested by the argument just reviewed , distinctive to the advanced industries in the years since World War II . Second , and equally important , unemployment rates in engineering have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a whole . Thus , even in the advanced industries , engineers continue to enjoy membership in a relatively secure occupation . In sum , there has been a slight decline in the labor market position of engineers over time and in the advanced industries , manifest in higher rates of unemployment , slower rates of salary progress , and possibly in opportunities for movement into management . But this is not sufficient to support a characterization of engineers as proletarianized . To the contrary , most engineers continue to receive salary increments over the full course of their careers ; engineering salaries remain considerably higher than the wages and salaries of manual workers , with no evidence of a declining differential ; and unemployment rates remain considerably lower in engineering than in the labor force as a whole .  | Ports of Entry Income and security are , of course , important elements in career structures , but they are not the only elements or even , insofar as we are concerned with the formation of occupational solidarities , the most important . Occupations vary , for example , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the specific types of " ports of entry " from which one can enter an occupation . So , too , companies and industries vary in the degree and timing with which they can recruit from the outside rather than promoting from within . In this section , I discuss the routes the Contronics and Precision Metals engineers took to their present occupation and company . Recruitment to Engineering Most descriptions of engineering careers , biased by samples drawn exclusively from degreed engineers , assume that there is only one route to that career : graduation from a four-year engineering curriculum at an accredited college or university.13 But things are not so simple . Roughly half the engineers at both companies ( 58 percent at Precision Metals and 50 percent at Contronics ) did follow this route , graduating from a four-year engineering program and taking their first engineering positions without any previous employment experience ( aside from summer or part-time jobs held while still in school ) . This is the predominant route into engineering for children of middle-class families , including twenty-two of the thirty-one engineers whose fathers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including twenty-eight of the fortynine whose fathers worked in blue-collar occupations ) , there was considerable variation . Three engineers at Precision Metals and two at Contronics also began their working lives as engineers , but with no more than a two-year associate 's degree rather than with a full four-year bachelor 's . Six more at Precision Metals and fourteen at Contronics began their working lives as technicians ? some with associate 's degrees , some with no degree beyond high school ? and became engineers only later ? some with an additional degree , either an associate 's or a bachelor 's , but none without any college . Eight more at Precision Metals and four at Contronics began their working lives as manual workers , none with a degree beyond high  | school , usually moved through a series of positions as either technicians or foremen or both , and achieved their first engineering positions only much later ? in four of the cases after having received a bachelor 's degree , in five cases after having received an associate 's degree , and in three cases with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routes into engineering , rather than a distribution of routes from different starting points , but such data are more important to my purposes . To some degree , engineering does not require formal certification , and nothing indicates that engineering has become more restrictive in the advanced industrial context of Contronics . There , as much as if not more than at Precision Metals , the engineers have reached their present positions through career routes that began in other occupations and with less than a four-year degree . Moreover , because of the variety of routes into engineering in both settings , these findings are quite different from those implied by professionalization arguments that stress the increasing importance of shared training in the formation of occupational solidarities . Internal and External Careers Just as there is a variety of routes into engineering , so too there is a variety of routes into employment with a particular company . Job changes between companies are frequent in engineering . According to LeBold , Perucci , and Howland 's 1966 national survey of degreed engineers , half had left their original employer within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modal number of employers is five . " In this respect though , unlike that of career starting points , there is a significant difference between the career histories of the Precision Metals and the Contronics engineers . At Contronics , the recent formation of the Electronics Division required a period of concentrated hiring , not only because engineering manpower demand expanded , but also because this demand fell in areas , particularly the " packaging " of electronics components , in which those engineers already at Contronics had little experience . Consequently , tenure at the company is typically quite short ( an average of 4. z years and a median of 4 ) ; only seven of the engineers have been with the company longer than five years . Only fourteen have never worked for another company as an engineer . Unlike Contronics , Precision Metals relies on a series of design  | and manufacturing techniques that have been developed in-house over a forty-odd year period . Consequently , both formal and informal on-the-job and company-specific training are particularly critical to the Precision Metals engineering staff . Thus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff ? estimated at roughly $40,000 per engineer by the personnel office ? Precision Metals has a strong incentive to retain its own engineers and a strong incentive not to hire those from the outside ( except those from a few companies with similar product lines and procedures ) , who would then have to be trained while receiving the higher salaries that more senior engineers command . Consequently , the engineers at Precision Metals had been at that company considerably longer than the Contronics engineers had been with Contronics ( an average of thirteen years and a median of nine ) . All but ten of the engineers at Precision Metals had never worked for another company as an engineer . We can not , of course , generalize with confidence from the situation at either company to the situation of old and new industry as a whole , a difficulty inherent in a strategy of case studies . But at Contronics , there is an additional difficulty : Not only are engineers sampled from a single company , but also at a single point in that company 's cycle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A comparable problem does not exist at Precision Metals , where the company has experienced relatively stable growth over a period of roughly thirty years . Thus , at Contronics , if engineers had been sampled before the company 's recent expansion , we would have found a much smaller proportion of engineers with experience at other companies . Similarly , if engineers were to be sampled at a later point , whether after a period of stabilization or of decline , we would probably have found somewhat older engineers with longer histories at the company . However , the situation at Contronics may be fairly common in advanced industries . The wide fluctuations of manpower demands in the defense-related sectors of the aeronautics and electronics industries are well known , as is the volatility of consumer electronics ( for example , in calculators , electronic watches , and home computers ) . Thus , although the situation at Contronics is in no sense " average " for advanced industry ? if , indeed , the concept of " average " has much meaning for so diverse a group , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as electronics and  | aeronautics ? it may well be distinctive to those sectors of advanced industry characterized by rapid cycles of expansion and decline . Here , then , is a structural basis for a more " cosmopolitan " orientation among the engineers of advanced industry and for a greater concern for labor market protection through industrywide collective organization . Hierarchies Industrial hierarchies have two sides . On one side , they are structures of command ? what Weber called Herrschaft and Parsons translated as " imperative coordination . " 15 I discuss this side of hierarchy in Chapter Six , arguing that it played only a small part in the organization of engineering work . On the other side , however , hierarchies are structures of opportunity . They are the stuff of which careers are made as men and women move through them over the course of their working lives . Ironically , this side of hierarchy may be more consequential for industrial integration and control . One type of hierarchy is a salary hierarchy . At both Contronics and Precision Metals , entry-level salaries are directly responsive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ careful track of engineering salary surveys for different specialties at different levels of experience , then adjust their hiring targets and salary offers accordingly . However , after entry , salary is administered on the basis of formal rules that are only indirectly responsive to such forces . Although the details of salary administration differ , the systems at both companies share two basic features . First , each position is assigned a grade , based on the type and degree of skill required as well as the amount of financial and managerial responsibility , and each grade is assigned a salary range . Second , the performance of each individual within a grade is evaluated as a proportion of potential performance within a position , and his salary is adjusted accordingly . These salary evaluations are repeated , at shorter intervals for those who are performing well , from once every six months to every two years . Thus , in addition to promotion , the system of salary administration also provides opportunities , tied to performance , for salary increments within a position . " The more important opportunity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as salary , is for movement through a hierarchy of positions . At both Precision Metals and Contronics , finely graded , often exquisitely detailed hierarchies stretch upward to the company president . Basic to these hierarchies is a series of reporting relationships that distinguish and rank every engineer . There are differences of two sorts in reporting relationships : distance from a top and distance from a bottom . Some engineers report directly to a department head ; others are separated from him by as many as three levels . Some engineers , including all those at entry level , have no subordinates ; others have from one to as many as fifteen direct subordinates in various combinations of engineers , technicians , and craftsmen . Moreover , hierarchical distinctions are often drawn even between engineers in the same reporting relationship ? between a senior product engineer , a machine designer , or a process engineer and a junior engineer , in any one of those functions . As a result , almost every position beyond that of an entrylevel engineer can be located at a distinctive point within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be illustrated by a brief example . There are four engineers in one section of the process design department at Contronics . One is the section head , who reports directly to the department head . The other three report directly to the section head . But one of these three , called an assistant section head , works in the same general area as a second engineer who , although not his direct subordinate , is considered his junior . The third engineer , who works in an area largely his own , falls somewhere between the assistant section head and his assistant . Thus , in a section consisting of only four engineers , all of whom work together in a section of four desks , the organizational structure has been so articulated that each occupies a distinctive hierarchical position . Engineers move through these hierarchies over the course of careers , but the hierarchies are not static ; they take shape from and in response to the engineers ' careers . For example , the position of assistant section head did not exist until it was created in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Similarly , according to the testimony of a number of personnel officers , one reason for the division of the Precision Metals product design department into two departments in 1976 was to allow the promotion of both of the then two assistant chief engineers to positions as chief engineer .  | The elaboration of organizational hierarchies , then , is in part a selfconscious motivational device developed by management : It maximizes opportunities for promotion by " inflating " titles . " These opportunities allow movement away from engineering and toward administration or management , but they are not necessarily opportunities for movement into management itself . At Contronics and Precision Metals , as at other companies and for other occupations , there is a considerable narrowing of positions toward the top of the engineering hierarchy . No matter how elaborate the hierarchies within departments , only a limited number of positions are routes to nontechnical management . For forty-three engineers at Contronics , there are only three department heads ; excluding manufacturing , there are only four department heads for seventy-one engineers at Precision Metals . There is one exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nontechnical management . At Precision Metals , the manufacturing department constitutes a clear managerial track . Engineers are hired for this department right out of school , not so much on the basis of academic standing as , according to the personnel officer in charge of hiring , their " leadership potential " as evidenced by participation in extra-curricular activities . After hiring , they are assigned to the New England site as project engineers , an " up or out " position . None of the five current project engineers is older than twentyeight years of age . The unsuccessful are either transferred to another department or leave the company altogether . Most , however , are promoted after a few years to a position as foreman on the plant floor . This is not done in the belief that the young engineers make particularly effective foremen ( most foremen at Precision Metals , as at most other companies , are ex-manual workers ) as much as to provide them with training for additional future moves through a managerial hierarchy . After their term as foremen , these engineers are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ filled exclusively by individuals with degrees in engineering and a background as both a project engineer and foreman . From a superintendency , the manufacturing engineer may then move into a position in overall plant management , either at the New England site or at one of the company 's southern plants . Engineers who move through this route typically reach this point before the age of forty . Thus , there are not systematic bottlenecks in the career path of  | the manufacturing engineer , at least until he reaches the level of plant management . A continuation of the expansion that has characterized Precision Metals ' recent past would help ensure the rapidity of their rise by increasing the demand for managerial manpower , but even this is not essential . Because most foremanships are filled by ex ? manual workers rather than by engineers , there are far more such positions available than there are project engineers to fill them . Because the staffing of foremanships with engineers is practiced only at the New England site , there are sufficient positions available in plant management at other sites @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contronics , manufacturing engineering does not provide an equivalent managerial track . Most of that company 's production facilities are located in the Far East and run by local management . Production in the United States is limited to a pilot line at the New England site used primarily for developmental purposes and organized as part of the process design department . Consequently , Contronics requires very few manufacturing engineers in the United States ; there are only three at the New England site . Moreover , the line of advancement for these engineers appears to be into process design rather than into plant management , as is the case at Precision Metals . The absence of opportunities for advancement to nontechnical management through manufacturing engineering at Contronics is most likely representative of the situation of advanced industry in general . Part of what we mean in calling an industry advanced is that staff and technical functions dominate line and manufacturing functions . Thus , the emergence of such industry may well signal a decline in the already slight opportunities for engineers to move out of engineering and into nontechnical management @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and professionalization arguments . The proliferation of finely graded hierarchies within engineering departments creates a structure of opportunity that appears to link the entry-level engineer to top management in a single , unbroken chain . The availability of such opportunity is far different from the image of proletarianization . Simultaneously , by rewarding movement away from engineering , the structure of opportunity encourages orientations toward management and discourages the formation of occupational solidarities . But the structure of opportunity also establishes a potential for  | new tensions . Insofar as it encourages ambitions for movement into management , it also frustrates those ambitions : There is considerable opportunity for advancement toward more managerial positions within engineering , but there is less opportunity for movement out of engineering altogether . This may be a particularly severe situation at Contronics , where there is no equivalent to the route to management provided by the manufacturing department at Precision Metals . There is one additional difference between Contronics and Precision Metals . A discussion of opportunity at Contronics is necessarily more speculative . To be sure , any discussion of opportunity requires speculation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ future ; it can not be known , only projected imperfectly from the patterns of the past . But at Precision Metals , this may be done with some certainty , for past patterns there are well established and should continue into the future . At Contronics , the Electronics Division is a new creation ; it has no established patterns , and the present situation may be projected into the future with no great confidence . These are not merely methodological scruples ; they are also matters well known to the engineers themselves . Consequently , what at first appears to be a less promising , or at best similar , structure of opportunity at Contronics may have a different meaning for the engineers who confront it . At Precision Metals , an engineer knows the eventual fate of his career with some certainty . At Contronics , the engineer faces both greater risk , if the division does poorly , and greater opportunity , if the division does well . Thus , regardless of his career 's eventual outcome and regardless of his " real " chances , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point at which his counterpart at Precision Metals will have abandoned those ambitions . Success , Failure , and the Chronology of Ambition In principle , engineers could move through hierarchies in any or all of three directions : downward from a higher position to a lower position , laterally between two positions at the same level but with different responsibilities , or upward from a lower position to a higher position , a promotion . In practice , however , almost all moves are promotions .  | Demotions are rare . Of the eighty engineers at both companies , only one ( at Precision Metals ) had ever received a demotion in the course of continuous employment at a single company.l " Lateral moves are only slightly more common . Because the fine gradation of hierarchies at both companies makes no two positions exactly comparable , a purely lateral move is impossible ; nonetheless , some roughly lateral moves do occur in two circumstances . First , in a general reorganization of the engineering staff ( such as that involved in the establishment of the Electronics Division at Contronics or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metals ) , a few engineers are assigned to new positions with new responsibilities but remain at roughly the same hierarchical level as what characterized their previous positions . Second , at both Precision Metals and Contronics , a few engineers have moved from department to department ( for example , from product design to research ) out of personal preference for a different kind of work , to distance themselves from an uncongenial supervisor , or ( especially in the case of moves into manufacturing at Precision Metals ) because of better promotion possibilities in the new department . However , these moves across departments require retraining ; so they are generally discouraged by management at both companies . Almost by default , then , engineers either move up or do not move at all . Layoffs One eventuality may disrupt the orderly progress that otherwise characterizes careers in engineering . Layoffs may result in sustained periods of unemployment ; they may force engineers to accept positions with lower pay and at a lower level than those they had previously occupied . They may thus represent a labor market " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demotion . Layoffs do appear prominently in the work histories of many Contronics engineers : Of the twenty-six men who had held engineering positions at other companies before coming to Contronics , sixteen ( 6z percent ) had either been laid off at least once or had left a company in anticipation of an imminent layoff . In some cases , such as the following example , these layoffs have resulted in the more general disruption of careers.19 Bob H. received his engineering degree in 1953 . For the next ten years , he followed an aggressive career strategy , changing compa-  | vies often and working his way up to the head of process design in a medium-sized company by the age of thirty-three . Bob then made one more move , to a comparable position but in a larger company that provided more opportunity for future promotions . However , after a year and a half , Bob 's new company dropped the project he had headed , reorganized , and laid Bob off . Since that time , Bob has had considerable difficulty reestablishing what had been to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ offered and accepted management positions with companies starting new electronics product lines . But , in both cases , he entered high-risk enterprises . In one case , the product line failed ; in the other , the entire company failed . In both cases , Bob was laid off again . At other times , Bob has accepted positions at a lower level and with a lower salary than he had in 1963 . This is his current situation at Contronics . Although Contronics has no history of laying off engineers and was still expanding its engineering staff when my research began , the engineers had no guarantee that these policies would continue . Indeed , shortly after the completion of my interviews , Contronics did lay off a few engineers at its New England site after acquiring the staff and facilities of a small electronics plant in California . The situation is different at Precision Metals , where layoffs play a very small part in career histories : Only two of the Precision Metals engineers I interviewed have ever been laid off ( one as long ago as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than once . However , Precision Metals itself does have a history of laying off engineers . In 1971 , each department head was required to cut his staff by 5 percent and again by 10 percent in 1973 . In addition , even during this research , there was a small layoff in the machine design department of a division other than the one I studied . Thus , although the Precision Metals engineers I studied have not themselves experienced layoffs ? they are the survivors of the 1971 and 1973 layoffs ? they are not necessarily more secure from future layoffs than the Contronics engineers . Nonetheless , at neither company does security appear to be an issue to many engineers . Even counting a few Precision Metals engineers who are concerned about early retirement rather than a layoff per se , only 23 percent of the Precision Metals engineers and 28 percent of the Contronics engineers say that they have any substantial concern over the possibility of losing their jobs . A number  | of factors account for this confidence . First , the engineers are aware that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : I ca n't recall anyone ever being directly released from the department . He 'd have to be pretty bad and even then there 'd have to be a downturn in business before they let him go . Second , many of the engineers feel protected from layoffs by the high quality of their work . Unlike the situation of most manual workers , in which layoffs are governed by union rules emphasizing seniority , layoffs in engineering are typically determined at the discretion of individual managers , who , although they often consider seniority , place at least equal emphasis on performance , current and potential . There 's no chance of a layoff because I 'm doing a good enough job that I wo n't be hurt even if they shuffle things up . Third , the layoffs at Precision Metals , rather than having made the remaining engineers feel less secure , appear to have given some a greater sense of security on account of already having survived a wave of layoffs . It 's totally secure , as secure as PM . I 've already weathered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that , even if they were laid off , they would have little trouble finding a new job . I do my job . I would n't have trouble finding another one . If I got fired tomorrow it would n't be traumatic . This belief is , in fact , borne out in large part by the experience of the Contronics engineers who had been laid off : Of sixteen who had been laid off one or more times , only five have been out of work for as long as a total of three months since the beginning of their careers . Thus , although layoffs may disrupt careers , they are not a widespread issue among the engineers themselves . Whether or not this continues to be the case depends on national economic cycles and the extent of unemployment within engineering . But , at least for the moment , the engineers at Contronics and Precision Metals are more concerned with promotions than with security .  | Career Evaluations Most moves , at least within a company , are promotions that come at frequent and regular intervals . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ following analysis . Each engineer was coded at one of nine levels approximating salary grades and ranging from a preentry ( technician ) level to department head . Then , leaving aside the nondegreed engineers ( who constitute a special case I discuss in more detail later ) , I developed regression equations for each company predicting level by years in the labor force as an engineer . These equations are shown in Figure 3 . The curves at both companies show a clear direction upward through the first twenty years  | of a working life. * This is an important sense in which we may say that engineers have careers , not only in the general sense of that term as it is used to refer to any work history , but also in the more restrictive sense Wilensky suggests : " an orderly sequence of development extending over a period of years and involving progressively more responsible roles within an occupation . " 20 In a career structure like that of engineering , occupancy of a position in itself constitutes neither success nor failure outside the context of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position will have different meanings for a young engineer and an old engineer . For a young engineer , a position may represent the possibility of future promotions ; for an older engineer , the same position may represent a dead end for future advancement . Failure is not only the lack of promotion , but also a relatively slow rate of promotion . Similarly , because almost every engineer receives at least a few promotions over the course of a career , promotion alone does not constitute success unless it comes at a rate faster than that of other engineers in comparable situations . Engineers are vividly aware of these criteria . I classified each ( again excluding the nondegreed engineers ) in one of three groups : " fast track " engineers whose actual position was one or more levels above that predicted by their years in the labor force ( on the basis of the equations in Figure 3 ) , engineers with " routine " careers whose actual position was within one level of their predicted position , and " slow track " engineers whose actual position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I also asked each engineer , " So far , would you say you 're either pleased or disappointed by the way your career 's turned out ? " Some of the fast track engineers are surprised by their success : " At first I really did n't think about advancing very much . I 've done a lot better than I thought I would . " Others were more ambitious from the beginning : " Things have gone the way I wanted them to . I had a plan at sixteen and I 'm on schedule . I wanted to get into management by the time I was thirty and I did it . Next , I want to " Too much emphasis should not be put on the tendency of both curves to level off toward the end of the range shown on the graph . This leveling is likely to be , all or in part , an artifact of a sampling procedure that excludes the most successful of the older engineers , those who have been promoted into nontechnical management and thus out of a sample designed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the time I 'm forty-five . " But almost all , twelve of fourteen , report that they are pleased with their careers to date . ( See Table 14 . ) Among the twenty-seven engineers with routine careers , the modal response is quite different . Only seven say that they are pleased with their careers , and fifteen say that they have been neither pleased nor disappointed : " I expected to do engineering and I did it and I do it . Therefore , it 's as expected . " In contrast , of the nineteen slow track engineers , twelve are explicit in their disappointment . Some express it as a matter of salary : " I 'm underpaid . " Others express it as a general disenchantment with engineering : " I wish I knew in high school what I know now . I would have gone into accounting , where there 's an easier career path . " Yet others point directly to a lack of promotions : " They do n't offer the type of advancement I 'm looking for here . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are neither pleased nor displeased with their careers , and only two claim to be pleased . Thus , there is a clear consensus among the engineers : Fast track , slow track , and routine all evaluate themselves against a standard rate of promotion . There is no evidence of an occupational culture that supports criteria of success independent of those implicit in the salary grades established by management and that rewards movement away from technical engineering . There is no suggestion of technical virtuosity as an alternative career goal , a suggestion that would both express occupational solidarity and help make failure by managerial criteria more palatable . To understand why this is the case , we must trace out the chronology of ambition among younger engineers , older engineers , and engineers without degrees .  | Younger Engineers The younger engineers at both companies almost all aspire to managerial positions . Of the thirty-four degreed engineers forty years or younger ( eighteen at Contronics , sixteen at Precision Metals ) , only four ( two at each company ) declared an intention to remain in technical ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their ambitions are typically quite detailed at Precision Metals , specifying particular positions and particular routes to them : I 'd like to stay in this department . I 'm looking to be a section head with more responsibility than I have now . It 's the next logical step . I 'd like to be a section leader in five years and an assistant chief engineer in ten . ( product engineer ) In five years , I want to be at a superintendent 's level , in ten years , a plant manager . My career objective would be plant management at the divisional level . ( manufacturing engineer ) In five years , I want my boss 's boss 's job . After that , president of the company . ( product engineer ) At Contronics , in part because clear routes are less well articulated , the engineers are less specific . But they are no less ambitious : I 'm more interested in some type of management . I want more responsibility . I plan on staying here four years and then reconsidering . There 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in management ; so I 'm planning on going back to school in the fall part-time and taking some courses for an MBA . In five years ? Either technical management or overall management . Eventually , I want higher management . Not all will achieve their ambitions . There are only a few positions available in management or even in technical management ( at the level of a chief engineer or department head ) , and a large number of engineers want promotions to those positions . Yet , the younger engineers do not despair of their chances , for , among them in particular , the possibility of a move to another company represents an important alternative to an otherwise blocked career within a company . The enthusiasm with which a young engineer greets the prospect  | of changing companies depends on many things , including his attachment to a particular area , the content of his work , and the ease with which he thinks he might find a better job . But most are prepared to leave for the sake of their careers . Of the younger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moving while discussing their career ambitions . The decision to move is often explicitly contingent on opportunity with a current employer . I 'm going the normal manufacturing route right now . A supervisor 's job is obviously one of the next steps . Manufacturing manager is one of my goals , but I hesitate to put a timetable on it because we 've got a lot of young supervisors now . . . . It depends on who gets moved and juggled . If they build more plants and pull people , there 'll be new openings ... . I have n't gone out and interviewed yet but , yeah , I 've considered leaving ? when somebody 's gotten moved up instead of me or when things get stagnant . I 'm not tied in to Precision Metals . I do n't feel obligated . If I felt I was abused or passed over , then I 'd consider it seriously . I 've taken management courses and worked in a marketing atmosphere . I 'd definitely like to move into management . I think I can do the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there 's a turnaround in management here , I can stay , but only if I 'm compensated properly and there 's room for growth . We may be skeptical that changing companies is a real alternative ; there is no reason to think that engineers in staff positions would not face the same bottlenecks in advancing toward management at other companies as they face at Contronics and Precision Metals . There is every reason to think that the same imbalance between ambition and opportunity will exist at any other company an engineer might move to . But the engineers do not see it quite this way . They may be aware that most engineers do not move into management and acutely aware of their own poor prospects with a current employer , but they see ( appropriately ) far less determinacy in the chances of an individual who leaves . By leaving , an engineer does not , as it were , change the odds of the game ; however , he does , to extend the metaphor , draw new cards . For the younger engineers , slow advancement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important disappointment , but it is not irreversible . As long as they can move among companies , there is no final resolution to their careers . Although the young engineers may have to explain their lack of ad-  | vancement at a company to themselves , as long as they hold out the hope of future advancement through a change of employers , they have no need to elaborate these explanations into a more general occupational ideology . Older Engineers Unlike the younger engineers , 88 percent of whom express an interest in moving out of technical engineering , the older engineers do not . At Contronics , five of ten engineers older than forty and below the level of section head disavow an interest in management , as do ten of eleven below the level of assistant chief engineer at Precision Metals . But this lack of ambition does not represent any greater commitment to a career in engineering than is found among the younger engineers . The lack of ambition among the older engineers is little more than an adjustment to the realities of opportunity : In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as great a chance to change employers as do their younger colleagues . The older engineers do not suffer from obsolescence per se ? indeed , especially at Precision Metals , experience hones their skills ? but from higher salaries achieved over the course of their careers . These salaries make them poor investments for companies able to train and promote their own younger engineers while paying them at lower rates . The older engineers are themselves aware of this situation . Ten of eleven at Precision Metals plan to spend the remainder of their working lives with the company . Even at Contronics , where the volatility of the electronics industry makes moving somewhat easier and few engineers have long tenure , only five of ten ( including four of the five with managerial ambitions ) are considering leaving . Thus , the lack of ambition among the older engineers is a careercycle , rather than a cohort , phenomenon . Almost all once had ambitions much like those of the younger engineers . In some cases , this emerges only with probing . A fifty-year-old engineer at Precision Metals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to assistant chief engineer , according to a number of other engineers . When interviewed , he explained that he was interested only in " doing design and applications work " and perhaps " managing a small group of people doing the same kind of thing . " Beyond that , he claimed , he was " not really interested in management . " Slightly later in the interview , however , he suggested that his  | attitude toward management had not always been the same : " I 've had some disappointments , but I made the decision to live with them . . . for example , the lack of advancement . " In other cases , engineers are more explicit : When I was younger , I would have liked to go higher . But looking at myself honestly , I 'm really not sure I have the ability for it . I think everybody has some disappointments . I 've had some , too , but nothing major . When I was younger , I would have liked faster promotions and more significant jobs . But my @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and I like my work . When I was younger , I thought about leaving a lot , but I never got around to looking . Now , I 'm too old . The older engineers turn to engineering , but only in resignation on the failure of their managerial ambitions . They are committed to engineering as a terminal career only in the sense that they have no other choice . But in the sense of valuing a career in engineering , they are no more committed than are the younger engineers . Engineers Without Degrees The engineers with backgrounds as craftsmen or technicians , especially those who have never received a four-year degree , form a special group . These fifteen engineers ( six at Precision Metals and nine at Contronics ) are older than the other engineers , an average of forty-four compared to thirty-nine for the degreed engineers . Their opportunities are considerably more limited : They are in relatively low-level positions , an average of 3.3 on the coding scheme previously introduced , compared to 4.3 for the degreed engineers at Precision Metals and 4.0 for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a position as high as either an assistant chief engineer or section head . The engineers without degrees would appear to have particular difficulties in improving their position by changing companies . Without a degree , their claims to engineering status are not easily transferable ; only five of the fifteen have changed companies even once since becoming engineers , and only three anticipate such a change in the future . Yet , these engineers are , for the most part , quite satisfied with their careers . Eight said that they were pleased and only three that they were disappointed , a distribution more favorable than that of all but the fast track engineers . ( See Table 14 for comparable distributions among the degreed engineers . ) To these ex-craftsmen and  | ex-technicians , having become an engineer is itself a significant accomplishment . Their pride is evident , both in their ability to acquire skills without more formal education and in the recognition those skills have received in the form of a career . This former craftsman and foreman at Precision Metals is typical : I 'm pleased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there was no way I could have afforded it during the depression . Now I 've reached a point where I 'm working on a par with graduate engineers even though I do n't have the degree . Management looks to me . For these engineers , and these engineers alone , success and failure is not a matter of rates of progress within engineering . For them , engineering , even without additional movement into so much as technical management , already represents mobility from their career starting points.21 They look to others who began at the same starting point and who have met with less success , rather than to the degreed engineers , as a standard of comparison . Ironically , these ex-craftsmen and ex-technicians , with the weakest claims to professional standing , constitute the group with the greatest commitment to engineering as a terminal career . Careers as Control Hierarchy has two sides . On one side , it is a structure of command ; on the other , it is a structure of opportunity . On both sides , however , it is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routine , command can operate effectively . But this is not the case in engineering . Because supervisors do not and can not observe engineers , they can ensure compliance with the goals of the company only by offering inducements , organized in the form of a career and building on the ambitions of the engineers themselves . The type of control represented by the career is less specific than command , less intrusive and subtler . But because the rewards of a career are contingent on an evaluation of the engineer 's total performance , including his initiative and his potential , this control is both more extensive and more pervasive . However , the type of control embedded in the reward structure of hierarchy can break down . It can generate opportunism , for example , among the more ambitious engineers who advance their own careers at the expense of the company ? " empire builders " and those who attempt to acquire particular skills for their value in  | an external market . More frequently , though , control can break down in the form of withdrawal . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , believing the chance for significant advancement has passed them by , now do little more than " go through the motions . " 22 The significance of hierarchy in most blue-collar and lower white-collar work is as a structure of command . Among engineers ? as well as among accountants , teachers , social workers , middle managers , and even salaried doctors and lawyers ? this is not the case . Indeed , where middle-level work in general is characterized by high discretion and low visibility , hierarchy persists primarily as a system of rewards.23 These rewards , no less than command , operate as a system of control , but with different consequences . In blue-collar and lower white-collar work , command typically generates a tension between obedience and resistance . Often this resistance takes collective forms , ranging from the production restrictions of informal work groups to the grander scale of union organization . In contrast , among the middle levels , structures of reward typically generate a tension between involvement , on the one hand , and opportunism and withdrawal , on the other . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individualistic adaptations , attempts to make do or make out with little potential for collective action that might challenge the system of control itself . In this sense , careers are an almost uniquely effective form of social control , succeeding in preventing opposition even when they fail to motivate . Conclusion There has probably been some decline in the labor market position of engineers in the advanced industries . The diminished importance of manufacturing engineering in those industries , in particular , has been accompanied by a contraction in opportunities for movement into nontechnical management . Unemployment rates among engineers , which reached their highest point since the Great Depression in the early 197os , have been even higher in the electronics and aeronautics industries than elsewhere . Even many engineers in the advanced industries who have not themselves experienced unemployment have been subject to discontinuities of other  | sorts in their careers as a result of occasional layoffs and frequent company changes . But these developments are not sufficient to warrant a characterization of engineers as newly proletarianized . Although opportunities for movement into nontechnical management may be somewhat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is no evidence of a corresponding decline of opportunities for career advancement within engineering or into primarily technical management . Unemployment rates have been considerably higher in the advanced industries than in the older industries , but at no point have they risen as high as the unemployment rates in the labor force as a whole . Salary differentials between engineers and manual laborers are considerable , on the order of two to one , and have shown no signs of decline over the last three decades . But the decisive consideration is found in neither unemployment rates nor salary levels . The image of proletarianization ( although not necessarily the reality of the contemporary American working class ) suggests men and women whose attachments to their employers , to their occupations , to their work itself are brittle and impermanent , based on nothing more than the exchange of labor time for wages . But this is not the case for the engineers at Precision Metals and Contronics . Work histories in engineering take the distinctive form of a career , a progression through successively higher levels of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ successively higher salaries . To be sure , the engineers are not notably loyal to either their employers or their occupation . At neither company do they feel an obligation to remain with that company or in engineering against the economic logic of a career . Rather , most of the young engineers , at both companies , are prepared to leave their employer in search of better pay or more rapid promotions . Only among the older engineers does a significant number intend to stay with a single company for the remainder of their working lives . Even this intention should not be misconstrued as loyalty as much as a recognition on the part of these older engineers of the realities of a labor market : They are simply aware that they would face considerable difficulty in finding another position with another company at their present , typically high , rate of pay . Similarly , the younger engineers , almost unanimously , are prepared to leave engineering for the  | higher salaries and greater authority of managerial positions . That older engineers do not express equivalent ambitions bespeaks no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambitions in the face of the realities of promotion possibilities . Yet , because of its progressive character , the career alters both the terms of exchange between the employer and the employee and the relationship between an occupation and its occupant . In the " job , " the employee exchanges labor time for a wage ; the terms of the exchange are specified in advance and apply to a period of limited duration . Within the context of a " career , " the same exchange takes place , but there is something more as well . There , the employee exchanges not only a specified amount of labor time but also his accumulated experience and a potential for future , more skilled , performance . In return , he receives not only a specified wage or salary , but also an implicit promise of future increments of salary and responsibility . This exchange , while it requires no loyalty , involves trust and a far more extensive relationship between employee and employer than is the case in a pure " cash nexus . " The career also links @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meaning of a position is not self-contained . On the one hand , it is a reward for past performance , for accumulated education , experience , and service . As such , it is a link with the past . On the other hand , it is a potential source of additional experience and service , an opportunity to improve one 's reputation , an " investment " on which " interest " may be drawn . As such , it is a link with the future . This linkage of the past and the present with the future , the experience of work life as a continuous and coherent whole , is at the core of what Mannheim meant by a " life plan . " 24 We may go further . The engineer does not own productive property , not even , in most cases , in the limited sense of participating in stock-option or profit-sharing plans . Neither does he hold what have been called property rights in his job . Yet , the engineer does own his own career . His education , his experience , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were , on which his career is built ? are his own possession . Although this capital may be invested in a position and used by an employer , it can not be alienated . In this sense , the engineer works for himself . He is not self-employed , of course ; but in the very process of working for someone else , the engineer ? or any employee within a similarly structured career line ? accumulates an  | additional capital in experience and reputation of which he is himself an owner and beneficiary . This is a mode of industrial integration very different from that suggested by such concepts as proletarianization or a new working class .  | Unlike manual laborers with their unions , farmers with their producer organizations , independent professionals with their licensing boards , and small business owners with their chambers of commerce , the middle levels have developed no form of collective organization distinctively their own . Indeed , the middle levels are perhaps unique among American strata for their failure to organize other than in the public sector . Yet , observers of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to change . There is , however , no agreement as to the form collective organization will take : Proletarianization suggests company-based unions concerned as much with the organization of authority as with labor market considerations ; neoprofessionalism suggests the emergence of effective professional societies . Unions Much has been made in recent years , especially after the layoffs that characterized the aerospace industry in the early 197os , of the possibility that engineers would unionize in large numbers . For such unions as the United Auto Workers , which have been actively engaged in attempts to organize engineers , this possibility represents an opportunity to find new allies in a sector of the whitecollar labor force that has historically shown little interest in collective organization of any sort . For corporate management and for most engineering societies , the possibility represents a threat to engineering professionalism . But both sides ? as well as any number of journalists and scholars ? agree that a depressed labor market in the advanced industries might result in a degree of engineering unionization unprecedented in the history of that occupation . ' Aside from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International Federation of Draftsmen 's Unions immediately after World War I and by the CIO-affiliated Federation of Architects , Engineers , Chemists , and Technicians in the early years of the Great Depression , there was little success until the formation of a few independent engineering unions in the early 19405 . Although it would be relatively easy to invent any number of explanations rooted in the conditions of engineering employment for the appearance of engineering unions in the 194os ? a decline in income differentials between engineering and manual occupations or an increase in the scale of engineering projects with a consequent depersonalization of employee-employer relations ? the actual explanation appears to be largely unrelated to any developments within engineering per se . Rather , the burst of unionization was almost entirely a matter of new legislation regulating the organization of unions.2 Acting in accordance with the provisions of the Wagner Act , both the War Labor Board and the National Labor Relations Board issued a series of decisions between 1943 and 1947 that threatened engineers with inclusion in bargaining units composed predominantly of production workers unless they , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ denial of an appeal for certification as an independent representative of engineers , the American Society of Civil Engineers ( ASCE , a technical society ) adopted a policy of supporting preemptive , defensive unionization : In order to prevent the inclusion of " professional " engineers in mixed bargaining units ( that is , units including both engineers and production workers ) , the ASCE provided administrative support and affiliation to unions composed exclusively of " professional " engineers . Although it was quickly ruled that the ASCE 's organizing activities constituted unfair labor practices on account of that group 's inclusion of managerial personnel , the formation of primarily defensive engineering unions continued until the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act in 1947 . Even today , a majority of the largest engineering unions can trace their origin to the antiunion unionism of this period . After 1947 , the situation changed . Responding in part to the urgings of technical engineering societies , Congress established a new policy for the NLRB in the following provision of the TaftHartley Act .  | The Board shall decide in each case whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the collective bargaining shall be the employer unit , craft unit , plant unit , or subdivision thereof : Provided , That the Board shall not ( 1 ) decide that any unit is appropriate for such purposes if such unit includes both professional employees and employees who are not professional employees unless a majority of such professional employees vote for inclusion in the unit ; . . . ( Section 9b ) Because an earlier definition in the act had made clear that any engineer with a college degree would be considered , for purposes of the act , a professional employee , this provision removed the most immediate impetus to engineering unionism . Engineers could now vote as " professional employees " against inclusion in a predominantly " nonprofessional " union without substituting an organization of their own . Even after the passage of Taft-Hartley , a few more independent engineering unions were formed between 1947 and 1951 . But , more important , with the threat of inclusion in manual unions removed , the dominant trend from 1947 through the late 196os was one of retrenchment . Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the late 196os , but many of the existing unions were decertified ( for example , at MinneapolisHoneywell in 19S7 , Western Electric in 196o , Sperry Gyroscope in 196o , and General Dynamics in 1963 ) . The decline in the number of unions was partially counterbalanced by a more militant position among those that did survive . Most of the pre-1947 engineering unions stressed voluntary membership , no-strike policies , lack of affiliation with " big labor , " and a general policy , according to one union official , that " both management and nonsupervisory personnel are parts of the same organization , separated only by function , and both depend for growth and well-being upon the growth and health of the whole organization . " 3 However , in 1952. , seventeen independent unions formed the Engineers and Scientists of America , a federation intended to advance the cause of engineering unionism by gathering national salary information and by providing assistance to new organizational efforts . After 1950 , a number of unions entered negotiations with strike authorizations and , in a few instances , actually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward a somewhat more militant position has continued while that toward declining membership has re-  | versed . This is particularly evident in those advanced industries ( electronics and aerospace ) in which engineers have experienced their highest rates of unemployment . Engineers at both Sperry Gyroscope and General Dynamics ? companies at which independent engineering unions were decertified during the early 196osformed new unions in the 197os . Unlike the earlier unions at these companies , the new ones are affiliated with national unions composed primarily of manual workers ? with the UAW at Sperry and with the IUE at General Dynamics . Two other engineering unions with long-standing histories as independents have also recently voted to affiliate ? the Engineers and Scientists of America ( representing nine hundred engineers in the San Francisco Bay Area ) with the AFL-CIO and the Southern California Professional Engineers Association ( representing over two thousand engineers at McDonnell Douglas ) with the Western Conference of Teamsters . In addition , new unions were formed at the Aerospace Corporation in El Segundo , California , in 1974 and at the Marshall Space Flight Center @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers ) , and the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association , which has represented engineers at Boeing 's sites in Seattle and Wichita since 1944 , established a new local for Boeing engineers at Cape Kennedy in 1972 . Finally , the AFL-CIO ? affiliated American Federation of Technical Engineers , a direct descendent of the original International Federation of Draftsmen 's Unions , had increased its representation of engineers from roughly one thousand in 1958 to almost five thousand in 1972 . In all , though , the membership of the engineering unions is unimpressive . As of 1978 , they represented no more than 30,000 ? 35,000 engineers , a number down somewhat from a peak of 45,000 ? 50,000 in the early 19505 and down considerably more if measured as a proportion of engineers in industrial and government employment . Moreover , a majority of the engineering unions remain unaffiliated with the labor movement as a whole , both organizationally and ideologically . Almost all engineering organizations are careful to avoid the use of the term " union " in their names ? the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Engineering Personnel at RCA . It would be easy to overemphasize the weakness of unionism among engineers ; but the long-term decline in membership prob-  | ably represents an adjustment to the enactment of Taft-Hartley rather than a change of sentiment or attitude among engineers themselves . In contrast , the slight growth of membership since the mid-sixties suggests that engineering unionism is at least holding its own , if not growing dramatically in strength . Moreover , to borrow Blackburn 's neologism , the character of the engineering unions has grown more " unionate. " 4 Although many unions still trace their origins to the period before Taft-Hartley , they no longer retain the primarily defensive , essentially antiunion orientations that characterized engineering unionism in that period . Perhaps most important , the recent trend toward affiliation with more traditional , predominantly blue-collar unions such as the UAW or IUE has placed the engineering unions in a new , and closer , relationship with the labor movement as a whole . In sum , weighing changes in union character against the long-term decline and more recent slight rise of union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ headway over the last three decades . Professional Associations Although most technical societies and a number of business associations may be counted among the opponents of engineering unions , the most vocal opposition has come from the National Society of Professional Engineers . Founded in 1934 to " enhance the professional status of engineers , " the NSPE now embraces a membership of some seventy thousand engineers , more than all the engineering unions combined . According to official policy : The National Society of Professional Engineers believes , on the basis of extended experience and study over a long period , that collective bargaining is not a desirable , effective , or appropriate mechanism to achieve the objectives of professional employment practices . . . . The NSPE will continue to seek a means whereby all engineers may perform effectively as a team without division between management and employment categories and will seek to develop changes in pertinent laws , regulations , and ordinances toward this end . ' But opposition to unions and collective bargaining should not be read as blanket opposition to collective action ; the original impetus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the older technical societies to concern themselves with the labor market de-  | fense of engineers during the depression . David Steinman , the founder and first president of the NSPE , sounded exactly this theme of self-defense in his address to the society 's initial meeting . The Professional Engineer has invested many years in study , training , and experience , as preparation for his professional career . The National Society of Professional Engineers is organized to protect and enhance the value of this investment . It is organized to protect engineers against discrimination , inadequate compensation , restriction of rights of practice , misappropriation of the designation , competition by the unqualified , and unethical practices . It is organized to increase the demand for engineering services , to raise standards of fees and salaries , and to build up public appreciation of the Engineer . It is organized to do these things through united action , legislation , enforcement , and a planned campaign of public education . The National Society is organized to do for engineers what the Medical Association and the Bar Association have done @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection , and professional recognition . ' Most important , since its foundation , the NSPE has been the leading proponent of registration laws for engineers , which now exist in most states , typically requiring both an examination and either eight years of experience or four years of experience plus a degree from an accredited engineering curriculum before admission to engineering practice in certain specified areas . The NSPE couches its support of these registration laws in terms that emphasize their role in protecting the public from unscrupulous and incompetent engineering , but we need not judge the sincerity of these claims to recognize that registration laws , if universal in engineering , would also provide protection for engineers by limiting competition . Unions attempt to protect the labor market position of engineers through collective bargaining at the point of employment ; the NSPE attempts to protect that position by restricting and controlling at the point of entry to the occupation . This strategy is similar to that of the American Medical Association and the American Bar Association . But the NSPE strategy of registration , no less than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weakness in its applicability to engineers . Insofar as the NSPE , or any organization , mobilizes support for registration , it does so through appeals for the protection of the public . But , unlike doctors and law-  | yers , who are the primary models of successful labor market protection based on registration and certification controlled by the profession , most engineers do not provide their services directly to individual clients . ' Thus , although most states have passed registration laws that restrict practice to registered engineers in civil engineering ( the one engineering discipline in which engineers do offer services directly to the public ) , registration requirements for the practice of engineering within a manufacturing corporation are far less stringent : They typically require no more than registration by a responsible engineering manager or officer of the corporation . Consequently , although NSPE policy opposes " proposals to exempt engineers in industry from the state registration laws " and " urges management to engage only registered professionals for professional engineering positions , " there is little chance that the NSPE will be able to muster sufficient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; fewer than one-quarter of all engineers in industrial employment are currently registered . ' Faced with the weakness of registration as a strategy for the labor market defense of engineers in industrial employment , the NSPE has , for the past two decades , supported " sounding boards " as a substitute for full-fledged unionization . Sounding boards , the most important examples of which are at Bell Labs and General Electric , are company-based organizations of engineers ( in some , but not all , cases including managing engineers ) that meet with management to " improve the professional service of individual engineers , to promote high standards of professional engineering employment policies and practices , to advance the economic interests of professional engineers , and to consider other matters of mutual interest . " 9 While there are apparently considerable variations among the sounding boards , in the militance with which they press claims against employers and in the degree to which they view themselves as unionlike organizations , none engages in collective bargaining and none has been declared a " labor organization " under the provisions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active of the selfconsciously professional societies in its defense of the engineer 's position in the labor market , it is not the only one . In 1972 , the NSPE joined with thirteen of the older technical societies to establish a set of employment guidelines covering questions of recruitment , salary administration , termination , and transfer . Although there is no ef-  | fective method of enforcing these guidelines , endorsement alone represents a significant departure in policy for most of the societies , which had previously limited themselves to technical concerns . Several technical societies now conduct salary surveys and publish salary guidelines . These surveys by no means constitute militant action ; but they too represent a significant departure from earlier policies , and their purpose is clear : " The goal in proposing these guidelines is not only to help expunge the salary inequities which have existed but also to achieve goals promised by union representation . " 10 For organizations like the American Nurses Association and the National Education Association , developments similar to those within the engineering technical societies were early steps in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bargaining . Whether or not engineering societies follow the same path will depend , in part , on the pressures exerted by rank-and-file engineers . Contronics and Precision Metals Collective organization or , more precisely , the potential for collective organization can not be reduced to an aggregation of individual attitudes . Whether and how engineers organize depends on a number of other factors as well , of which the preceding discussion illustrates only a few ( the role of federal legislation , the efforts of occupational societies , and the play of market forces ) . But these observations are offered to qualify and situate , not deny , the significance of the attitudes and orientations toward collective organization found among the engineers at the two companies that are the primary focus of this study . No organizing effort , whether by a union or by a professional society and no matter what the contextual factors , is likely to succeed without the support of the engineers who are its object . The engineers at both Contronics and Precision Metals express a marked preference for professional associations over unions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unions and to active professional associations than are the engineers at Precision Metals . Only one of the forty Precision Metals engineers stated that he would presently support an engineering union . Another seven of the Precision Metals engineers expressed  | conditional support for unions , specifying conditions under which they might support a union but maintaining that they would not in their present situation . As Table 15 shows , the rest , fully 8o percent , stated an unconditional opposition to unions for engineers . In contrast , half the Contronics engineers stated an unconditional opposition to unions ; 38 percent expressed conditional support ; and another 13 percent stated that they would presently welcome a union . At both companies , support for an active role in the labor market defense of engineers by the professional societies was more extensive than support for unions . However , here too there were considerable differences . At Precision Metals , roughly two-thirds ( 68 percent ) of the engineers argued that the professional societies should confine themselves to technical functions ( for example , holding seminars , publishing papers ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shared by only one-third of the Contronics engineers . The rest of the engineers at both companies argued that the professional societies should concern themselves with a variety of matters : the compensation and security of engineers , the establishment of portable pensions , the regulation of entrance into engineering , or the status of engineering as an occupation .  | The engineers ' opposition to unions is straightforward . As almost every observer of engineering unions ( and their failures ) over the last three decades has noted , this opposition is an expression of the engineers ' belief in the efficacy of individual , rather than collective , strategies of mobility . As some engineers in my sample assert , A person should be rewarded for his capabilities . And , anyway , a union would only hold me back . Engineers can manage on their own . I would n't want someone bargaining for me . Unions have outlived their usefulness . Their original purpose was to correct abuses by management , but now the basic result is to compress people into average performance . Neither opposition to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is limited to the most successful engineers . Table 17 shows that opposition to engineering unions represents a majority position at Precision Metals among nondegreed engineers , slow track engineers , and engineers with routine careers , as well as among the fast track engineers . ( See Chapter Seven for a description of these different career types . ) Similarly , at Contronics , although the engineers with routine careers are exceptional in their sympathy toward unions , we do find opposition to engineering unions in roughly equal proportions of the slow track and nondegreed engineers as of the fast track engineers . Similar themes , stressing individual reward for individual efforts , recur elsewhere in the interviews as well , particularly in the engineers ' responses to the question , " What do you think salary levels in engineering should be based on ? " Here , the engineers were  | almost unanimous ; over 8o percent at each company answered that compensation should be based on either the individual engineer 's contribution to the company 's success or on his degree of responsibility within the company : What @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ company realize from what he does . How competently he does his job and how difficult the job is , how much responsibility he has . Remarkably , not a single engineer at either company mentioned that there might be a difficulty in distinguishing an individual 's contribution from that of the group in which he worked . Although a few engineers did mention experience as a potential element in an engineer 's ability to contribute to his company ( " Experience if it helps in performance , but alone , no " ) , neither did a single engineer at either company argue that seniority alone should be a basis for compensation . Themes stressing individual merit and success are by no means rare in America . They can hardly be ascribed to conditions distinctive to engineering in the twentieth century . However , for engineers , the emphasis on individual merit and individual success is matched and reinforced by the reality of career structures . As we have already seen ( in Chapter Seven ) , collective elements play only a small role in the engineering career at either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at both companies ( potentially an important element in collective mobility ) do little more than keep pace with inflation and often fall short even in that respect . In contrast , both the rates of progress through a hierarchy and merit ratings within levels of that hierarchy emphasize individual success and failure . Engineering is also pervaded by both inand out-mobility ? from technician and craft positions below , to technical and nontechnical managerial positions above . Consequently , even though many engineers do not realize their ambitions , there is little in their direct experience to disconfirm the belief that success is ( or was ) at least possible . For the engineers , then , a commitment to individualistic career strategies can not be dismissed as either false hopes or false consciousness . Rather , that commitment represents a concern with the defense of real career opportunities against potential threats from unions or unionlike organizations .  | The engineers ' concern for their career opportunities is , however , double-edged . Just as it implies detachment from other engineers , it also implies detachment from the company employing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the engineers ' readiness to change companies in the face of blocked mobility . It may also be played out in a willingness to search for collective protection against their own and other companies in the service of what are ( ironically ) essentially individualistic goals . This double-edged character of the engineers ' concerns explains both why the Contronics engineers are more militant than the Precision Metals engineers and why the engineers at both companies prefer professional associations to unions . At Precision Metals , where typically stable career histories and prospects minimize the need for protection against the employer , the engineers ' concerns show only one side ? an opposition to collective organization in general and to unions in particular . At Contronics , the situation is different . There , as at Precision Metals , the engineers are concerned with maintaining a career structure that maximizes opportunities for individual mobility . But there is an additional element at Contronics as well , one rooted not in different rates of success and failure but in a different relationship to internal and external labor markets . There , where @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have experienced layoffs and relatively few expect to spend the remainder of their work lives at that company , many of the engineers also see some form of collective organization as a precondition to the continued opportunity for individual mobility . The problem for these engineers is to find a form of collective organization that offers them labor market protection and stabilizes the flow of engineers between companies without limiting individual opportunity . For many , the answer to this problem is the professional association . To be sure , some of the engineers at Contronics ( like the majority at Precision Metals ) simply do not see a need for collective protection of any sort . A few more ( at both companies ) extend their objections to unions to the possibility of the professional societies assuming nontechnical functions : " There are those who 'd like to add work conditions type issues to what the professional associations do , but I object on the same grounds I object to a union . " However , several Contronics engineers ( and a smaller number of the Precision Metals engineers ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collective protection entirely compatible with maintaining individual mobility , as unions are not . Twelve of the twentyone Contronics engineers who oppose engineering unions ( and nine of thirty-two at Precision Metals ) favor a more active concern by the professional associations with a labor market defense . The following comments from Contronics engineers are representative . On an engineering union : I 'm not an organization person . There have to be obvious advantages in it for me . On professional associations : I agree with the AMA American Medical Association . They should control the market for all the skills they have . On unions : I like to bargain my own salary . On professional associations : There should be vested interests in time for pensions . The professional association should get us those vested rights . These comments can not be dismissed as a concern for maintaining a status distinction between professional association and union when , in fact , no real difference exists between the two . Rather , the engineers ' comments reflect a realistic assessment ( in my view , an accurate one ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the professional association . Neither of the engineers quoted ? or any of the other engineers at either company who favor an active professional association but not a union ? argues that the professional associations should engage in collective bargaining , the core task of unions . The kinds of issues with which the engineers want the professional associations to concern themselves ? portable pensions , support for those who receive patents , information on salary and benefits ? are in no way incompatible with a continued emphasis on the individual mobility contained in the present structure of careers . Similarly , recurrent comparisons with established professional associations should not be read as a claim to the status of doctors or lawyers , but as a general approval of a strategy of collective organization that concentrates on control of entry into an occupation but leaves opportunity for differential rates of success within it . Conclusion The greater support for collective organization in advanced industry is not based on a contraction of opportunity so much as a  | difference in the structure of careers , particularly on the prevalence of external rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineers clearly prefer a strategy of controlling entry to engineering over a strategy of unionization , one self-consciously modeled on the nineteenth-century " professional projects " of medicine and law . But the market for engineering services consists primarily of industrial corporations , and the nineteenth-century markets for medicine and law consisted primarily of unorganized , individual clients . Only because their clientele did consist of individuals and because they were able to make the successful claim that these individuals required protection from " charlatanism " were medicine and law able to enlist the cooperation of the state in establishing monopolies over the markets for their services . In engineering , the situation is different : Industrial corporations are both capable of judging the quality of the engineering services they purchase and well equipped to resist limitations on their prerogatives in controlling access to the occupation . Thus , no matter how broad its support from engineers , successful completion of a " professional project " in engineering remains unlikely . Failing to professionalize , engineers in advanced industries could conceivably turn to unionization as an alternative strategy , following the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and nurses . But teaching and nursing , located primarily in the public and nonprofit sectors , are characterized both by unusually flat salary curves and the absence of an entrepreneurial ethic . Engineering is different on both counts , and each is highly consequential for what engineers expect of collective organization . Insofar as engineering unions remain responsive to the underlying concerns of their members , they would not be " traditional " unions . They would emphasize individual career opportunities and merit ratings , wage differentials within engineering , and wage differentials between engineering and other industrial occupations . They would not support the wage demands of blue-collar or lower whitecollar unions or a reorganization of industrial authority in favor of organized labor . Thus , even if engineers were to unionize , their unions would be unlikely to form a part of a labor movement in any broader sense of that term .  | For skilled craftsmen ? the stratum from which engineering first emerged ? social relations originating at the workplace carried over into the world outside of work . The craftsman 's skill was the source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ employment encouraged residential stability , typically near his place of employment . Most important , his skill qualified him for membership in a craft association that not only defended him at the workplace but also served as a major axis in the organization of his leisure through official meetings and social outings . In these settings , work and community formed a well-integrated whole . ' For the independent professional , whose status the engineer often aspires to , work intrudes on community and family life in a different form . Because medicine and law demand long , and sometimes irregular , hours , they compete with the family for the attention of their practitioners . At the same time , independent doctors or lawyers depend in part for their clientele on their standing in the community . They often enlist the help of their wives ( or , in the case of the increasing number of women professionals , their husbands ) in the creation and maintenance of the style of life on which this standing is based . Although the integration of work with community and family is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ craftsmen , the relationship nonetheless remains strong.2 But engineers are not independent professionals . Their work does not demand as much time as that of doctors or lawyers . Their careers do not depend to any significant extent on a style of life , on their standing in the community outside of work , or even on the informal " contacts " that in other pursuits play a prominent part in job searches.3 Neither is their situation like that of the skilled craftsman , for the intimate relationship between work and community that once  | characterized skilled craftsmen is unlikely to persist among any industrial employees outside of such no longer typical settings as the ethnically dense or isolated single-employer community . Indeed , a number of observers have suggested that , in the second half of the twentieth century , work-based communities ( if not communities of all sorts ) have given way to " privatized " men who " devote their spare time overwhelmingly to home and family and . . . limit their wider social contacts even to the point at which the family is in a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Precision Metals and Contronics live in families most striking for their conventionality . Sixty-five are married , only four are divorced , and one is widowed . Of the seventy engineers who have ever been married , 86 percent have at least one child . Only two of the married engineers live in an extended household , one sharing his home with his mother , the other with his motherin-law . When the younger engineers , representing an earlier stage in the life cycle , are excluded , there is even less variation . Of the sixty-one engineers over the age of thirty , only two have never been married and only three are childless . These families are small and private worlds , apart and distinct from the world of work . Work , Family , and the Structure of Salaried Employment A separation of work and residence is , in large measure , built into the structure of salaried employment . For many small entrepreneurs , the " old " middle class , work and family often blended together in the form of unpaid family labor , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or husbandhood , even in the use of a single physical location as both home and workplace . ( Note the easy conjunction of the two spheres in phrases like the " family farm " or the " mom and pop candy store . " ) In these situations , the demands work makes on the family are characteristically both diffuse and pervasive . In contrast , the obligations of salaried employment are characteristically specific , limited in time to particular hours and in space to particular places . The employer has neither authority over the salaried employee 's life away from work nor any call on his ( or her ) wife ( or husband ) and children .                     