@@774111

txt  | Some Qualifications Regarding Synergism Certain qualifications should necessarily be appended to the preceding discussion on synergism. 1 . It is important to recognize that the entire concept of synergism ( as a philosophical explanation ) is part and parcel of a particular philosophical point of view , and is not necessarily congenial to proponents of certain philosophical positions . In ideological terms , certain of the intellectualists ( such as the classical realists and Thomists ) and fundamentalists ( such as the anti-intellectual " common sense " intuitionists ) subscribe to absolute types of intuitive and/or revealed knowledge that are not viewed as being subordinate to overriding social or psychological experience . Many , perhaps most , empirical philosophers ? and particularly those who are essentially naturalistic and/or behavioristic in orientation ? would , on the other hand , be inclined to subscribe to synergistic lines of reasoning . Since most contemporary social and behavioral scientists tend to be predisposed toward a scientific worldview ( which is implicitly empirical , behavioral and pragmatic in its underlying assumptions ) , most theorists in these areas are inclined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hold more absolutistic and linear beliefs about the nature and origins of personal knowledge as being substantially prescientific and prepsychological . In a sense , this may be true , but it does not militate against the fact that most people 's fundamental belief systems are probably absolutist and rather simplistically linear in nature and must therefore necessarily be confronted and understood as such . The notion that philosophy exists solely to explore ideas that are supported by evidence gathered through scientific and scientifically inclined disciplines , which are themselves rooted in particular philosophical assumptions about the nature of reality , is a somewhat naive position . Most of the world is still committed to nonscientific points of view , and we disregard such worldviews only at great hazard . Religion may not be scientific in the usual sense of the term , but we ignore the practical significance of religious convictions only by excluding the majority of the world 's peoples from consideration . 2 . The different synergism cycles represent essentially different levels of abstraction . They are , however , merely conceptually distinct . They actually constitute an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( and the various elements within the levels ) are constantly interacting . Thus the cosmic synergism cycle , at the highest level of abstraction , naturally encompasses and affects the social , but the social , once it evolves out of the material/biological , also exerts profound effects on the cosmic in a variety of different ways . In a similar sense , certain individuals ? such as Newton , Einstein , Darwin or Freud ? can substantially change the cultural ethos , and , in the long run , alter the political/educational and material/biological dimensions of reality very substantially . ( See Figure 3-27. ) 3 . The cosmic synergism cycle , which is rooted in the interaction of physical ( including biological ) objects and events , has logical and developmental priority over the others , because it encompasses all of the others ( which are essentially subsets or special expressions of the physical/biological ) . The cosmic  | cycle provides the developmental origins for the other cycles , which are ultimately outgrowths of the evolution of more basic forces at the material and biological levels . 4 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumptions of causal determinism , but such determinism is not rigid and highly predictable because it works in a very complex manner with a virtually infinite number of different variables acting in combination . lt does not necessarily deny the possibility of ' tree will , ' although it would reject the notion that the will itself is free from . otne kind of ultimate circumstantial determination emerging out of its own psy-  | chological origins . In a similar sense , this determinism would not necessarily deny that certain cultures are more " open " and flexible than others , but it would tend to see such " openness " as a determined and determining commitment to certain social processes , such as science , reason or democracy . These processes encourage variety and variability rather than others , such as superstition , habit or totalitarianism , which tend to be more self-confirming in an essentially " closed " direction . 5 . The various ideologies differ in large degree in their focus with respect to the different levels of abstraction represented by the various synergism cycles as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitute such cycles . A traditional secular intellectualist of the liberal arts persuasion , such as Robert Maynard Hutchins or Mortimer Adler , for example , tends to emphasize the cosmic , or metaphysical level . He tends to move rather directly from the metaphysical to the psychological , viewing the social ( including the political and educational ) as essentially no more than the logical extension of the demonstrable relationships that exist between the knower ( the rational mind ) and the known ( metaphysical Truth ) . The pragmatist , on the other hand ? and most of the educational Liberals are rooted in the pragmatic tradition ? tends to move from the psychological to the logical , from the personal/social to the abstract , from the behavioral to the theoretical . 6 . The extent to which the average individual or society directs its behavior through conscious and intentional intellectual/ideological considerations is open to debate . Since the central concern here is with the influence that theory has on practice , these diagrams are intended to indicate the sort of relationship that exists between theoretical considerations and practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fact , however , and as already discussed , most personal and/or social behavior is probably best explained psychologically rather than philosophically or ideologically ( see Chapter II ) . On the other hand , much significant personal and social behavior is ideological and can be adequately understood only if ideological considerations are taken into proper account . This discussion is directed at these types of behavior. 7 . Despite the attention directed to synergism and circularity in the preceding pages , the circularity ( or potential circularity ) of the relationships between various of the philosophical positions and underlying social and psychological forces is not emphasized in the remainder of this book . This strategy is intentional and is employed for the sake of clarity and simplicity . Linear-causal lines of reasoning are more easily followed than those that focus on circular and mutually interaffecting elements . Holistic problems seldom lend themselves to holistic resolution . Thinking is ? as the General Semanticists have long maintained ? necessarily a linear , part-to-whole , subject-predicate process where one must make somewhat artificial distinctions between inseparable aspects of a total or continuous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ using language and , indeed , in conventional logic itself . Separate academic disciplines exist largely by virtue of the fact that it is necessary to divide the world into bitesize pieces in order to analyze its complexity . One of the virtues of philosophy , viewed as a synthetic discipline , is that it at least attempts to reassemble the pieces in something approximating a more complete picture of ' the whole .  | Science and the Scientific Method Since the terms science , scientific process , scientific method , and such recur with striking frequency throughout this discussion ? and , indeed , throughout the book ? it is perhaps wise to dwell briefly on how these terms are used . Three qualifications are perhaps central . 1 . Science and the philosophical bases of science are very difficult to identify and define because contemporary science is in a rather obvious state of perturbation caused , in large part , by disturbing discoveries made by science itself . Many of these developments seem to be fomenting a basic revolution in the way in which science views the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as : quantum theory , the general and special theories of relativity , Werner Heisenberg 's principle of uncertainty , developments in molecular biology and genetics , recent discoveries in physiological psychology ( particularly relating to the electrical stimulation of the brain ) and behavioral psychology ( especially reinforcement theory ) , recent speculations about the holographic transmissiRn of electrical patterns in the brain , such intriguing phenomena as " black holes " in space , antimatter , peculiar and partially inexplicable subatomic particles , to name but a few . We may be , as Thomas S. Kuhn points out in his well-known book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions , 8 on the verge of a radical " paradigm-shift . " This involves a basic redefinition of the nature and conduct of science generated by inconsistencies and incongruities between the world discovered by new scientific techniques and the traditional assumptions about the world that are still largely implicit within the way science has traditionally been conceived . The sort of changes that may occur in the philosophical assumptions that underlie the scientific endeavor are obviously beyond the scope of this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems clear that very sophisticated and complicated assumptions about the metaphysical and epistemological bases of reality are currently evolving . Since the publication of Kuhn 's book , it has become popular to talk about the " scientific paradigm " and/or " scientific paradigms . " Essentially , a scientific paradigm is a model containing the fundamental substantive and procedural assumptions on which research activities peculiar to science or a particular type of science are based . This is a rough definition of a very difficult concept . As Kuhn points out , one sympathetic reader prepared a partial analytic index of his book and concluded that the term paradigm had been used in at least twentytwo different ways . ' At one point , Kuhn defines a paradigm as " what the members of a scientific community share , and , conversely , a scientific community consists of men who share a paradigm . ' ' ' ' With respect to scientific paradigms , there appears to be two basic points of view : They hold either that ( 1 ) there are a variety of different paradigms that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ) there is only one scientific paradigm , that which represents the most exacting statement of the conditions required for defensible scientific activity and which is best represented in those fields ( particularly the physical sciences ) that provide the mostsupportive conditions for the application of this model of research and verification .  | Obviously , either or both of these positions may be true , but , for present purposes , the latter concept is used , and the term science is applied with reference to those activities most representative of " hard scientists " who deal with physical ( and , preferably , inorganic ) objects and events . " Soft scientists , " like psychologists , sociologists , and anthropologists , can only hope to approximate the exactitude and rigor of work in such areas . For present purposes , then , this book will use the rather conventional definition of science , which is still generally applicable beyond the more exotic frontiers of such areas as particle physics , astronomy and molecular biology , and which continues to command allegiance in virtually all of the less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ term science is used here , reference is made to the scientific process , and to scientific knowledge . Scientific process is conventionally understood here in terms of controlled variables , public verification , intersubjectivity , quantifiability , observability , and so on . " Scientific knowledge refers here to that body of information and ideas that has been confirmed through the scientific process or that , at the very least , appears to be highly probable on the basis of those things that have been verified , and are usually therefore verifiable in the future , through such scientific experimentation . To be more specific ? and all of these comments are amplified in Chapter VII ? the assumption is made here that science ( as conventionally conceived ) is : a. empirical ( based upon sense-perceptual experience ) ; b. behavioristic ( based upon the assumption that sense-perceptual experience is a function of psychobiological behavior ) ; c. pragmatic ( based upon the assumption that the truth of an idea is determined by its consequences when applied to the solution of a real problem ) ; d. materialistic ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interaction between physical objects and/or events ) ; and e. experimental ( based on the assumption that the best test is one in which one experiences/observes the consequences of discrete ( separate and separable ) objects or events under the rigorously controlled conditions conventionally described as constituting the " scientific method . " This is , as noted , a conventional definition of the terms science and scientific process . It discounts the notion that there are a multiplicity of different models of the scientific method that all possess equal ( or at least partial ) validity under certain circumstances . It also disregards legitimate questions about whether and to what extent the assumptive bases of science are changing . These are very important topics but they are not highly salient to the present discussion , which is essentially focused on social philosophy . 2 . The terms relativism and relativity are the cause of great confusion in both science and philosophy . Again , and in general , relativism and relativity have reference to two points of view in philosophy . One position holds that all knowledge is relative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other position holds that all knowledge is relative in the sense of being relational and therefore capable of being determined and defined only within some specified context . The difficulty with the first position is that , as Bertrand Russell once pointed out , it does not make good sense . If all knowledge is relative , there can be no trustworthy knowledge at all , because there are no propositions that are ultimately specified as categorical cases that can be used as a basis for grounding subsequent communication . The statement " All knowledge is relative " therefore becomes the functional equivalent of the statement " All knowledge is subjective . " But , if all truth is subjective , no " philosophical " knowledge of the conventional sort ? which necessarily purports to be abstract and universal ? is possible . The second position ? " All knowledge is relational " ? presents a somewhat different situation . Here what is being stated is essentially reducible to two points : ( 1 ) that any truth-proposition is inevitably related to a broad field of other interrelated truth-propositions and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ( 2 ) that undergirding all particular truth-propositions are highly abstract truth-propositions ( or meta-assumptions ) . These metaassumptions , although themselves relational ( in the final analysis ) , nevertheless provide an absolute basis ( for all practical purposes ) when it comes to establishing a basis for ongoing communication . Thus , as Aristotle stated , the terms by which we express differences or commonalities ? terms such as length , size , duration , intensity , movement ? are not relational , because they are the assumptive concepts by which we communicate about ( and perhaps experience ) all relationships . All communication is based on metaphor , which implies a recognition of basic similarities and differences . For present purposes , the terms relativism and relativity will have reference to the latter sense of " relational but grounded in absolute concepts of relationship " and not to the earlier sense of " indeterminate . " As such , the term relational implies an overriding unity and holism ; the idea that the world is ultimately a dynamic Gestalt . Certainly , it is central to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 . With respect to the vexing question of cause-and-effect there appear to be two basic points of view in both science and philosophy . The first point of view is the traditional point of view of the cause-and-effect determinists who hold that all events are caused by the prior interaction between immediately preceding objects and events , which were themselves the products of the relationship between prior objects/events , and so on and on , ad infinitum . All such determinism implies predeterminism in the sense that anyone who is hypothetically possessed of perfect knowledge of the world as it exists at the present ( in all of its complexity ) would be able to predict the future without error and to reconstruct the past by logical implication on the basis of existing information . The second point of view ? frequently associated in philosophy with David Hume and in science with Werner Heisenberg ? holds that , while reality is generally characterized by constant conjunctions ( or correlations ) between phenomena , there is no reason to assume that these conjunctions necessarily rest upon necessary causation in which the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ next , which engenders the next , and so on , in a continuous sequence of inevitable determinism . With respect to causality , perhaps the most central controversy at the present time exists in the area of physical science , and centers on Werner Heisenberg 's well-known principle of uncertainty . In his very provocative book The Tao of Physics , physicist Fritjof Capra paraphrases Heisenberg 's well-known principle of uncertainty in the following words : The crucial feature of atomic physics is that the human observer is not only necessary to observe the properties of an object , but is necessary even to define these properties . In atomic physics , we can not talk about the properties of an object as such . They are only meaningful in the context of the object 's interaction with the observer . In the words of Heisenberg , " What we observe is not nature itself , but nature exposed to our method of questioning . " Werner Heisenberg , Physics and Philosophy , p. 58 . The observer decides how he is going to set up the measurement , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ properties of the observed object . If the experimental arrangement is modified , the properties of the observed object will change in turn . This can be illustrated with the simple case of a subatomic particle . When observing such a particle , one may choose to measure ? among other quantities ? the particle 's position and its momentum ( a quantity defined as the particle 's mass times its velocity ) .... Heisenberg 's uncertainty principle ... says that these two quantities can never be measured simultaneously with precision . We can either obtain a precise knowledge about the particle 's position and remain completely ignorant about its momentum ( and less about its velocity ) , or vice versa ; or we can have a rough and imprecise knowledge about both quantities . The important point now is that this limitation has nothing to do with the imperfection of our measuring techniques . It is the principle limitation which is inherent in the atomic reality . If we decide to measure the particle 's position precisely , the particle simply does not have a well-defined momentum , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not have a well defined position .... John Wheeler sees this involvement of the observer as the most important feature of the quantum theory , and he has therefore suggested replacing the word " observer " by the word " participator . " In Wheeler 's own words ... " the measurement changes the state of the electron . The universe will never afterwards be the same . To describe what has happened , one has to cross out that old word observer ' and put in its place the new word participator . ' In some strange sense the universe is a participatory universe . " ( Internal quote from J. I. A. Wheeler in J. Mehra , ed. , The Physicist 's Conception of Nature , p. 244 . ) Thus , according to Heisenberg , the difficulty in any of the natural sciences ? and most particularly in physics ? is that the acts of observation and measurement , being physical acts that insert new quanta of energy into the observational sequence , necessarily interfere with and alter that which is being observed . " Natural science , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explain nature ; it is part of the interplay between nature and ourselves . ' Hence , in measuring extremely small particles of energy , the instruments and  | observed , so pure objective data ( emerging out of what is sometimes referred to in philosophy as the " doctrine of immaculate perception " ) becomes impossible when it comes to the matter of making subtle observations relating to extremely microscopic phenomena . This , on occasion , gives rise to some rather strange anomalies . In quantum theory , for example , subatomic units of matter are very abstract entities that have a dual aspect . Again , and as Capra states : Depending on how we look at them these subatomic units appear sometimes as particles , sometimes as waves ; and this dual nature is also exhibited by light which can take the form of electromagnetic waves or particles . This property of matter and of light is very strange . It seems impossible to accept that something can be , at the same time , a particle ? i.e. , an entity confined to a very small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a large region of space . This contradiction gives rise to most of the koan-like paradoxes which finally led to the formulation of quantum theory . The whole development started when Max Planck discovered that the energy of heat radiation is not emitted continuously , but appears in the form of " energy packets . " Einstein called these energy packets " quanta " and recognized them as a fundamental aspect of nature . He was bold enough to postulate that light and every other form of electromagnetic radiation can appear only as electromagnetic waves , but also in the form of these quanta . The light quanta , which gave quantum theory its name , have since been accepted as bona fide particles and are now called photons . They are particles of a special kind , however , massless and always traveling with the speed of light . The apparent contradiction between the particle and the wave picture was solved in a completely unexpected way which called in question the very foundation of the mechanistic world view ? the concept of the reality of matter . At the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ definite places , but rather shows " tendencies to exist , " and atomic events do not occur with certainty at definite times and in definite ways , but rather show " tendencies to occur . " In the formalism of quantum theory , these tendencies are expressed as probabilities and are associated with mathematical quantities which take the form of waves . This is why particles can be waves at the same time . They are not " real " three-dimensional waves like sound or water waves . They are " probability waves , " abstract mathematical quantities with all the characteristic properties of waves which are related to the probabilities of finding the particles at particular points in space and at particular times . All the laws of atomic physics are expressed in terms of these probabilities . We can never predict an atomic event with certainty ; we can only say how likely it is to happen . Quantum theory has thus demolished the classical concept of solid objects and of strictly deterministic laws of nature . At the subatomic level , the solid material objects of classical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ patterns , ultimately , do not represent probabilities of things , but rather probabilities of interconnections . . . . As we penetrate into matter , nature does not show us any isolated " basic building blocks , " but rather appears as a complicated web of relations between the various parts of the whole . These relations always include the observer in an essential way . The human observer constitutes the final length in the chain of ob means that the classical ideal of an objective description of nature is no longer valid . The Cartesian partition between the I and the world , between the observer and the observed , can not be made when dealing with atomic matter . In atomic physics , we can never speak about nature without , at the same time , speaking about ourselves . These anomalies , however , give rise to a basic question : If there appear to be exceptions to the universal law of cause-and-effect in some instances of the behavior of exceedingly small particles ( or quanta ) of matter ? as there do ? does this behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an absolute principle that applies to all phenomena in the known world ( since it is not predictably verifiable at certain subatomic levels ) ; or ( 2 ) cause-and-effect is an absolute ( metaphysical ) principle of all known phenomena , but that in some instances in the area of particle physics , cause-and-effect is rendered indeterminate ( but only ostensibly nonexistent ) because man has not perfected ( or is not , in principle , capable of perfecting ) the instruments necessary to isolate and describe how it operates ? Einstein opted for the latter hypothesis , which might be termed indeterminable determinism ? that is , that all objects/events are absolutely determined but that we are ( at least temporarily ) epistemologically incapable of identifying and defining the determinants beyond a certain level of operations . ' s Heisenberg , on the other hand , opted for the former hypothesis of metaphysical nondeterminism ? that is , cause-and-effect , although presenting a true description of reality at the macroscopic level , does not apply to certain types of subatomic particles at extremely microscopic ranges of behavior . Unfortunately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem , because the problem transcends the existing limits of science and even calls into question the conventional cause-and-effect assumptions upon which " normal science " is usually considered to be based . In this book , Einstein 's assumption of epistemological ( indeterminable ) determinism is preferred over Heisenberg 's more radical notion of metaphysical nondeterminism when it comes to explaining phenomena at the subatomic level . In summary , then , " science , " for present purposes , is defined as ( 1 ) essentially one paradigm ( with certain accepted variations and approximations ) rather than as a multiplicity of different paradigms ; ( 2 ) relativistic in the sense that it subscribes to a grounded " relationalism " in its attempt to formulate ultimate laws or principles ; and ( 3 ) assuming a constant cause-and-effect determinism that operates at the metaphysical level ( despite epistemological difficulties and ambiguities that occasionally occur when it comes to describing how this cause-and-effect network operates at an extremely microscopic level ) . The Remaining Chapters In the following pages , the educational ideologies associated with the more basic systems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideologies are considered in a sequence that would range on a political spectrum from the most Conservative ( educational fundamentalism ) to the most Liberal ( educational anarchism ) . For purposes of clarity , the same format has been used in each of the six sections that deal with the six major ideologies . Each begins with a brief definition of the particular educational position in  | 1 . What is the fundamental goal of education from the point of view of the ideology in question ? 2 . What are the specific objectives of the school as a social institution ? 3 . What are some of the more central features of the ideology that apply to virtually all aspects of teaching and learning ? 4 . What is the general nature of the child as learner ? * 5 . How and by whom should education be controlled ? 6 . What should be the general nature of the curriculum ? t 7 . What instructional methods and evaluation procedures should be employed ? 8 . How should classroom control be maintained ? In all instances , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ educational ideologies , are intended to be indicative rather than definitive . NOTES 1 . See Chapter II , pp. 28-31. 2 . See Chapter X. 3 . Abraham Kaplan , The Conduct of Inquiry : Methodology for the Behavioral Sciences ( San Francisco : Chandler Publishing Company , 1964 ) , p. 139. 4 . Anthropologist Ruth Benedict is generally conceded to be the originator of the concept of synergism in the social sciences . The following books are a particularly useful introduction to her thought : Ruth Benedict , An Anthropologist at Work : Writings of Ruth Benedict , Margaret Mead , comp . ( Boston : Houghton Mifflin , 1959 ) ; Ruth Benedict , Patterns of Culture ( New York : New American Library , 1951 ) ; and Ruth Benedict , Race and Racism ( London : G. Routledge and Sons , 1942 ) . 5 . Robert Rosenthal and Lenore Jacobson , Pygmalion in the Classroom ( New York : Harper , Row &; Winston , 1968 ) . 6 . The comments on the thoughts of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin are based primarily on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Huxley . Translated by Bernard Wall . New York : Harper , 1959 ) . Teilhard , in his concept of evolution , includes the idea that man passes through a state of spiritual perfection ( Christogenesis ) on his way to Point Omega . I have left this aspect of Teilhard 's theory out of the discussion , because it is based upon a particular religious point of view and because the general nature of Teilhard 's philosophy can be understood without an explicit discussion of this phase . Those interested in the philosophy of Teilhard de Chardin should particularly see the following books : Pierre Teilhard de Chardin , Christianity and Evolution , Rene Hague , trans . ( New York : Harcourt , Brace Jovanovich , 1971 ) ; Pierre Teilhard de Chardin , The Future of Man , Norman Denny , trans . ( New York : Harper and Row , 1964 ) ; and J.M. Wildiers , An Introduction to Teilhard de Chardin , Hubert Hoskins , trans . ( New York : Harper &; Row , 1968 ) .  | THE BASIC PRINCIPLES OF EDUCATIONAL @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stems from adhering to intuitive and/or revealed standards of belief and behavior generally subscribes to a line of reasoning that can be summarized in a sequence of five basic points : * 1 . There are authoritative answers to all of life 's really significant problems . 2 . These answers are basically founded on external authority : either in prior religious revelation , supported by faith ; or in the common sense , intuitive " folk wisdom " of the average man . 3 . These answers are not only authoritative ; they are simple and straightforward . They are unambiguous and directly comprehensible to the ordinary person , requiring neither special interpretation nor the intervention of certified experts . They are precisely what they are , and they are the literal truth . Philosophical speculation ( and most of the humanistic intellectualism with which this has been associated ) is not only unnecessary but profoundly dangerous . The intellectual 's characteristic posture holds that Truth is problematic . The result of this skepticism is widespread confusion and moral decay . The intellectual tends to misrepresent the basic simplicity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confounds the intuitive and/or revealed certainties , which provide the only effective basis for organized social existence . At basis , however , the truly significant questions concerning the nature and conduct of life are relatively uncomplicated , and the idea that they are footnote*The terms intuition , revelation , common sense , and faith are used in the following pages without any strict definition , because the terms tend to be inexact and somewhat ambiguous in the writings of the political , religious and educational fundamentalists themselves . In general , however , intuitive knowledge is what is known directly and spontaneously , requiring no supportive evidence or proof . Common sense knowledge is that which is known precognitively by the average man as a result of " lived " experience ( in contrast to theory ) . Not all intuitive knowledge need be represented in common sense , and common sense , while generally intuitive , is ordinarily viewed as potentially demonstrable by evidence as well as personal experience . Revelation is undeniable knowledge communicated directly by God . Faith , in the religious sense of the term , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moral camouflage to protect those who seek to manipulate others or who attempt to avoid responsibility for their own evasions . 4 . The answers provided by intuition/faith are sufficient for anyone who desires to live the good life . 5 . To live the good life , however , it is not merely necessary to return to the certainties of folk wisdom or simple and straightforward religion . It is also necessary to purify contemporary society be eliminating the extraneous and distracting elements that keep people from focusing clearly on the basic requirements of life as it could and should be . It is therefore also necessary to restore the older and better ways as a means of reinstituting the kind of world that is more congruent with the demands of traditional belief and behavior . ( Indeed , in some cases , a literal adherence to traditional ways of thinking and acting is only possible if the past ? or some vision of what the past is thought to have been ? can be restored in the present . Traditional precepts are generally difficult to reconcile with contemporary practices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort of political evangelist who has a fervent conviction that " a small body of true believers can lead a return to the pristine fundamentals that once set this nation on a true course . ' As Abcarian and Stanage note in their article " Alienation and the Radical Right , " for the reactionary conservative the nation must be purified and redeemed . It is urgently necessary to expose the hydra-headed conspiracy that infects government , churches , educational institutions , and the mass media of communication . Purification is an urgent patriotic duty . . . . The U.S. is presumed to have attained a Golden or Heroic age , usually , but not invariably , located somewhere in the century preceding " that man " FDR .... Domestically , the golden age is sometimes equated with the status quo , though more frequently located in the past . Internationally , the golden age is typically regarded as lost by the early twentieth century , owing to seduction into degrading and humiliating foreign entanglements . Despite the obstacles , the golden age can and must be restored by achieving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ authenticity by preaching and practicing compromise , coexistence and cooperation with national enemies . ' Fundamentalism holds , then , to an absolutistic and closed system of belief . For the fundamentalist , truth can be known directly on a nonrational ( or even , on occasion , antirational ) * basis , and it is not conditional upon what is ordinarily viewed as " personal experience . " Fundamentalists differ in their value commitments . Some favor a relatively closed-self orientation ( like the  | ethnocentric supernationalist ) but most favor some expression of a more conventional altruistic ethic , although the boundaries of the larger social-self tend to vary according to the specific fundamentalist orientation being considered . In most cases where the fundamentalist 's value system encompasses a relatively conventional notion of a universalized altruism ? as in Christian fundamentalism ? there tends to be an implicit conflict between " closed-truth " epistemological ideas ( concerning knowing and the known ) and " open-self " axiological ideals ( concerning the nature and conditions of value ) . That is , even where value is seen as universalistic ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of spiritual redemption through religious conversion and proper conduct ? only a minority are ordinarily viewed as possessing " true knowledge , " and the majority tend to be looked upon as warranting condemnation or as requiring authoritative guidance by those already possessing enlightenment . In the latter case ? which is perhaps characteristic of most fundamentalists ? authoritative truth ( generally encompassing authoritative knowledge of what is good for one and all ) ordinarily implies a corresponding commitment to authoritarian political ideals ( viewed as a required means of ensuring the objective good of everyone ) . Such political ideals are either imposed upon those who already subscribe to the ideological persuasion or are adopted as a general program for the moral rectification of all . Since fundamentalism is based upon a recognition of authoritative truth ? truth that is not , in the first instance , contingent on either reason or evidence ? it generally advocates authoritarian approaches to education as well , and such eductional authoritarianism tends to complement and support the more basic authoritarian tendencies that characterize the fundamentalist political and moral stance . REACTIONARY POLITICAL CONSERVATISM @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perhaps the best available to encompass all of those types of social conservatism which are basically anti-intellectual in the sense that they seek to minimize philosophical ( or intellectual ) arguments and tend to ground their contentions upon a relatively uncritical acceptance of either revealed Truth or established social consensus ( frequently viewed as " common sense " ) . In his political expression , and as indicated , the reactionary conservative generally advocates a return to the real or imagined virtues of the past . As in all of the conservative political orientations , there are two basic traditions within the overall point of view represented by the political reactionary , one essentially secular , the other basically religious . SECULAR REACTIONARY CONSERVATISM //  | of " restorationist " right-wing spokesmen who occur within virtually every modern nation ) . An individual like Robert Welch , founder of the John Birch Society , might serve as a cardinal example in our own society at the present time . ( 2 ) The other could be labelled philosophical reactionary conservatism ( and is largely associated with the ideas of G.W.F. Hegel @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives of reactionary conservatism in the usual sense of the term ) . Needless to say , this is a purely conceptual distinction , which is only approximated in the real world , and there are a vast number of combinations and permutations of these fundamental types . Indeed , some of the most interesting examples of secular reactionary conservatism occur primarily as hybrid phenomena , such as National Socialism ( which , among other things , presents an intellectual , or quasi-intellectual , rationale for a return to intuitive thinking directed by a mystical Volksgeist ) The secular reactionary of the more or less anti-intellectual variety is difficult to exemplify , but he is probably best represented in the United States today by the ethnocentric , nativistic , " Know-Nothing " orientation of the chauvinistic superpatriot , with his sentimental and simplified version of American beliefs and attitudes . Such an individual , who might be termed a " common sense " populist , constitutes an essentially nonintellectual , or even antiintellectual , point of view that envisions a return to the intuitive " folk wisdom " of the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the exotic , and the foreign , the common sense populist seeks some clear and simple consensus that is assumed to exist on a more or less intuitive and self-evident basis in the depths of the popular mind . Frequently associated with the " civil religion " orientation ( discussed below ) , it often presents itself as a quintessential " Americanism " with a strong ethnocentric bias against virtually any sort of novel or unfamiliar ideas . It if difficult to cite specific examples of common sense populism for several basic reasons . First , the common sense populist is a political reactionary , and his ideas therefore tend , as the term reactionary suggests , to be a reaction against social change more than a coherent attempt to formulate a systematic theoretical alternative to such change . As a result , fundamentalism characteristically expresses itself as a polemical response to specific cultural conditions that are viewed as posing significant threats to accepted traditions . Since such threats inevitably occur in a specific historical context , the issues-oriented pronouncements of the reactionary conservative tend to become quickly dated and often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those instances where reactionary conservatives have employed intellectual approaches ( as , for example , with the French reactionary Maurice Burres and the German reactionary Alfred Rosenberg in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries ) they tend to enjoy relatively brief tenure on the intellectual scene . In our own country such once-prominent American reactionaries of this sort , such as Father Charles Coughlin or Westbrook Pegler , tend to be recognized only by members of the older generation . Second , such a reactionary conservative , as previously indicated , tends to be ant intellectual . As a consequence , he characteristically rejects intellectual and scholarly approaches in favor of declarations that are largely either hortatory or  | polemical in nature . In the United States at the present time it is particularly difficult to find intellectual spokesmen within the common sense populist tradition who have made serious attempts to formulate systematic theoretical rationales for their positions . Third , the ideas of such anti-intellectual reactionary conservatives tend to be intimately related to their own particular social situations as these exist at some particular point in history and are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristic of the other ideological orientations . In most cases , and as already suggested , the anti-intellectual reactionary is a " social restorationist " who seeks a return to the real and/or imagined virtues of the historical past as this pertains to his own particular culture . Since cultural histories obviously differ according to time and place , the actual content of this kind of social restorationism is highly contingent upon where , when , and by whom it is advocated . Thus , in eighteenth century France , social restorationism was characteristically an aristocratic point of view envisioning the return of the monarchy , which was well represented in the writings of such individuals as Joseph de Maistre , Francois de Chateaubriand and Joseph de Bonald . In contemporary Austria , it still frequently takes the form of agitation for the return of the Hapsburgs . In our own relatively young country , it more typically expresses itself as either a nostalgic yearning for a return to the frontier ( with the corresponding pioneer virtues , such as thrift , competition and hard work , associated with the old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to reinstitute the simpler ( and ostensibly better ) ways of small-town midwestern America around the turn of the century . Fourth , and finally , there often tends to be a significant relationship between religious and secular fundamentalism . Since religion and other aspects of culture are closely interwoven , there are very few religious reactionaries who might not also be used as examples of political reaction and vice versa . The Christian Anti-Communism Crusade as it existed during the fifties and early sixties , as well as such prominent contemporaries as Robert Welch with his John Birch Society , the right-wing Reverend Carl McIntire , and the more recently established Christian Voice and Moral Majority movements , testify to the close affinity between the religious and political expressions of the " reactionary right " in our own country . Even among the ostensibly " secular " reactionaries there is frequently a quasi-religious devotion to the State which has occasionally led to its being characterized as a sort of nondenominational and largely secularized " civil religion . " Fundamentalism and Civil Religion " Every functioning society , " states Robin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " has , to an important degree , a common religion . The possession of a common set of ideas . . . rituals , and symbols tends to play an overarching sense of unity even in a society otherwise riddled with conflict . " ' The term civil religion , as it is ordinarily used , refers precisely to such a unitive common religion . Originally coined by Rousseau in The Social Contract in 1762 , the term was revived by sociologist Robert Bellah in his  | well-known article entitled " Civil Religion , " which first appeared in the late sixties . ' According to Bellah , " There actually exists alongside of and rather clearly differentiated from the churches an elaborate and well-institutionalized civil religion in America , ' which can generally be characterized in three ways . First , it is a general religion ? which is sometimes labeled " the American way of life , " the common faith , the fourth major faith or American Shinto ? in contrast to the far more particular religions usually identified with specific churches , synagogues , revivals , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own set of sacred symbols ( like the Declaration of Independence or the flag ) , rituals ( like the Pledge of Allegiance ) , shrines ( like the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier or the Alamo ) , beliefs ( like the " official " version of American history ) , individuals ( like George Washington and Abraham Lincoln ) , and events ( like Memorial Day or the Fourth of July ) . In general , these exist quite apart from the various denominations of formal religion . In addition , and as Bellah states , " The public-school system serves as a particularly important context for the cultic celebration of these civil rituals . " ' Third , and finally , this civil religion generally functions as a " religiofication " of the nation , providing " a transcendent goal for the political process : " Actually , the whole notion of civil religion is highly controversial , and , as Russell Richey and Donald Jones indicate in the Introduction to their book American Civil Religion , there are at least five basic concepts of civil religion which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion as folk religion tends to be concerned with " the common religion of Americans descriptively as emerging out of the life of the folk . " 10 In this approach to civil religion , and as Will Herberg states , " . . . national life is apotheosized , national values are religionized , national heroes are divinized , national history is experienced as a Heilsgeschichte , as a redemptive history . " " It is important to distinguish between this concept of folk religion , which is essentially a homogeneous and unitive phenomenon , and what might , from want of a better term , be called ethnic religion . Ethnic religion tends to be socially conservative , but it typically combines allegiance to a particular religious tradition with a commitment to the social traditions of a special subculture or ethnic group that exists within the confines of the overall culture . The ethnic religious orientation , then , becomes essentially the fusion of religion with ethnicity ( both commonly rooted in a separate language ) in which the religious tradition is used to maintain both cultural and religious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressures for assimilation and change . The ethnic religion orientation may be viewed as politically or religiously reactionary with respect to the dominant traditions of the majority culture , but this is not always the case . Its primary function is to protect the identity of a particular subculture from assimilation into the mainstream society . 2 . Civil religion as religious nationalism is essentially the religion of patriotism , where the nation becomes the object of worship ( as in the so-called German Christianity under the Third Reich ) . 3 . Civil religion as Protestant civic piety represents the fusion of Protestanthm and nationalism in which , to quote Will Herberg , there is a compound of //  | " the two great religious movements that molded America ? the Puritan way , secularized ; and the Revivalist way , secularized. " 13 4 . Civil religion as the transcendent universal religion of the nation is primarily what theologian Sidney Mead looks upon as the essentially cosmopolitan and prophetic " religion of the Republic . ' As Mead notes , " . . . under religious freedom , because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the church ' in the new nation , the nation came more and more so to function . ' " 15 5 . Civil religion as democratic faith seems to occur where there is a commitment to " humane values and ideals of equality , freedom , and justice without necessary dependence on a transcendent deity or a spiritualized nation , ' as in the case of John Dewey 's " common faith . " Martin Marty on Bellah . Theologian Martin Marty , in a particularly trenchant analysis of Bellah 's concept of civil religion , distinguishes between four basic types of civil religion , which emerge out of two fundamental distinctions that were not explicit in Bellah 's original theory . One distinction is that between priestly and prophetic religious styles . The priestly civil religion is essentially " celebrative , affirmative , culture-building . ' The prophetic , on the other hand , tends to be dialectical and judgmental . The two are , as Marty suggests , similar to Joseph Pulitzer 's definition of the complete journalist : " one comforts the afflicted ; the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also differ in kind , however . Here Marty notes a second fundamental distinction between the type of civil religion ( 1 ) that sees the nation " under God , " assuming " there is a transcendent objective reference of a kind which has traditionally been associated with deity , ' and ( 2 ) in which the nation displaces God ; the nation itself assuming selftranscendence . For Marty , then , by using the logical combination of these basic differences , there are four basic expressions of civil religion : ( 1 ) the priestly nation-under-God approach ( exemplified by Eisenhower ) ; ( 2 ) the prophetic nation-under God approach ( exemplified by Lincoln ) ; ( 3 ) the priestly nation-as-transcendent orientation ( exemplified by Nixon ) ; and ( 4 ) the prophetic nation-as-transcendent orientation ( exemplified by a theologian like Sidney Mead ) . The four basic traditions are presented schematically in Figure 4-1 . However valid these distinctions may be , all expressions of civil religion are not necessarily expressions of either political or educational fundamentalism . Indeed , the traditions that Richey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic faith are far more likely to be allied with other political orientations ( perhaps most frequently with social conservatism or even , on occasion , liberalism than with the radical right ) . Within the nation-as transcendent orientation , however , those types of civil religion that Richey and Jones term folk religion , religious nationalism and Protestant civic piety ( either in combination or in relatively " pure-type " ) do frequently express themselves as fundamentalist points of view with respect to society in general and education in particular . And , in Marty 's typology , the prophetic nation-astranscendent mode of civil religion would seem to lend itself particularly well to political and educational fundamentalism. // FIGURE 4 ? 1 CIVIL RELIGION Nation-Under-God  | SECULAR FUNDAMENTALISM IN AMERICA In our own country the contemporary " radical-right " or " right-wing extermism " rose to prominence during the 1960s , largely in response to the development of the John Birch Society . Abcarian and Stanage indicate that the radical right encompasses any political grouping or ideological coalition occupying the political terrain between ( but not including ) Midwestern Republicanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The American Coalition of Patriotic Societies ; The American Security Council ; Americans for Constitutional Action ; America 's Future , Inc. ; The Cardinal Mindszenty Foundation ; The Christian Anti-Communist Crusade ; The Christian Crusade ; the Circuit Riders ; The Christian Nationalist Crusade ; The Church League of America ; The Conservative Society of America ; The Conservative Union ; The Council of Christian Churches ; Defenders of the American Constitution ; Facts Forum , Inc. ; For America ; Freedom and Action ; Human Events , Inc. ; The John Birch Society ; Liberty Lobby ; Life //  | Lines , Inc. ; The Manion Forum ; The Minutemen ; The National Education Program ; National Indignation Convention ; Veritas Foundation ; We , The People ! ; Young Americans for Freedom , to name but a representative and prominent few . The ideology of the radical right , as Gould and Truitt identify it in their book Political Ideologies consists of a strong belief in individualism along with a strong revulsion toward any form of collectivism ; a belief in a Republican as opposed to a Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a belief that world events and American politics as they presently exist are wholly conspiratorial , hence the consequent need to purify American society ; the need to restore the United States to the golden age of its founding fathers ; a belief that there are always solutions to both national and domestic problems ; and a strong ultra-patriotism and belief in " direct action " in order to break the net of conspiracy and establish the " right " system . The radical right is different from the moderate right in that the latter includes most of the large corporation world , which has come to accept changes in American society during the past three decades , including trade unions , medical care , and other social reforms which the radical right sees as threats to the American system . The right-wing position in American politics today is well expressed by Ezra Taft Benson , who was the Secretary of Agriculture in Eisenhower 's cabinet from 1953 to 1961 . As he states : What are these fundamental principles which have allowed the United States to progress so rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly defining the limits of government so that government will not become more powerful than the people . Second , an economic system which is characterized by : Free enterprise ? the right to venture , the right to choose ; Private property ? the right to own , develop and enjoy , and a Market economy ? the right to exchange and to profit . Third , building an open society where each individual enjoys the greatest opportunity to improve himself , to travel , to become educated , to invent , to compete , to build , to speak , to worship , and to pursue happiness in whatever way the individual finds most satisfying and worthwhile . Fourth , assigning government the role of referee rather than competitor ? giving it enough power to provide peace , order , and security but not enough power to rob people of their liberty or take away their property without due process of law . My own political and economic creed is a simple one . I commend it to you : I am for freedom and against slavery . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ am for a dynamic economy and against waste . I am for the private competitive market and against unnecessary government intervention . I am for private ownership and against governmental ownership and control of the means of production and distribution . I am for national security and against appeasement and capitulation to an obvious enemy.24  | Philosophical Reactionary Conservatism The philosophical tradition in reactionary conservatism has been primarily influenced by the antirationalist movement as it has developed since the latter part of the eighteenth century . It has probably been most significantly influenced by two figures who , ironically , were not themselves reactionary conservatives : the German philosopher G.W.F. Hegel and the French sociologist Emile Durkheim . G.W.F. Hegel . Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel ( 1770 ? 1831 ) developed a " relationalistic " metaphysics , which views reality as a total and unified whole in process of teleological self-perfection . There is , as Hegel sees it , a Weltgeist ( a sort of absolute cosmic-mind ) which includes everything as an aspect of itself . This Weltgeist is both immanent within and , at the same time , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is , including both objective mind ( including the physical and social world ) and the subjective mind of personal consciousness . The Weltgeist operates in and through universal reason , which expresses itself as history . History , in turn , evolves through a conflict ( dialectic ) between universal ideas , which are embodied in particular conditions and which occur in response to changes in such conditions . The subjective mind of the individual is capable of comprehending both objective mind ( that is , the physical and social worlds that represent the present status of the absolute mind ) and the absolute mind itself , that is , the ideal logical contraries and/or opposites implied by the real conditions that presently exist . The conflict experienced between that which actually is and that which can or should be generates the conscious desire to change . The change that occurs as a result of this conflict between the real and the ideal alters both objective conditions and consequent subjective experience as well ( as both of these are directed and controlled by the total process that is absolute mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the whole . " The Weltgeist is the whole that Is greater than the sum of its parts . The divine Idea ( of a total reconciliation of all dialectical differences ) is actualized through the process of evolution . Subjective mind ( individual consciousness ) and objective mind ( the world of everyday objects and events ) interact to produce absolute mind ( Weltgeist ) . Reason , acting in and through history , is universal will ( Weltgeist ) . Since reason acts through conflict , conflict ensures progress . In the absence of a %upra-State ( such as Kant 's idea of a world federation of states ) , war is the ultimate arbiter of what is right . World history is ultimately the only court of justice . //  |  | The objective mind of society is ideally reflected within the State . The State acts like a magnified person to implement universal reason , and " this Reason , in its most concrete form is God . God governs the world . " 26 Therefore " whatever is , is right . " 27 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the highest Idea ? and " . . . we must worship the State as the manifestation of the divine on earth . ' Emile Durkheim . The French philosopher and sociologist Emile Durkheim was greatly influenced by Hegelian idealism ( particularly as this was reflected in the earlier writings of Auguste Comte ) , and Durkheim 's philosophy is perhaps best viewed as a type of sociological Hegelianism in the naturalistic tradition . For Durkheim , as for Comte , " sociology is not a corollary of psychology , " because " psychological " phenomena are always the result rather than the cause of social interactions . For Durkheim , the human mind is a reflection of the social world and its characteristics , and , as Sorokin notes , " . . . it is as wrong to try to explain social phenomena through the psychological as it is wrong to explain the cause through its effect . " In addition , Durkheim posits the existence of a " collective consciousness " that differs quite specifically from individual consciousness . Thus , for Durkheim , there has been an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individuals ) to an organic society , characterized by a collective consciousness consisting of social structures and processes that determine individual awareness . Once the organic level has been reached ? through " social condensation " and increased social cohesiveness ? the " collective consciousness " assumes an independent status as a separate and controlling " group mind . " The collective consciousness is , however ... something more than a mere epiphenomenon of its morphological basis . . . . In order that the collective consciousness may appear , a synthesis sui generis of particular consciousness is required . Now this synthesis has the effect of disengaging a whole world of sentiments , ideas and images which , once born , obey laws all their own . They attract each other , repel each other , unite , divide themselves , and multiply , though these combinations are not commended and necessitated by the condition of the underlying reality . The life thus brought into being even enjoys so great an independence that it sometimes indulges in manifestations with no purpose or utility of any sort , for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is often precisely the case with ritual activity and mythological thought . For Durkheim , then , the collective consciousness , once established , is no longer the product of collective individual behaviors . Rather , it is individual behaviors that largely " reincarnate " 33 group consciousness . In a similar sense , material behavior ( such as economic activity ) is also epiphenomenal , representing primarily the predispositions of the collective consciousness , and not merely the demands of external conditions . Once established , the collective consciousness includes both " conscious awareness " ( including ways of thinking ) and " conscience " ? subjectively experienced moral ideas and ideals . " The collective representations of the group //  | mind include certain basic structures that represent universal principles of collective psychological processes . As Durkheim sees it , then , the collective consciousness functions autonomously of individual consciousness , and it has the power to act upon and to modify itself , obeying its own laws . Collective consciousness leads to the idealization of group belief and behavior . It crystallizes a tacit way of life into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consciousness ? a national spirit ? which exists more or less independent of historical changes and which constitutes its highest identity and supreme value . The value of an act or idea is ultimately determined by whether it contributes to " social solidarity " as determined in terms of these archetypal " collective representations . " The collective consciousness gives rise to virtually all significant social institutions . Religion arises when a people become aware of the power and significance of their own collective consciousness , and religion is the most concentrated expression of group mind , indirectly giving rise to most other social institutions as well . Accordingly , God is merely the externalized idea , or apotheosis , of the collective consciousness . " In summary , Durkheim 's theory of collective consciousness can be outlined as in  | Continued from previous page This collective consciousness becomes autonomous of individual consciousness ( in effect , obeying its own laws ) , and tends to express itself in two basic ways : figure //  | Quasi-Mystical Nationalism In the tradition of reactionary political conservatism , the philosophies of Hegel and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be termed quasi-mystical nationalism . The quasi-mystical nationalists are perhaps most visible in the philosophies of fascism and naziism , both of which seek the voluntary subordination of individual reason to the superordinate will of the entire people , as this is expressed through the instrumentality of a totalitarian state . Fascism and National Socialism The social theories of fascism and national socialism were so significantly influenced by the philosophy of Hegel that both have occasionally been characterized as extreme expressions of the " Hegelian Right , " or even as " Hegelian Totalitarianism . " Certainly , Italian fascism owes a special debt to the neoHegelian philosophers Benedetto Croce ( 1866 ? 1952 ) and Giovanni Gentile ( 1874 ? 1944 ) , the latter even serving for several years as Minister of Education under Mussolini . In a similar sense , both seem indebted , however indirectly , to many of Durkheim 's ideas as well . On the other hand , both fascism and national socialism are indebted to a variety of other philosophical sources as well . There is , for example , a strong dose of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and both Mussolini and Hitler were clearly inspired by various social theories that glorify war as a means toward national and/or racial purification . The national socialists were also influenced by a variety of racist and selectionist theories ? perhaps most significantly by those associated with such names as Arthur de Gobineau , Houston Stewart Chamberlain , Victor de Lapouge and Otto Ammon . Clearly , all reactionary conservatism is not fascistic , but fascism ( and naziism ) nevertheless represent perhaps the most developed intellectual expression of what are probably the four most basic characteristics of all radical right-wing ideological movements : irrationalism ( or nonrationalism ) , nationalism ( with its corresponding patriotic attitudes ) , social Darwinism , and a predisposition toward totalitarian government . Irrationalism . As previously indicated , the reactionary conservative has a strong penchant for avoiding intellectual approaches to knowing . For the reactionary , truth is beyond proof . The State is often viewed as a spiritual unit Infused with its own collective consciousness . This is clearly indicated in Italian fascist ideology where the State is viewed as the physical embodiment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is absolute , " states Mussolini , " individuals and groups relative . ' Accordingly , for Mussolini , and as Sargent states , it stands to reason that " . . . the state is the carrier of the culture and spirit of the people or nation ; that it is the past , present , and future ; that it represents the ' immanent conscience of the nation ' ; and that it educates the citizens in all the Virtues . ' " Thus , as Mario Palmieri indicates : IFascism ) presupposes ... that the nation state is gifted with an organic life of its own , which far transcends in meaning the life of the individual , // Nationalism . Hans Kohn , who is perhaps the best known scholar on nationalism , defines it as  | . . . a state of mind , permeating the large majority of a people and claiming to permeate all of its members ; it recognizes the nation-state as the ideal form of political organization and the nationality as the source of all creative cultural energy and of economic well-being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his nationality , as his own life is supposedly rooted in and made possible by its welfare . " In line with Kohn 's comments , the nationalist is , by definition , patriotic in the sense that Leonard Doob defines this term in his book Patriotism and Nationalism : Their Psychological Foundations . " Patriotism , " states Doob , is " . . . the more or less conscious conviction of a person that his own welfare and that of the significant groups to which he belongs are dependent upon the preservation or expansion ( or both ) of the power and culture of his society . ' Both of these attitudes are characteristic of the reactionary conservative , and they reach perhaps their supreme expression in the formulated philosophy of fascism . Fascism , states A. James Gregor in his book The Ideology of Fascism : The Rationale of Totalitarianism , was " the first revolutionary mass movement regime which aspired to commit the totality of human and natural resources of an historic community to national development . ' As " a calling forth ' of the tight-knit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such concepts as common traditions , nationalistic feelings , and racial solidarity , " fascism signifies , as Gould and Truitt indicate ... the very reverse of liberal ideological values : constitutional and representative government gives way to dictatorship , minority rights give way to persecution of minorities , the party system gives way to one-party domination , freedom of speech gives way to oppressive censorship , religious toleration is suspended , and throughout this broad transformation capitalist control of the means of production is retained . According to fascist doctrine , the State or Nation is central , a mystical entity replete with an historical mission . As Mussolini sets forth in his essay " The Doctrine of Fascism , " the State is truly organic , and it is the duty of the individual to raise himself to the national consciousness and to lose his own identity in it . In this way , the individual exists only in and through the nationstate : " Social groups as fractions of the species receive thereby a life and scope which transcends the scope and life of the individuals identifying themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' National socialism differs from fascism primarily in emphasis rather than in kind . Both see man as merely one part of the larger unit of the State or Nation , and both look upon individual identity as far deeper than conscious reason , being rooted in such things as political identification , soil , race or blood . For the Fascist , the organic unity of the State is based upon national and ethnic considerations ; the State is primarily the geographical entity inhabited by people //  | In this sense , naziism functions as a sort of racial fascism . Thus , as Gould and Truitt state : Mussolini maintained that the state created the nation ; Hitler argued that the state was an instrument of the nation or the people . Racism played a greater role in Naziism than in Italian Fascism , and this emphasis by the Nazis was partly responsible for the unmatched persecution of the Jews and other minorities . " This difference in regard to the fundamental political unit can be clearly seen in the writings of Mussolini and Hitler . For Mussolini @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Fascism is a religious conception in which man is seen in his immanent relationship with a superior law and with an objective will that transcends the particular individual and raises him to conscious membership in a spiritual society . Whoever has seen in the religious politics of the Fascist regime nothing but mere opportunism has not understood that Fascism besides being a system of government is also , and above all , a system of thought . " The man of fascism is an individual who is nation and fatherland , which is a moral law , binding together individuals and the generations into a tradition and a mission , suppressing the instinct for a life enclosed within a brief round of pleasure in order to restore within duty a higher life , free from the limits of time and space : a life in which the individual , through the denial of himself , through the sacrifice of his own private interests , through death itself , realizes that completely spiritual existence in which his value as a man lies . " In naziism , on the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both nation and state . As Hitler states in Mein Kampf . The state is a means to an end . Its end lies in the preservation and advancement of a community of physically and psychically homogeneous creatures . This preservation itself comprises first of all existence as a race and thereby permits the free development of all the forces dormant in this race . Of them a part will always primarily serve the preservation of physical life , and only the remaining part the promotion of a further spiritual development . Actually the one always creates the precondition for the other . " Since the fascist State is an organic unit , it stands to reason that , while private property should remain , it should be coordinated and directed by the State . Indeed all property , and the relationships between all owners , managers and workers should come under the unified control of the State . This doctrine of the organic State is clearly reflected in fascist educational theory . Giovanni Gentile , a philosopher who became Minister of Education under Mussolini , was heavily influenced by pragmatism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ realized through the State . The same theme of the //  | is concern for the preservation of those original racial elements which bestow culture and create the beauty and dignity of a higher mankind . We , as Aryans , can conceive of the state only as the living organism of a nationality which not only assures the preservation of this nationality , but by the development of its spiritual and ideal abilities leads to the highest freedom . ' ' Accordingly , in Germany , too , widespread educational reforms were instituted . " The State , " directed Hitler , " must undertake a thorough reconstruction of our national system of education . . . . The curricula of all educational establishments must be brought into line with the necessities of practical life . With the first dawn of intelligence , the , schools must aim at teaching the pupil to know what the State stands for ( instruction and citizenship ) . " The kinds of reforms that Hitler referred to are well illustrated in the sorts of directives that were issued to all German schools . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Teachers are directed to instruct their pupils in " the nature , causes , and effects of all racial and hereditary problems , " to bring home to them the importance of race and heredity for the life and destiny of the German people , and to awaken in them a sense of their responsibility toward " the community of the nation " ( their ancestors , the present generation , and posterity ) , pride in their membership of the German race as a foremost vehicle of hereditary Nordic values , and the will consciously to cooperate in the racial purification of the German stock . Racial instruction is to begin with the youngest pupils ( six years of age ) in accordance with the desire of the Fuhrer " that no boy or girl should leave school without complete knowledge of the necessity and meaning of blood purity . ' Social Darwinism . * Both fascism and its racial variation of naziism adhere to the belief that history must be viewed primarily in terms of conflict between nations and between peoples . The survival of the fittest is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and races . It is simply in the nature of things that inferior races should be either dominated or , in the case of naziism , eliminated . A dominant people , supported by God , is destined to come forward . " Only force rules , " states Hitler . " Force is the first law . ' It is evident that the stronger has the right before God and the world to enforce his will . History shows that the right as such does not mean a thing , unless it is backed up by great power . If one does not have the power to enforce his right , that right alone will profit him absolutely nothing . The stronger have always been victorious . The whole of nature is a continuous struggle between strength and weakness , an eternal victory of the strong over the weak . All nature would be full of decay if it were otherwise . The states which do not wish to recognize this law will decay . The use of the term social Darwinism , which is frequently equated with the thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spencer himself was a social or political reac- ? ? ? ? ? s ? it discussed in the chapter on Educational Conservatism . Spencer was essentially - ? ? ?  --  . deimtely terminatinu in a //  | The first fundamental of any rational Weltanschauung is the fact that on earth and in the universe force alone is decisive . Whatever goal man has reached is due to his originality plus his brutality . Whatever man possesses today in the field of culture is the culture of the Aryan race . The Aryan has stamped his character on the whole world . The basis for all development is the creative urge of the individual , not the vote of majorities . The genius of the individual is decisive , not the spirit of the masses . All life is bound up in three theses : Struggle is the father of all things , virtue lies in blood , leadership is primary and decisive.ss The value of man is determined in the first place by his inner racial virtue ; second , by the ability of the race to bring forth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ advancement ; third , this entire process takes place in the form of eternal struggle . As a consequence struggle is the father of all things in this world . " The borderline between man and the animal is established by man himself . The position which man enjoys today is his own accomplishment . We see before us the Aryan race which is manifestly the bearer of all cultures , the true representative of all humanity . All inventions in the field of transportation must be credited to the members of a particular race . Our entire industrial science is without exception the work of the Nordics . All great composers from Beethoven to Richard Wagner are Aryans , even though they were born in Italy or France . Do not say that art is international . The tango , the shimmy , and the jazzband are international but they are not art . Man knows everything that is of any importance to the principle of struggle and the one race which carries itself forward successfully . Take away the Nordic Germans and nothing remains but the dance of apes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our people can endure only through struggle , we National Socialists are fighters . " Totalitarianism . Reactionary conservatism tends to favor a centralized system of government characterized by absolute state control over virtually all significant forms of individual behavior . For the radical right , and as Abcarian and Slanage state : In a true republic , ' the will of the masses will be represented , but only through the consciences of representatives whose task it is to evaluate and interpret the intent of such will . Only . . . government for the people by a qualified elite can save us from the ravages of immoral mob rule .... ' " In fascism , for example , the individual finds his highest individual self-expression In dedicating himself to the highest interests of the State . Ironically , the highest Individual freedom is to be found in the destiny of the race or nation and requires the voluntary subordination of the self to the political dictates of the Slate , which embodies the collective will of the people . Since the State is ultimately a " spiritual " unit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accordingly , those who control the State , at all levels , are really expressing the bast interests of the nation and of each individual citizen , and they should , accordingly , command both the respect and obedience of all . Thus , in Nazi Germany , and as national socialist theoretician Rudolf Huber states , the Fuhrer presents the collective will of the people . He is almost infallible , because , as g as he correctly interprets the nation he represents . " his will is not 01 , -  | will .... " 60 Accordingly , the leadership ( Fuhrer ) principle states " that each subordinate holds absolute obedience to his immediate superior , with everyone ultimately subordinate to the absolute leader , the Fuhrer . ' ' " The Fuhrer Reich of the German people is founded on the recognition that the true world of the people can not be disclosed through parliamentary votes and publicized plebiscites but that the will of the people in its pure and uncorrupted form can only be expressed through the Fuhrer . Thus a distinction must be drawn between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which merely reflects the conflict of the various social interests , and the true will of the people in the Fuhrer-state , in which the collective will of the real political unit is manifested . . . . The Fuhrer is the bearer of the people 's will ; he is independent of all groups , associations , and interests , but he is bound by laws which are inherent in the nature of his people . In this twofold condition : independence of all factional interests but unconditional dependence of the people , is reflected the true nature of the Fuhrer principle . * The Fuhrer principle rests upon unlimited authority but not upon mere outward force . It has often been said , but it must constantly be repeated , that the Fuhrer principle has nothing in common with arbitrary bureaucracy and represents no system of brutal force , but that it can only be maintained by mutual loyalty which must find its expression in a free relation . RELIGIOUS REACTIONARY CONSERVATISM The religious reactionary is perhaps most often represented by various of the Bible-centered , fundamentalist Protestant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It is also the position that is most congenial to such significant offshoots from the basic Christian tradition as the Latter-Day Saints ( Mormons ) , Seventh-Day Adventists , and the Jehovah 's Witnesses . For such groups , truth is primarily founded upon revelation and faith , centering in a literalistic interpretation of accepted Scriptures . Accordingly , they advocate a return to biblical truth , black-and-white moral categories and the sort of simple Christian living that is generally looked upon as more characteristic of an earlier era . They are typically other-worldly in their overall orientation , and vehemently oppose any sort of theological speculation that would suggest that essential truth has not already been satisfactorily determined . The Varieties of Christian Belief : Some Terminological Distinctions Christianity and the Varieties of Protestantism . The terms Christianity and Protestantism are scarcely synonymous , but their usage in various contexts is frequently very confusing . Many independent Christian churches of the evangelical and/or pentecostal persuasions do not consider themselves to he ecessarily trace their origins hack to theologi- cal distinctions that emerged during the Reformation . In a similar sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ last century ( such as the Church of Christ , the Church of God , and the Church of Christ , Scientist ) also tend to view themselves as constituting essentially Christian movements and not merely variations of established Protestant traditions . Most of the more distinctive Christian sects , or special traditions , that have emerged in the last two centuries ( Latter-Day Saints , Jehovah 's Witnesses , Seventh-Day Adventists , and Christian Scientists ) also tend to represent themselves more properly as special expressions of the Christian tradition ( albeit stemming largely from the Protestant orientations ) than of Protestantism viewed as a distinctive scriptural or experiential orientation . In a similar sense , the term Protestantism covers a wide range of different points of view . As Williams states in his book What Americans Believe and How They Worship : Trying to describe Protestantism is like trying to describe the United States ; one can say almost anything about it ? and almost anything one says can be shown to be false in some particular . Protestants range in belief all the way from the supernaturalism of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Protestants range in worship forms all the way from the complexity of the high-church Episcopalians to the simplicity of the silent-meetings Quakers . Protestants range in emotionalism all the way from the restraint of the Congregationalists to the exuberance of the Pentecostals . Probably there are close to three hundred non-Roman denominations in the United States . However , many of these groups are by no means representative of the main line of Protestant thought and tradition . Some are churches which are Roman Catholic in all important respects except acceptance of the authority of the Pope ; for example , the Polish National Catholic which has a quarter of a million members , and the Old Roman Catholic which has eighty thousand . Then there are such nontraditional groups as the Spiritualists , the Bahaists , Jehovah 's Witnesses , and the followers of Father Divine . Classical Protestantism finds its historical locus in the Protestant Reformation . As Robert McAfee Brown indicates , there is no " party line " in the classical Protestant tradition , but , generally speaking , ... a " classical protestant " is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what happened at the Reformation was fundamentally right ? that is , that the essentials of the faith were rediscovered and made normative once again in the life of the church . This does not mean that he flails himself until he has had an " experience " identical with the anguish of Martin Luther , or that he checks every statement he makes against Calvin 's Institutes . It does mean that through Luther or Calvin he may find himself once more inescapably confronted by the gospel and thereby quickened , renewed , and made whole once again . The classical protestant thus has tremendous respect for heritage and tradition , not as ends in themselves , but as indications that there is an on-goingness about God 's activity in the world , and that men may understand that on-goingness more fully us they arc related to the ways in which other men have understood it //  | in the past . Protestants today are not committed to the Reformers ' formulas and statements as final truth , but they do find that those things to which the Reformers ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found true for themselves . The classical protestant takes his stand somewhere close . .. to the Bible . He can no longer . . . go to proof texts , or assume the verbal inerrancy and historical accuracy of every single statement in the record . He must thus , in a sense , not point to the Bible , as such , as his authority , but rather to that to which the Bible itself points , namely , the " mighty acts of God " which are transmitted to each age through the Bible . Fundamentalism errs in assuming that God gives information about himself . The classical protestant counters by asserting that God gives himself , and that this is precisely what the Bible is trying to tell us . The point of the Bible is not that we may believe in the Bible , but that we may believe in the God to whom the Bible witnesses . Perhaps an analogy can clarify this important distinction . Imagine that you are standing in front of a brick wall . You can see beyond it only if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ look at the window ? If you do , you may see the details of the sash very clearly , perhaps a few thumbprints on the panes themselves , but as long as you look just at the window , the scene beyond will be blurred and fuzzy . No , you must look through the window , at what is going on outside . If you focus on the activity beyond , an occasional thumbprint on the pane is n't going to blur your vision too drastically . So with the Bible . To look at it , at the statements , is to fail to perceive God 's activity with clarity . But to look through it is to make use of it as a " window " by means of which we can see God at work , and make our active response to what he is doing . If one subscribes to the basic distinction offered by Philip Schaff , it is possible to distinguish between two different traditions in American Protestantism , the English and the German . As Schaff puts it : In Protestantism we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confessions . To the English belong the Congregationalists , the Presbyterians , the Episcopalians , the Quakers , the Methodists , and the Baptists ; the last two having also German branches . The Reformed Dutch are , it is true , of Low Dutch origin , but they have become in language entirely English , and are closely related to the Presbyterians . The Huguenots , who emigrated after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes , have clearly all fallen in with the Presbyterian and Episcopal churches , and the French language is rarely used in public service in the United States , excepting for the numerous Roman Catholic Frenchmen in some of the southern states , especially Louisiana . The German group embraces the Lutheran , Reformed , and United Churches , and the Moravian Brethren . All these may be reckoned to orthodox and evangelical Protestantism , since they adhere in their symbols to the fundamental doctrines of the Scriptures and the Reformation , and manifest a corresponding Christian life . The Baptists and Quakers stand on the extreme limit of orthodox Protestantism , and accordingly come @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very numerous . The Episcopalians , on the //  | tion . The German churches , we may say , generally hold middle ground between the Episcopal and the Presbyterians ' Liberal Protestantism tends to be more adapted to modern thought , which is dominated by science . More than any other major Christian persuasion , the liberal Protestants tend to emphasize the right of individuals to decide what is true in religion for themselves . Correspondingly , " the belief in freedom from theological domination by creeds , councils , bishops , and pastors amounts to about the most basic religious conviction . . . so theological divergence among Liberals is , accordingly , great . ' As Edwin Aubrey states , " The liberal starts with the proposition that experience precedes theological formulas . In other words , religious experience is more fundamental than theology . Therefore , in order to understand the theology we must go to the experience behind it . " ( The three basic traditions that constitute the more " liberal " Christian land generally Protestant traditions , ranging from classical Protestantism to the ultraliberal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The difference between Christian evangelicalism and Christian fundamentalism ( both of which tend to be largely special expressions of Christian Protestantism ? although not invariably so ) is also somewhat vague and contentious . As a general rule , evangelicalism is the more encompassing orientation , and all fundamentalists are evangelical ( even though the contrary is not true ) . At basis , as Richard Pierard states , The evangelical is identified by his emphasis upon the inspiration and authority of the Scriptures and the need for individual spiritual regeneration ( salvation ) through faith in Jesus Christ and the action of the Holy Spirit .... IThere is a continuum of doctrinal solidarity on these basics reaching from fundamentalism to many who would prefer to identify themselves as " evangelicals " or " confessionalists . " The confessing evangelical differs from the fundamentalist particularly in that he is seriously trying to place conservative ( ' hristianity in the mainstream of con136 THE CONSERVATIVE EDUCATIONAL IDEOLOGIES  | The confusion here is even further compounded by two additional distinctions that are frequently made in religious scholarship between evangelicalism and neo-evangelicalism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essentially as adherence to one of the classical Protestant theologies ) and neoorthodoxy , on the other . In essence , neo-evangelicalism ( or new evangelism ) is a post World War II movement ? named by a Boston minister , Harold Ockenza , and largely popularized by Billy Graham and editor Carl F. H. Henry of Christianity Today ? which seeks to retain the religious fervor of evangelical fundamentalism while , at the same time , rejecting its " wowser ' worship , its cultural isolationism , its sectarian separatism , its monastic ethics , its theological hair-splitting . " ' In addition , and as Martin Marty indicates , " while both Evangelicals and Fundamentalists are normally seen to be conservative ( though many Evangelicals and Fundamentalists through the years have voted for the New Deal and for progressive legislation , as citizens and not as representatives of their churches ) , Evangelicals are closer to the political mainstream , while almost all radical rightists and those dismissed by others as demagogues come out of Fundamentalism . " ' Neo-orthodoxy , on the other hand , began as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and faith in reason , neoorthodoxy holds that man , while made in the image of God , is nevertheless flawed by innate depravity and is therefore subjected to a tragic fate . As Eston states : " The basic truths of Christianity are a part of the divine revelation and we either accept them or we do n't . The Christian faith . . . is not something that is arguable . ' " Neo-orthodox thinkers accept the results of the modern study of the Bible . They hold that while reason has no power to communicate God 's revelation , it has power to deal with nature . The Bible is a natural product ; therefore , reason is applicable to biblical problems just as it is applicable to all problems which are of the natural order . Some of the most radical of the biblical scholars are neo-orthodox in their theological point of view , even to the point of rejecting a large part of the biblical account of the life of Jesus as literal historical truth . However , the neo-orthodox theologian makes one fertile suggestion concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ He says many of the narratives of miraculous events are myths , that is , stories whose actual details never happened but whose central teachings are true to the basic principles of existence . For example , the first chapters of Genesis do not describe the actual creation of the universe ; nor was there ever a first man by the name of Adam who was lured by his wife to eat an apple and thereby corrupt the human race . But the first chapters of Genesis are true in the sense that there was a creation , that God was the creator , that man is rebellious against the order that God has established , and that man is estranged from God because of his sins . Many of the greatest truths of the Bible are thus mythologically stated , according to neo-orthodox belief . Basically Neo-orthodoxy k a reassertion of the judgment of God . It is //  | While its doctrines go well back into history , fundamentalism is largely a product of the twentieth century . As Marty states : By the middle of the nineteenth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most Protestants called themselves Evangelical , which then could have been equated with " Mainline Protestant . " Robert Baird , in Religion in America , simply divided his map into " Evangelical " and " Nonevangelical " spheres , relegating only a few minuscule Protestant churches like Unitarianism and Universalism to the latter camp . ' ' Contemporary fundamentalism , as Clabaugh notes ... can be traced to a series of twelve pamphlets , The Fundamentals : A Testimony to the Truth , which appeared in the years 1910 to 1912 . These pamphlets were a reaction to the spread of modernism . They dealt with subjects like the virgin birth of Christ , his physical resurrection , the literal infallibility of the Bible , and the substitutionary blood atonement . A group of conservative Protestant leaders adopted the term " Fundamental " from this series of pamphlets and set about to combat the spread of modernism . To this end the World Christian Fundamentals Association was founded in 1918 . Although the original movement was primarily Baptist in origin , it soon spread to other denominations . The Fundamentalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than it was directly inspired by God and literally infallible . They bitterly resisted any use of modern historical research and criticism . They maintained that the Bible contained no myths and that it could only be interpreted as a series of statements of fact . They also opposed religious involvement in the achievement of social justice and declared the social gospel movement to be an apostasy ... . The movement 's most marked characteristic was its predilection for opposing virtually every aspect of modern life . This negativism was not confined to theological matters . It became the last ditch position of rural and small-town Protestant America . It was here that the encroachments of cosmopolitan sophistication and its attendant rationalism were to be resisted to the end . Fundamentalism may have reached its apogee , in terms of its national influence , during the evolution controversy of the 1920 's . Nevertheless , it is currently attracting many new members . In fact , shorn of some of its dogmatism and self-righteousness by the abrasive effects of the twentieth century , the Fundamentalist movement contains some of the fastest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , then , fundamentalism appears to have emerged as a " defense of the agrarian culture of the nineteenth century against the developing urban culture . " From a theological point of view , however , and , as Williams notes , ... Fundamentalism is an effort to assert traditional dogma , reaffirming the ancient and medieval view of the relation of God to nature . The Catholic view of God and of nature is accepted , except that most //  | mankind that the Bible is His special revelation and is to be taken literally . This purpose having been accomplished , there is no reason for God to interfere further with the course of nature . But Fundamentalists have no doubt about the Biblical miracles . The sun stood still , the ax floated , the water turned to wine , actually and literally , just as narrated in the Bible . Fundamentalists are just as sure these things happened as they are of the things that occur in their own living rooms , and surer than they are of what they read in the newspapers . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The inerrancy and infallibility of the Bible . 2 . The virgin birth and the complete deity of Christ Jesus . 3 . The resurrection of the same body of Jesus which was three days buried . 4 . The substitutionary atonement of Jesus for the sins of the world . 5 . The second coming of Jesus in bodily form . EVANGELICAL FUNDAMENTALISM Perhaps the most visible representatives of religiously grounded educational fundamentalism are those associated with the Christian **25;517;TOOLONG tradition . This tradition , unlike the basic denominational orthodoxies of the larger and less militant " establishment " Protestant churches , is less a matter of adhering to a particular church doctrine than it is a more general approach to Christianity . Thus , while it is clearly fundamentalist in its extreme biblicism , it is far more than this . As Robert S. Ellwood phrases it in his book One Way : The Jesus Movement and Its Meaning : In America evangelicalism a term that Ellwood uses essentially in reference to the more specific orientation of **26;544;TOOLONG is a particular manner of interpreting Christianity . We might almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ though it also implies a certain doctrinal and psychoexperiential content . It is not a denomination , though it has spawned many and represents a party or school in many others . But characteristically the evangelical movement is not involved with denominationalism . Its most potent institutions , whether the old-time revival or the coffeehouse of the present 1973 Jesus movement , have few denominational ties and have drawn persons to its most central experience from all churches or from none . Evangelicalism 's most effective continuing organizations , from the old National Holiness Alliance to the modern Campus Crusade for Christ , have been organized independently of denominations and are cross-denominational in support . Many major evangelical churches and Bible Schools are independent . The basic tenet of evangelicalism is that a person must have a definite , deeply experienced , personal relationship with Jesus Christ . He must believe that , though no longer visible to physical eyes , Jesus is living today as much as ever ; that you can know him and talk with him ; that he is , moreover , all-powerful ; and that you @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world and the next , particularly problems of sorrow , emp- //  | the world . He stresses this atonement by personally affirming ? as the keystone of the personal relationship ? that the paid price specifically applies to his own sins . Typically , though not always , evangelicals emphasize that the establishment of the personal relationship with Christ and the acceptance of forgiveness of sins should be attained in a single powerful experience . Whether it is coming forward during an invitational hymn at a church service or revival meeting , or in deep prayer alone , somewhere a person will have his hour with God when he will sense the deep power of the holy Spirit stir within him and will see the cross before his mystic eyes , and will know that the past is past and all his scarlet sins are made white as snow . The experience is commonly called " being saved " or " becoming a Christian . " The literature is full of accounts of them . The evocation of this experience in " sinners " ? those who have not had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preaching . Personal expressions of " accepting Christ " are often quasi-ritualized by such tokens as raising the hand or coming forward . And they also include ecstatic phenomena such as shouting , trance , and uncontrollable tears . The evangelical does not forget the Christian 's life after the initial experience . With the experience or , according to some , in subsequent experiences , comes the power of the Holy Spirit , the Third Person ( with God 111 the Father , and Jesus Christ the Son ) of the triune Christian God . He gives joy and inward guidance ( " I 've got those Holy Ghost grins " ) to the believer who has accepted Christ 's salvation . For some ( the pentecostalists ) his presence is made known by " speaking in tongues . " Many evangelicals ( those in the " holiness " tradition ) affirm that after receiving the Holy Spirit , it is possible for the Christian to live , with his help , entirely free from further sin . Evangelicals have always stressed experience more than forms of church government or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : the Trinity , Christ both God and man , the Virgin Birth , the atonement for sin . While not overly preoccupied with philosophical theology , they will attack strongly those they feel to be " watering down " such central doctrines as these . Almost always they affirm vehemently the full verbal inspiration and infallibility of the Scriptures . While it may have greater or less psychological importance to individual evangelicals , they generally look toward the imminent Second Coming of Christ to judge the world . In this world , which is passing away , they expect frequent signs and wonders of the other world and its power : answer to prayer , guidance , conversion , healing . Spiritual rebirth , infallible Scripture , signs and miracles , explicit doctrine , and awareness of the approaching End , combine to build around the evangelical a magic circle invisibly cutting him off from those for whom these things have no meaning . Here he lives as in an alternative world . There is no criticism ; all persons have made their own world to a large extent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " otherness , " for a transition or rebirth to another kind of world , a hunger as biting as hunger for food and sex . " One of the things that makes the **26;572;TOOLONG Christian deeply conservative  --  and occasionally socially regressive ? in his fundamental approach to living is the fact that he frequently needs to create the kind of social //  | finds himself faced with the necessity of reconstructing society along ruralagrarian lines as a way of guaranteeing the kinds of conditions that are congruent with his Bible-centered worldview . In a sense , and as Ellwood states , such an evangelical has an " inner reality anchored outside of present time , " B1 and this creates a sense of invulnerability in this world , but it also creates a sense of disquietude about this world . " The evangelical must make himself a man of another time while living in this . " " The more you talk about the other . Biblical-time world , and the more others are brought into it , the more its reality in the present day is reinforced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a different way . It flows by like a great river too deep and turgid to differentiate ; the circle , like a refracting lens , resolves its secret motions into splendid clarity . He sees mighty rocks on the river 's bed and the creatures that dwell there ; in one place the currents are seen to run with tremendous speed , in another the river stops and appears not to flow at all ; in still others it eddies into strange side diversions . The infallibility of Scripture sets the whole narrative of the Bible , for the evangelical , in a special time capsule . It happened in the course of history , but it has not been borne away on the splashing waves of the river . Instead the Bible and its time stands like a lighthouse in the midst of history . Bible time is special ; it stands in equal relation to all other points in time . The evangelical is always contemporaneous with it , particularly with the time of Christ . He always wants to collapse into nothing all time between himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ customs and attitudes which have evolved in the life of the church between then and now . He wants to walk into the time capsule which is the New Testament world , with its miracles , its expectation of an immediate end , and above all the mighty tangible presence of Jesus Christ . He wants to be the thirteenth disciple and to write in his life the twenty-ninth chapter of the book of Acts . He yearns to merge the magic circle of his own " otherness " world , his alternative reality , with the New Testament capsule . American evangelical fundamentalism has always functioned in part as a protest against the sophisticated and learned elite of the institutional establishments . Far more concerned with preaching and singing than with the analysis of scriptural texts , such evangelicals generally reject bookishness and avoid close-reasoned disputes over doctrinal niceties in favor of " a Spiritinspired eclecticism. " 85 The history of evangelical fundamentalism in America has been intimately connected with the history of religious revivals , and such revival meetings , ending in personal decisions for Christ , are ordinarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the people , who do " not descend with priestly blessings , or smelling of the library . ' ' Theirs is , on the whole , a popular culture religion , making an " appeal for decision rather than intellectual comprehension . " All of the great religions of the world have a majority tradition . Such a tradition , states Ellwood , " is cool , official , and deeply learned . ' Within all these traditions , however , are counter movements emphasiz : ? + ti ? r : exn rience more than tradition , scholarship , digEDUCATIONAL //   dissatisfied , these movements say , " We can give you directly and intensely what is only hinted at in the official temples . We have a short path , ' a special plan or technique which can give you right away what would take years and years in the temple . * * * Evangelicalism makes a similar odd appeal , couched in Christian phraseology , offering a comparable sudden individual transformation through the " short path " of " accepting Christ " and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in a deeply felt way induced by various means ... principally by intense preaching , hymns , and the use of confrontational psychology . The primary call of evangelical fundamentalism is for " the resolution of inner complexity . " Seeking the " old-time religion , " such a person has a " sense of nostalgia for an earlier time when life was presumably simpler and more integrated , with less disparity between religious , personal , and social values . ' The man attracted to a short path is a man of complexity , a person in some ways more complicated , more torn apart by inner conflicts , than the ordinary person of his society . The process of resolving the complexity is not one of simple decomplexification . It is rather one of rearrangement of psychic constituents into a balanced pattern , like a mandala . For the evangelical this means the production of something like a dumbbellshaped map of the psyche . Everything is grouped around two poles , with a channel of access between them . The two poles are the " world " and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sovereign , the " sovereignty of Christ . ' ' " In the " confrontational psychology of evangelicalism , " continues Ellwood , " the alternative reality is a whole world , requiring inner consistency , one is either in it or not . . . . Belief either takes you to the other side , or you are nowhere . ' " . . . evangelical rhetoric , whether in sermons , or in one-to-one encounters , seeks to focus issues down to stark , black and white dimensions . . . . Spiritual issues are reduced to one : acceptance or rejection of the ' claims of Christ . ' " Accordingly , in its attitude toward American society Ellwood summarizes the evangelical tradition ( in its more fundamentalistic expressions ) as follows : 1 . The evangelicals feel nostalgic for an earlier America of the pioneers in which the faith of their spiritual fore-bears is idealized ; this leads to a conservative affirmation of traditional American symbols and institutions . 2 . There is also a reformism which usually centers around a few symbolic issues , such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic influences . These issues essentially set evangelical lift styles and moral values against strongly contrasting ones . Thus in the nineteenth century evangelicals lent support to the temperance and abolition of slavery causes and to the founding of colleges in the West // 3.  | 4 . Evangelicals in any given period will be opposed to a current educational , urban , and cultural " Establishment " from which they feel alienated : people who drink , do not believe the Bible literally , and are changing the country in directions contrary to evangelical values . 5 . The individual experience emphasis leads to confrontational as well as withdrawal attitudes toward the " outside . " Rhetoric stresses the drawing of lines between sides ; forays such as urban missions and revivals are sent into the " other camp . " The combined sense of reformism and alienation , incidentally , has led to a difficult ambivalence toward education , especially higher education . Awareness that a word-centered faith ought to give priority to study is balanced by the fact that evangelicals have very often deprecated intellectualism and education , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gifts of the Spirit as the criteria of salvation . or as the main qualification for preaching . Education which raises difficulties for the concept of full verbal inspiration of Scripture has been held especially dangerous . 6 . This confrontational attitude necessitates an almost unavoidable mentality of an isolated , alienated , almost oppressed minority among the adherents of evangelicalism , even while they also feel they are the " real " Americans and that in some paradoxical sense the great " silent majority " of Americans are like them . In a way this is true ; while serious evangelicals are a minority , probably most Protestant Americans have somewhere guilty feelings that if they were serious about religion , they would be like the evangelicals . 7 . The activism and the sense of isolation from the " outside " reinforce each other in evangelical mentality . With a vigor like that of small town lodges and chambers of commerce , evangelical institutions work hard to promote rallies , Sunday schools , tours , programs , and revivals . Sporting and military terms , and often heroes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evangelicalism rarely lacks the feel of a belligerent but beleaguered army surrounded by its foes . It must be that this mentality is somehow necessary to the self-identity evangelicalism gives to its adherents . They are happiest as a minority assured that a revival is going on which may vindicate them in the near future . They love statistics indicating growth and often post them conspicuously in churches . This is activism induced by deferred reward thinking , in contrast to those more mystical religions stressing enjoying the present moment with God . The Pentecostals Within the American evangelical tradition exists the comparatively recent tradition of pentecostalism . Beginning about the turn of the century among the most dispossessed members of American society , the poor whites and blacks of both the rural and urban South , pentecostalism is perhaps America 's most significant contribution to Christianity . It is currently the most rapidly expanding of the generally recognized types of Christianity in the so-called Third World , numbering over thirty-five million adherents across the globe . Pentecostalism is based in John Wesley 's doctrine of Christian perfectionism //   coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receiving a " second blessing , " after the baptism of the Holy Spirit , the true believer is allowed to continue living a sinless life . " It was , " as Ellwood indicates , but a short step to believe that a community informed with this blessing should possess all the marks of the New Testament church and its spiritual signs and powers as well ? healing , the power to pick up serpents , and above all the ability to speak in new tongues ( glossolalia ) as did the apostles on the day of Pentecost , when witnesses at first thought them full of new wine . " Pentecostalism is not restricted to particular churches such as the Assemblies of God or the Pentecostal Assemblies . In recent years it has occurred with increasing frequency in some of the more staid Protestant denominations such as the Episcopalian and the Presbyterian . In the late sixties , the " tongues " movement became active in the Roman Catholic Church , and there is presently a rather active Catholic pentecostal movement that holds annual conferences . Most pentecostalists believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pray with great intensity for quite specific outcomes . Pentecostalist groups , whether within or without particular established church groups , tend to be deeply involved with healing , and they frequently employ such approaches as direct prayer and the laying on of hands in this pursuit . The Apocalyptics Some fundamentalist Christian groups also tend to be apocalyptic , holding that the end of the world , with the return of Christ and the beginning of the millenium ( the one-thousand-year kingdom of God on earth ) is imminent . Apocalypticism is only one of the ways in which Christian evangelism incorporates the temporal world into the essentially supernatural dimensions of its alternative worldview . In most instances , the Coming , the Final Judgment and the Kingdom of God are viewed as occurring at the end of a series of progressively deepening catastrophies , such as wars and plagues . Such apocalyptic visions are usually substantiated by means of biblical sources , usually calling upon the books of Daniel , Ezekiel and Revelation as well as certain parts of the Gospel of Mark . Such apocalyptic fervor is not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hysteria before the year 1000 , with many Christians believing that ( ' hrist would reappear in that year . Today many look upon the year 2000 as a probable date for the end of history . In all events , Christianity , like the other fundamental Western religious orientations of Judaism and Islam , have always rejected the Eastern religions ' view that history is essentially " circular , " encompassed within an eternal process of divine play , featuring an unending round of cycles and reincarnations , and has opted instead for the idea that time is essentially linear , " a straight line marked by irreversible periods and unrepeatable events starting with the creation of the world by God and ending with his final judgment . ' //  | is certainly connected to the rise of " historicism . " Ours has been an age of a radical rediscovery of history ? the definitive discovery that events move in an irreversible sequence and can be interpreted as having a meaning which points toward the future . That is , events can be signs . The Marxist , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lay over the puzzle of historical events . In some cases , of course , the temporal world as it presently exists is looked upon as intolerable , subverting religious needs to the extent that the individual or group must retreat from it altogether as a way of salvaging its spiritual integrity . In such cases , which most often occur within apocalyptic religious groups , the group most frequently tends to form a community apart from the general society . Such Christian communities tend to be of two basic sorts : ( 1 ) those which presume a reasonably long future and which are therefore oriented toward social stability and economic survival within the present society , such as the Hutterian Brethren ( the Hutterites ) , or the Bruderhof communities within the Protestant tradition , or the monastic movement within the Roman Catholic and Orthodox traditions ; or ( 2 ) those which ( like the Qumran community in ancient Palestine ) assume a relatively imminent apocalypse and which are therefore oriented toward immediate spiritual self-perfection without regard for the development of new and sustaining social and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movement " communes as The Children of God ) RIGHT-WING CHRISTIAN FUNDAMENTALISM The fundamentalist Christian ( and generally Protestant ) radical right ? what Clabaugh terms " the Fundradists " 100 ? is only one expression of the basic fundamentalist tradition in this country , and the contention that America is God 's country is probably viewed with deep misgiving by most fundamentalists . " In a similar sense , any attempt to equate the fundamentalist Christian radical right with the remainder of the Radical Right is also extremely hazardous . As Clabaugh states : While it is easy in principle to establish the distinction between Fundradists and the remainder of the Radical Right , it is not as easy in practice . This is because Fundradists organizations are arranged on a continuum which ranges from the Radical Right with no overt Fundamental Protestant beliefs or attitudes to Fundamental Protestant with the suggestion of Radical Right propensities . As a consequence of this distribution along a continuum , any attempt to clearly distinguish Fundradists from the rest of the Radical Right , or from groups bordering on the Radical Right , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of the situation is further compounded by the fact that the continuum is multidimensional . Not only must the overt display of beliefs and attitudes he dealt with , hut the matter of covert factors may be confronted with a Radical Rightist orEDUCATIONAL //   theology . Yet , this organization might well be a secular offshoot of this very same theology . In other words , they could be " fundamentalist " in everything but their overt expression of opinion about theological matters . ' 02 However this may be , the hybrid blend of nationalism and religion introduces a fervent chauvinistic religious nationalism ? what Jorstad calls " the politics of doomsday " 103 ? as the distinguishing characteristic of one type of " civil religion " that is probably best exemplified by such individuals as Dr. Carl McIntire ( leader of the American and International Councils of Christian Churches and the Twentieth Century Reformation ) , Dr. Billy James Hargis ( leader of Christian Crusade and member of the International Council of Christian Churches ) , Mr. Edgar C. Bundy ( leader of the Church League of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Christian Churches ) , and Mr. Verne P. Kaub ( leader of the American Council of Christian Laymen , which merged with the American Council of Christian Churches following Mr. Kaub 's death in 1964 ) .104 As Jorstad indicates , throughout recent American history , but probably most actively during the decade of the sixties , a tiny but vehement band of Protestants denounced every change as being for the worse , and not only " worse " but in fact disastrous for the cause of Christianity in the world . Instead of relevance their leaders call for a " Twentieth Century Reformation , " a " Christian Crusade , " a total sweeping out of every element in American church life which deviated from their understanding of pure New Testament Christianity . American church people stood not on the threshhold of a creative new age , but on the brink of total destruction . The myriad of changes was absolute proof that this nation and the world now faced the Last Days . Satan had cleverly disguised his soldiers as clergymen who had convinced most Americans that they were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this really meant was that Satan had laid his plans for the Battle of Armageddon . Soon , at any moment now , he would come out of hiding and challenge God for control of this planet . Unless America repented at once , it would face the horrors of doomsday . These leaders were " the fundamentalists of the far right , " or " ultrafundamentalists . " Their bill of particulars was very long and precise . The changes in church-state relations , the ecumenical movements , and the increasing social outreach of the churches were nothing more than the Devil fornicating with the whore of Babylon ( Rev. 17 ) . An insidious conspiracy was at work uniting Washington , Rome , Moscow , and Geneva ( the World Council of Churches ) into the kingdom of Lucifer . Every social reform from civil rights to fluoridation , from the income tax to social security , was the creation of the Communists who took orders from Satan . ' Overview of Christian Fundamentalism . In general , Christian fundamentalism can he viewed as a continuum that ranges from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( such as the Assembly of God and Foursquare Gospel ) , stressing direct communication with the Holy Spirit ; through ( 2 ) the less extreme but nevertheless rigid and Bible-centered fundamentalism   re members of the Interdenominational Fundamentalist Churches of America ; 3 ( 3 ) the more institutionalized fundamentalism of certain of the established protestant denominations like the Southern Baptists and Lutherans ( who freluently term themselves " neo-evangelical " to distinguish themselves from the pore vehemently anti-intellectual evangelism true of the independent churches ) . Still another way of viewing the differences between Christian ( and generally Protestant ) fundamentalist groups ? one which makes the locus of authority its essential point of departure ? is presented in Figure 4-4 . In a broader sense , if the ultimate source of authority is employed as the basic means of distinguishing between all Christian groups , the sort of classification presented in Figure 4 ? 5 emerges . Overview of Reactionary Conservatism Reactionary Conservatism is not a monolithic point of view , and , in general , the reactionary Conservatives tend to differ most significantly with respect to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 2 ) the intellectual basis ( or lack thereof ) for claims about revealed and/or intuitive truth . At basis , then , there are four fundamental types of reactionary conservatism : ( 1 ) those religious reactionary Conservatives who ground their beliefs upon a more or less literal interpretation of accepted scriptures or authoritative teachings ( as in most evangelical fundamentalist churches ) ; ( 2 ) those religious reactionary Conservatives who ground their beliefs upon a more or less literal interpretation of accepted scriptures or authoritative teachings but place primary emphasis upon some personal conversion or rebirth experience ( such as the pentecostal fundamentalists ) ; ( 3 ) those secular reactionary Conservatives who emphasize intellectual , direct intuition or " common sense " as a matter of philosophical principle ( as in naziism or fascism ) ; and ( 4 ) those secular reactionary totalitarians who emphasize either nonintellectual , direct intuition or " common sense " without recourse to any sort of theoretical rationale whatsoever ( as in some expressions of the prophetic nation-as-transcendent brand of " civil religion " ) . These various subvarieties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A SUMMARY For the educational fundamentalist , contemporary society is faced with imminent moral collapse , and the highest imperative is consequently to reform conventional standards of belief and behavior by returning to the morally superior virtues characteristic of an earlier day and age . Accordingly , the goal of the school is to restore the older and better ways in order to reconstruct the existing social order . in all of the educational ideologies , there are two basic types of educaEDUCATIONAL //   convictions , and , while he may occasionally employ religious or quasi-religious terminology , he tends to ground his position in more or less intuitive or " common sense " assumptions rather than on revelation or faith . The religious fundamentalist maintains that the ultimate purpose of education ? that is , to revive and reaffirm the older and better ways , to reestablish traditional standards of belief and behavior ? is always decidedly secondary to the overriding universal goal of working for the salvation of the immortal soul , and that such salvation is primarily a matter of recognizing and obeying the will of God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disregarding the differences between the secular and religious points of view within the tradition of educational fundamentalism , the basic ideology of the educational fundamentalist can be summarized as follows : The Overall Goal of Education . The central purpose of education is to revive and reaffirm the older and better ways , to reestablish traditional standards of belief and behavior. * The Objectives of the School . The school exists for two basic reasons : ( 1 ) to help reconstruct society by encouraging a return to its original purposes , and , in so far as this is consistent with the foregoing objective , ( 2 ) to transmit the information and skills necessary to succeed within the existing social order . General Characteristics . Educational fundamentalism can be characterized in the following ways : It maintains that knowledge is primarily a tool for reconstructing society in pursuit of some earlier paitern of moral excellence . It emphasizes man as moral agent , stressing adherence to a clear and comprehensive moral code and emphasizing the value of patriotism , narrowly defined . It is tacitly anti-intellectual , opposing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It views education primarily as a process of moral regeneration . It focuses on the original purposes of existing social traditions and institutions , emphasizing a return to the past as a corrective reorientation to the current overemphasis on the present and future . It emphasizes the reintroduction of time-tested earlier ways , the need to return to the real or imagined virtues of a prior era . It is based on a closed social and/or religious system characteristic of an earlier era , advocating a return to the ostensibly superior conditions that once prevailed . footnote*Fundamentalist orientations differ in their concepts of what constitutes the " idealized past . " Butne locate it in the " shallow past " ( for example , the American frontier in the late nineteenth century or a romanticized version of small-town America around the turn of the century ) while ors tend to locate the ideal past further hack in history ( for example , in an idealized vision of the only land in biblical times ) . In other words , the " golden age " varies from one fundamentalist point of view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways , " " traditional standand of belief and behavior , " " a return to original purposes , " and such , must necessarily remain ambiguous , because the meaning of such phrases necessarily differs between the various //   It is grounded on implicit and/or unexamined assumptions about the nature of reality that are generally based on either " common sense , " intuitive certitude or religious faith . It holds that the ultimate intellectual authority resides in a community of true believers , that truth is determined through a consensus of the morally enlightened . The Child as Learner . The child is predisposed toward error and evil in the absence of firm guidance and sound instruction . Individual similarities are more important than individual differences , and these similarities are properly determinative in establishing appropriate educational programs . Children are morally equal in a world of objectively unequal opportunities ; they should have equal opportunities to strive for the limited number of rewards available , but success should be conditioned upon personal merit in a world characterized by vigorous competition for moral and material success . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the traditional sense . Administration and Control . Educational authority should be invested in trained academic managers who are not necessarily either intellectuals or professional educators . Teacher authority should be based on the superior moral stature of the teacher . The Nature of the Curriculum . The school should emphasize proper moral character , training the child to be a good person in terms of traditional standards of moral conduct . The school should focus on the renewal of prior cultural patterns ; it should help the child to rediscover the values inherent within basic cultural traditions . Emphasis should be placed on moral regeneration , on rebuilding society along the lines of traditional approaches to belief and behavior . The course of study should be heavily prescribed . Emphasis should be placed on ideological conformity ( moral indoctrination ) over the academic ( learning how to learn , and mastering the sort of technical knowledge and skills that are only indirectly related to more central human problems ) and the practical ( the immediately useful ) , minimizing the intellectual ( that is , the ideational , dealing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress moral training and the sort of academic and practical skills required to help the child become an effective member of an appropriately regenerated social order : the basic learning skills , character training , physical education ( including health instruction ) , American history , American literature , religious instruction , and so on . //   Instructional Methods and Evaluation . Emphasis should be placed upon traditional classroom procedures , such as lecture , recitation , supervised study , and highly structured group discussion . Drill is the best way of establishing proper habits at the lower levels , but it should evolve toward more student initiative and more self-directed approaches at advanced levels ; a significant amount of memorization and drill is necessary . Teacher-determined and teacher-directed learnings are best , because the student is not sufficiently enlightened to direct his own process of intellectual development . The teacher should be viewed as a model of moral and academic excellence . Tests that measure skills and information are preferable to those that emphasize analytic ability and abstract speculation . Interpersonal competition for grades between students is both necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be placed on the cognitive ( particularly the informational ) with a heavy secondary emphasis on the affective and the interpersonal . Emphasis should be placed upon the restoration of traditional ( national and/or ethnic ) educational principles and practices . Personal counseling and psychotherapy are functions of the family and/or the church , not the school . Classroom Control . Students should be good citizens in conformity with the ideal of a morally regenerated society . Teachers should generally be nonpermissive in procedures for maintaining classroom control , and students should be expected to conform to duly constituted authority . Moral education ( character training ) is the basic and overriding purpose of schooling .   Educational intellectualism , like all of the other ideologies , is based upon certain overriding considerations in the areas of moral and political philosophy . As the moral philosophy that identifies the highest good with philosophical and/or religious enlightenment based upon perfection of reason , intellectualism is generally founded upon three philosophical assumptions . 1 . The world is inherently meaningful . There are certain fundamental truths ? natural or divine laws ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determine personal experience . 2 . Men are not born with an explicit knowledge of these truths , so a conscious awareness of them must be acquired through learned experience in the natural world . 3 . In all but the most exceptional cases ? such as religious revelation or mystical intuition ? these truths are apprehensible through the exercise of reason . Rationalism . Phrased somewhat differently , the rationalist tradition associated with intellectualism ( and particularly secular intellectualism ) subscribes to the notion that the individual is rationally disposed to recognize certain basic truths when they occur . This takes place either through " reminiscence " in the Platonic sense ( that is , because they are inherent within the mind to begin with and therefore are , in a sense , " matched up " and remembered when such ideas are evoked by some actual experience in the natural world ) ; or because , in the less esoteric and mystical Aristotelian tradition , they tend to invoke a sense of almost aesthetic closure ( experienced as a sort of intuitive certitude ) because of the inherent " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual 's distinctive intelligence ) and the infinitely rational nature of that which is known ( the ultimate structure of the intelligible world ) . This " verification by reason " argument of the intellectualist warrants special comment , because , at least from an empirical point of view , it appears to he in error on two counts . First , reason ( in the strict sense of formal logic ) does not address itself to the nature of truth-assumptions but , rather , to the relationships ( inferences ) that are possible on the basis of given truth-assumptions , Logically , the empirical generalizations ( truth-assumptions ) that derive from pure reasonEDUCATIONAL //   ing must have been implicit within the assumptions employed as logical propositions at the beginning of the reasoning process . Not even the laws of logic themselves can be established logically , because they constitute primary truthassumptions that are necessary before logical reasoning can commence . Second , truth-assumptions can not be established through some process of purely " empirical " logic such as scientific verification procedures , because such empirical procedures themselves exist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such assumptions in any primary sense . In an even more basic way , then , even such empirical procedures represent assumptive-truths ( primary assumptions ) that can not be tested in and of themselves without falling into a process of unavoidably circular reasoning . Absolute Truth . For the intellectualist , Truth is not man-made , and it is no private matter . On the contrary , there are certain truths and values that exist independent of being known . These qualities do not " exist " ( from the Greek exstasis , " to stand out " ) so much as they " subsist , " or undergird , all personal experience . They do not " adhere " to Being so much as they " inhere " within Being , and constitute the very essence of the world as we know it . These essential qualities of Being ( which may be defined in a variety of different ways , ranging from the abstract concept of beauty or the formal principles of mathematics to the basic laws of physics ) are absolute ' in the sense that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ very ground of Being . First Principles . Behind the flux of transitory existence , then , there lies an intransitive ( or , at the very least , imperceptibly evolving ) core of meaning , an irreducible set of metaphysical first principles , that are not derivative in the sense of growing out of experience but fundamental in the sense that they cause us to experience the world in the way in which we do . Implicit within Being there are certain essential ' and abstract properties that exist independent of the " accidental " aspects of life and which constitute the very center of universal meaning . There is , then , such a thing as absolute knowledge ( Truth ) , and this knowledge transcends mere personal experience . As philosopher Mortimer Adler notes " ... philosophy does not exist unless it is absolute and universal knowledge ? absolute in the sense that it is not relative to the contingent circumstances of time and place ; universal in the sense that it is concerned with essentials and abstracts from every sort of merely accidental variation . " ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is epistemologically Infallible and therefore incapable of reasonable doubt . Indeed , these absolute truths not only exist , they exist on an intuitive ( but undemonstrable ) basis . They are absolute and indubitable precisely because they are not relative to king known or to being proven in terms of other things that have already been e xperienced . They are , in this sense , " true , " not on the basis of evidence ( personal experience ) but self evidently , in and of themselves . Such ideas can- beproven in the usual sense , because to be true by proof is to be relative to Awing proven . Indeed , to know prior to proof , as a condition for all subsequent prNff , is an unavoidable requirement for any sort of ultimate philosophical " objectivity " ( as this term is ordinarily used in traditional philosophy ) . //  | are frequently cited examples ? defy either verification or refutation , then , because they are first principles ( primary assumptions ) , which precede all particular experience whatsoever and provide the necessary basis for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the verdict of experience , because they serve as the necessary conditions for experience itself . They can not be " known " in the usual sense at all , because they are a priori and intuitive . Their existence is perceived directly and requires no external verification whatsoever . They are true by definition , tautologically ; they are because they are . Taken together , such ideas comprise the essence of Being . They serve as the internal dynamic , the reason and regulating force , behind everything that is . They provide the eternal possibilities ? what philosopher George Santayana calls " the realm of essences " ? which are expressed in the world of appearance . At basis , then , the underlying nature of the physical is the metaphysical . The raison d'etre of existence is essence . The most " real " knowledge is ultimately , abstract , for the abstract designates a persisting set of relations that transcends all temporary embodiment in the material . Ultimately , all material objects and events are merely superficial expressions of underlying forms or ideas . " Qualities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , by instances . The instances co-exist with other instances . Thus , an instance of gold will be instances of qualities of yellowness , malleability , and so on , co-existing in the same area of space at a given time . " 2 Ultimately , however , every actual object is no more than a particular expression of certain general attributes or qualities . In the final analysis , we can only know the cup through its whiteness , its fragility , its roundness , its smoothness , and so on . We can only know the chair through its solidity , its roughness , its brownness , its angularity . The metaphysical philosophies in which the intellectualist tradition is rooted are ultimately nonempirical in the sense that they reject the idea that all knowledge is ultimately personal knowledge , that all knowing is necessarily " evident " and grounded in sense-perceptual encounters with particular objects and events . If essence ( Truth ) precedes and determines existence ( personal experience ) , it necessarily stands to reason that essence must be knowable in some significant sense prior to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge may occur as either immanent knowledge or transcendent knowledge . Immanent knowledge is , quite simply , knowledge ( meaning ) that exists prior to any sort of purely personal experience whatsoever and is therefore independent of any personal act of knowing . Such knowledge ( the " inherent knowledge " of man 's inalienable free will might serve as an example ) is simply implicit within human nature as such . It is man 's nature to know these things ; they are intuitive in the sense that they defy any sort of reasonble doubt . footnote*The term immanent is frequently associated with the related terms instinctual and innate . They are closely related but not necessarily synonymous . To be very simplistic , the terms innate and instinctual generally refer to behavior rather than to knowledge , or , at the least , to a predisposition toward the sort of behavior that tends to elicit certain types of knowledge . Thus , innate or instinctual behavior is inborn , and , other things equal , such behavior indirectly generates a certain kind of knowing . In most instaces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emerg . ... - .. , . ti .. t Im , . huhnu countuvcl cmmxments tf they cunt at //   Transcendent knowledge exists in a metaphysical realm beyond the individual 's awareness but is capable of being communicated directly to him without any sort of personal ( empirical ) mediation whatsoever . In such cases ? revelation , mystical intuition , and so forth ? the truths are communicated quite involuntarily by some higher power who speaks through the individual . Such truths are beyond doubt , because they signify a direct contact with the realm of essence that is in no way adulterated by the usual sort of subjective processes . There are three basic ways in which transcendent knowledge occurs : through revelation , through mystical intuition , and through reason . The Paths of Transcendent Knowledge In revelation , truth is revealed directly through a recognized spiritual source , usually God . Such knowledge is infallible , because it is not subject to the usual processes of knowing . In revelation , the knower is generally characterized as passive . God talks through one , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received a revelation . Most revelation is known indirectly by means of faith . Faith ( in the usual sense of the word ) is the act of believing in someone else 's revelation . Faith necessarily goes beyond reason and natural evidence , and is ultimately grounded in mystical intuition . Mystical intuition , as it applies to notions of transcendent truth , is actually a sort of crypto-revelation . One knows directly and immediately , and one knows beyond all doubt , but what is known is in no sense evidential ( in the respect that it reflects merely a sudden explicit awareness of the meaning inherent within purely personal experience ) . As in revelation , one is seized by a nonempirical certitude , but , unlike revelation , this knowledge can not be traced to an identifiable supernatural source . Reason , viewed as an approach to transcendent , or metaphysical , knowledge which is essentially a " rationalist " approach to reason and therefore significantly different than the view of " reason-as-applied-logic " which is more characteristic of the empirical point of view in philosophy ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ within existence is through reflection and logical analysis . In this process , the individual distinguishes those things that are metaphysically certain ( self-evident ) from those that are merely probable ( evident ) and develops a full and coherent system of general beliefs by logicial Inference on this basis . While such reason is not always capable of directly verifying ultimate truths , since many are ultimately based upon revelation , faith or intuition , it is capable of verifying them indirectly by proving that they are the most coherent and convincing explanations possible . In this way " rational //   thinking " is the best means of attaining speculative wisdom , which is the ultimate source of philosophical or religious enlightenment . The metaphysical philosopher 's contention that truth is directly apprehensible by means of reason is very controversial for a number of reasons , but , in general , his fundamental line of reasoning would seem to be captured in three basic ideas . 1 . Man , being rational , finds the most " rational " answers unavoidably convincing . 2 . The most " rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in terms of those things ? for instance , free will , the existence of a personal God , and such ? that are already known to be true on a self-evident basis . 3 . Therefore , Truth is directly accessible to reason , because ( a ) certain things are self-evidently true to begin with and represent either immanent or transcendent knowledge , and ( b ) rational inferences based upon these selfevident beliefs lead inexorably to certain overall conclusions that simply defy any sort of reasonable doubt . Intellectualism , like fundamentalism , tends to wed authoritarian means to authoritarian ends . In most cases , the intellectualist concept of reality , like that of the fundamentalist , is relatively definitive , offering a general prescription for a certain way of thinking and acting . Virtually all intellectualists propound a universalistic " open self " ethic , and almost all tend to prescribe the training of the intellect as the preeminent ( natural ) means for leading the individual toward philosophical or religious enlightenment . The overall goal is the enlightened ( and therefore self-realized ) person , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state , thereby guiding the educational process , which will ultimately determine the enlightenment of others . The exact nature of the political system required is largely determined by how potentially capable of enlightenment the average person is considered to be . Since most intellectualists view reason as the preeminent characteristic of natural man , most tend to be relatively optimistic about the average person 's capacity for attaining enlightenment through proper training and education . The classical Aristotelian position holds that man is rational in nature , is predisposed to exercise this rationality in living , and is preinclined to recognize the truth by means of reason ? in other words , an intelligent being is inherently harmonized with an intelligible world and therefore possesses a sort of " aesthetic " recognition of the truth when he finally arrives at it . This is perhaps the most commonly encountered point of view among contemporary intellectualists of both the secular ( generally Aristotelian ) and religious ( generally Thomistic ) varieties , both of whom tend in their political orientation to be democratic rather than aristocratic . Generally speaking , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inherent in such a meritocratic vision is ameliorated by the fact that they tend to see virtually all men as potentially meritorious and therefore capable of participating in the political system . A few intellectualists to the less optimistic and far more aristocratic Platonic posiEDUCATIONAL //   these few should govern , selected to rule through an educational system designed to separate the potentially enlightenable from those destined for less exalted ends . In either case , however , the intellectualist 's ideas about education tend to flow logically from his overall moral and political philosophy . The schools should exist primarily to bring everyone to the peak of their potentialities . Those who attain the ideal moral and intellectual stature should properly assume control over the state , and the schools , as one of the central agencies within the state , should guarantee the appropriate education for everyone . ( The secular intellectualists are perhaps more rigorous in their intellectual orientation than the religious intellectualists , because the religious intellectualists tend to place less reliance in reason as such , looking upon it as basically the means of arriving @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view which , however , can ultimately only be known fully through an act of faith ) . * SECULAR AND THEISTIC INTELLECTUALISM Within the intellectualist tradition , which posits the ultimate value of philosophical or religious enlightenment , there are two basic points of view , one theistic and one secular . The theistic orientation consists of all of those positions that assume the existence of a personal God who can be characterized in four ways : ( 1 ) He is an active force in the determination of contemporary events . ( 2 ) He has personality ; that is , he is person-like , thinking and feeling in a manner very much like human beings . ( 3 ) He can be communicated with . ( 4 ) He can , on occasion , be induced to intercede in human affairs . The secular point of view , on the other hand , is represented by all of those philosophies that hold either that ( 1 ) there is no personal God ( atheism ) ; or ( 2 ) there is no way to determine the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agnosticism , because it denies the possibility of knowing God regardless of his existence , functions as a secular tradition , because it denies the practical usefulness of any sort of theological speculation . Atheism is implicitly a metaphysical point of view , because it is based on the conviction that it is possible to possess certain knowledge that a personal God does not exist . footnote*Another philosophy that is strongly intellectualist in its approach to education is that of the wellknown novelist-philosopher Ayn Rand . Rand 's philosophy of " objectivism , " which is perhaps the 611101 known expression of right-wing " libertarianism , " advocates a rigorous intellectualism in eduan ( as well as the elimination of free , universal , and compulsory public education as it presently IM% ) . Since she advocates what might be described as a sort of " right-wing anarchism , " a more description of her ideas is reserved for Chapter VII . should he emphasized here that only theistic and secular intellectualism as they exist in Western are being discussed here . Eastern societies do not necessarily subscribe to these distinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position in all of its three basic //   With respect to theism , the term religious is frequently confusing , because it is often used to encompass three " religious " orientations that are fundamentally nontheistic . These are pantheism , deism , and panentheism . Pantheism is the position that holds that God is to be found in everything , that God is immanent within all Being . It is essentially an identifying of God with nature and therefore constitutes a denial of God as a personality . Deism is the point of view that accepts God only as an historical agent , a force that originally created the universe but is no longer actively involved in its operations . Panentheism is the less well-known position that holds that God is nothing less than the active interrelating of all of the determinative principles ( truths , ideas ) that shape and control the universe . Phrased somewhat differently , the panentheist holds that God is , in effect , a sort of transcendent and impersonal " idea-gestalt " or " cosmic consciousness . " At basis , all three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear to be religious , are not religious in the traditional sense , because they are nontheistic and serve implicity to deny the personal relevance of God as an active and identifiable force in contemporary affairs . In short , whatever word homage they may pay to the idea of " God , " all of these orientations actually function as secular points of view , because they deny the personality of God , his concern for the individual , or his possible intercession in human affairs . Theism , on the other hand , and as philosopher Alan Watts so acutely notes , is fundamentally a " political cosmology " that " presupposes a fractured way of experiencing the world . " " God is not , as in Hindu cosmology , the underlying identity of the differences , but one of the differences ? albeit the ruling difference . Man is related to God as to another distinct person , as subject to king or as son to father . The individual is , from the beginning and out of nothing , created separate and must bring himself to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In general , the secular and theistic traditions within the intellectualist point of view take very similar positions ; the overall intellectualist orientation is summarized graphically in Figure 5-1 .   The Secular View The secular tradition differs from the theistic primarily in how it defines ultimate Truth . For the secular rationalist , Truth is ultimately metaphysical in the sense that it is highly abstract and consists of meaning that transcends any particular objects or events in the natural world . It is not , however , necessarily supernatural in the sense of existing in a realm apart from the physical world as such . Phrased somewhat differently , Truth is frequently viewed as the meaning of the whole ? the qualities of the gestalt , or total system ? which is not found in any particular aspect or aspects of the whole . Such meaning , which describes what modern physics might term " characterisitics of the total field , " transcends any particular representation and can only therefore be known intuitively , in a way that resists satisfactory verbal ( part-to-whole ) definition . For the secular rationalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are also the global insights that ideally provide the consummation for all speculative reason . Indeed , it is reason that leads the mind , step by step , to the point of visionary transformation where reason itself is able to integrate all the painstaking knowledge that was previously acquired into certain global insights that constitute a suprarational sense of certitude that goes beyond the boundaries of natural reason altogether . Thus , in the philosophy of Aristotle , which is perhaps the best representation of the secular rationalist position , we are presented with a line of reasoning that can be roughly summarized as follows : I. All men are rational . 2 . A rational man naturally seeks Truth through the application of reason , and finds the most rational answers inherently convincing beyond all reasonable doubt . 3 . Intellectual consensus about the nature of Truth is implicit within reason itself . Man is rational ( predisposed toward the discovery of ultimate meaning through the application of reason ) , and he exists in an inherently rational ( meaningful ) world . When man 's reason encounters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Truth . Understanding is the relationship between an intelligent knower and an intelligible world . In knowing , man transcends the sensible limits of the body . He relates to a wider context , to the intelligibility of the universe itself . Therefore truth is the inevitable convergence of subjective ( personal ) reason and objective ( universal ) reason . 4 . Therefore the best preparation for wisdom ( Truth ) is to cooperate with man 's rational nature by training the mind , by developing his natural capacity to reason effectively . ( See Figure 5-2 . ) The Religious View The religious attitude differs from the secular tradition primarily in that it views reason as merely one step in the enlightenment process . Where the secular rationalist sees reason as necessary and sufficient , culminating in rationally directed intuitive leaps that defy doubt , the religious rationalist sees reason as necessary but not sufficient , requiring both faith and revelation as additional haws for true knowing . Indeed , from the religious rationalist 's point of view , faith ideally precede 's reason , and it is reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Self-realization   view of the religious rationalist , faith without reason is wrong , because man is a rational animal , and this rationality , fully developed , inevitably terminates in true faith . Indeed , true faith is ultimately the most reasonable answer to the most important of life 's problems . The Thomistic Philosophy . The religious rationalist 's position is perhaps best represented in the philosophy of Saint Thomas Aquinas , and can be summarized roughly as follows : 1 . Reality ( Truth ) is both natural and supernatural . 2 . Natural Truth ( metaphysical knowledge with respect to the ultimate nature of the temporal world ) is apprehensible by means of reason . Man is naturally rational ; he seeks the Truth by employing reason and finds the most reasonable answers inherently convincing . 3 . Reason is a necessary but not a sufficient condition for apprehending Truth . Supernatural Truth ? that is , knowledge concerning the ultimate nature of the external world , including such things as a knowledge of the existence of God , a belief in the divinity of Christ , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lend itself to purely natural determination by means of reason and evidence . 4 . In order to grasp Truth , it is necessary to supplement reason with faith in the perfect knowledge that derives ( directly or indirectly ) from divine revelation or from the authority of the Church ( which serves as God 's agent on earth ) . There is no inherent conflict between reason and faith , and whatever differences appear to exist are merely ostensible differences growing out of the imperfect state of contemporary knowledge and man 's natural intellectual fallibility . Ultimately , when reason is perfect and evidence is complete , reason will confirm the teachings of faith , and the two will be found to be not merely compatible but mutually supporting . 5 . Supernatural knowledge is nonrational , but it is not irrational . Ideally , the teachings of faith should be presented through reason , as a logical inference from the known . When this is done , the supernatural pronouncements of faith become convincing beyond all doubt , because ( a ) they are the logical outgrowth of man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) they reflect a vision of reality that is so overwhelmingly meaningful as to he rationally irresistihle. // FIGURE 5-3 THEISTIC RATIONALISM Revelation ( transmitted through faith ) can be justified by reason ( which ideally leads to )   a natural ( if suprarational ) intuitive confirmation of essentially supernatural truths ( which were initially transmitted on a prerational basis by revelation and/or faith ) . Some Roman Catholic Traditions . It should be added here , particularly in view of the foregoing discussion of differences within some of the non-Catholic ( and generally Protestant ) fundamentalist groups and also in view of subsequent discussions of other non-Catholic Christian orientations , that not all Roman Catholicism is based upon the Thomistic philosophy discussed here . Thomism is the official philosophy of the Roman Catholic Church , but Roman Catholicism , like all large and complex religions , encompasses a variety of different points of view that deviate in significant degree from official policy . Thus , to he completely fair to the variations of belief that exist wihtin Roman Catholicism , it is perhaps wise to view this religion as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ranging from the relatively simple sort of " folk religion " that might be found in a place like Haiti to the theological " anarchism " exemplified by such individuals as St. John of the Cross . VALUES The distinction between theistic and secular points of view within the overall orientation of intellectualism is particularly significant in the area of values . Here proponents of the intellectualist tradition tend to break down into two major groups on the basis of religious orientation . The position of the secular intellectualist can be essentially summarized in two points : I. The question of value is basically a question of effective behavior within the natural world , of being able to live in harmony with that which is , of being able to adapt oneself to the imperatives of temporal reality . 2 . In general , the best guide to effective behavior is a profound insight into the nature of such reality ? that is , a true knowledge of that which is objectively good and true . The position of the theistic intellectualist is more complicated , because he accept a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) is both //   into not only two but three basic spheres : ( 1 ) the self ( the natural subject with supernatural attributes ? the supernatural aspect frequently being referred to as the " soul " ) ; ( 2 ) the world ( the natural object ) ; and ( 3 ) God ( the supernatural determinative reality that transcends and , in some sense , determines both subject and object ) . What this means with respect to values can , again , be summarized roughly in two points : 1 . There are natural values that represent the principles of action governing effective behavior in the ordinary , temporal world . Such values ? the laws of logic , the principles ensuring civic order , and so on ? are not separate from supernatural values in any absolute sense , since the temporal world is also founded upon eternal principles , which are ultimately grounded in the divine ( supernatural ) . On the other hand , such natural laws represent a lower order of moral reality than that expressed in explicitly supernatural values such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emanate directly from the divine by means of revelation and which are not fundamentally reliant upn natural evidence or reason . 2 . In the moral realm , supernatural values take precedence over natural values , and the violation of divine injunctions is a graver transgression than trespasses against natural laws . There is , then , a natural hierarchy of values that can be outlined as follows : I. SUPERNATURAL VALUES A. Ultimate Supernatural Values ( for example , salvation , immortality , a reconciliation with God , and such ) B. Immediate Supernatural Values ( obedience to God 's will as directly revealed within the natural world ? for example , the Ten Commandments , obedience to church authority as a temporal expression of Divine Will , and so on ) II . NATURAL VALUES ( obedience to God 's will as indirectly revealed in the moral principles that inhere within the natural world ? for example , standards for good citizenship , rational behavior and such ) POLITICAL AND EDUCATIONAL INTELLECTUALISM At the level of political philosophy , the moral stance of the intellectualist generally translates into what @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those expressions of political conservatism that are based upon authoritarian ( absolute ) philosophical or theologi of thought and which maintain that " right reason " inexorably leads True conclusions . In general , philosophical conservatism seeks to change Wing political ( including educational ) practices in order to make them conm more perfectly to some established and essentially unvarying intellectual spiritual ideal . It is , for example , intellectual conservatism that is reflected in writings of both Plato and Aristotle and which is central to the position of Saint Thomas Aquinas ( who , in turn , provides the philosophical basis for the dominant point of view within the Roman Catholic Church ) . Educational intellectualism. as indicated , is closely related to the traditional laphysical1 approaches to philosophy , and most of the conventional repre- when they address themselves to the problems of education . In general , then , educational intellectualism holds that there are certain absolute and enduring truths that transcend any particular time and space ; that such truths are eternal and universal ; that they have always existed ; and that they apply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any particular individual or group . Such truths can be discovered either by reason or ? in the case of the theological tradition within educational intellectualism ? by reason supplemented by revelation or faith . Accordingly , educational intellectualism tends to be past-oriented and to emphasize stability ? the continuity of the great , enduring ideas ? over change . In general , the eternal truths are best represented in the abiding masterworks of the world 's greatest minds as these are conveyed through the cultural heritage of mankind . The overall goal of education is to identify , preserve and transmit essential Truth ( that is , the central principles that govern the underlying meaning and significance of life ) . More specifically , the immediate role of the school as a particular social institution is to teach the students how to think ( that is , how to reason ) and to transmit the best thought ( the enduring wisdom ) of the past . In contemporary education , philosophical conservatism expresses itself primarily as educational intellectualism , which encompasses two basic variations : philosophical intellectualism and theological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ today by such individuals as Robert Maynard Hutchins and Mortimer Adler , who are both primarily concerned with metaphysical wisdom in the traditional Aristotelian sense and who both tend to place great emphasis on traditional " liberal arts " education in the spirit of the " Great Books . " Theological rationalism is a religious orientation that is perhaps best reflected in the writings of such contemporary Roman Catholic educational philosophers as Jacques Maritain , William McGucken , John Donohue and James Ryan . As indicated earlier , the theological intellectualist distinguishes between natural truths and supernatural truths ( and therefore between two different ways of knowing and learning ) ; he believes that the supernatural takes precedence over the natural , and he holds that educational practices should be established upon an intellectual basis that integrates the deepest and most profound insights of both philosophy and religion . From the point of view of the theological intellectualist , the ultimate purpose of education is always secondary to the ultimate purpose of life itself , which is to bring the individual into a perfect union with God . Probably the best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thomist point of view growing out of the writings of Saint Thomas Aquinas , which has traditionally dominated the Roman Catholic ap proach to education since the Middle Ages . There are , however , two other varieties of theological intellectualism that are less well known but also important . These are ( 1 ) the Jewish intellectualist tradition , which is perhaps best represented in the writings of Moses Maimonides and which is still fundamen tal in virtually all persuasions within organized Judaism ; and ( 2 ) the essentially nondenominational ( or interdenominational ) Christian intellectualism that extends from the earliest beginnings of the Christian faith through contemporary   Empirical Philosophies and Education . The more contemporary empirical philosophies ? positions such as behaviorism and experimentalism ? are most frequently associated with the more liberal educational ideologies . On the other hand , this is a correlation rather than a causal relationship , and it is possible in principle ? however improbable in fact ? for a person who subscribes to one of the " process , " or empirical philosophies , such as experimentalism , to subscribe to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) that may appear to be logically incompatible with his more basic philosophical assumptions . ( See Chapter 2 . ) An experimentalist might , for example , evolve through the following line of reasoning toward the ideology of educational conservatism : 1 . The goal of life is effective behavior. 2 . Effective behavior is based upon effective thinking . 3 . All effective thinking is effective problem solving . 4 . The most effective problem solving is that which is guided by the experimental ( scientific ) mode of inquiry or which is probable on the basis of information that has emerged from such a process of verification . 5 . Many of the more significant moral and political problems that exist today , however , are demonstrably too complex to be solved " experimentally " by the average man . 6 . Therefore , the best course of action for people in general is to reduce such problems to simpler dimensions that are more comprehensible to the average person and that are capable of being resolved on the basis of traditional code morality as this prevails within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would be possible ( if generally improbable ) for a philosophical experimentalist to veer in the direction of educational intellectualism of a theological sort by pursuing something approximating the following line of reasoning : I . The goal of life is effective behavior. 2 . Effective behavior is based upon effective thinking . 3 . All effective thinking is effective problem solving . 4 . The most effective problem solving is that which is guided by the experintal ( scientific ) mode of inquiry or which is probable on the basis of infortion that has emerged from such a process of verification . 5 . Science , as well as information growing out of scientific inquiry and that is compatible with established scientific beliefs , supports the idea that has an ontological need for some kind of supernatural " overbelief , " in- the need for some transcendent sense of commitment to a personal 6 . The most effective way of satisfying this need for " philosophical closure " by means of established religion . 7 . Therefore a religious system of belief is warranted on the basis of a fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one that pts the most convincing religious expression of man 's overriding need to to a personal God and organizes its activities around the sort of intellecand moral requirements implied by such a belief . Attain , this is not to say that such positions are either prevalent or probable . ly that they are logically possible and that they do not necessarily violate   Natural and Supernatural Metaphysics At basis the various expressions of intellectualism tend to divide on two main questions : ( 1 ) the question of religion ( that is , whether there is a personal God and what this implies for human conduct ) ; and ( 2 ) the nature of metaphysical reality ( more specifically , whether absolute truth is transcendent , and therefore exists in some realm superordinate to personal and/or natural experience ) , or immanent ( that is , universally inherent within all personal and/or natural experience ) . In terms of these two basic distinctions , there are four basic subvarieties of intellectualism , which are represented diagrammatically in Figure 5 ? 5 and somewhat simplified in Figure 5-6. // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ points of view within the tradition of intellectualism , the basic ideology of the educational intellectualist can be summarized as follows : The Overall Goal of Education . The central purpose of education is to identify , preserve , and transmit Truth ( that is , knowledge about the underlying meaning and significance of life ) . The Objectives of the School . The school exists for two basic reasons : ( 1 ) to teach students how to reason ( how to think clearly and coherently ) , and ( 2 ) to transmit the enduring wisdom of the past . General Characteristics . Educational intellectualism can be characterized in the following ways : It maintains that knowledge is an end-in-itself , that knowing is not simply a means of improving the effectiveness of practical behavior . It emphasizes man as man , that is , that man has a universal nature which transcends specific circumstances . It stresses the values of traditional intellectualism , that is , the cultivation of reason and the transmission of speculative ( philosophical ) wisdom . It views education as an orientation to life @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It focuses on the intellectual history of man as this is identified with the dominant Western intellectual tradition ( classicism ) . It emphasizes philosophical stability over the need for change , stressing intellectual stability and continuity , the so-called perennial truths that transcend time and place .   It is grounded on self-evident truths that are inherent within reason and/or reality itself . It holds that the ultimate intellectual authority resides within the intellect itself , that truth is apprehensible by means of pure reason . The Child as Learner . The child is predisposed toward wisdom and virtue , because he is by nature both rational and social . Individual similarities are more important than individual differences , and these similarities are properly determinative in establishing appropriate educational programs . Children are morally equal in a world of objectively unequal opportunities ; they should have equal opportunity to strive for intellectual excellence although the capacity to attain such excellence is not equally distributed throughout the population . The child is essentially self-determining ; he has personal free will in the traditional sense . Administration and Control . Educational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Teacher authority should be based on the teacher 's superior wisdom . The Nature of the Curriculum . The school should emphasize intellectual discipline , training the child to be capable of clear and coherent reasoning . The school should focus on reason and speculative wisdom . Emphasis should be placed on abstract ideas and theory . The course of study should be almost totally prescribed . Emphasis should be placed on the intellectual ( that is , the ideational , dealing with broad interpretive theory ) over the practical ( the immediately useful ) and the academic ( learning how to learn , and mastering the sort of technical knowledge and skills that are only indirectly related to actual human problems ) . The school should stress philosophy and/or theology , literature ( particularly the established literary and intellectual classics of the Western world ) , and broad-scale interpretive history in the tradition of Edward Gibbon , Oswald Spengler and Arnold Toynbee . Instructional Methods and Evaluation . Emphasis should be placed upon traditional classroom procedures , such as lecture , recitation , Socratic ( teacherdirected ) questioning , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of establishing proper habits at the lower levels , but it should evolve toward more open and intellectual approaches , featuring formal ( deductive ) reasoning during the later phases of learning . Teacher-determined and teacher-directed learnings are best , but the teacher should always attempt to cooperate with the child 's naturally rational nature rather than seeking blind obedience through indoctrination procedures . The teacher should be viewed as a model of intellectual excellence and an arbiter of Truth . Tests that measure intellectual acuity ( as in essay-type examinations ) are preferable to those that emphasize factual content ( as in objective-type examinations ) . //   Since intellectual aptitude is unequally distributed and intellectual excellence is difficult to attain , some degree of interpersonal competition is virtually implicit in any good academic situation , and the competitive pursuit of intellectual excellence can be utilized to advance legitimate intellectual goals . Emphasis should be placed on the cognitive over the affective and the interpersonal . Emphasis should be placed upon adhering to the classical educational principles and practices identified and defined by the great thinkers of the Western @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concerns of the school , and should be handled by other social agencies better suited to provide guidance and therapy . Classroom Control . Students should be good citizens in terms of certain absolute moral standards , and they should be held morally accountable for their own behavior . Teachers should generally be nonpermissive in procedures for maintaining classroom control but authority should always be justified and/or justifiable by reason . Moral education ( character training ) is a necessary and unavoidable aspect of schooling , but the school should focus its attentions on explaining and clarifying the intellectual basis of fundamental moral principles .  | The political philosophy of social conservatism is essentially that position which espouses adherence to time-tested cultural institutions and processes , coupled with a deep respect for law and order , as a basis for any sort of constructive social change . The mainstream social conservative does not , unlike the reactionary conservative , distrust reason ; but , in contrast to the philosophical conservative , he does not exalt it either . Rather he advocates a proper relationship between reasoned change and reasonable conformity , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of existing conditions . The Conservative tends to distrust pure theory , free-floating intellectual speculation . Skeptical of both the moral fervor of the reactionary conservative on the one hand and the intellectual passion of the philosophical conservative ' on the other , the social conservative is dubious about utopian visions and romanticized notions of man 's potential for self-improvement . He favors ideas that are grounded in concrete situations and that are clearly relevant to the practical problems of everyday living . While he favors trained intelligence and mocratic procedures , he hesitates to relinquish the best of the past except for c most urgent reasons . " The stimulus to conservatism , " states the Conservative thinker Samuel P. Huntington , " comes not from the outworn creeds of third-rate thinkers but from the successful performance of first-rate institutions . Typically committed to a stance that might be described as democratic pica/ism , the American Conservative today tends to be staunchly committed to the capitalistic economic system of individualistic free enterprise , and he typically views this system as characterized by ( 1 ) either private ownership of property @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most property ) ; ( 2 ) little or no imitation on the accumulation of property ; and ( 3 ) the absence of govmental intervention in the economy ( or , at the least , restricted governmental gulation of the economy and a radically restricted welfare system ) . 2 The Conservative , states Gould and Truitt , agrees with the liberal that constitutional and representative government is good , ' huts he will argue that it is only good to the extent that it days out of the affairs of individuals ' private lives . Governments , he says , have no right to legislate matters of social equality , housing , education , //   and so forth . With great stress on individual self-determination , the conservative believes that social injustice and inequality will best be overcome by means of personal initiative and hard work . Even the lowliest of individuals on the social scale , it is maintained , are capable of improving themselves within the institutions of capitalism and economic free enterprise . ' In a similar sense , EJ.C . Hearnshaw , in his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the modern world as reducible to twelve basic principles : ... ( 1 ) reverence for the past , ( 2 ) the organic conception of society , ( 3 ) communal unity , ( 4 ) constitutional continuity , ( 5 ) opposition to revolution , ( 6 ) cautious or evolutionary reform , ( 7 ) the religious basis of the state , ( 8 ) the divine source of legitimate authority , ( 9 ) the priority of duties to rights , ( 10 ) the prime importance of individual and communal character , ( 11 ) loyalty , ( 12 ) common sense , realism , and practicality . THE SUBVARIETIES OF CONSERVATISM What further complicates any discussion of social conservatism as an overall political philosophy is that there are at least two basic varieties of social conservatism ; one the secular variety , the other fundamentally religious in orientation . Within the secular orientation alone , there are at least four basic approaches to social conservatism . These might be termed ( 1 ) the Establishment Conservatives ( the Tories ) ; ( 2 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 3 ) the Social Darwinists ( or Spencerian Conservatives ) ; and ( 4 ) the Teleological Nationalists ( or Hegelian Conservatives ) . The Establishment Conservatives ( The Tory Conservatives ) In contemporary parlance , the term Tory generally means an old-fashioned conservative . From the late 1600s to the early nineteenth century ( when it broke up over the question of free trade ) the Tories were , along with the Whigs , one of the two chief political parties of Great Britain . Unlike the Whigs , the Tories emphasized the supremacy of the King over Parliament , and generally expounded the interests of the precapitalist landed gentry rather than those of the more enterprising commercial and industrial classes . Probably the most prominent spokesman for establishment conservatism was Edmund Burke ( 1729-1797 ) , a British statesman who , ironically , was not a Tory but a Whig , yet who nevertheless articulated perhaps the most persuasive presentation of the profoundly conservative point of view that is often referred to as " Tory Democracy . " Conservative philosophy is frequently said to have begun with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ France in 1790 , although there was already a good deal of conservative political theory before // originator and the most articulate spokesman for the conservative point of view , and Gould and Truitt in their book , Political Ideologies , characterize Burkean Conservatism as follows : First , it definitely argues that radical social change is wrong , especially radical change that is instigated by force . Second , the conservatives believe that it is the main function of government to maintain peace and order . It should do little else . Third , conservatives view human nature as complex , unpredictable , and often immoral . Regarding this last point , they contend that such immoral characteristics as cruelty and greed are inevitably present in human existence . Consequently , political and social institutions can not be perfected . We must accept their necessary inadequacies . Related to this is the belief of conservatives that institutions as well as people can only become adequate for society through historical development . Individuals learn how to govern others by practice and example . Hence those best suited to rule come from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is argued , have had the tradition , have had the education , and have had the experience of living with successful rulers . It is the same with institutions . Only those institutions that have survived the many decades and centuries ? such as the state , the church , the family ? are those society should want . Those institutions that have long existed must be workable , successful institutions . Finally , these conservatives are usually quite religious . They usually believe in God and God 's role in history . Not all conservatives agree with each of these tenets . Many reject Burke 's autocratic element . Others support change , that is , those changes which will preserve the fundamental elements of their soci. ety. . . . there is no single ideology of conservatism . Yet . . . note how many of the following scenes appear : the need of a ruling aristocracy , the uncertainty of progress , the primary role of private property , the necessity of social classes and orders , the natural inequality of men in their mental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of God and the need for organized religion , the limitations of human reason , and the inadequacy of majority rule and its potentiality for tyranny . 5 In general , the conservative orientation of the so-called Tories subscribes to a somewhat pessimistic view of human nature . They reject the idea that individI reason should reign supreme ; they hold , instead , that the collective wisdom the group , as this is embodied in established institutions and processes , repUents the highest expression of human intelligence at any particular time . For the Tory Conservative , history itself provides a sort of informal and //   reference is continuous and evolves gradually out of its own formative traditions . Intelligent action is basically practical and contextual , rooted in the specific realities of particular situations . Radical prescriptions for wholesale change tend to violate the integrity and continuity of the total process , as this exists in all of its historical richness and particularity . Accordingly , it is important to guard against excessive zeal for large-scale reforms based upon purely abstract conceptions of reality . Intelligent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is minimized to the point where it consists primarily of adaptations within the established frame of reference . Law and order are not legitimately opposed to individual freedom . Rather , individual freedom requires some preestablished order for its fullest expression , and , in a similar sense , all law and order represent the exercise of free choice by those who have lived in previous generations . Contrary to restricting personal liberty , then , current laws and the existing distribution of goods merely represent the decisions of previous peoples who found themselves confronted with the necessity of making intelligent choices in response to many of the same problems that exist today . To reject existing laws , with the existing distribution of property , is to reject the cumulative wisdom of the past as this is embodied in present patterns of behavior . The Laissez Faire Conservatives ( The Free Marketeers ) It has been said that there was no conservative social philosophy before Burke , because , before Burke , all social philosophy was conservative . A variation of the same observation can be applied to the Laissez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy before the middle of the eighteenth century , because before " the busting , scurrying , free-for-all of the eighteenth century " " there was nothing that really approximated a free market . Indeed , and as economist Robert Heilbroner indicates , land , labor and capital ? the basic elements of production in a " market system " of economics ? did not exist until about the eighteenth century , and " the profit motive was conspicuous by its absence over most of recorded history . " ' " As long as the problem of survival was handled by tradition or command , the economic problem never gave rise to that special field of study called economics . " " ( The school of economics known as Physiocracy , propounded by Francois Quesnay in France during the reign of Louis XV , agreed with the later laissez faire economists that real wealth was not contained in gold and silver but , rather , sprang from pro duction and flowed through the nation , from person to person , replenishing society like the circulation of blood . It also held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " wealth " and that the manufacturing and commercial classes merely manipulated it in an essentially sterile way . Thus , while they advocated a policy of laissez faire , which influenced such thinkers as Adam Smith , their basic position ran counter to the rising tide of industrialism and therefore failed to take hold. ) //   one man , Adam Smith , who was a professor of moral philosophy at the University of Edinburgh . Smith published his epochal Inquiry Into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations in 1776 . In this work ? which was a massive attack on the then-dominant mercantile system ? Smith for the first time formulated the laws of the open and uncontrolled market . The good , as Smith saw it , emerged as a by-product of selfishness . People naturally seek to maximize profits and minimize losses . " It is best to abolish slavery , because to do so will probably be cheaper in the end . ' " " Individual self-interest will result in competition , and competition will result in the provision of necessary goods . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflicting selfinterests of all the members of society . The unexpected result of competition is social harmony . " 10 There are , then , according to Smith , imperative natural laws that govern the market mechanism , and these laws work inexorably if they are not tampered with . Left alone , such natural forces guarantee the positive evolution of society , propelling the market system ever upward , in an ascending spiral of greater productivity that ultimately advances the best interests of all . Smith does not oppose all government , but he does condemn any meddling of the government with the market system . The least government is decidedly the best government . What frequently goes unremarked is the fact that Adam Smith was generally hostile to the motives of the business men of his day . In an earlier book ( The Theory of Moral Sentiments , published in 1759 ) Smith propounds the notion that man is a creature of self-interest , but that a person always has the ability to empathize and identify with a third person , in this way forming a sympathetic notion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal considerations . " ven with respect to government , the great enemy to Smith 's system is not so uch government per se as monopoly , and , as Heilbroner indicates , It the fact that Smith had written of " the mean rapacity , the monopolizing spirit of the merchants and manufacturers " and that he had said that they " neither are nor ought to be , the rulers of mankind " . . . was ignored in favor of the great point which Smith drew from his inquiry : let the market alone . " ' . Smith is not necessarily opposed to all government action which has as its end the promotion of the general welfare . He warns , for example . of the stultifying effect of mass production , which robs men of their creative natural powers , and prophesies a decline in the manly virtues of the laborer , " unless the government takes some pains to prevent it . " Similarly he is in favor of public education to raise the citizenry above the level cit mere uncomprehending cogs in a vast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of the other major figures the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century laissez faire economics like ) mas Malthus and David Ricardo . Both Malthus and Ricardo , unlike the damentally optimistic Smith , present essentially tragic visions of life . Ithus , whose major contributions were concerned with the issue of popula , went so far as to urge the abolition of poor relief and even onnosed nro182 THE CONSERVATIVE EDUCATIONAL IDEOLOGIES   charities were ultimately destined to produce cruel results . Ricardo , who was perhaps the first effective champion of industrialism and free trade , went on to develop the theory that capitalism inevitably generates a bitter contest for supremacy between different economic interests and classes who are constantly maneuvering for gain . As Ricardo saw it , the basic contest was between the capitalists and the landlords , whose interests were intrinsically opposed . Indeed for Ricardo , " the interest of the landlords is always opposed to the interests of every other class in the community . The landlord benefited from the powers of the soil , and his income ? his rent ? was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power of population . In fact , he gained at everyone else 's expense . . . . the growing population caused more and more land to be put into use , the cost of grain would rise ? not on the good fields previously in use , but on the newly added second-rate fields . Hence , the rents of the well-situated landlord would rise . And not only rents , but wages would rise , too . For as grain became more expensive to produce , the laborer would have to be paid more , just to enable him to buy his dry crust and to stay alive . . . . The worker was forever condemned to the margin . . . . the capitalist , who worked and saved and invested , found that all his trouble was for nothing : his wage costs were higher , his profits smaller , and his landed opponent far richer than he . And the landlord , who did nothing but collect his rents , sat back and watched them increase . ' ' ' Today the ideas of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Ricardo , continue to be influential in both the economic and philosophical spheres . Economically , they are perhaps best represented in the ideas of such present-day economists as Ludwig von Mises and , perhaps more significantly . Milton Friedman ( who was one of the first voices to call for the formal discs . tablishment of public education by providing for a " voucher system " approach to the financing of schools ) . Philosophically , the laissez faire position is per haps best represented today by the ideas of the right-wing libertarians who are frequently indebted to the philosophical " objectivism " of philosopher Ayn Rand . " On the national political scene , the Libertarian party ? which seems to draw across a wide range of different conservative orientations , although its leadership seems to be primarily inspired by the ideas and ideals of laissez faire economics and philosophy ? has been particularly visible during the last decade . In general , the laissez faire conservative favors individual liberty within a free economic system . He tends to be optimistic about human nature , viewing man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ valuemaximizing ( within the constraints imposed by the objective and impersonal mechanisms of the free market ) . Thus , capitalist society is naturally good , and . accordingly , capitalist man is the expression of a basically benign social reality . Individual reason can be trusted so long as it is directed by self-interest . and self-interest is always enlightened self-interest when viewed in the long run For the laissez faire conservative , human intelligence is preeminently practl cal and conditioned by the nature of existing circumstances . Institutions arc rr , rr ? I ? niv insular as they harmonize with the contemporary demands ul tM //   open economic system , individual errors in judgment are fundamentally selfcorrecting over time . The laissez faire conservative advocates the elimination of traditional restraints on trade and competition . He favors a radical decentralization of political power , opposing all central controls over economic enterprise that would tend to tamper with natural market forces . He stresses property rights and personal liberty over the need for law and order , because he tends to view law and order as by-products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of external government . He stresses only the bare minimum of governmental restraints over personal behavior , and only insofar as these are required to guarantee the fullest realization of an open economic and political system . He prefers to limit controls to those areas where they would be difficult to provide by voluntary groupings of like-minded individuals ( as in providing for courts of justice or protecting the national security from foreign aggression ) . The laissez faire conservative is basically committed to a " conflict " model of social relationships . Cooperation exists , but primarily as but one way of fostering the competitive pursuit of individual excellence . The Social Darwinists ( Spencerian Conservatives ) The social Darwinist point of view emerges through , and is usually most losely identified with , the writings of the great British social philosopher Heren Spencer ( 1820-1903 ) . It was Spencer , above all , who adapted the ideas of Darwinian and post-Darwinian biology to the study of society , fusing Auguste ; curate 's views concerning the nature of society as a superorganism with Darn 's concepts of natural @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus Spencer , and not Darwin , popularized the term evolution , and it has also Spencer who introduced the phrase " survival of the fittest . " For Spencer , society is a living unity with a supraindividual reality . It origcs spontaneously , and evolves according to its own natural laws . " Society , " ales Spencer , " is an organism , " and it evolves in a manner analogous to the Ir.y the physical organism of the species itself evolves . Society is also the best form of organism , and for Spencer , as for his German contemporary licnfeld , there is a logical progression from the cell to the tissue ( as a corns of cells ) , to the organs ( as a complex of tissues ) , to the person ( as a ntplcx of organs ) , and to society itself ( as a complex of persons ) . //   the nebulous stateless and classless utopia which Marx had promised would follow the proletarian victory . ' The social Darwinist is pessimistic about the individual human being in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future of man in general when the species is viewed in evolutionary perspective . Accordingly , he tends to view the present in terms very similar to those employed by the laissez faire conservative , seeing man as involved in a competitive struggle for survival and success in a world characterized by continuing conflict . For most social Darwinists however ? and as for Spencer himself ? this conflict is seen as ultimately eventuating in the natural selection of individuals and institutions which will have gone beyond the necessity for the old conflict paradigm altogether , having perfected new processes based on a heightened capacity for rational cooperation . For the social Darwinist , then , man , as he presently exists , is not good , but natural selection on both the individual and social levels provides him with the mechanism for realizing his potential to he good . Through social evolution , in other words , cooperation is emerging out of conflict ; reason out of passion . In an immediate sense however , the social Darwinist opposes social changes that block the natural processes of competition and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ demand premature cooperation from a humanity not socially or psychologically prepared for such sophisticated forms of behavior is useless and frequently even dangerous ( because it contradicts the very nature of man and society as these presently exist ) . Competition , conflict , and struggle ? however dispensable they may prove to be in the distant future ? are necessary means to the kind of humanity that may ultimately prove itself capable of acting on entirely different ( and even altruistic ) motives . In short , the superordinate goals of evolution itself require a will ingness to allow the oftentimes cruel processes of natural selection to occur without interference . The nation that protects its people or institutions from the natural consequences of their own errors or inadequacies courts disaster , he . cause it fails to learn ( and therefore improve ) from its own experience . That nation which sustains or rewards weakness will never grow strong enough to afford the luxury of being gentle . Social dissonance , however harsh it may seem , is a necessary step toward creating self-perfection in the universal order of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its birth requires unavoidable pain and struggle . An emergent society grows only out of the crucible of conflict . That society which demands exalted standards of personal and social morality before the conditions have emerged which make such perfection pos sible , merely freezes itself into a weak and futile posture , eventually blocking access to its own long-range possibilities for growth and advancement . Individual intelligence is very real , but it exists primarily as a function of a more encompassing natural evolution ( including the evolution of social structures and processes ) . It is the entire process of natural evolution that creates the kinds of social and individual consciousness that make the expression of certain kinds of ideas and actions possible . The value of keeping the process of natural selection open and emergent is greater than any particular values , whether per . sonal or social , that exist within the process itself . In the final analysis , only the forces of evolution will reveal the true nature of the good person and the good ? ? ry : ingi these are only vaeuely foreshadowed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dealing with such matters as the permissible limits of political authority and the particular nature and rate of changes in institutional structure ( such as those governing property rights or inheritance ) are always ultimately determinable only on the basis of after-the-fact evolutionary decisions . They can never be determined by contemporary ideology , because they are finally decided on the basis of their contribution to the survival and success of the species itself . Even occasional social mutations such as those generated by revolutions or wars ? may eventually prove to be successful adaptations to the demands for social change , and only the requirements of the species as a whole , over extended periods of time , can serve to assess the viability of particular social changes . Ultimately , then , the only sort of change that is categorically wrong is that which blocks the process of social struggle that is necessary for any sort of natural selection to take place . For the social Darwinist , then , conflict is the central mechanism for contemporary society , and only through the relatively unbridled exercise of competitive struggle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation become possible . The Teleological Nationalists ( Hegelian Conservatives ) The teleological nationalists need to be distinguished from the far more extreme teleological totalitarians represented by such groups as the fascists and the nazis on the extreme " Hegelian right . " The teleological nationalists are essentially conservatives rather than reactionaries , and they probably represent the mainstream of thought within the Hegelian tradition . 21 The teleological nationalists are not optimistic regarding the nature of individual human beings , but they do tend to be optimistic about the nature of the collective ( whether defined as nation , state or race ) to which the individual belongs . Thus , as the teleological nationalist sees it , the individual basically discovers his nature and identity as a person in and through his participation in sonic collective . The individual realizes himself , but only indirectly , through the group . It is ultimately the group that realizes itself , through the teleological unfolding of its inner soul or spirit , and not the individuals that comprise it . Accordingly , the individual realizes his personal destiny by voluntarily subordinating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The highest good &ways; resides in the whole , and the Volksgeist always takes precedence over the lesser imperatives of the individual psyche . The teleological nationalist views society , then , as an organic unity possesnit its own singular sort of collective consciousness . Past , present and fure coexist wihtin the institutions of the state , and these institutions are the nee of the transcendent group mind . Accordingly , it is important to protect integrity of the national soul both from the excesses of individual reason from radical social changes that might violate the nature and integrity of collective ego . Nor the teleological nationalist , individual reason is always legitimately subabate to the collective wisdom of the nation . The highest reason is beyond ectrve expression , because it exists only within the totality of dynamic social ; whence , and this experience defies individual analysis . At basis , the Vo/ks186 THE CONSERVATIVE EDUCATIONAL IDEOLOGIES   poetry , but it can never be fully explained in the usual sort of explicit and prosaic terms . In its fullest expression it can only be known intuitively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum of its parts . The nature and rate of cultural change is necessarily an expression of the unique Volksgeist of a particular people . Only those changes that are organically related to the total needs of the entire group are truly good . In a similar sense , the extent to which governmental centralization or decentralization is desirable is ultimately contingent upon the unique needs of a particular people . Only the dynamic requirements of the people as a whole can determine what constitutes the appropriate limits of individual liberty , property rights , and so on . Ultimately , then , the teleological nationalist offers an hybrid " conflict and cooperation " model of society . Both conflict and competition may be good , providing that they serve to advance the shared purpose of the entire nation ( which can only be known intuitively , by a mystical identification with the transcendent Volksgeist of the entire group ) . An overview of the four basic traditions in secular conservatism is given in Figure 6-1 . Some Additional Considerations . Conservatism , as an overall philosophy , is difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or , at least , in any categorical sense ? because ( 1 ) conservatism , and as already discussed , actually represents a compilation of somewhat different points of view that tend to assume much the same political and educational stance but which frequently do so for substantially different reasons ; and because ( 2 ) the particular content of any specific conservative political philosophy depends on the nature of the particular culture ( or subculture ) being discussed as well as upon its particular stage of historical development . Thus , a social conservative in the Russia of the 1820s or even 1880s held clearly different views than a social conservative in the Soviet Union of the 1920s . In a similar sense , a social conservative in the United States in 1774 endorsed a substantially different position than the social conservative of 1870 whose views , in turn , are clearly distinguishable from those of the contemporary who might be described by the same label . In other words , who is or is not " conservative " is a highly relative matter . A conservative in one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in another culture or era or even in the same culture during consecutive generations . A second qualification to bear in mind about conservatism is that the conservative tends to be skeptical about the efficiency of unbridled reason as a way of arriving at appropriate answers to social questions . Conservatism relies largely on a sort of tacit intuitionism in which primary reliance is placed not on intellectual discipline or even upon effective individual or group problem-solving procedures ( as in the Liberal ideologies ) but on established ( conventional ) standards of belief and behavior . The difficulty with applying this sort of standard is precisely what the United States Supreme Court has encountered in attempting to limit pornography to " contemporary community standards relating the the description or representation of sexual matters . " 2 " That is , beyond the level of rhetoric , precisely what   a " culture " or " community " ? What is meant by a " standard " of belief or behavior ? When , and according to whom , is a standard " contemporary " ? Are " contemporary standards " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a sort of " tacit " consensus ) or are they traditional standards that have met the test of time and have endured through custom and usage ? What amount of time must transpire before a belief or type of behavior becomes a " contemporary standard " ? And so on . There are , quite obviously , no simple answers to these questions , but it is precisely such questions that frequently make conservatism an ambiguous position , even when the term has been severely restricted to describing a particular position in a particular society at one specific point in history . In the United States at the present time , for example , the establishment conservatives ( who are largely in the tradition of Edmund Burke ) , as well as related traditions , such as adherents of the various political " conflict of interest " theories ( as John Adams , John Madison and John C. Calhoun were in their day ) tend to view conventional belief and behavior as being rooted in the collective experience of the past , viewed as a sort of " funded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society . For the laissez faire conservatives , on the other hand , conventional wisdom is equated primarily with the automatic and unconscious mechanism of the open market ? less a set of established answers than a sure and certain economic basis for effective social organization . For the teleological nationalists , such as Hegel and Durkheim , on the other hand , cultures are looked upon as functioning largely by means of a distinctive collective consciousness which complements , but nevertheless takes priority over , the more delimited consciousness of individuals within such cultures . ( Accordingly , different cultures have significantly different historical destinies , and societies , like individuals , are in a constant competitive struggle for survival and dominance . ) All of the conservative points of view , however , see the individual as legitimately subordinate to the requirements of the larger social system , which ( whether viewed structurally , as a funded set of ironclad economic laws , or , more functionally , as the manifestation of large-scale evolutionary or historical forces ) is looked upon as being a more authoritative and trustworthy source @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ processes of individual reason . Virtually all of the conservative orientations in the United States at the present time accept some form of constitutional respresentative democracy as the most desirable form of government . In addition , virtually all feel that democracy operates best under a relatively open form of capitalistic economic enterprise , combining a high degree of economic freedom with intelligent political restraints ( such as separation of powers or adherence to due process of law ) over the excesses of unbridled majoritarianism . The conservatives would perhaps differ most markedly in their historical orientation with respect to what constitutes desirable contemporary social organization . Thus , the establishment conservatives ( or Tories ) and the teleological nationalists tend to place a higher premium on the past than do the laissez faire conservatives or the social Darwinists . The first two groups feel very strongly that culture is a continuous organic process in which past and present coexist  | as a defining characteristic of the conventional . The laissez faire conservatives tend to be more exclusively concerned with the economic substructure than with the overall cultural content , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ culture 's practical efficiency with respect to its dominant purposes than with the nature and content of the purposes themselves . In line with these considerations , conservatives generally tend to advocate the kind of education that will promote the preservation of established ( convetional ) social beliefs and behavior and that , in most cases , also serve to restore once dominant ideas and institutions which have been allowed to wither through neglect in a world committed to a misplaced sense of destructive " individualism . " RELIGIOUS CONSERVATISM Edmund Burke , like most major figures in philosophy , actually bridges several philosophical positions . He assumes , for example , the existence of a rational God who has implanted a rational order in human history . As Burke sees it , anything that runs contrary to the divine plan is not permitted to continue in existence and is not therefore part of the status quo . He also holds that there ; ire certain laws of nature that are known on a self-evident basis . As Bluhm notes : There is , for example , " the natural taste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the religious instinct , for " man is by his constitution a religious animal ; and athesim is against , not only our reason , but our instincts . " There are the ties of blood relationship , " the ties of nature , which are the laws of God . " These ties of nature are " the first bond of society . " " The love that God has implanted in the hearts of parents toward their children , " Burke says , " is the first germ of the second conjunction which is ordered to subsist between them and the rest of mankind . " And there is " a hatred of the unjust and cruel " which " a kind Providence has placed in our breasts . . . in order that we may preserve ourselves from cruelty and injustice . " These are a few of the moral instincts which Burke saw in human nature . Although some Tory conservatives would agree with Burke 's position with ' expect to divine Providence and natural laws , Tory democracy , as it exists today , seldom stresses @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the other three basically " secular " traditions within social conservatism are also generally reluctant to ground their ideas on explicity theistic assumptions . On the other hand , there is a significant tradition of religious conservatism that exists apart from the essentially secular orientations . In contrast to his secular counterpart , the religious conservative is willing to accept both faith erns reason , but he veers away from excesses in both . He recognizes the necessity for adapting the historical message of his faith to contemporary circumstances , and he accepts the need for theological interpretation that does not Violate the basic spirit of his creed . hut he remains basically content to view his  | The Augustinian Tradition . The philosophical and theological tradition associated with Saint Augustine of Hippo ( 354 ? 430 ) has been a particularly important source of inspiration for conservatives of all persuasions . Saint Augustine , unlike Saint Thomas Aquinas , was primarily influenced by the Platonic and neo-Platonic traditions in philosophy rather than by Aristotle ( whose writings were only rediscovered and translated into Western languages in the tenth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one eternal Being , absolutely real and absolutely good . He is the source of all other things . Man in and of himself is innately depraved , " bound by original sin " 26 which is inherited from the transgressions of Adam . But God is merciful . Although his Will is inscrutable , all of his decisions are just , and he elects to save certain individuals by a free gift of divine grace which no one can resist . Through this gift of grace the sinner is changed and brought to a sanctified state . For others , grace never arrives . Such individuals are predestined to damnation . ( For Saint Thomas Aquinas , on the other hand , grace is potentially available to all , and the individual has free will to opt for or against God 's freely offered gift of salvation . Aquinas , in contrast to Augustine , holds that " Grace does not do away with the natural order , but rather perfects it . " 27 According to Bluhm , " Burke , whose antecedents are Thomistic rather than Augustinian tended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had been slowly developed over the ages , as a close approximation of an ideal order . " ) During the Reformation , John Calvin adopted Augustine 's concepts of divine election and predestination . " By predestination , " wrote Calvin , " we mean the eternal decree of God , by which he determined with himself whatever he wished to happen with regard to every man . All are not created on equal terms , but some are preordained to eternal life , others to eternal damnation . ' For Calvin , the believer is not saved by his works but by God 's election . He is , however , elected into a state of righteousness that abounds in good works , and , as philosopher Noss notes , " his righteousness is the only assurance he has of his election . ' ' " Still another area where the Augustian tradition in Christianity differs from the Thomistic is in regard to the relative merits of faith and reason . For Aquinas , reason is a necessary but not a sufficient basis for faith . Reason does , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith , predisposes him toward such faith once revealed , and indirectly acts to bolster and support the teachings of the Church . Augustine , on the other hand , tends to be much more skeptical about the ultimate efficacy of reason as a path toward religious enlightenment , placing his primary reliance on faith : " I believe in order to know . " While he does not forsake reason ? " faith seeks the support of the intelligence " ' ? Augustine places his primary confidence in the formative act of faith . Indeed , throughout the history of Christian theology , ranging from the pre-Nicene writings of the anti-rationalist Tertullian ( 165 ? 220 ) through the Platonic scholasticism of individuals like Anselm of Canterbury ( 1033 - 1109 ) and on through such post-Thomist Aristotelian scholastics as John Duns Scotus ( 1265 - 1308 ) , William of Occam ( 1285 - 1349 ) and Nicholas of Cusa ( 1401 1464 ) the preeminence of intuition and faith over reason and evidence is a recurring theme . There is much in Tory conservatism that is reminiscent of Saint Augustine 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ partially reasonable but as primarily controlled by his passions and appetites . Until the end of history , when God comes to establish the City of God , all men must continue to exist in the necessarily imperfect Earthly City , where God 's will is expressed only indirectly through the wills of particular men and where , in Augustine 's words , " Order is good , disorder is evil . Therefore , any kind of order is better than chaos . " 32 Today the Augustinian tradition , combining a basically pessimistic concept of human nature with a fundamental distrust of reason continues to exert a strong influence in both the Roman Catholic and Protestant traditions . In a viewpoint sometimes described as " secular Augustinianism , " it is occasionally ascribed to certain contemporary social theorists , such as political " realist " Hans Morgenthau , who tend to be less than sanguine about the prospect for realizing human perfection through political action in the temporal world . Thus , as Morgenthau writes in his book Scientific Man and Power Politics ( 1946 ) : Political realism believes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rational point of view , is the result of forces which are inherent in human nature . To improve the world one must work with those forces , and not against them . This being inherently a world of opposing interests and of conflict among them , moral principles can never be fully realized , but are best approximated through the ever temporary balancing of interests and the ever precarious settlement of conflicts . Political realism , then , sees in a system of checks and balances a universal principle for all pluralist societies . It appeals to historic precendent rather than abstract principles , and aims at achievement of the lesser evil rather than the absolute good . Throughout the history of political philosophy , a variety of individuals ? ranging from Machiavelli ( and such latter-day " Machiavellians " as Vilfredo Pareto , Gaetano Mosca and Robert Michels ) through the rationalized selfInterest theory of Thomas Hobbes and the " interest " - based conflict model of Thomas Harrington ( reflected in the writings of John Adams , James Madison Ind John C. Calhoun , among others ) ? also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to represent essentially conservative points of View in political thought . RELIGIOUS CONSERVATISM IN CONTEMPORARY AMERICA While most conservatives tend to favor religion and the institutionalized cgurch , the more explicitly religious tradition within American social conservatism is located largely in the more religiously conservative , established Protest churches ( such as the Presbyterian , Reformed , Episcopal , and Methodist , Which are based upon the major Reformation theologies ) . What distinguishes more religiously orthodox , or mainline , Protestant churches as a group from more religiously heterodox ( fundamentalist ) churches , such as the Southern it or the various independent evangelical and pentecostal groups , is difIt to specify . but in general there appear to he ten basic differences between   1 . The mainline religiously orthodox churches tend to be more explicitly concerned with doctrinal differences . They tend to have relatively clear-cut ideas about what constitutes theological legitimacy , often tracing these ideas to standard Reformation doctrines rooted in church history . 2 . The more traditional and established churches ordinarily have more stable and systematic systems of church governance and administration . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterians , take their names from the characteristic attitudes that they assume with respect to preferred patterns of church organization ( see Chapter IV ) . 3 . Their church organizations tend to be better integrated into the basic structure of the surrounding secular society . They are law-abiding and are generally willing to conform to the established patterns of civil government . They do not view their beliefs as " alternative realities " that are opposed to the common sense , everyday world . 4 . They tend to place a greater stress on formalized and standardized religious forms , such as traditional rites , rituals , sacraments , and services . 5 . They tend to reject , or to be deeply skeptical of , contemporary supernaturalism . They view reality as essentially natural and this-worldly , looking upon religion as an integrated aspect of everyday living . They tend to regard religion as a practical way of living in the world as it is ; they view virtue primarily as a matter of scrupulous behavior within the everyday world , which accumulates as a warrant for salvation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme example of moral perfection rather than as a living spirit to be encountered in the present . They tend to be uncomfortable with the entire notion of the Holy Ghost and are generally skeptical of present-day miracles and religious prophesies. 6 . They believe in mediated grace . They accept the moral equality of men , as well as the priesthood of all believers , but they believe that the proper interpretation of scripture often calls for special training and education . Scripture is fundamental in all of the Protestant denominations , but personal interpretations are not viewed as being particularly authoritative in the more traditional groups , and special clergy are looked upon as extremely useful in elucidating the true meaning of the Bible . 7 . Individual subjective belief is necessary but not sufficient to guarantee truth . True faith resides in the scripture as mediated and construed by the Church . Salvation is less a matter of personal conversion ( spiritual rebirth by accepting Christ as Saviour ) than of becoming a fully functioning member of a corporate Christian community of true believers who are able @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebirth . Grace is perfected through appropriate participation in a fellowship of believers . Religion in the mainline Protestant churches is more a social than a psychological phenomenon . Religious ecstasy is primarily an end to be sought in the next world , and not a means ensuring salvation in the present . Perfect holiness ? the ability to live without sin ? is not ordinarily possible in this life . 8 . Man lives primarily in historical time , not in biblical time . The scriptures must necessarily he interpreted in such a way as to guarantee their applicability to present situations . We can not restore the world of the Bible , so we must the world as it presently is.  | 9 . The end of the world is not immediately at hand . The spiritual realm will continue to coexist in an uneasy alliance with the requirements of a profane existence . 10 . There is no " cheap grace . " Man is free to change , to turn away from sin , but the act of conversion is not sufficient to guarantee salvation , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living . Conversion per se does not negate sin , and it does not elevate the individual to the possibility of a sinless life in the present . It is God 's judgment of a person 's total behavior weighed over a lifetime that determines whether or not he shall be " saved . " Only those who survive and succeed in the rigorous competition for moral excellence that goes on unceasingly throughout life will ultimately merit salvation . In effect , then , salvation depends on hard work and the accumulation of merit over an extended period of time . It does not occur in the present , but is the delayed reward growing out of a lifetime of virtuous living . This last point is a particularly interesting one , because what the conservative churches advocate is essentially the " capitalist ethic " of hard work ( in the cause of the Lord ) , saving ( the acquisition of merit in order to earn salvation ) and the survival of the fittest ( in the arena of spiritual competition ) . Ironically , what the conservative churches seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and particularly pentecostal ) persuasions is the position that holds that ( 1 ) one can be saved without effort ( merely by accepting responsibility for one 's sins and choosing to live in Christ ) ; ( 2 ) salvation can be earned without cost ( without accumulating worldly virtue over time ) ; and ( 3 ) it can be bestowed upon the " unworthy " ( that is , those who have clearly lost the worldly competition for moral status ) . Phrased somewhat differently , the conservative churches , like the politically conservative groups , emphasize freedom ? that is , the individual 's freedom to choose , with its corollary responsibility for assuming the consequences for his own actions . The fundamentalist churches ? which are frequently more rigid in their biblical literalism on the personal level ? tend to be political radicals in the kingdom of Heaven , emphasizing equality and holding that all men have the same potential for salvation at any given time quite regardless of their prior moral stature . All are free to accept Christ and therefore to be saved at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have previously accomplished . " ' RELIGIOUS AND SOCIAL CONSERVATISM : SOME FINAL COMMENTS The question of precisely what individuals or groups exemplify the religious fundamentalist as opposed to the religious intellectualist or the religious conservative orientation is difficult to answer . The position taken here ? which is certainly open to debate ? concurs with the position presented by Dean Kelley In his book Why Conservative Churches are Growing , published in 1967 , in which he presents what he terms " the Exclusivist-Ecumenical Gradient " with respect to certain major Christian traditions in contemporary America . " According to Kellev. existing religious groups range from the most exclusivist And  | antiecumenical ( least related to " mainline religions " discussed by Will Herberg in his epochal book Protestant-Catholic-Jew 1955 ) , to those typical of the mainstream American religious traditions . Thus , as Kelley sees it , the least mainstream , most exclusivist and antiecumenical , were ( listed in order of comparative separatism and rigidity ) as follows : Black Muslims Jehovah 's Witnesses Evangelicals and Pentecostals Orthodox Jews Churches of Christ Latter-Day Saints ( Mormons ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Next in line , come the large and more mainstream churches that provide a good degree of social integration with the larger culture while nevertheless retaining a significant degree of separateness from the dominant religious consensus . Again , in degree of separateness and rigidity when contrasted to the mainline religious traditions , these are listed as follows : Southern Baptist Convention Lutheran Church ? Missouri Synod American Lutheran Church Roman Catholic Church Conservative Jews Russian Orthodox Greek Orthodox Finally , there are the churches that typically represent the mainstream American religious tradition . In descending order with respect to exclusiveness and antiecumenicism , these are as follows : Southern Presbyterian Church Reformed Church in America Episcopal Church American Baptist Convention United Presbyterian Church United Methodist Church United Church of Christ Reform Jews Ethical Culture Society Unitarian-Universalists In exemplitying religious expressions of the **28;600;TOOLONG bolo , v of fundlainentalism . Kelley 's lists of exclusivist antiecumenical  | serve well . The two exceptions , while they seem to meet Kelley 's criterion of exclusivism and antiecumenicism , are not socially fundamentalist in the sense that the term is used here . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ although in a rather narrow sense ) in its overall orientation ? as discussed in Appendix 1 ( Judaism and Jewish Education ) . Christian Science has no clearly identifiable social ideology , but it is quite apparently not fundamentalist , and the vast bulk of Christian Scientists appear to be very much in the sociopolitical mainstream , probably being best represented as tending toward one of the two dominant cultural ideologies of either Conservatism or Liberalism . Christian Science is perhaps the only example of Christian Liberalism ( critical biblicism ) that combines the teaching of the Bible with extraordinary doctrines and/or intrepretations . In general , the Christian Scientists tend to favor the conventional separation of church and state , preferring to advance their religious convictions through their own special programs . Evangelical fundamentalists are virtually always educational fundamentalists as well . If the term " evangelical " is used only with reference to fundamentalists ( or even in the somewhat broader sense , with reference to all of those who emphasize the authority of the Scriptures and the need for individual salvation through faith in Jesus Christ ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantially committed to proselytizing for these views within society at large ) , " evangelicals " are also probably best represented as educational fundamentalists . On the other hand , the term " evangelicalism " is sometimes used to describe any group that accepts the basic authority of the scriptures ( the Evangel ) whether or not they subscribe to the needs for individual salvation through faith in Jesus Christ . The term is also frequently applied to groups that do not actively proselyte for converts within the larger society . Indeed , many of the churches listed in Kelley 's second and third categories ( as either quasi-mainstream or mainstream religious traditions in America ) would tend to view themselves as integral parts of the " evangelical " tradition in this broader sense . In a similar manner , while there is probably a correlation between being pentecostal ( see Chapter IV ) and being socially Conservative and educationally fundamentalist , it is hazardous to be very dogmatic about this . Most Pentecostals are evangelical ( in the strict sense of the term ) , and most are also fundamentalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is entirely possible to be a Roman Catholic , Quaker , or Episcopal pentecostal . It is difficult to generalize about the educational preferences of the various Christian fundamentalist groups . Some , like the Seventh-Day Adventists , maintain an extensive system of parochial schools to advance their own point of view . Some favor compulsory religious instruction and/or prayer ( usually with a denominational flavor ) within the public schools . Virtually all seem to reject the idea that schooling should be truly secular , and almost all of these groups at ! cast advocate supplementing public school instruction with special church schools after regular public school hours or with camps that meet during public school vacations ; released-time religious instruction offered by the various churches themselves ; Sunday schools ; and so on . Most of these groups also tend to favor such quasi-educational activities as evangelical campaigns , revivals , religious proselytizing , missionary activities , missionary schools , contributions to nondenominational Christian activities ( such as the Y.M. ( ' . A. , the Sal198 THE CONSERVATIVE EDUCATIONAL IDEOLOGIES  | Ideological intellectualism , as previously indicated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholicism in its dominant Thomistic expression as well as by all three of the major orientations ( Orthodox , Conservative , and Reform ) within contemporary Judaism . It is also represented on occasion by spokesmen from some of the liberal Protestant traditions and by others representing such " humanistic religions " as **25;630;TOOLONG or quasi-religious movements like Ethical Culture . Ideological Conservatism within a religious frame of reference is probably best characterized by all of the groups that Kelley lists as quasi-mainstream except for the Conservative Jews ( who are basically intellectualists , as discussed in Appendix 1 ) , the dominant Thomistic tradition within Roman Catholicism ( which is almost universally conceded to be perhaps the most prevalent type of religious intellectualism ) , and the " natural humanistic " traditions represented by such movements as **25;657;TOOLONG and the Ethical Culture Society . Most nonfundamentalist evangelicals ( except those in the intermediate and mainstream churches listed by Kelley who prefer to view themselves as " evangelical " in the very broad sense that they subscribe to the authority of the Scriptures or " Evangel " ) as well as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than as ideological fundamentalists . As Marty notes , the nonfundamentalist evangelicals ( such as the vast bulk of Baptists who belong to churches in the American Baptist Convention or Presbyterians , whether Southern Presbyterians or members of the United Presbyterian Church ) ... seem to . . . offer much of what Dean Kelley observed churches needed in order to grow . They display much but not too much commitment , discipline , missionary zeal , absolutism , conformity , and fanaticism . ... Their success , in a sense , lies in their ability to offer prospective converts and members the best of both worlds . On the one hand , they provide meaning , belonging , and identity apparently over against other Americans while on the other hand they are taught to fit in with other Americans , to be the real and true citizens . The nonfundamentalist Evangelicals address near majorities and then give them a sense of clear minority status . The continuing denominationalism of the member groups serves well here . Each one has something to which it adheres in particular , a way of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these are decided on the basis of variant readings of the Scriptures , which they all believe to be inerrant and clear . Yet they are also increasingly ecumenical and worldly , and can offer their clienteles the assets that go with such commitments . Their formula provides both identity and exposure ; it is hard to match as a combination for tens of millions of Americans on this part of the religious map . It is difficult to generalize about the educational proclivities of the more theologically liberal Protestant and quasi-Protestant traditions ranging from nonfundamentalist evangelical groups through the humanistic religions like Unitarianism . In general , the " natural " religions like Unitarianism and Universalism , as well as the ( Quakers , who represent a substantially different point of view , tend to favor the separation of Church and State . Many Pentecostals and //  | schools or compulsory religious instruction and/or prayer in the public schools . The Lutherans maintain a very extensive system of parochial schools , and the Protestant Episcopalians run a number of schools as well . Within Protestant liberalism , most groups tend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction outside of the public schools , special church camps or schools during public school vacation periods , and missionary schools . The greatest difficulty with using church membership as a sign of ideological orientation is , of course , that many church members ? perhaps even most ? are only nominally religious , and their identification with a particular religious group may not be representative of their fundamental convictions . Thus , as Schaff comments with respect to Protestantism , " The nominal Protestants , many of them not even baptized , correspond to the numberless nominal Christians in European state churches , who , though they have been baptized and have professed their Catholic or Lutheran or Reformed faith , care no more about the church , than if they were heathens or Mohammedans . ' Summary of Differences In general , the moral and social philosophies that are essentially conservative in nature subdivide along two basic questions : ( 1 ) the question of religion , and ( 2 ) the question of teleology ( that is , whether or not there is some sort of emergent design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division is used as one dividing line and the **28;684;TOOLONG questin is used as the other , the basic traditions within social Conservatism can be graphically represented as in Figure 6-2 . CONSERVATISM IN EDUCATION : A SUMMARY The educational conservative views the central goal of education as being the preservation and transmission of established social patterns and traditions . Characteristically present-oriented , the educational conservative has a deep reapect for the past , but he is primarily concerned with the usefulness and applicability of learning within the present social context . He seeks to promote the fullest development of the contemporary society by ensuring the sort of slow and organic change that is compatible with preestablished legal and institutional requirements . In a similar sense , and while he retains a deep concern for both character training and intellectual discipline , the secular conservative is primarily devoted to the sort of schooling designed to ensure a deep respect and appreciation for existing social institutions and practices . In contrast to the inintellectualist 's stress on the study of philosophy and humanities , the conservative lends to focus his attentions on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as history and the biological and physical sciences , which are viewed as more directly relevant to the immediate problems of contemporary living . As was the case with the other two " conservative " educational ideologies of educational fundamentalism and educational intellectualism , there are two basic // figure //  | Secular Educational Conservatism . The secular conservative is perhaps best represented by such prominent educational theorists and critics as Arthur Bestor and Hyman Rickover . They do not necessarily reject the spiritual aspects of education , but they tend to be much more utilitarian and practical in their approach to schooling than those with more decided religious inclinations . Their primary concern is with the schools ' role in preserving and transmitting established social institutions and processes , and they seek to propagate the sort of information and skills that are necessary in order to ensure the individual 's success within the secular society that presently exists . Religious Educational Conservatism . The religious conservative is less rigid and moralistic than the religious fundamentalist . He is also less concerned with justifying and comprehending the intellectual bases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily concerned with transmitting the established beliefs and practices ? the time-tested moral and religious orthodoxies ? of his own particular church or denomination . He is perhaps best represented by certain of the more establishment-oriented members of the mainstream Protestant denominations ( such as the Lutherans , Presbyterians or Methodists ) and various members of the Roman Catholic Church who are inclined toward a more liberal theology than that offered by the mainstream Thomistic tradition . The religious conservative agrees with the secular conservative in virtually every instance but he also believes that spiritual training is a basic aspect of our established social traditions and that some form of religious instruction is therefore a proper and significant aspect of the child 's basic education . Temporarily disregarding the differences between the secular and religious points of view within the tradition of social conservatism , the basic ideology of the educational conservative can be summarized as follows : The Overall Goal of Education . The central purpose of education is to preserve and transmit conventional patterns of social behavior . The Objectives of the School . The school exists for two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of , and an appreciation for , time-tested cultural institutions , traditions and processes , including a deep respect for law and order ; and ( 2 ) to transmit the information and skills necessary to succeed within the existing social order . General Characteristics . Educational conservatism can be characterized in the following ways : It maintains that the basic value of knowledge resides in its social utility , that knowledge is a means of realizing established social values . It emphasizes man as citizen ; man in his role as a member of an established state . It stresses reasoned conformity ; placing reliance on the best answers of the mast as the mist trustworthy guide to present action //  | It focuses on existing social traditions and institutions , emphasizing the present situation ( viewed in a relatively shallow and ethnocentric historical perspective ) . It emphasizes cultural stability over the need for reform , accepting only changes that are basically compatible with the established social order . It is based on a closed cultural system ( ethnocentrism ) , stressing dominant social traditions and emphasizing gradual change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on time-tested convictions and on the belief that established ideas and practices are more reliable than those which arise from relatively uncontrolled speculation . It holds that the ultimate intellectual authority is the dominant culture with its established system of beliefs and behavior . The Child as Learner . The child requires firm guidance and sound instruction before he becomes effectively socialized as a responsible citizen . Individual similarities are more important than individual differences , and these similarities are properly determinative in establishing appropriate educational programs . Children are morally equal in a world of objectively unequal opportunities ; they should have equal opportunity to strive for the limited number of rewards available , but success should be conditioned upon personal merit . The child is essentially self-determining ; he has personal free will in the traditional sense . Administration and Control . Educational authority should be invested in mature and responsible professional educators who have a deep respect for due process and who are sufficiently prudent to avoid intemperate changes in response to popular demand . Teacher authority should be based on ascribed social role and status . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ socialization , training the child to be a good citizen . The school should focus on cultural conditioning ; helping the child to acquire conventional cultural values . Emphasis should be placed on basic skills , practical knowledge and character training . The course of study should be heavily prescribed . Emphasis should be placed on the academic over the practical and the intellectual . The school should stress basic training in the fundamental learning skills ( the three R 's ) , an overview of the basic natural sciences , physical education ( including health instruction ) , and a relatively academic approach to the more conventional social sciences ( American history , American political institutions , world history , and so on ) . Instructional Methods And Evaluation . There should be a practical compromise between traditional and progressive classroom procedures ; the teacher should use whatever methods are most effective in expediting learning , but //   ward radical departures from established practices ( such as free schools , nondirective teaching , or individualized instruction ) . Drill is the best way of establishing proper habits at the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intellectual approaches ( such as lecture and directed discussion ) during the later phases of learning ; a significant amount of memorization and drill is necessary . Teacher-determined and teacher-directed learnings are best , but the student should be allowed to participate in the less crucial aspects of educational planning . The teacher should be viewed as an expert disseminator of specific knowledge and skills . Tests that measure skills and information are preferable to those that emphasize analytic ability and abstract speculation . Interpersonal competition for grades between students is both necessary and desirable in order to foster excellence . Emphasis should be placed on the cognitive with a heavy secondary emphasis on the affective and the interpersonal . Emphasis should be placed upon the preservation of conventional educational principles and practices . Personal counseling and psychotherapy should be restricted to children with severe emotional problems that affect their capacity to learn in a normal school situation . Classroom Control . Students should be good citizens in terms of the dominant cultural view of good citizenship and proper behavior . Teachers should generally be nonpermissive in procedures for maintaining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason . Moral education ( character training ) is one of the necessary aspects of schooling .   THE PHILOSOPHICAL ASSUMPTIONS OF SOCIAL LIBERALISM Generally speaking , the Liberal ideologies ? liberalism , liberationism and anarchism ? tend to be rooted in a series of theoretical assumptions that can be summarized in the following line of reasoning : * All knowledge is the product of personal experience ( Empiricism ) . Personal experience is the product of the behavior ( interaction ) between the organism and its physical and social environment ( Philosophical Behaviorism ) . t All behavior grows out of the interaction between physical objects and/or events ( Materialism ) . All personal experience is based in biological processes , growing out of the senseperceptual encounter between the physical organism and the material world ( Qualified , or Biological , Empiricism ) . An idea is " true " if ( and to the extent that ) it leads to effective consequences when applied to the solution of a real ( practical ) problem ( Pragmatism ) . All thinking is problem solving . We think because we are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not immediately capable of realization . The need to attain this goal constitutes a " problem , " and all thinking is the attempt to solve the problem and therefore to It can well be argued that only the secular Liberal ideologies subscribe to this line of reasoning . This seems unlikely for the reasons covered at some length on pp. 237 ? 244 where the differences between the secular and religious expressions of the Liberal ideologies are discussed . t The term behaviorism is ambiguous in both psychology and philosophy . Philosophical behaviorism , as indicated , is a broader position than psychological behaviorism in at least three respects : ( 1 ) It is explicitly empirical , holding that behavior is knowable only indirectly on the basis of personal experience ( which is only secondarily explicable as an expression of personal behavior ) ; ( 2 ) It tends to view behavior very broadly , as applying to the responses of all animate beings interrelating to the totality of the objects and events that make up their environment ; and 13 ) It is that it is willing to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | realize the goal ( Instrumentalism ) . ( When we solve a problem through the application of an idea , we pragmatically verify the truth of the idea with respect to that problem . ) The best way to think is to perfect the natural ( instrumental ) process of problem solving by imposing certain controls on inquiry that will give rise to more objective ( that is , trustworthy and effective ) knowledge . Knowledge should be verified by applying ideas to the solution of practical problems that exist within the real world . To do this , one should seek to be as scientific as possible in how one thinks and in what one subsequently believes . A common-sense adaptation of scientific problem-solving procedures is the best way to think and therefore the best way to live , since effective thinking is the best guide to effective living ( Philosophical Experimentalism ) . * The best way to understand human experience is to study its basis in human behavior , and the best way to conduct such a study is through the application of experimental ( and especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific psychology ( Psychological , or Scientific , Behaviorism ) . All personal knowledge is relative to the nature and content of the personal experience by which it has been confirmed ( Psychological Relativism ) . All knowledge is acquired psychologically , as it emerges through and is affected by the psychobiological processes of knowing ( as this , in turn , relates to whatever experience has already been interiorized symbolically through the prior acquisition of knowledge ) . After the earliest , purely physical , encounters with the world , a person does not respond to the world as such , he responds to his own psychological responses to the world ( Subjectivism ) . Since all personal knowledge is ( 1 ) relative to personal ( sense-perceptual ) experience ; ( 2 ) since the earliest personal experience becomes " subjectified " ( interiorized and organized through memory and symbolism ) , giving rise to basic subjectivity ( selfhood ) ; and ( 3 ) since subsequent experience is increasingly organized ( and made meaningful ) on the basis of the existing subjective self-system , virtually all knowledge ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of psychological transaclions between the existing psychic structure ( self-system ) and the surrounding physical The relationship between instrumentalism and experimentalism ( and particularly scientific experimentalism ) is difficult to arrange in any sort of logical sequence . Strictly speaking , instrumentalism ( the theory that all thinking is a means of solving personal problems ) is verified ( or is generally accepted to be verifiable ) on the basis of scientific behavior applied to psychology , and is therefore an outgrowth of scientific ( psychological ) behaviorism . On the other hand , since scientific behaviorism ( in psychology and otherwise ) is based upon the assumption that effective inquiry thought ) is the product of a particular type of problem solving , experimentalism is based upon the assumption of instrumentalism . The whole problem is reminiscent of the chicken and the egg . In all likelihood instrumentalism ( as an assumption ) precedes experimentalism , but experimentalism , once accepted as a theory incorporating instrumentalism as one of its assumptions , then offers a eon of ( circular ) quasi-verification for one of its own assumptions . In short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ artificial , conceptual basis . Strictly speaking , they are different aspects of OM overall point of view . Not all experimentalists are scientists , and , conversely , not all scientists are experimentalists . In ( fulls words , experimentalism is a philosophical position that advocates a common-sense adaptation scientific problem-solving procedures as the best way to think and therefore the best way to live . early , one can he an experimentalist and not be a scientist in the more rigorous sense of the term .   and social world . This makes the process of psychological development of primary importance in determining how and to what extent the individual will subsequently come to comprehend the world in which he lives . In short , the individual does not respond to the world , he responds to his responses to the world ; his responses are basically mediated by his personality , and his personality is primarily contingent upon the development of personal identity during the earliest years of life ( Psychological Developmentalism ) . With respect to personal values , the highest good is the experience of pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense of being intrinsically ethical in their interpersonal relations , but they are naturally predisposed toward happiness ? the maximum realization of pleasure ( both qualitatively and quantitatively ) over the longest period of time ? and happiness is logically predicated on supportive social and psychological conditions . Man is inherently active ? he seeks to be what he is , to exist in such a way as to realize his essential nature as a person ? and rational ? that is , capable of understanding the nature of the world in which he lives , including his own nature as one aspect of that world . In a fundamental sense , the highest good is to be self-actualizing , that is , to be totally alive in terms of one 's potentialities for being the sort of creature one is . " Pleasure " is the expression of natural human potentialities as these relate to natural possibilities with respect to specific situations . More specifically , it is the maximum correlation between inclination and opportunity ( ability ) when measured against some existing state of frustration or discomfiture . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of perceived problems gives rise to hedonic behavior , that is , behavior directed by pleasure and pain ( Psychological Hedonism ) . Man learns by the emotional consequences of his behavior . Other things being equal , he learns only those things which entail emotional consequences , and he retains that knowledge which is confirmed by pleasurable effects ( Reinforcement Theory ) . All personal experience is largely relative to ( and reliant upon ) existing social conditions ( the nature of childrearing patterns , family organization , dominant political , economic and religious institutions , and so on ) . Human personality is essentially a sociovocal creation , and man 's highest capacity is his ability to construct an indirect , or symbolic , universe ( Cultural Relativism ) . Experimental thinking necessarily implies an experimental society , which in turn implies the existence of a number of " open " social institutions and processes , which are prerequisites for any sort of objective inquiry ( Social Democracy ) . In summary , then , man naturally seeks pleasure and happiness . These require effective behavior . Effective behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trained intelligence founded upon science and reason . These , in turn , require a supportive cul ture . A supportive culture necessitates humanistic moral values ( freedom of speech , freedom of religion , freedom of association , and such ) . All of these , in turn , generate ( and are also largely based upon ) the fullest realistic expression of self-potential . This gives rise to pleasure and happiness ( and so on ) in what is essentially a positive syner gism cycle , as discussed in Chapter III . This line of reasoning is well exemplified in the philosophy of John Dewey as illustrated in Figure 3-11 . Viewed diagrammatically , using only the key terms of the various positions   1 . All learning is relative to the nature and content of personal experience . Personal experience gives rise to personal knowledge , and all personal knowledge is therefore a product of personal experience/behavior with respect to some particular set of objective conditions . ( This is the educational corollary of psychological relativism ) . 2 . Once subjectivity ( a sense of conscious intentionality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personality ) emerges through the processes of personal development , all significant learning tends to be subjective , in the sense that it is largely governed by volitional , and therefore selective , attention . ( This is the educational corollary of subjectivism ) . 3 . All learning is ultimately rooted in active sense-perceptual involvement . ( This is the educational corollary of the various philosophical principles relating to empiricism , behaviorism , materialism , and biological empiricism ) . 4 . All learning is primarily a process of testing ideas in practical problemsolving situations . ( This is the educational corollary of pragmatism and instrumentalism ) . 5 . The best way to learn ? and , by implication , the best way to live , since effective learning is the key to effective living ? is to exercise critical inquiry governed by the experimental precepts that characterize scientific thinking . ( This is the educational corollary of both philosophical and scientific experimentalism ) . 6 . The earliest psychological experience ? the experience that the learner undergoes during childrearing , including the earliest emotional and cognitive training ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ priority over all subsequent experience . It provides the formative basis for the subsequent establishment of the self-system ( which gives rise to subjectivity ) as well as for all of the more involved personality processes that emerge at a later date . ( This is the educational corollary of the psychological developmental point of view ) . 7 . Learning is controlled by the emotional consequences of personal behavior ? the principle of reinforcement . Other things being equal , the individual learns only those actions that yield hedonic consequences ( pleasure or pain ) , whether physical or psychological . Affectively ( hedonically ) neutral actions are not learned ( for all practical purposes ) , and negatively reinforced behavior is ordinarily abandoned in favor of other types of behavior that elicit ( or give promise of eliciting ) more positive types of reinforcement . The pleasure principle governs all human experience . In learning , other things being equal , the pleasure experience determines what shall be learned , and the experimental mode of inquiry provides the best modality for effective learning and therefore for maximizing pleasurable experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the educational corollary of psychological hedonism ) . 8 . Since man is a social creature who relies upon other people for survival in infancy and for the cultural conditions that guarantee successful behavior both in the competition between species and in the competition between individuals and societies within the species itself , personal learning always occurs within the context of ' social experience , and the nature and content of social experience takes logical and psychological priority over purely personal experience . There fore all personal experience is contingent upon some preexisting and predomiP 213 nant social definition of reality . ( This is the educational corollary of cultural relativism ) . 9 . Experimental inquiry , as well as the sort of schooling implied by such a value orientation , can exist only under the sort of social conditions that make possible true scientific inquiry , particularly the application of scientific methods of inquiry to personal and social problems , and not merely to value-neutral areas in the physical sciences . In short , an open and critical process of personal inquiry , adopted as a collective goal for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural organization that is capable of providing the social , economic , and political prerequisites for the effective realization of experimental thinking . Any significant exercise of open and critical personal inquiry requires an open ( democratic ) society founded upon a relatively equalized distribution of economic power and featuring clearly specified political rights in such central areas as freedom of speech , freedom of association , and such . ( This is the educational corollary of the " social democracy " ideal ) . 10 . On the basis of the conditions specified above , the average child can become both personally effective and socially responsible . Trained practical intelligence , viewed as an overriding social goal , can provide the necessary basis for a positive synergism cycle of the sort described earlier , and therefore justifies an optimistic attitude with respect to man 's capacity for intelligent self-regulation . All learning is personal knowledge via personal experience . All learning ( after the earliest era in psychological development during infancy ) is subjective and selective . All learning is rooted in activity , based upon sense-perceptual involvement . All @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solving . The best learning is governed by critical inquiry directed by experimental precepts characteristic of the scientific method , and the best knowledge is that which corresponds most highly ( or is most probable ) in terms of previously validated scientific evidence . The earliest experience is the most influential on subsequent development and therefore the most important . limning is directed and controlled by the emotional consequences of behavior. nature and content of social experience directs and controls the nature and content personal experience and therefore personal knowledge . Critical inquiry of a significant sort can only occur in an open and democratic society maned to the popular expression of individual thought and feeling . von optimum conditions , the average child is capable of becoming both personally love and socially responsible   Liberalism as it relates to politics is reducible to three basic points of view : political liberalism , political liberationism and political anarchism . Political Liberalism This rather diffuse concept generally advocates gradual , small-scale reforms within the framework of the existing political system in order to further individual freedom and to maximize the fullest realization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the political liberal has a good deal of faith in human nature . He tends to favor reasonable change , and is willing to use the government as an instrument for improving the human condition . Just as social conservatism is largely rooted in the ideas of Edmund Burke , many of the key ideas of liberalism in Great Britain and the United States have grown out of the theories of John Locke and , later , of Jeremy Bentham , James Mill and John Stuart Mill . Virtually all contemporary American liberals advocate private ownership of the means of production and limited constitutional government . Similarly , and as Gould and Truitt point out , liberals are inclined to advocate doctrines such as political representation , a party system of loyal opposition , majority rule qualified by minority rights , and equality of opportunity ( as opposed to socialist equality of access to all goods and services within society ) . ' They tend to stress specific personal and social liberties , such as the right to vote , freedom of speech , freedom of the press , freedom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religion , freedom of movement , and freedom of assembly . Most , however , are clearly opposed to the conservative tenets of laissez faire capitalism as viewed by its earliest proponents ? Adam Smith , David Ricardo , and Thomas Malthus . They tend to advocate a " mixed economy , " holding , with liberal economist John Maynard Keynes that it is necessary to " . . . clear from the ground the metaphysical or general principles upon which from time to time , laissez-faire has been founded . " ' They would also agree with Keynes in his contention that it is not true that individuals possess a prescriptive " natural liberty " in their economic activities . There is no " compact " conferring perpetual rights on those who Have or on those who Acquire . The world is not so governed from above that private and social interests always coincide . It is not so managed here below that in practice they coincide . It is not a correct deduction from the Principle of Economics that enlightened selfinterest always operates in the public interest . Nor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often individuals acting separately to promote their own ends are too ignorant or too weak to attain even these . Experience does not show that individuals , when they make up a social unit , are always less clear-sighted than when they act separately . ' Political Liberationism This point of view maintains that we should seek the immediate , large-scale reform of the established social order as a way of augmenting individual liberal maximum realization of personal potential . Generally   advocating a position that might be termed " democratic socialism , " the contemporary American liberationist ordinarily favors a limit on the accumulation of private property ( including public ownership of all major industries , utilities and transportation ) and extensive government regulation of the economy . Largely inspired by the final , utopian vision of Marxist ideology and the teachings of Marxism-Leninism , liberationists frequently envision the ultimate abolition of all conventional political parties and their replacement by strictly social-managerial institutions . Liberationism is a somewhat awkward term , and some liberationists prefer to refer to themselves as " libertarians . " Unfortunately , libertarianism is a confusing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ currently exist in this country . The left-wing libertarians represented by the " student liberation " movement of the late sixties , for example , is a significantly different thing than the " right-wing libertarianism " that can be observed in the " objectivist " followers of novelist-philosopher Ayn Rand , with her fervent commitment to laissez faire capitalism and the abolition of traditional altruistic ethics . Despite obvious similarities , the latter is probably closer to anarchism ? than to left-wing libertarianism for two reasons . First , left-wing libertarianism is humanistic in the traditional sense . Its ultimate goal is the fullest liberation of the individual within society , viewing man as an interdependent social being . It is founded upon the traditional ethics of altruism . Second , left-wing libertarianism aims at establishing new social institutions which are capable of initiating , supporting and sustaining the sort of society which guarantees the utilitarian ideal of the maximum realization of happiness for all . The right-wing " libertarianism " associated with the objectivist philosophy of Ayn Rand , on the other hand , characteristically denies the necessary interdependence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and seeking to liberate the individual , insofar as possible , from the traditional institutional restraints of organized society , actively advocating the abolition of everything but the most minimal institutional restraints upon personal freedom . In educational terms , the right-wing libertarian would not necessarily eliminate schools , but he would eliminate both public schools and compulsory school attendance as violations of basic human rights . ( These matters are considered at greater length later in this chapter . ) Because of the radically different " libertarian ' ' orientations , I have Chosen to refer to what is sometimes viewed as " left-wing libertarianism " as " liberationism , " reserving the " libertarian " label for the right-wing groups represented by the Libertarian Party in contemporary American politics , the followers of Ayn Rand , and various others who share the same or similar persuasions . Most political liberationists would concur with Marx 's materialist point of View , agreeing that in the social production of their means of existence men enter into definite , necessary relations which are independent of their will , productive relationships which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ productive forces . The aggregate of these productive relationships constitutes the economic structure of society , the real basis on which a Juridical and political superstructure arises , and to which definite forms of social consciousness correspond . The mode of production of the material  | means of existence conditions the whole process of social , political , and intellectual life . It is not the consciousness of men that determine their existence , but , on the contrary , it is their social condition that determines their consciousness . At a certain stage of their development the material productive forces of society come into contradiction with the existing productive relationships within which they had moved before . From forms of development of the productive forces these relationships are transformed into their fetters . Then an epoch of social revolution opens . With the change in the economic foundation the whole vast superstructure is more or less rapidly transformed . ' Despite extensive criticism , Marxist socialism has shown a remarkable ability to flourish under changing conditions . The New Left movement exemplified by the Students for a Democratic Society during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affected by the early Marxist essays that were largely preoccupied with the theme of alienation . On the other hand , and as Gould and Truitt indi-cate ... there has been an infusion of such Freudian concepts as repression and sublimation in the works of new-Marxists like Herbert Marcuse , Erich Fromm , and Norman Brown . The general result has been that the political ideology of traditional Marxism was expanded by the New Left so that the focus goes far beyond an examination of the conditions of the working classes to encompass a general critique of the total culture . ' Even the statements of the initially " reformist " liberationists of the oppressed minorities who demanded equity within the existing system during the early and mid-sixties have tended to take on an increasingly Marxist ring over the years . This tone ? which has become somewhat muted of late ? is reflected in the words of onetime Black Panther Eldridge Cleaver ( now a " reborn " Christian ) , who , writing from the perspective of 1967 , states ... the ideology of the Black Panther Party is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Black people in their four hundred year long struggle against the system of racist oppression and economic exploitation in Babylon , interpreted through the prism of Marxist-Leninist analysis by our Minister of Defense , Huey P. Newton . ... Essentially , what Huey did was to provide the ideology and the methodology for organizing the Black Urban lumpenproletariat . Armed with this ideological perspective method , Huey transformed the Black lumpenproletariat from the forgotten people at the bottom of society into the vanguard of the proletariat . ' Much of the educational criticism of the New Left is directed against the public schools , viewed as political agents of the existing totalitarian state . Thus , for the liberationist , most formal education appears to he motivated by the urge to avoid confronting the real issues of political power and social control . " A great deal of contemporary research , " states Richard Lichtman ,  | appears to be similarly motivated . If it is not immediately useful to established power it tends to withdraw and place between itself and the anxieties and responsibilities of the world what Bullough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ referred to as " lecturing on Navigation while the ship is going down . ' " Writing in The New Left Reader in 1969 , liberationist Carl Oglesby observes that the composition of the work force has been significantly altered by the massive assimilation of industry and technology . Students and workers are from now on one and the same . " There are no student problems , " begins The Appeal From The Sorbonne . The factory of the post-industrial state is the multiversity . Students are the new working class . ... Another position . . . has not yet been argued in a sustained way , although it is perhaps suggested in some of the writings by Andre Gorz , Louis Althusser , and Martin Nicolaus . Diverging from the conclusions but not the methods of Marx , this view would share with the newworking-class theory the notion that students can no longer be understood as if the modern university retained all the key features of the medieval university . Students constitute the beginnings of a new historical class , produced by a workers ' revolution which ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which has already taken place . Such a view implies several departures from classical Marxism . First , it denies that bourgeois society in anything like the original model still exists : bourgeois society was above all a scarcity society , a fact which determined its chief legal , political , and economic features . What we have now , inadequately termed post-scarcity , and post-industrial , is , in fact , merely the fulfilled industrial society . Second , it denies that bourgeois society ( or any other ) is the last of the contradictory social systems . On the contrary , there is more reason to believe that each historically successful revolution will produce a new class with a new conception of need and possibility , new objectives which will motivate new historical practices . Third , it denies that the mission of the proletariat was to make the socialist revolution . The objective evidence indicates , rather , that its mission was to industrialize society ? a mission which brought it into sharp conflict with the bourgeoisie . Fourth , it denies that current world politics can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and socialism , as defined by their practice , are different means , corresponding to different material and political situations , for pursuing the common and general aim of industrialization . Fifth , far from hero-worshiping the proletariat , the new class ( unnamed and no doubt at this point unnameable ) repudiates in part and in part carries forward the proletarian culture in much the same way that the proletariat both absorbed and transcended bourgeois culture . That an embryonic new class will seek alliance with the proletariat in its struggle with the bourgeoisie ? this has made the same kind of meaning as the fact that the embryonic proletariat made alliance with the bourgeoisie in the latter 's struggle against Versailles . " The basic problems of contemporary society , states Ernest Mandel , are in large part the outgrowth of a third industrial revolution in which increasing  | numbers of people are being channeled into service functions and recognized tasks in a variety of large-scale bureaucratic institutions . As Mandel states : The third industrial revolution can be seen at one and the same time as a process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of tremendous influx of industrial labor into all other fields of economic and social activity . Whereas more and more people are replaced by machines and industry , activity like agriculture , office administration , public administration and even education become industrialized ? that is , more and more mechanized , streamlined and organized in industrial forms . This leads to very important social consequences . These may be summed up by saying that , in the framework of the third industrial revolution , manual labor is expelled from production while intellectual labor is reintroduced into the productive process on a gigantic scale . It thereby becomes to an ever-increasing degree alienated labor ? standardized , mechanized , and subjected to rigid rules and regimentation , in exactly the same way that manual labor was in the first and second industrial revolutions . This fact is very closely linked with one of the most spectacular recent developments in American Society : the massive student revolt , or , more correctly , the growing radicalization of students . To give an indication of the scope of this transformation in American society , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which at the beginning of this century was still essentially a country exporting agricultural products , today contains fewer farmers than students . There are today 1969 in the United States 6,000,000 students , and the number of farmers together with their employees and family-help has sunk below 5,500,000 . We are confronted with a colossal transformation which upsets traditional relations between social groups , expelling human labor radically from certain fields of activity , but reintroducing it on a larger scale and at a higher level of qualification and skill in other fields . Political Anarchism This point of view advocates the abolition of virtually all institutional restraints over human freedom as a way of providing the fullest expression of fully liberated human potentialities . This position as it presently exists in this country continues to reflect many of the ideas of the classical anarchists like William Godwin , Pierre Proudhon , and Peter Kropotkin , but it tends to deliberately downplay the violence-prone teachings of such individuals as Georges Sorel and Mikhail Bakunin in favor of the less violently oriented theory of Kropotkin and others . The neoanarchists of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasis on individual moral commitment . Like the classical anarchists , they tend to " have a shared consensus in anarchism as a way of life ' rather than as a view of the future . ' " " " Very few of the new anarchists , " states Max Lerner either wish to or believe they can destroy the state completely . What they hope to achieve hy , violence is either a fundamental modification of  | the state or ( and this is more true of the commune dwellers ) the de facto right of counter-culture communities to control their own affairs at a local level . " What characterizes contemporary anarchism , as contrasted with earlier forms , " notes Irving Horowitz is the highly personal nature of the revolt against authority . There might very well be a sense in which the anarchism of intellectuals is a very special variant of anarchism . It possesses three distinguishing qualities : ( 1 ) emphasis on individual responses , on the politics of truth ' ; ( 2 ) rejection of professionalism and departmental academicism ; and ( 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' in the intellectual 's powerful sense of the distinction between public and private , which D. H. Lawrence in particular has pointed out , and the image of the private fighting intellectual there is perhaps an anomie kind of anarchism , if one may speak of anomie in this connection . ' " Contrary to general opinion , political anarchism is ordinarily not opposed to order ? a position lest characterized as nihilism ? but , rather , seeks to eliminate coercive controls over others . As Pierre Proudhon ( the first person to call himself an " anarchist " ) states , anarchism is ... the name given to a principle or theory of life and , conduct under which society is conceived without government ? harmony in such a society being obtained , not by submission to law or by obedience to any authority , but by free agreements concluded between the various groups , territorial and professional , freely constituted for the sake of production and consumption , as also for the satisfaction of the infinite variety of needs and aspirations of a civilized being . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " but there would appear to be three basic types : ( 1 ) communist anarchism ( which stresses that government , law and capitalism are root evils ? Kropotkin , Alexander Berkman , Herbert Read ) ; ( 2 ) anarcho-syndicalism ( which emphasizes the reorganization of industries on the basis of independent worker communes ) ; and ( 3 ) individualist anarchism ( which emphasizes immediate personal self-expression rather than social reconstruction ) . The remarks made here apply generally to all of the various subexpressions of political anarchism , but anarchists are notoriously difficult to generalize about , and there tend to be exceptions to virtually any generalizations which may be made in this area . The central theme in anarchism is not economic relations but coercion . Economic reforms are not enough . The point is to eliminate the need for virtually any political decisions ; to administer things and not people . The key terms are . elf-expression , cooperation , community ( Gemeinschaft as opposed to Gecel/schrdi ) , and voluntary association . A basic summary of the secular anarchist point of view as it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3. //   SECULAR ANARCHISM Man is a natural organism who is predisposed to seek personal happiness . Personal happiness is realized through productive reason ( effective practical problem solving ) . Since man is basically social , depending upon other people and a supportive social environment both for physical survival during the earliest years and for intellectual development during subsequent phases of this development productive reason emerges in a social context of shared experience and patterned relationships . Therefore society itself is a value , because it provides the basis for individual survival and intellectual development ; it is therefore an implied necessity ( or value ) required as a condition for true " individual " identity to emerge . Therefore other people and organized social behavior are experienced as natural values from the very beginning of an individual 's personal experience , and man is basically social , naturally altruistic . Therefore there is no basic conflict between the individual and society ; personality is a social construct ; individualism only exists in a society carefully designed to support and encourage it . Therefore society ( the natural interrelationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it provides the basis for it ; self-centered atomistic individualism , which denies the significance of man 's social nature , is unnatural and //   But conventional social institutions that purport to support individual self-actualization actually subvert it by forcing man to fulfill the dictates of abstract and impersonal institutions , which ultimately cause men to lose their capacity for effectively regulating their own experiences ; they become the servomechanisms of an external state . Therefore the state and its institutional apparatus of nonvoluntary coerced participation in required types of behavior should be eliminated insofar as possible ? a step which ordinarily requires the positive resocialization of man through the expedient of a temporary socialistic state which demands conformity to a new social ethic that seeks the benefit of all rather than the domination of a few . The eventual elimination of conventional social and political institutions ( when the transitional socialist state is abolished ) will release man to act on the basis of his naturally rational and cooperative nature , allowing him to respond critically and creatively to whatever problems emerge at the time they occur which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the individual and society , eliminating the necessity for any sort of monolithic philosophical and political system of beliefs or behavior ( since social consensus will be implicit within enlightened reason ? rational men facing reasonable problems arrive at the same and similar answers ) resulting in a state of rational and productive cooperation with other men In which being is no longer equated with doing or having ( and in which man is properly viewed as an end and not as an alienated means to production and/or consumption ) , the entire process being regulated by the free and unhampered exercise of individual and collective reason in response to meriting problems , a truly sell renewing . and self //   Right-Wing and Left-Wing Anarchism . In the area of anarchism there is , as indicated previously , legitimate conflict between the main body of anarchist sentiment , which is essentially an extending ? and ultimately a transcending ? of radical liberationism , and the less well known position of what might be termed " right-wing anarchism " represented by the " libertarian " philosophies of such individuals as Ayn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinction between these two positions is difficult to clarify , because both left-wing and right-wing anarchists tend to reject self-perpetuating political institutions , which are viewed as violating the integrity of individual personality . On the other hand , most of the right-wing " anarchists " tend to reject the anarchist label altogether , and they seem to have a good case , because the traditional left-wing anarchist ( for whom the term anarchist is generally reserved ) tends to be relativistic in his approach to knowing , altruistic ( and utilitarian ) in his moral philosophy , and socialistic in his short-range political orientation . He envisions a postcollectivist society of freely cooperating individuals coming together on the basis of rational necessity in order to form temporary , ad hoc alliances for the solution of common problems . However , he generally views such a system as emerging out of socialism , which he tends to regard as providing a temporary and transitional resocialization of human consciousness to the new and positive kind of social ethic required as one condition for realizing anarchist freedom . For left-wing anarchists , socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ self-destructing at the proper time , abdicating in favor of a new individualistic era . The right-wing anarchist , on the other hand , tends to be absolutistic in his approach to knowing , " egotistic " in his moral philosophy , and capitalistic in his politics . ( See Figure 7-4 . ) In the case of Ayn Rand 's " objectivism , " for example ( which is perhaps the best known of the right-wing " anarchist " points of view ) , certain basic truths ? such as the proposition that good consequences can never be caused by bad ( irrational and/or unproductive ) behavior , as through monopolistic restraints over free trade ? are simply self-evident . In a similar sense , for Rand , the altruist 's contention that man can legitimately experience value by identifying with the happiness of others is a fallacy , for man is an isolated moral agent who finds his highest value in and through his own personal experience on the basis of productive labor , guided solely by reason . Accordingly , the kind of society that Rand 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the rational-productive capacity of the individual is freed from gratuitous , and essentially destructive , social restraints . The State would , in effect , be eliminated , except for the basic minimum of unavoidable services ? perhaps a small army , a small police force and a small judiciary ? which would be very difficult to provide solely through private enterprise . " In the final analysis , traditional " left-wing " anarchism and the right-wing " anarchism " of Ayn Rand seem to differ in four basic respects : 1 . For the traditional anarchist , human experience is ultimately social in both its nature and its origins . For Rand experience is purely personal . 2 . For the traditional anarchist , praxis ( rational action ) is ultimately social in both its nature and its origins . For Rand , praxis is purely personal . // FIGURE 7 ? 4 SECULAR RIGHT-WING ANARCHISM ( AYN RAND 'S OBJECTIVIST PHILOSOPHY ) 16 Man is a natural organism who is spontaneously predisposed to seek personal happiness .   Personal happiness is realized through individual productive reason ; rational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only insofar as they contribute to individual happiness ; man is not basically social ( ethical egotism ) . 1 Therefore social controls that force individuals to serve the needs of other people violate the basic value of reason/happiness ; in a similar sense , conventional morality and the sort of society that is based upon such morality is essentially founded upon a destructive lie . Man is only indirectly moral , through the exercise of his individual reason . A personal commitment to a more or less unqualified love of others is intrinsically unreasonable . It is not natural for man to seek his natural happiness through the happiness of other people . The conventional ethics of altruism cause man to misrepresent himself , both to himself and to others . This gives rise to a basic irrationality that generates a sort of circular frustration : delusion breeds unhappiness , which strengthens delusion as a means of coping with unhappiness , and so on . The way out of this dilemma is to develop a new social ethic based upon unrestrained individualism , an ethic founded upon a new system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ objective belief . The new society created by such u philosophy would be , in effect , a laissez faire capitalism . 1 In such a capitalistic society productive reason would automatically generate the acquisition of wealth , for , since man is a material being , he finds the highest expression of his n ature in the production and consumption of material goods and services . 1 On purely philosophical grounds , the wealth that is created by productive reason can n ever he abused by the establishment of monopolies or unworthy inheritance . The law of cause-and-effect and the law of identity in formal logic have their corollaries in ethics : wealth that does not grow out of the good ( productive reason ) can never yield pod consequences ( happiness ) ; and bad action ( action governed by irrational belief ) can never yield good results ( wealth ) . In the final analysis , reality itself is governed by certain natural laws that govern both the operation of individual intelligence and the relationship of individual intelligences in the marketplace . These natural laws transcend and control @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a vain attempt to fight against the ironclad strictures of objective reality .   3 . For the traditional anarchist , the value experience is ultimately social ( interpersonal ) in both its nature and its origins . For Rand , all value experiences are personal . 4 . For the traditional anarchist , true individualism emerges through stages , and , in the latter stages before the abolition of the state can occur , an imposition of positive social controls by means of a socialist state is necessary in order to correct the abusive nature of existing capitalist conditions . In this sense , the road to traditional anarchism goes through socialism , because personal freedom , fully conceived , requires the positive reconditioning of personal consciousness during a transitional era of positive political controls . For Rand , true individualism emerges out of a return to laissez faire capitalism and is incompatible with socialistic attitudes and approaches . Where the left-wing radical differs most significantly with Rand ? and with most of the other right-wing " libertarians " ? is in her description of the utopian state . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the elimination of the State but the elimination of the public state and its replacement by a whole host of private-enterprise organizations ( such as multinational corporations ) , which would function collectively as a sort of updated industrial feudalism . Thus , for the left-wing anarchist , to free the individual from a set of bureaucratic , socialistic , public institutions only to turn him over to bureaucratic , capitalistic , private institutions , would be no gain at all , but a substantial loss . Rand 's contention is that capitalist institutions can never be totalitarian , because even continuing corporate or legal entities of the most powerful sort can only sustain their existence if they constantly reaffirm their value by continuing to be the most effective ( rational-productive ) means of guaranteeing human happiness . In this sense , they can not be abused , because the misuse of wealth ( which , as Rand sees it , is the good end of the good means of productive reason ) would be illogical . It would violate the law of cause-and-effect as it applies to moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not be the source of bad ( unwarranted suffering or deprivation ) . It can not be used to create happiness that is unearned ? as might occur , for example , if a person were to inherit a great deal of wealth that he ( ostensibly ) did not merit on the basis of his subsequent behavior . In a sense , a wealthy man who experiences satisfaction from his wealth must be good . By objectivist logic , if he did not deserve to be wealthy , even if by inheritance , his wealth would simply destroy him as an inevitable moral consequence of his own defective character . " For the traditional anarchist , of course , this line of reasoning is not particularly compelling . He does not accept Rand 's self-evident truths ( such as the application of the principle of cause-and-effect in the moral sphere ) . He rejects the idea that unwarranted wealth is implicitly bad ( in the sense that it is incapable of yielding happiness to its possessor ) . Indeed , even if unmerited and the cause of great personal misery @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to others who might conceivably warrant it . Perhaps most significantly , of course , the traditional anarchist would reject the objectivist contention that a society organized around private corporations in hot pursuit of - .. 4 " 1 : ... . h , . nnu. ? h7et th , ctsdw k nnv external organization of  | power that denies the individual the possibility of determining his own fate , and private totalitarianism is no adequate substitute for public tyranny . For these reasons , the so-called right-wing anarchists are probably quite correct in rejecting the anarchist label ( and the term will be used henceforth solely with reference to the left-wing tradition ) . Certainly , in its more explicit formulation , in the writings of Rand , Branden and Hospers , we seem to be dealing with a philosophical conservatism that advocates a political meritocracy ? a position that requires the highest development of trained reason and that generally eventuates on the educational level in a type of secular intellectualism very close to that advocated by some of the contemporary neo-Aristotelians like Robert Maynard Hutchins and Mortimer Adler . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is critical intelligence , defined in terms of effective problem solving on both the personal and social levels . Man is rational , and his reason alone is capable of establishing the necessary relationship between his own enlightened self-interest and the overall best interests of others . For the liberal , then , critical intelligence , ordinarily defined as experimental problem solving , is the means-value that takes precedence over any particular ends-values . Indeed , the governing assumption is that the specific values to be discovered in any actual situation will be defined within the situation itself by applying the more encompassing meta-value of critical intelligence . The educational liberationist does not disagree with the liberal 's commitment to experimental inquiry , but he does disagree with the sufficiency of critical intelligence as a guide to practical action in most existing situations . As the liberationist sees it , the individual understands the world only indirectly on the basis of his behavior within it , and this behavior is invariably determined by quite specific social constraints and conditions . Thus , problem solving is invariably subordinate to problem perceiving , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this way , the creation of a society that allows and encourages critical intelligence is a logical prerequisite for the effective exercise of such critical intelligence . The " critical thinking " that the liberals champion can only be a viable personal goal in a society that is first dedicated to changing those social conditions that preclude the effective exercise of critical intelligence by all . The rational man requires a rational society , and the development of such a society requires the elimination of all of those social conditions ? including all forms of economic , political and intellectual authoritarianism ? that keep men from thinking and acting freely in response to constantly changing conditions . For the educational anarchist , on the other hand , both the liberal and the liberationist are partly right and partly wrong . Like the liberal , the anarchist advocates individualism . Like the liberationist , he accepts the necessity for new standards of social justice . For the anarchist , however , true individualism can only occur after the new socialist state ? which is generally viewed as one stale  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @          