@@773657

txt 2 cm from the snout ( Fig. 9.18 ) . Even when blinded , a pit viper can strike accurately at both still and moving prey . The labial pits of pythons ( Boidae ) are also specialized heat receptors . The pits resemble the facial pits of crotaline vipers except that the pits of pythons lack an inner chamber . In species that possess them , the pits lie in a series between the scales of the lower or upper jaw , or both . Interestingly some boids that lack labial pits nevertheless have an unusual sensitivity to heat . In some genera of boid snakes ( Boa , Eunectes and Lichanura ) the labial region is infrared-sensitive , but there are no pits . // Early studies by Karl Schmidt and G. K. Noble established that these pits are heat-sensitive . Experimenting with blindfolded boids , they demonstrated sensitivity to heat given off by a lightbulb lit and wrapped with cloth.766 Similar experiments with pit vipers showed that their sensitivity to heat was lost when the facial pits were plugged with wax , grease or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ labial pits respond to radiant ( infrared ) heat , and can locate the source against a background of " neutral " temperature . Such heat-sensitive pits are not definitely known for other snakes , but the Indian colubrid Elachistodon westermanni , a rear-fanged snake , has a pair of large pits similar to those of pit vipers . Extraoptical Photoreceptors Many vertebrates , especially amphibians and reptiles , can perceive changes in intensity in light in the absence of eyes . Extraoptical photoreceptors ( EOPs ) receive light in sufficient amounts for entrainment of activity schedules , orientation and chromatophore changes . The parietal eye of some reptiles contains a retina with cells resembling the cones of lateral eyes . The pineal body develops in all vertebrates and is also light-sensitive . In anurans the pineal end organ ( Stirnorgan ) is an established photoreceptor ; it is homologous to the partial eye of Sphenodon and lizards . The pineal end organ is an important receptor in frogs and toads ; it acts as a light receptor in blinded animals , a function that is lost when the end organ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Extraocular photoreception occurs in many vertebrates and is a property of the pineal body . The pineal body of amphibians can detect not only intensity but also direction of light from overhead ; it thus serves not only for orientation but also for reception of light cues for photoperiodic cycles . Blinded amphibians can orient movements . with reference to the position of the sun and synchronize their internal endogenous rhythm to the natural environment schedule . The simplest light receptor is the middle or third eye , which is composed of the parietal eye and pineal body , and lies above the midbrain and below a translucent window at the top of the head . This composite structure is found in jawless fishes , and many amphibians and reptiles . In cyclostomes it consists of two distinct elements : an anterior structure is homologous to part of the pineal body of reptiles , and the posterior one corresponds to the parietal eye . The structure ( or pair of structures ) occurs in fishes but without an orifice in the cranium or unpigmented skin covering . Ancient reptiles had well-developed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sphenodon punctatus ) and most lizards.268 The third eye also occurs ut a broad spectrum of endothermic vertebrates . The parietal eye characterizes many modern lizards , especially heliothermic species . Covering the structure is a pigmentless , translucent scale . A thick cornea overlies a lens composed of columnar cells . Among retinal cells are pigment-containing cells , and a light-dark movement shift ( Purkinje shift ) in pigment is seen in the retina of some lizards . Although a visual pigment is not known in the parietal eye of reptiles , when the eye is exposed to light , the nerve leading from the retina responds with a change in electrical potential . As a photoreceptor the parietal eye in lizards seems to prevent overexposure to solar radiation , and , when this structure is covered or destroyed experimentally ( e.g. , as in Sceloporus virgatus ) , such individuals spend more time under light than do whole individuals.96a,9 ' ? Light responses can occur in blinded animals in all classes of vertebrates : individuals in which the eyes are permanently destroyed respond to photoperiod in gonadal development , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is called extraretinal or extraoptical photoreception ( EOP ) . In several frogs and amphibians activity peaks can be shifted by a shift in the light dark ( LD ) schedules in the absence of eyes . In the slimy salamander ( Plethodon glutinosus ) of eastern North America , the free-running rhythm ( FRR ) is slightly more than 25 hours , but both eyeless and intact animals are entrained by an experimental LD schedule . Green frogs ( Rana clamitans ) adjust their activity to a given LD regimen whether eyed or eyeless , but can not do so when the pineal end organ ( homologous to the reptilian parietal eye ) is destroyed . The cricket frog ( Acris gryllus ) , a small hylid of central United States , orients its movements toward light even when blinded , showing that it perceives both the presence and the direction of light . The cricket frog loses this ability , however , when opaque tape is placed beneath the skin on the top of the head.994 There is evidence of light perception in the skin of some amphibians , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circumstance . Bright flashes of light on the skin stimulate nervous impulses , but the mechanism of the stimulation remains unexplained . ' 4,9 's Despite the importance of the parietal eye in lizards , the iguanid Sceloporus olivaceus can be entrained to a light cycle after destruction of the paired eyes , the parietal eye and the pineal body.1039 In the house sparrow ( Passer domesticus ) entrainment to light occurs in blinded and pinealectomized individuals . In both Sceloporus olivaceus and Passer domesticus the EOP has not been identified . Light elicits electric responses from the skin of several vertebrates , including fish , amphibians and a mammal , but the function of such unidentified dermal photoreceptors is not established . Electroreception In those fishes producing low-voltage impulses , the lateral line system becomes an electroreceptor system : the canal walls are resistant to electrical transmission and act as an insulator , whereas the contents of the lumen have a low resistance and transmit the impulse to receptors within the canals . Electroreceptors are modified neuromasts of the lateral line system and are specialized for detection of lowfrequency signals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . These receptors fire In response to the animal 's own electric organ discharge ( EUI ) ) , and receptors of each species are sensitive or tuned to the frequencies that it produces . ' Some types of receptors code discharges in a yes-no manner , responding to one spike above a certain threshold , whereas others encode intensity and are suitable to monitor modulations in discharge amplitude . In electric fishes there are great modifications in the development of the lateral line nerves : in Malapterurus a branch of cranial nerve VII dorsally extends caudad to the adipose fin and sends branches to the skin , and the lateral line nerve runs along the lateral ( outer ) margin of the horizontal myoseptum , as in most teleosts , but it is insulated from the electric organ by fatty and loose connective tissue . In the electric eel ( Electrophorus ) the lateral line nerve runs caudad deep in the body , producing lateral branches to the surface ; its electricity is both of high voltage , for obtaining prey , and low voltage , for communication . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mormyrids of Africa ) , the lateral line nerve runs along the medial ( inner ) part of the horizontal myoseptum , adjacent to the vertebral column.81 Electroreceptors occur in some nonelectric fishes ; they are modified lateral line organs and serve to detect very weak currents from potential prey species that are not generally considered to be " electric " fishes . Some elasmobranchs can detect small amounts of d.c. electrical currents produced by normal metabolism of prey species . Small pits , ampullae of Lorenzini , on the head of elasmobranchs are tha sense receptors in this case . Electrical detection of prey may occur in fishes other than elasmobranchs , for similar pits are widespread among teleosts . Experimentally the Nearctic catfish , Ictalurus nebulosus , can perceive d.c. currents through the pit organs on their heads . Such electrolocation is based on currents only from the potential prey species and is thus a different phenomenon from the electrolocation of gymotids , mormyrids and their allies.812 Electrolocation is predicated on the ability of the fish to detect irregularities in the electric field about its body . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tail , forward to the anterior part of the body , and outward , about the fish and perpendicular to its surface , returning to the tail . ( Some species possess additional electric organs in the chin and behind the gill openings ; these may differ in the frequency of their discharges . ) In the surface of the forward part of the body receptors detect transepidermal flow , which is part of the electrical discharge . A nonconductor in this electric field distorts the flow of current about it , changing the transepidermal current pattern to form an electric image ( Fig. 9.19 ) . The electric image thus formed increases with an increase in size of the object and with a decrease in its distance from the fish . Generally , if the threshold distance is doubled , the diameter of the object must be multiplied by four . This limits the effective distance of electrolocation , and probably the image is less distinct than a visual image on a retina . Clarity of the image is presumably enhanced by the bending of the tail filament ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vertebrates to have evolved such a variety of behavioral patterns based on electrical discharges : electric species are unknown among invertebrates . This is a superb example of a totally novel sense and means of communication derived from preexisting materials that are widespread among the vertebrates . Summary The emphasis on one sensory system or another reflects the habitat of a group . Apparently sense receptors are very plastic , for they become modified to suit the changing life of a taxon as it diverges into various types . Receptors for odor , sound waves and light waves all become changed from one class to another ; some , such as the infrared receptors of some snakes , develop de novo . Chemoreception is perhaps the most ancient sensory system , and olfactory lobes are very well developed in the earliest fishes . Taste buds in aquatic vertebrates occur on various parts of the skin , sometimes concentrated on barbels , as in catfish , and sometimes scattered . In water , where light is reduced , odor is of paramount importance for some major activities , such as food-getting , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence for efficient odor perception in amphibians is circumstantial , but there is no doubting its importance . Although olfaction in birds is secondary to vision and hearing , some avian groups can detect odors , and olfactory signals assist in food-finding in such unrelated groups as petrels , indicator birds and kiwis . Olfaction in mammals not only serves in the detection of prey and predator but is also vital in ordering mammalian social life . Olfaction is very well developed in all mammals except primates and marine mammals . Vision and paired eyes occur in almost all vertebrates , but sight varies greatly from one group to another , generally reflecting the intensity and quality of light available to the individual during its active period . Among diurnal fishes bright colors and sexual dichromatism are frequent , and color vision prevails . The colors that we see in a reef fish in an aquarium , brightly illuminated , are not those seen by the same species in 20 or 30 feet of water . Red penetrates water to a very limited degree , and colors are modified accordingly ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear a shade of gray to other fish . Nevertheless the cones , which form the basis for color perception , are well differentiated in many fishes . Vision in fishes is generally much less important than is olfaction . Adult amphibians are predatory and have good vision . Prey is usually located visually by its movement when the frog or salamander is out of water . Sexual variation in color is slight in amphibians , and sight seems to be less important than color , sound or touch . Reptiles see well and , except for snakes , some perceive color as well as we do . Experimental work verifies color vision in lizards and turtles . Sexual coloration is not only conspicuous in many lizards ( which possess only cones ) , but also accentuated during the season of courtship . The role of color vision in some lizards probably approaches that of birds . In the latter , vision is the primary sense for receiving environmental signals and is associated not only with courtship but with flight and the accommodation required for rapid flight . Mammalian vision is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mammals may lack color vision . Circumstantial evidence suggests that most mammals , primates excepted , do not perceive distant images as well as do birds . Many mammals seem unable to detect an observer ( downwind ) until the latter moves , but this particular aspect of vision is difficult to explore experimentally . Sound is produced by the majority of all classes of vertebrates , and most soundproducers have efficient hearing . Although vertebrates have evolved many kinds of noise-making structures , the organ of hearing is the inner ear , or the lateral line system which is derived from it . In fishes the receptor of higher-frequency sound waves is the air bladder , an unpaired structure , and several means have been developed to deliver impulses from the air bladder to the lagena ( the forerunner of the cochlea ) . In other vertebrates sound is received by a tympanum and transmitted directly to the inner ear . At the extreme red end of the visual spectrum , electromagnetic waves become infrared . Infrared rays are not perceived by photoreceptors , but at least two families of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emanating from the warm-blooded quarry on which they feed . Infrared perception is not known in any other vertebrates . In a number of vertebrates certain " nonoptical " structures register varying amounts of light . The partial eye , together with the adjacent pineal body , is especially important to the tuatara ( Sphenodon ) as well as to a number of families of diurnal lizards , and is a receptor involved in entrainment to photoperiod . Homologous structures in amphibians also assist in orienting movement toward a light source , which in nature could be a body of water . Reception of very weak electrical currents depends on water as a transmitting medium and is known for certain fishes . Their sensitivity is adequate to detect impulses by " nonelectric " species , and some sharks and perhaps catfish can locate their live food in this manner . It is not known how many fish can perceive very weak currents , but several diverse families not only produce and communicate by low-voltage emissions but can electrolocate nearby objects in turbid water by a disruption of their own electric fields @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suitable to their habitats and habits . Thus birds , mostly both diurnal and endowed with the ability to fly , are largely vocal and visual in their communication . On the other hand , mammals , mostly nocturnal and moving more slowly than birds , are vocal and olfactory . Mammals live largely in an olfactory world and produce many scents for various purposes . Few mammals , however , are as colorful as birds . Most signals among vertebrates are intraspecific and frequently sexual in significance . Some signals relate to nonsexual functions , such as scents or sounds to indicate alarm and sounds for echolocation . Because of our own limited ability in hearing and olfaction , it is difficult to appreciate the diversity of sounds and odors used by other vertebrates . Other signals , such as low-voltage electricity and bioluminescence , are limited to only a few vertebrates . Fishes Odor plays a major role in the breeding patterns of many fishes.815 Some fish , which spawn in nests of other species that defend their nests , receive protection for their own eggs . The odor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lepomis cyanellus ) stimulates the redfin shiner ( Notropis umbratilis ) to oviposit in the nest of the former . The minnow spawns only in occupied nests and only when the sunfish are themselves spawning.4 ' Hemichromis bimaculatus , an African cyclid , cares for its young , which it recognizes by their odor , and the behavior is probably common in this large group of fishes.656 The sturgeon chub ( Hybopsis gelida ) is adapted for life in rapid , turbid streams ; ventral rugosities are richly provided with taste buds and probably compensate for poor vision in the water they occupy . In clear waters this minnow lacks this extensive system of ventral pores.15 Taste buds occur on many species of minnows ( Cyprinidae ) and are concentrated on the head region , pectoral fins and barbels . ' EExperiments demonstrate the extreme sensitivity of fish to odors and their importance in social behavior , food-finding and migration . Such experiments usually involve ( 1 ) concealing food and ( 2 ) destroying part of the olfactory receptor or anesthetizing the olfactory epithelium , sometimes with obliteration of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when blinded , unless the olfactory structure is not functioning . The well-known alarm behavior in fishes is a response to rupture of the skin . It is olfactory , for it does not occur when the olfactory tract is anesthetized or destroyed , and it is apparently confined to species of Ostariophysi ( minnows , catfish and characins ) . Injured skin in cyprinid fishes and their allies ( Ostariophysi ) causes other individuals to become agitated , and the " alarm substance " seems to alert nearby fishes to possible danger . ' 9 , ' " ? Amphibians , Reptiles and Birds Among amphibians chemoreception seems to be most important in salamanders . Many salamanders develop hedonic glands during the season of courtship , which produce substances that are stimulatory on contact , suggesting that chemoreceptors are involved . Also Jacobson 's organ , well developed in many reptiles , is first seen clearly in amphibians . In the salamander family Plethodontidae , the nasolabial groove is lined with ciliated epithelium that conducts a current of fluid to the mouth and ultimately to Jacobson 's organ . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ smells . Anecdotal accounts indicate that this is so , and there is some evidence for the release of sexual odors in snakes . The subject has not been explored to the depth that it has been in mammals , and very probably students of behavior will make important discoveries in the realm of reptilian scents . The role of special scents is unknown in birds . Olfaction is poor and , where present , seems to function mostly in food-finding . There is no evidence that birds produce scents that carry messages to others of the same species . Mammals Odors are appropriate for communication in air because of the rapid diffusion of small amounts of scent and the almost constant movement of air . Not surprisingly , terrestrial mammals have developed numerous scent glands and a high degree of olfactory sensitivity . Among arthropods there are hundreds of species in which one sex , usually the female , releases an odor that produces a specific response in the other sex . These odors are called pheromones . Some workers prefer not to use this term for mammalian scents because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are in arthropods and ( 2 ) much olfactory communication in mammals is intra- as well as ! unisexual . In contrast to vocal and visual communication , scents can be placed on an object where they persist for hours or even days ; such marking behavior is a major means of mammalian communication . In many species of mammals both sexes produce scents that serve different social functions , and some of these odors apparently attract and stimulate the opposite sex during the reproductive period . Although it may be an oversimplification to equate these substances with pheromones of insects , some mammalian scents are quite specific in their effects . Female rhesus monkeys in estrus , for example , release a vaginal secretion that stimulates males to mating behavior . On the other hand , human males declared no discrete impression , either pleasant or unpleasant , from a sample of unknown odors that came from tampons used by a series of women during their ovulatory cycles.2s ' A constant production of scents serves to identify urine of mammals not only as to species but also as to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it carries information about the individual 's reproductive state . There seem to be identifying odors in fecal matter as well . These odors are the products of glands associated with the urinary tract or the anal area . In addition there are many glands on various parts of the body of many mammals , exudates of which may be placed either on the individual 's body or parts of its environment . Scent Production A variety of structures are specialized to produce scents . In carnivores they usually secrete into urine , and artiodactyls have scent glands not only on the feet but sometimes on the head . Rabbits have chin glands , side glands characterize most shrews , and kangaroo rats ( Heteromyidae ) have dorsal glands . Not only do these scents mark the ground where the mammal urinates , but scents may be placed above the ground on rocks and on vegetation . Lipids from the preputial gland are probably released with urine and are associated with social dominance . Within a given population , preputial size increases with dominance , and preputial lipids stimulate activity of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhance olfactory perception or does memory affect the message of the odor ? Furthermore odors of laboratory mice affect the frequency of estrus : an odor in female urine retards or suppresses estrus , and male odor accelerates the cycle.722 Characteristic scents distinguish both species and individuals , and most mammals generously spread their own odors throughout their territories . Even with our own poor olfactory ability , humans can detect scents of some species of mammals . The peccaries ( Tayassu spp. ) , when alarmed , release an odor well known to hunters . The short-tailed shrew ( Blarina brevicauda ) can fill the woodlands with its heavy odor on a damp spring evening . Most mammalian scents , however , go unnoticed by us . A stroll with one 's dog , however , suggests the existence of an olfactory world : the dog recognizes not only other dogs but cats and birds , and is sure to identify a women in menses . Some of the prosimians have discrete skin glands that seem to produce scents used in marking , but monkeys and apes apparently do not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a female in estrus , but they lack welldeveloped marking behavior . When the response by an individual is to a conspecific individual of the opposite sex , then the scent is not only sexually stimulating but also a reproductive isolating mechanism . Anal glands release characteristic odors in many groups of mammals , and these glands are often larger in males than in females . Many kinds of hystricomorph rodents mark their mates with urine . Generally the male urinates on a prospective mate , but in some the female ejects a strong stream of urine posteriorly at the male . Coloration Color comes or is reflected from animal surfaces , and the type of color depends on the spectrum of light waves emanating from the integument . Colors result from pigments , or zoochromes , and from structural colors , or schemochromes . A combination of zoochromes and schemochromes can produce colors . Zoochromes Because of the widespread and diverse use of the word pigment , zoochrome ( or biochrome ) is specifically applied to nonstructural colors in plants and animals . Zoochromes absorb some band of the visible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color . The color of a zoochrome depends on its molecular structure . Zoochromes are usually carotenoids , pterins or melanins . Most carotenoids are orange or red ; they occur widely in cells of plants and animals but are not synthesized by animals . A common carotenoid is carotene , the orange pigment in the carrot , but related carotenoids occur widely in vertebrate tissues . Carotenoids are fat-soluble and frequently account for the color of the scales in birds ' feet and the gold-red color in many fishes . Carotenoids in birds are derived entirely from fats contained in their food , but these pigments are sometimes modified before final deposition in bird tissue . Some yellow carotenoids result in a green color when deposited over a guanine layer which is reflecting blue , but green carotenoids seem not to occur in birds . Certain carotenoids in animals can be split to yield vitamin A , which is a component of some visual pigments . Pterins account for many of the colors in fishes and amphibians . Frequently they resemble carotenoids in color , but pterins are insoluble in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are contained in special cells , Chromatophores , which can expand , covering a large area and at the same time intensifying the color within or contracting , thus minimizing the effect of the contained color . Zoochromes also occur in chromatocytes , which do not expand or contract and which change color slowly , if at all . Chromatophores often take the name of the pigment or zoochrome within . Erythrophores are mostly reddish and xanthophores yellow , from their pigments erythrin and xanthin , both carotenoids . Melanins , universal products in animal tissue , arc usually black or brown , and melanophores are common in the skin of fish , amphibians and reptiles . Melanins arc extrememly stable materials formed from tyrosine ( an amino acid ) . The sepia of squid is a melanin and is sometimes preserved in fossil squid many millions of years old . Guanine also occurs widely as a waste product of metabolism , and is the essential component in guanophores . Schemochromes Structural colors , in contrast to pigments , derive their color(s) from the configuration of their surface , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they reflect or the direction from which they are viewed . Structural colors are produced by one or a combination of three phenomena : interference , diffraction and scattering . Interference is produced by reflection of light from two surfaces , which are usually close together and parallel , or nearly so . Light passes through different substances at different speeds , variation being caused by the refractive index of the material . The refractive index of air ( or a vacuum ) is 1 , and anything denser has a refractive index greater than 1 . When light strikes a film of oil , for example , part of it is reflected from the outer or upper surface of the film and part of it passes into the film and is reflected from its inner or lower surface ( Fig. 10.1 ) . Thus the reflected light one sees comes from two surfaces ; as the light penetrates the first surface , its speed is slowed . When it is reflected from the lower surface and reenters the air , the specific wavelengths may be out of phase with those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Thus when beams of light are parallel and superimposed on one another and out of phase , destructive interfer- ence results ( Fig. 10,2 ) . Color is produced from white light when one part of the spectrum is reinforced at the expense of another . The degree of interference is the result of the angle at which light hits the outer surface , the refractive index of the material and its thickness . Interference is a source of iridescence in animals . As light passes through a small orifice or slit , white light separates into its several parts , blue light bending most and red light least . This is diffraction . As light is diffracted in passing through a fine hole , the color seen depends on the angle from which it is viewed ( Fig. 10.3 ) . Viewed from position A light passes through the slit or orifice unbent and unaltered but , when light is viewed from position B , only diffracted light is seen . The degree to which light is bent increases inversely with its wavelength , so that as the position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light seen changes from red to blue . And , as one views an iridescent bird or fish that has a diffraction grating in its feathers or scales , its color changes with the viewing angle . Inasmuch as diffraction is an " edge effect , " it can sometimes be observed from an angular or a pitted surface . Reflection from an angle is a common type of diffraction in vertebrate coverings . Reflection from a pitted surface causes diffraction of " white light " into different monochromatic or " pure color " light . Diffraction is a common source of interference , producing iridescence in such birds as hummingbirds ( Trochilidae ) . Diffraction can emit a single color when light passes through successive layers or reflecting points , spaced so as to allow only one color to pass through , and this only when viewed from the proper angle . This is called a space lattice , and occurs in certain iridescent feathers and fish scales . Scattering of light occurs when small reflective particles redirect light . When these particles are extremely fine , too small indeed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectrum , they reflect bluish light and allow the longer wavelengths to pass about them . This is called Rayleigh ( or Tyndall ) scattering . wavelengths are bent at greater angles . In vertebrates guanine crystals are smaller than the wavelength of red light , and thus selectively reflect blue light . Tissue with layers of guanine tends to vary from whitish blue to deep blue . Tyndall scattering accounts also for the blue color of the sky when the sun is high ; at dawn and dusk , when sunlight nearly parallels the earth 's surface , it passes through a relatively long layer of dust particles large enough to reflect red rays , a different effect of scattering . Tyndall scattering , or Tyndall blue , accounts for the blue on the undersides of many fish , amphibians and reptiles , as well as for the blue buttocks of mandrills . Blue in feathers is always a result of scattering . When a guanine layer lies beneath a yellowish carotenoid , the blue passing through yellow endows the animal with a green color . The green of many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reflect the pigment biliverdin ; this accounts for the color in some wrasses ( Labridae ) and some anurans . With somewhat larger particles , too large for scattering , the effect varies and depends on both the size of the particle and the relationships of the scattered light with that which is refracted and reflected . The result is called Mie scattering , and can range from bluish to white . Most animal color effects from scattering are due to Rayleigh or Tyndall scattering . The predominant color of an animal is usually a combination of several colors . The blue of mackerel and many other fish is a product of bluish light reflected through a thin layer of melanin . The same blue reflected through a yellow appears green , and guanine alone accounts for silver in such fish as silversides and jacksmelt ( Atherinidae ) . Iridescence in vertebrates is sometimes produced by guanine crystals , such as in the scales of many snakes . Color Changes Color changes involve the skin and its products ( feathers and fur ) , The ability to change rapidly belongs to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and pelage require their physical replacement or wear . Color changes with development or season are chromogenic . With a few exceptions , color changes in birds and mammals are chromogenic , as are , for example , the different color patterns of young and adult racers ( Coluber spp ) . The winter development of white fur of weasels ( Mustela erminea , M. frenata ) and hares ( Lepus americanus ) results from molt as does the development of the white plumage of ptarmigan ( Lagopus spp . ) . The vernal darkening of the snow bunting ( Plectrophenax nivalis ) is caused by the differential wear of the white in its feathers during the winter ; by spring this whitish sparrow has become blackish . This is a chromogenic change and occurs in the absence of molt or feather growth . Not all chromogenic changes are seasonal ; in some shrews ( e.g. , Sorex fumeus , S. arcticus and S. trowbridgei ) the adult pelage is unlike the color of the juvenile and , because of their short life span , these mammals rarely experience a second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protective . Many arboreal anurans and lizards can become green when on a green background or brown when on a bark or a rock of a brown or gray color . Some changes result in changes of intensity of a gray or brown , such as are commonly seen in terrestrial lizards ; in these species a darker color is often seen on a cool day and may be a thermoregulatory device . Color changes that affect only one sex are most commonly associated with courtship or territoriality , or both . Rapid color changes result from movement of pigment within the chromatophore , as in some anurans , some lizards and many bony fishes . These changes are called chromomotor . Although chromogenic changes usually serve a seasonal purpose , such as courtship or concealment in the snow , chromomotor changes are responses to an immediate and unanticipated need . As a flounder swims from one color of substrate to another , its " eyed-side " changes color accordingly , and certain tree frogs ( Hylidae ) change from brown to gray or green , depending on the surrounding color @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the cellular level : chromomotor changes result in movement of pigment within a chromatophore , and the slower chromogenic changes occur with gradual changes of pigment within a chromatocyte . The direct response of a chromatophore is to light and reflects also the cell 's genetic capability . This is called primary response : it is not modified by neurohormonal stimuli , not is it dependent on ocular function . A microbeam directed on a single anuran chromatophore can result in movement of pigment , and probably chromatophores vary in their responsiveness to different wavelengths . Thus chromatophores are light receptors in themselves . In contrast , secondary responses are triggered by neurohumoral stimuli initiated in the eye , parietal eye , pineal body or hypothalamus . Color changes in the chromatophores may be coordinated with behavior , as in courtship of a fish or a lizard . In most ectothcrms most changcs are of intensity and arc cffectcd by changes in size of melanophorcs : contraction of melanophores results in a lightening of the animal 's general color . In a few fishes , frogs and lizards one color can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bony fishes is under nervous control , but under hormonal control in amphibians . In amphibians , intermedin ( from the intermediate lobe of the pituitary ) causes expansion of the melanophore . Species of the iguanid lizard Anolis effect extreme color changes from bright green to dark brown ; as in amphibians , color changes in anoles are caused by changes in intermedin levels in the blood.8.840.996 The chromatophores are arranged with melanophores underlying the colorbearing chromatophores and iridophores containing guanine . The anole ( Anolis carolinensis ) is greenish when the melanophores contract but expanded , they change to brown by allowing melanin to shield reflection from the iridophores ; in this lizard only the melanophores cause color variations . True chameleons ( Chamaeleontidae ) , on the other hand , respond solely to nervous stimulation of the chromatophores . Color change occurs also in some geckos ( species of Sphaerodactylus ) , agamids and true chameleons ( Chamaeleontidae ) , but not in snakes or turtles and only rarely in crocodilians . At least one crocodilian , the caiman ( Caiman sclerops ) , can change color . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obliterating the distinctive banded pattern . Color Patterns Many intra- and interspecific messages are conveyed by visual means . Although some visual signals consist of specific sorts of body movements , many others consist of colors and distribution of colors on the animal 's exterior . Other types of coloration seem to relate to environmental adaptations without reference to behavior between conspecific individuals . It might be well to point out that , although hundreds of biologists have written reams on animal coloration , there is still active controversy on many interpretations of color patterns . Conspicuous color patterns in animals sometimes indicate a dangerous or distasteful element in the bearer . It is well established that predators avoid insects with warning or aposematic coloration , but such coloration in vertebrates is less common . Black and white is the most common warning pattern , and the New World skunks ( Mephitinae ) are the best-known examples . Like other aposematic animals skunks are fearless , and their odor is unforgettable . Sexual Coloration Bright colors in one sex are usually associated with courtship . In many fish and lizards courtship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circulating androgens ; nuptial plumage in many birds is molted when nesting ends . Many male lizards develop bright colors as reproduction approaches , such colors intensifying with gonadal development . Distinctive sexual coloration is absent in snakes , most mammals and other nocturnal vertebrates that are fossorial or color blind , or both . In a large number of fishes and lizards males develop distinctive nuptial colors to which females of the same species respond . The red of courting sticklebacks ( Gasterostcidae ) is produced by an androgen , as are the various nuptial hues of many male agamid and iguanid lizards . Sexual hormones produce colors in females of some species : postovulatory levels of progesterone result in pink sides , the color disappearing after the eggs are laid . The function of such colors in females is not known . In snakes , turtles and crocodilians both sexes are usually identically colored . Sexual differences in the flesh of several primates is apparent but is scarce in the pelage of all mammals . Many avian males have distinctive coloration whereas females of the same species tend to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurs in some species of a given family , whereas in other species male and female are alike . Among species of the puddle duck genus Anas , for example , males of most species have a colorful plumage for the greater part of the year , but in several species of Anas both sexes have the same coloration . In most seabirds ( loons , cormorants , shearwaters , alcids and others ) the plumage is alike in both males and females . Among the crows , jays and magpies ( Corvidae ) both sexes have the same colors , but in the birds of paradise ( Paradiseidae ) the males are gaudy and distinctive and the females dully colored . In these examples sexual differentiation in plumage is associated with visual displays in courtship and territoriality ; in the absence of sexually distinctive plumage , cues of color and form are replaced by behavioral cues . Concealing Color Patterns In many vertebrates zoochromes and schemochromes are distributed so as to hide the creature within its environment . Concealing coloration effects the blending of the animal with its background ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection from predators . Pale colors in desert animals occur in many lizards , birds and mammals . Most workers believe such paleness to be cryptic and adaptive to pale desert substrate . Concealment by cryptic coloration must be especially important in deserts , where protective vegetation is frequently sparse . The pale coloration is apparently adaptive to some extent and genetically fixed , and some small mammals on dark substrates in deserts have dark pelage . According to Gloger 's Rule , however , animals in warm dry climates tend to be pale , implying that a reduction in melanin somehow occurs in warm dry air . Coloration in water is affected by selected penetration of light , longer wavelengths at the red end of the spectrum penetrating least ( Fig. 10.4 ) . Thus red pigmentation in the absence of red light appears blackish and tends to be concealing . In the bright illumination of a shallow-water , coral-reef habitat , most fishes are various shades of yellow , green and blue . A number of pelagic larvae of fishes have almost no pigmentation except for the melanin in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more-or-less transparent as they drift passively at the surface . The larvae of some eels ( Anguillidae ) and herring are at first nearly transparent . The protective value of such concealing coloration is questionable , for larval mortality among such species is high . Light penetrating a forest is modified by chlorophyll , which absorbs light at both ends of the visible spectrum and reflects and transmits greens ; this phenomenon causes a maximum of ambient light near 550 nm ( Fig. 10.5 ) . In such an environment unpatterned greenish animals may be less conspicuous than reddish or bluish species . Many ground-nesting vertebrates have their venter concealed from view , and the dorsal pattern may resemble the substrate . This resemblance is frequently achieved by a bold pattern of contrasting lines and patches that follow irregularities and their shadows on the ground . Ruptive coloration is most familiar in birds : the woodcock ( Philohela minor ) nests on the ground in open woodlands or thickets and is an uneven design of earth-browns and short black stripes ; the various spe25 m cies of goatsuckers ( Caprimulgidae ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Chipmunks ( Eutamias spp. and Tamias striatus ) are conspicuously striped as are many species of ground squirrels ( Citellus ) ; they are diurnal and spend most of the time on the ground . The disruptively patterned Tamiops spp. of tropical Asia closely resembles the chipmunks , but it forages high in the treetops . Disruptive coloration does not always require a terrestrial background . Many snakes that are slender and move rapidly are conspicuously marked with longitudinal stripes . As they crawl through grass , they seem immobile until they suddenly disappear . Similarly many slender and rapidly moving lizards tend to have longitudinal stripes . A universal principle in the distribution of melanin is that the rate of distribution increases with exposure to sunlight . The Nile catfish , which swims " bellyup , " has the morphologic venter darker than the dorsum , and flatfish , which have the eyeless side without melanin , develop pigmentation on that side when kept in glass-bottomed aquaria with strong illumination from below . Under most conditions the animal becomes darker dorsally than ventrally ; the result is that its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if the melanin were evenly distributed . The " dark above , light bclow " pattern is called countershading , because it tends to reduce the conspicuous effect of a shadow on the venter . The difference in the melanin on the upper and lower sides of an animal increases with the intensity of dorsal light . Thus countershading is most obvious in diurnal animals that stand in sunlit areas and least apparent in species that are nocturnal or dwellers of the forest floor . Most shorebirds are clearly countershaded , but the phenomenon is scarcely apparent in bats or moles or forest-dwelling thrushes . There are exceptions among shorebirds : the golden plover , black-bellied plover and dunlin all have black venters , which render them conspicuous on the beaches that they frequent . Countershading is also less apparent in an animal standing high above the ground , such as a giraffe or a crane , and is more obvious in a mouse , ground squirrel or lizard . In pelagic fishes countershading is doubly protective : the blue-gray dorsum of a mackerel or a herring is concealing when viewed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waves and foam of the ocean surface when viewed from below . Although countershading is best developed in invertebrates living near the ground , the venters of many tree-dwelling birds are pale ; such birds may achieve some concealment by the reflection of ambient light : viewed from the ground , the paler underparts of a bird in branches overhead may assume a greenish aspect , reflecting the color filtered by and reflected from the leaves . The advantage of such concealment , although perhaps slight , varies with the habitat . Protection from UV radiation would also lend survival value to countershading . In a group of anoles ( Anolis spp. ) , the degree of melanin in the peritoneum is positively correlated with the amount of time spend in the sunlight , forest-dwelling species with this membrane being but lightly pigmented.830 The reduction of melanin in the skin of lightly pigmented desert species is compensated by melanin in the muscles and especially the peritoneum ; these internal layers of melanin protect the viscera , and the gonads in particular , from the damaging effects of UV light.83o Mimicry Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examples of one species ' resembling other phylogenetically distant species . Sometimes predators have the form and color of an innocuous species , and the predator is said to be a mimic . Mimicry is proposed to explain many examples of similar color patterns in vertebrates , and there is a large body of literature on the subject . A commonly cited example consists of a pair of species , one of which is dangerous , harmful or distasteful , designated the model , and another , the mimic , which lacks the distinctive characteristics of the model but which resembles or mimics it in color . This color pattern , when distinctive , is a warning coloration ; presumably it alerts a potential predator to the dangerous or undesirable nature of its wearer . Such a predator ? prey pair of model and mimic constitutes a Batesian mimicry . Students of animal coloration believe that the mimic benefits from the protection derived from the color pattern , which resembles that of the model . Not all examples of similarity constitute mimicy ; before deciding for himself , the student should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likelihood of alternative possibilities . In some animals interspecific similarities in color patterns include an array of species that embraces a broad diversity of offenseiveness or danger , so that the species reinforce each other 's similarity . In such examples no species is either clearly the model or the mimic , and this is called Miillerian mimicry . As in Batesian mimicry the basic color pattern is presumed to be a warning coloration . The coral snakes ( Elapidae ) are strikingly banded with black , red and a light cream color , and several unrelated colubrid snakes have similar color patterns . The colubrid species include both harmless and mildly poisonous snakes , and perhaps the harmless colubrids and the highly venomous coral snakes mimic the mildly toxic colubrids . This being the case , these species would constitute Mullerian mimicry . One objection to this supposition is that most of these snakes are largely nocturnal , fossorial , or both , and that their mammalian predators may be color-blind . In addition , Mullerian mimicry depends on the members of the mimicry ring being more-or-less sympatric , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of snakes the underside of the tail is distinctively colored ; when raised , the tail resembles a head . Such deception is based on both coloration and behavior , and seems to divert a predator 's attention from the snake 's real head to the conspicuous tail . In one such species , the rubber boa ( Charina bottae ) of western North American , museum specimens frequently have bruised tails . Numerous species of birds in several families , mostly passerines , normally lay their eggs in nests of other species , and these social parasites produce eggs that are pigmented like those of the host species . Presumably this similarity prevents the host from recognizing the parasitic nature of the alien egg ; the latter having been reared by the same host species makes the association at nesting time a year later natural . Among Eurasian cuckoos ( Cuculus canorus ) there is frequently one host in any given geographic range ; thus the eggshell pigmentation evolves to resemble that of the host 's eggs . Not surprisingly , when an egg is laid in the nest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is low . Similarity between the egg of the host and its parasite occurs among many parasitic species . Sound Production Animal sounds differ not only by species but by age , sex and season . Certain sounds of course may convey specific meansings , and some vertebrates produce a large number of distinctive sounds . The song of a male bird or sea lion in the breeding season announces his presence not only to potential mates but also to other males that might invade his territory ; the call of a frog may serve not only to attract females to his pond , but also to define his territory . Not all animal sounds are produced vocally . Fish are nonvocal but produce sounds from the air bladder and sometimes by moving one bone over another . Many birds produce sounds from the passage of air through feathers and the woodpecker drums on trees or drainpipes of buildings , The " drumming " of the Nearctic ruffed grouse ( Bonusu umbel/us ) is made with its wings . Some mammals make their typical sounds with foot-stamping . Sound in Fishes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the most exhaustively sonic organ in these vertebrates . Many species can produce characteristic sounds by moving one bone against another , but this action may occur in some only when the bones ( such as a pectoral spine ) are manipulated by the human hand . A silurid catfish ( Clarias batrachus ) of India makes a loud clear sound by moving the pectoral spine . The base of the spine as well as the socket of the cleithrum into which it fits are corrugated ; such rugose surfaces are absent in silurids unable to produce sounds . Pharyngeal teeth stridulation accounts for acoustics produced by many families of bony fishes ; these sounds are characteristic for each species and sometimes sex , and must be important for courtship and other types of intraspecific identification . The swim bladder produces sounds by vibrations . Drums and croakers ( Sciaenidac ) expand the air bladder by muscles extending from ribs on the sides of the visceral cavity to the air bladder , and sudden relaxation causes the sound from which these fish derive their names.37 ' ' S8 In other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but , in each , sound is produced by air bladder vibrations , which then enter the water . In some families the muscles attach only to the air bladder . In either case , muscular contraction causes tension on the walls of the air bladder , and the elasticity effects a return to the " normal " shape on muscular relaxation . The frequency emitted results from both the size of the air bladder and the frequency of the muscular contractions . Air bladder sounds seem not to exceed 500 Hz , but stridulatory sounds may exceed 8000 Hz . Nonostariophysine fishes generally have high thresholds with low ranges of frequencies , mostly less than 2000 Hz . Several of the electric fishes ( e.g. , Electrophoridae , Mormyridae , Gymnotidae and Gymarchidae ) are Ostariophysi , and as such possess Weberian ossicles : they are producers not only of electricity but also of sound , and probably communicate in both media.9 ' 9 In some families of fishes , such as cods ( Gadidae ) and toadfish ( Batrachoididae ) , the males emit a distinctive sound to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems confirmed by their occurrence during the breeding season . Several kinds of priacanthid fishes produce sounds by vibration of the air bladder . Sounds produced by the cusk-eel ( Rissola marginata ) differ between the sexes and seem to serve for sex recognition . In drums ( Sciaenidae ) sound is an important aspect of courtship . Meso- and bathypelagic fishes generally lack drumming muscles on the swim bladder , and in many of these species the swim bladder is filled with grease . Most deep-sea fishes are silent and communicate by light and odor . Those with efficient sound-making swim bladders dwell on the bottoms of deep-sea slopes . Males of brotulid fishes , for example , are provided with well-developed drumming muscles in the sound-producing structure . Among , ducks the female utter the familiar quack , whereas males ( or drakes ) have a soft , mellow whistle ; the latter have a conspicuous swelling or enlargement in the upper part of the trachea . A song consist of a succession of notes given in characteristic sequence and interval . Although songs arc usually typical of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and one male may utter a song that dithers slightly from that of a neighboring bird . Evidence indicates that such minor variations are recognized by both other males and their mates . Parts of bird songs are innate parts are learned ; experimenters have developed meticulous procedures for determining the extent to which vocalization is learned . When kept in soundproof rooms , birds utter only inherited notes . Students of bird songs have placed eggs of one species in nests of another species , outside its own breeding area , and the infant learns songs and call-notes of the foster parent . Typical songs have innate elements to some extent , no doubt dictated by the morphology of the syrinx ; young males , however , learn parts of their song by listening to adult males . In a few species , males may have a broad repertoire , which is acquired by listening to males of other species . Call-notes are apparently innate and may be uttered before they are heard . The location call , a short call given by a fledged bird to announce its position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most birds fall well within the range of human hearing , not exceeding 8 kHz for most species , and the upper limits of the auditory range are not known to exceed 20 kHz for most birds , although some species emit weak ultrasonic components as part of their normal sonic songs . ' oov Imitation may account for geographic variation in bird song . These variations sometimes involve the speed of the songs along the Atlantic Coast of North America . The yellow-throat ( Geothlypis trichas ) , a warbler , sings its characteristic song more rapidly in the north than in the south . Commonly such local dialects include changes in pitch and separation of notes , as in the chaffinch ( Fringilla coelebs ) ( Fig. 10.7 ) . Some birds sing only on their nesting grounds , and young males hear only the adults in the region of their birth . Sedentary species may also develop dialects . Thus vocal variations may have a geographic basis , although they are probably learned and not genetic.575 From birth , females become accustomed to the dialects sung by males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female . Most songs are associated with courtship and territoriality and are heard most frequently during the breeding season when androgens are at high levels . In the tropics , where populations are sparse and territories generally widely spaced , song serves primarily to attract a mate . Although the song of the male may serve both to identify his territory to other males and to remind the female of his presence , in some species males use a distinct vocalization for each purpose . Careful observations on captive budgerigars show that ovulation occurs after a specific precopulatory call by the male , recalling the visual stimulation of a courting ring dove needed before the female lays her egg.122 There may be stimulatory effects of a song on other males and con- ceivably other females ; apparently songs intended for a mate are of low volume and do not carry far . Some birds have two or more courtship songs ; a few , such as the mimic thrushes ( Mimidae ) , not only have several distinctive songs , but some of them , such as the mockingbird , may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ utterances are classified as calls . They seem not to have any sexual significance but are used to communicate among a group that may comprise one or several specie . Some call . increase the cohesiveness of a flock , others seem to prepare birds for flight to a feeding or resting ground ( especially in the nonbreeding season ) , and still others are alarm calls that announce danger . These calls are remarkably similar in frequency and duration among species in different families ( Figs. 10.8 and 10.9 ) . A few bird calls are sexually distinctive and may serve for sexual recognition in species in which both male and female are similarly colored . Sound in Mammals Vocal communication among mammals is more complex than the roar of a large cat or the higher-pitched bellow of an elephant . Although the sounds of mammals are usually brief in contrast to bird song , some are long and complex . Vocalizations of most mammals fall within the range of human hearing , but some rodents and insectivorous bats are ultrasonic ( with frequencies above 20 kHz ) . Understanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are far more visual and olfactory than vocal in their communication . Also , when we hear mammals in nature , they are frequently not visible , and we can not associate the sound with behavior . Nevertheless some mammals , especially carnivores and primates , make a great variety of sounds , and it is reasonable to assume that these vocalizations convey distinctly different kinds of information . Prolonged vocalizations may be pulsations of varying pitch but , in contrast to bird songs , they are usually not complex . They may consist of rapid repetitions of monosyllabic barks . Some long utterances seem to occur spontaneously or in response to a physiologic state , such as rut , and not necessarily in response to another individual . These " songs , " while lacking the complexity of many bird songs , may serve to advertise the presence of the caller . Very frequently the caller elevates Its head of stretches out its neck ; either action tends to straighten the path of sound and enhance its intensity.1JO Young mammals of many species give characteristic calls that elicit a response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sea lions and bats , a mother can distinguish the voice of her own young from among the squealing horde . Infant mice of several species of Cricetidae and Muridae produce distress calls , both within sonic ( 8 ? 20 kHz ) as well as ultrasonic ( 60 ? 140 kHz ) ranges . These calls are given when the young are chilled or touched , and the mother is quickly drawn to played-back recordings of these calls . Experimentally the maternal response is best developed in lactating females , which are even attracted to calls from young of other species , whereas males and virgin females show a lower level of response.6 ' 6 Many mammals produce nonvocal sounds , most commonly by foot-stamping or tail movement . Rabbits , kangaroos and some rodents frequently make thumping sounds with their feet when under duress , and some rodents create a tapping sound with their tails . The beaver is famous for the loud , sharp slapping noise it makes with its tail in water . Many short utterances , called barks , are given not only by various species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of muntjac ( Muntiacus spp. ) , which are frequently called barking deer . Behavior associated with barks suggests that they may correspond to the alarm calls in birds . Carnivores are also extremely vocal and communicate by a variety of sounds . Studies on domestic and captive dogs and cats reveal some meanings of different sounds , but meanings may also vary with the circumstances . Generally low pitches indicate aggressiveness and high pitches , alarm or fright . Their voices do not approach the complexity of vocal communication of the primates . In migratory pinnipeds , sound has the same roles as with many migratory birds . In the Steller sea lion ( Eumetopias jubatus ) the bulls go to a rookery about two to four weeks before the arrival of the cows and vocally establish territories . Their voices may not seem musical , but they are sexually distinctive , and the grunts and howls of a bull sea lion serve as well as the song of a thrush in announcing his presence to unattached females . Although bull sea lions ( Otariidae ) produce sounds of moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lions in water may reach 8000 Hz . In contrast , seals ( Phocidae ) are relatively silent . Among nonprimate mammals , whales produce the most complex sounds , and some of the gigantic mysticeti have extensive variations in song . Such vocalizations were known to early whalers from New Bedford , but song varying from 0.05 to 10 kHz , and a song may extend from 7 to more than 30 minutes . Individuals seem to produce their own songs ; a given whale is prone to repeat his own pattern , but another humpback will sing on a very different theme . The songs of the humpback whale have been heard at various seasons in both the Atlantic and the Pacific , but their function and the sex of the singers remain a mystery . ' 9s Some rodents communicate by sound , and a few are on occasion as musical as the oscine birds . F he house mouse ( Mus musculusr ) and the grasshopper mouse . ( Onvrhonit s Ieul'ogaster ) are known to sing . The grasshopper mouse ( Fig. 10.10 ) has a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lz ) and ultrasonic ( 20 ? 64 kI Ii ) elements . ' " TThe function of these songs is unclear . Precoital communication between rats ( Rattus norvegicus ) involves ultrasonic vocalization by males . Sounds around 22 kHz by males stimulate receptivity of females.676Most squirrels are loquacious and perhaps produce a greater variety of sounds than do most rodents . There is a dichotomy in sounds made by lagomorphs : rabbits and hares ( Leporidae ) are foot-stampers , but pikas ( Ochotonidae ) utter clear whistles . Primates are definitely the most vocal of all mammals . Not only do monkeys , gibbons and their allies communicate in a large measure by voice , but a given individual may have a repertoire of 30 or more distinct sounds . Higher primates have a varied series of vocal signals , and sound and sight replace scent as the primary means of communication . These sounds vary from 10 to perhaps as many as 25 for any one species , but they grade from one to another , usually without boundaries . Vocalizations of monkeys and apes are generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ howls approach 5 kHz . A variety of sounds suggests a variety of meanings , but observers believe that the messages of primate vocalisation are more emotional than informational . In addition many primate vocalizations occur , together with specific facial expressions , which themselves arc rich in meaning.721 Students of primate behavior have correlated sounds with actions and responses and found some similarity of vocalizations for attention-getting , alarm , aggression , affection , hunger and so on . There is a pattern of similarity of sounds between the first vocal repertoire of a human infant and some nonhuman primates . Circumstances seem to alter the meaning of some sounds , such as a soft , low sound given by a female to her infant in contrast to a potential mate . The Kloss 's gibbon ( Hylobates klossii ) uses loud vocalizations in intergroup signaling for both alarm and spacing in dense vegetation , over distances as long as 500 m.721 In a general way calls of birds and mammals are correlated with the message . Low frequencies are associated with hostility or aggressiveness ; gutteral sounds or growls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ willingness to attack or to fight in defense . In contrast , highly pitched whines suggest submissiveness or friendliness , and these emotions may be emphasized by tonal purity of the utterance . Echolocation In the early part of this century ships at sea determined the depth of the ocean floor by the time required for an impulse ( the sound ) produced on the ship to reach the bottom and return . Such a sounding machine was crude and accurate only in relatively shallow water . The concept ultimately resulted in the detection of echos of radio waves or radar . The high frequency of radio waves accounts in part for the accuracy and range of radar . As sound waves increase in frequency , they decrease in size as do the objects from which they can be reflected . Ultrasonic sound then permits greater definition of the object from which they echo comes . Also a narrower wavelength can be aimed in a more restricted direction . Echolocation in vertebrates usually involves sounds of very high frequency , above the range of human perception . Echolocation is known for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but also shrews ) and some birds . As with other types of environmental information , paired receptors greatly enhance the quality of perception ; the apparent scarcity of echolocation in fishes may reflect the fact that the primary receiver , the air bladder , is unpaired . Echolocation in Bats In the late 18th century an Italian scholar , Lazaro Spallanzani , noted that bats not only maneuver well in a dark room but avoid objects and feed efficiently even when blinded . He learned moreover that bats were unable to maneuver in flight when their ears were plugged . Spallanzani had no notion of how they navigated within a dark room or how blinded bats found and captured flying insects . More than 200 years later Professor Donald Griffin determined that small bats emit sounds far above the 2 ( 1 Id Ii t hat our cars detect and that they maneuver by locating objects by echos of their ultrasonic pulses . Their echolocation is effective for short distances , perhaps 5 m or less , and observations on captives the voices of which were recorded indicate that detection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about I m.372 The distance of the source of the echo can be measured by a single ear , but the directional aspect of echolocation is the same as with sound emitted by the prey itself , i.e. , both ears are usually needed to determine the direction of the source of the echo and , when one ear is blocked , echolocation may be seriously impaired . Presumably , foraging bats might suffer from a plethora of high-frequency sounds , those being received together with echoes of their own signals . Sounds of higher frequencies , however , are rapidly absorbed . Knowledge of some salient features of sound helps in understanding the nature of echolocation . Sound travels through any substance and , within any uniform medium , at a constant velocity ( v ) . Sound consists of variations in pressure , called sound waves ; a wavelength , designated by lambda ( A ) , is the linear distance between crests of sound waves . The number of waves produced within a unit of time is the frequency ( f ) or pitch . Because velocity is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationship is indicated by v = Xf . In air at 20 ? C sound travels 344 m/s , and in water the speed of sound is approximately five times as fast , or 1543 m/s . Therefore , at any given frequency a sound wave in water is about five times as long as in air . Velocity also varies with temperature and , in water , with salinity . Although some insectivorous bats ( e.g. , Vespertilionidae ) experimentally register cochlear potentials for frequencies as low as 30 Hz , sensitivity drops off markedly below 10 kHz . There is in some species a bimodal pattern of auditory thresholds : above 55 kHz the threshold is reduced from that which obtains at 40 kHz.322 Bats may obtain an additional advantage by varying the frequency of a brief emission , so that a pulse consists of a series of gradually changing length . Thus , because each successive wave is slightly different from that before and after it , the echo from a given pulse reflects this change . This enables the bat ( 1 ) to distinguish the times @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 2 ) to determine if the object reflecting the echo is moving or stationary . This frequency modulation ( FM ) of the ultrasonic impulses of bats is an important element in echolocation , especially in finding and capturing flying insects . In some bats , sound emissions begin at a high frequency and drop very rapidly , and these FM pulses are especially typical of the insectivorous Microchiroptera ( e.g. , Vespertilionidae ) . The higher frequencies may be near 100 kHz , dropping to a minimum of about 20 kHz . Vespertilionid bats increase the number of impulses when an object is first identified ( Fig. 10.11 ) , and the effective range of echolocation can be determined by measuring the distance at which this increase occurs . The pulse must be very brief so that it does not meet its echo from an object at close range . Hunting at close range , bats emit a pulse of from 0.2 to 0.5 msec , and these brief signals return as distinct echos from objects less than 10 cm away . Experimentally Myotis oxygnathus ( a Eurasian species ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but wires of 0.21 mm at 110 cm.2 The horseshoe bats ( Rhinolophidae ) have a large fleshy development above the nostrils ( Fig. 10.12 ) . In contrast to vespertilionid bats , they produce an unmodulated frequency or constant frequency ( CF ) of from 80 to 100 kHz , varying with the species . Horseshoe bats are especially sensitive to the range of their own impulses . When in flight , they keep their mouths closed and emit sounds through their nostrils . Rhinolophid bats have an unusually well-developed larynx , and their sound emissions are synchronized with their breathing . Plugging their nostrils prevents echolocation , although the bats can breathe through the mouth . Because they emit impulses through their nostrils , they can eat and yet continue to send out signals . Unlike the short signals of vespertilionid bats , rhinolophid bats have rather long emissions , and their echos return before the end of their signals . As they approach the returning sound , the Doppler effect may account for , an increased frequency of the echo , and the difference in frequency between echo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an object , the signals are shortened in duration and increased in number . As a flying insect is approached , rhinolophid bats cease sound emissions and follow the sound produced by the prey . This is in contrast to vespertilionid bats , which increase the frequency of their signals as prey is approached . ' " ' ' o ' Rhinolophus ferrum-equinum emits impulses of 80 kHz , a frequency with a wavelength of 4.25 mm , or twice the distance between the nostrils from which these sounds come . This spacing allows the two sound waves to reinforce each other directly in front of the nostrils ( Fig. 10.13 ) . The strength of the sound emitted by a horseshoe bat is much greater than that for a vespertilionid bat , and their range is correspondingly greater , up to 8 m or more . Unlike vespertilionid bats , rhinolophid species can echolocate with one ear plugged , and they apparently use different mechanisms for determining direction . Rhinolophid bats move their ear pinnac independently of each another ; thsi ability may provide the directional aspect of echolocation much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ angle from which the strongest signal is received . Leaf-nosed bats ( Phyllostomatidae ) of the New World tropics feed on pollen and nectar of night-blooming flowers . They take their name from a peculiar foliate appendage on the snout . Carollia perspicillata issues very brief ( I.4 ms ) pulses of from 60 to 1.30 kHz , but of such a weak intensity that they have been called " whispering bats . " 369 These very weak emissions lack the FM aspect of pulses emitted by some insectivorous bats , yet the nectar-eating phyllostomatid bats maneuver very well by echolocation . They emit their signals through either nose or mouth , and also move their ear pinnae independently of each another . Phyllostomatid bats avoid objects with great skill and , as they are mostly frugivorous , they presumably use this ability to maneuver through the forest canopy . The vampire bat ( Desmodus rotundus ) , a Neotropical phyllostomatid , feeds on blood , mostly of cattle and other ungulates , and is also adept at flying through wooded areas . The well-developed and complex ears of insectivorous bats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emissions . Certainly the large ear pinnae and unusually pronounced tragus , together with the small eyes of insecteating bats , contrast with the relatively large eyes and small ears of the Old World fruit-eating Megachiroptera . Most of the fruit-eating bats do not maneuver by echolocation but rather use their eyes to avoid objects in dim light . An exception is the tomb bat ( Rousettus aegypticus ) , which navigates visually when there is light but in darkness emits sounds varying from 6.5 to more than 90 kHz . This bat flies with its mouth almost closed and produces sounds with its tongue.70 Perhaps the most interesting type of echolocation is the detection of small fish by the fish-eating bat ( Noctilio leporinus ) of the Neotropical region . This bat reaches into water with its hind feet and snatches small fish from the water . It locates its prey by irregularities or ripples on the surface , and these minor irregularities created by movements of the fish are detected by echolocation.98082 This bat emits brief pulses ( 200 s- ' ) , starting at about 60 kHz and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although there have been many studies of echolocation in bats , there are many species in many families , and overall our knowledge is fragmentary . The rather different sorts of echolocation in bats indicate that they have developed this ability independently several times . Echolocation in Birds Species in two families of birds are known to maneuver in the dark by echolocation . The oilbird ( Steatornis caripensis ) is a frugivorous bird of South America , and nests in dark recesses of caves . In the interior of such caves it is very noisy , producing loud calls of brief pulses ( 1-2 ms ) of sonic frequencies ( 6-10 kHz ) but , when flying in the forest , it is quiet . Apparently , sonic pulses are adequate to locate perches and nests in the caverns they inhabit . In southeast Asia live several species of small swifts ( Collocalia ) called swiftlets . These include the species that make nests of dried saliva , delicate struc- tures used in the creation of bird 's nest soup . These birds also nest in caves , frequently beyond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ caves of Sarawak on the island of Borneo , the swiftlet Collocalia maxima flies in total darkness , emitting sounds of 1 ? 4 kHz . In New Guinea , Collocalia vanikorensis maneuvers in the dark , using pulses of 4.5 ? 7.5 kHz.371,686,687 Many birds are theoretically able to determine their altitude by echolocation . Many nocturnal migrants emit calls , and geese , when flying in the fog , call almost constantly . Variations in the surface of the ground below affect the nature of the echo ; such acoustic reflectivity determines not only the strength of the echo but the degree of alternation of the original impulse . Thus an echo can reveal not only the altitude of a calling bird but also the nature of the substrate below . " ' Echolocation in Water Echolocation was developed in World War II as a means of underwater detection of submerged objects . The process , SONAR , took its name from sound ) n(avigation) a(nd) r(anging) , and employed high-pitched pulses of short duration . When SONAR equipment was used in naval searches of enemy submarines , many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , porpoises and dolphins revealed their ability to navigate and locate food by echolocation . Transmission of light in water is poor , and cetaceans have little if any binocular vision ; moreover , in turbid water vision is useless in navigation . Sound-producing and - receiving equipment enabled biologists to explore animal sounds in water . They learned that some animals have highly refined means of echolocation , and this ability has been studied extensively in cetaceans . Porpoises produce short pulses or clicks of extremely high pitch , well above the ? usual upper limit of 20,000 cycles of the human range of hearing Very high frequency , or ultrasonic sound , offers sonic marked advantages in echolocation . A sound with a frequency of 5 kHz , traveling through water at a velocity of 1541 m/s , has a wavelenth of 154.3 cm . But if the frequency is increased by 10 to 50 k1 Ix , the wavelength is decreased by the same factor , to 15.43 cm . Porpoises have long been known to produce a variety of sounds , even though they lack vocal cords . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well within the range of human hearing , but they also emit short pulses , sometimes to less than 1 ms , ranging from 20 to 120 kHz . They emit pulses that change frequency , using frequency modulation as do insectivorous bats.538a69 The sea catfish ( Arius felis ) uses low-frequency sound for echolocation . The lateral line responds differentially to sounds within the 50 ? 150 Hz range , and the swim bladder has directional ability in production as well as in reception of sound . Both systems may reinforce each other to produce an effective auditory orientation system in detecting reflections and reverberations of sounds from the air bladder.992 Catfish are ostariophysine fish , and possibly the paired aspect of the Weberian ossicles contributes to their ability in directional hearing . Those vertebrates that use frequencies below 20 kHz do so only for positionfinding . The tomb bat , oilbird and swiftlet use sonic signals for finding their way about their caves . Those that echolocate by ultrasonic frequencies use their signals not only for navigation but also for prey location . Bioluminescence The production of light by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ctenophores , nematodes , annelids , crustacea , insects and many marine fishes . Among vertebrates there are some luminescent elasmobranchs and many luminescent bony fishes ; in many fishes the light is extrinsic , produced by bacteria , but there are numerous intrinsic species that produce light themselves.610 In most cases the light is greenish or bluish . Luminescent organs of fishes may be ( 1 ) open , in which there is a pore through which bacteria enter and ( 2 ) photophores with a lens , gland and a reflector . These fishes producing intrinsic light have photophores , from which light is discharged . The photophore is composed of an internal reflector , a vascularized glandular tissue that produces an enzyme , luciferase , and a lens ( a modified scale ) . Glandular tissue releases luciferase , in the presence of which luciferin and oxygen join to form oxyluciferin , a reaction accompanied by the release of a yellowish light ... Light is emitted under both hormonal and neural stimuli . The emission can be constant or variable in intensity . Photophores are more active at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of other unrelated bony fishes but in no deep-sea groups . Various species of rattails ( Macrouridae ) have an open gland anterior to the cloaca from which a luminescent fluid produced by resident bacteria can be forced . In two species of Monocentridae of the marine waters of eastern Asia to Australia , bacteria provide luminescence . Monocentris japonicus , the knightfish of . Japan , as a pair of organs near the top of the lower jaw and in the Australian pine-cone fish , Cleidopus gloria-marls , the light-producing organs lie near the eyes . I n hot Ii species the bacteria emit a bluish-green light , but a reddish filter in the light organ of the pine-cone fish allows only red-orange light to escape . The Anomalopidac are small tropical fish known as flashlight fish because of their ability to turn their lights on and off quickly . Kryptophaneron alfredi is found in the Caribbean Sea , and two Old World species , Photoblepharon palpebratus and Anomalops katoptron , occur in shallow waters from the Indo-Pacific area to the Red Sea . They all have large @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emit a pale green light . Photoblepharon palpebratus raises a small opaque movable membrane or curtain to obscure or " turn off " its light , and Anomalops katoptron rotates the light organ so that the opaque inside lining is on the outside . In life the subocular organs emit light continuously except for the brief periods ( 200 ? 800 ms ) , producing an occulting light in contrast to the flashing light of most bioluminescent fishes.396 These fish in darkness conceivably use their lights to confuse a predator by covering their light and moving away . In some species specialized luminescent organs are lures for attracting potential prey species . Perhaps the best known are the various kinds of anglerfish ( Ceratioidea ) : a greatly modified dorsal fin ray has a branched lure that the angler can suspend before its mouth . Bacteria in the lure create a glow that attracts small fish . As the angler opens her huge gape , the prey is engulfed ; male anglers are minute and parasitic on the body of the female . In the lure or esca of anglers is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultured in seawater broth , these bacteria do not luminesce ; presumably the angler contributes material that enables them to glow when in the lure.466 ' 773 At least two species of fishes of the family Pempheridae ? shallow-water marine fishes of eastern Asia , New Zealand and Australia ? have luminescent parts of the lower gut . These ducts and pyloric ceca , which are embedded in thin , translucent ventral muscles , are rich in luciferin , which is the same as that in the small crustaceans ( Vargula = Cyrpidinia hiligendorfi ) on which thse fish feed . The geographic distribution of these luminescent species of Pempheridae is the same as that of species of Vargula . One or two kinds of codfish ( Gadidae ) also contain pockets of luminous bacteria . Luminescent bacteria occur also in intestinal diverticula embedded in the translucent muscles of Apogon elllioti , a cardinal fish ( Apogonidae ) . Photophores occur in many species of fishes , especially those dwelling in deeper water . The structure has evolved independently many times and yet retains its fundamental structure in unrelated families . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live at depths down to about 1000 m ; they have a series of photophores that glow with a steady intensity and also luminous patches , near the head or tail , that emit variably rapid flashes . The arrangement of photophores is sexually uniform and constant for a given species , but the luminous patches may vary sexually . The photophores and luminous patches are under neural control , and the production of light in both is by the luciferin reaction , hut the function in light in these fishes is not understood . Hatchetfish , expecially species of Argyopelecus ( Sternoptychiidae ) , have rows of large reflectors associated with photophores , and the light produced resembles irregular flashes of natural light which reach the depths at which these fish live . Luminescene is apparently protective in the hatchetfish . Numerous species of dogfish ( Squalidae ) produce light on the ventral surface of the body and paired fins . They produce a greenish light by tiny photophores that are directed downward , parallel to the fish 's vertical axis . This light may serve to illuminate possible food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benthobatis moresbyi ( Torpedinidae ) , has photophores about the edge of its disk , perhaps to lure prey.42 ' The midshipman ( Porichthys notatus ) is known to flash its photophores for one or two seconds at varying intervals in the presence of a female ; luminescence in this fish possibly functions in courtship , but photophores in both sexes are the same.193 ' 97 The photophore of the midshipman has both a nervous and a vascular supply , and can be stimulated both through the spinal cord and by injection of epinephrine . The reflector is rich in guanine , as are the reflectors of other luminescent fishes , including those species with light-producing bacteria . It has been suggested that species of Porichthys obtain luciferin from luminescent euphasiid crustaceans ( Vargula ) upon which they feed ; the light-producing materials from the two animals are chemically similar and in the Puget Sound area , where the euphasiids do not occur , Porichthys does not produce light.1020 Although most deep-sea fishes are sensitive only to the blue end of the spectrum ( the colors that penetrate deepest in water @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ luminescence are visually sensitive to red light . One such fish , Aristostomias scintillans , produces and is sensitive to both red and green light.74 Another bathypelagic predator , Pachystomias atlanticus , has large luminescent organs that produce bright red flashes . Pachystomias , unlike most deep-sea fishes , is also sensitive to red light and thus can illuminate prey species without being seen itself . The deep-sea eel , Saccopharynx harrisoni ( Saccopharyngidae ) , is a predator with a huge mouth and distensible gut ; on its tail it bears an expanded organ with scarlet luminescence . The function of luminescence in fishes is mostly unknown . When both sexes produce similar amounts and patterns of light , a sexual significance seems unlikely . In the lantern fish photophores , which are essentially alike in both sexes , may be a specific recognition character , but the luminous patches of lanternfish , which vary between the sexes and which are flashed in a conspicuous manner , may well have a sexual role . The lure of luminescent anglers is to attract prey , and the concentration of photophores about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) of bathypelagic species suggests a prey-attracting function . The red flashes projected by the bathypelagic Pachystomias atlanticus and others almost certainly serve to illuminate their prey . Most luminescent fishes are mesopelagic , living in the twilight zone , and not bathypelagic . Those luminescent fish that are bathypelagic have large and elaborate photophores , with large lenses and reflectors , and they are predatory in habit . The central photophores may , when viewed from below. , simulate overhead it radiance or light transmitted through waves . Electric Fishes A variety of fish produce and discharge appreciable amounts of electricity . This ability has developed independently many times , and perhaps as many as 500 species in 10 families ( Table 10.1 ) can be included among the " electric fishes . " The electric properties of some of the more powerful species have been known since ancient times , but recent studies have revealed the role of low-voltage currents in the behavior of these fishes . Electric fish fall into two groups , depending on the voltage of their impulse : predatory species that use electricity to stun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for electrolocation and electrocommunication ( Fig. 10.15 ) . In most electric fish the current is generated from a series of modified end-plates ( called electroplaques or electrocytes ) . In one family ( Apteronotidae ) the organ is derived from modified nervous tissue . In either case , potentials are established in the same manner as in unmodified nervous or muscle cells . Large numbers of electroplaques oriented in series account for the 500 or more volts ( of low amperage ) reported for large electric eels ( Electrophorus spp. ) of the Orinoco and Amazon drainages . The electric ray ( Torpedo spp. ) has fewer electroplaques in a column but more columns than are in the electric eel , and the ray produces 50 V of roughly 50 amp . Both fishes are efficient predators of large prey species . The electric catfish of the Nile drainage produces charges of several hundred volts . Some skates ( Rajidae ) are weakly electric ; they produce impulses sporadically , and the function of electricity in this family is unknown.sz3 The stargazers ( Uranoscopidae ) are the only marine bony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specimens , and the other electricity producing fishes in marine waters are elasmobranchs . Stargazers discharge electricity when feeding . The electric organs are derived from ocular muscle tissue and , together with the eyes , are exposed when the rest of the fish is buried in sand or in mud . In each feeding there is an initial discharge of 800 mV with a frequency of 200 impulses/s occurring when the fish opens its mouth . The burst lasts from 20 to longer than 200 ms , longer bursts being typical of larger prey items . This finding suggests that the duration ofthe burst may depend on the degree to which the stargazer opens its mouth . After the initial feeding burst , there is a series of separate pulses of 10 ? 25/s that may last up to 19 s.819 The producers of low-voltage impulses inhabit murky waters of South America and Africa . Their electricity is too weak to serve any offensive purpose but provides a method of communication and electrolocation . Electrical impulses are characteristic of a given species and may differ between the sexes.45o,607 In these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and any interference in the field ( e.g. , a nonconducting object ) is apparent to the fish.420 Some electric fish , which emit continuous low-voltage impulses , have very long unpaired fins , either dorsal or anal ( e.g. , Gymnarchus , Gymnotus , Sternarchus ) ( cf. Fig. 10.15 ) , and these fins propel the fish while its body is held straight . Apparently a straight , rather rigid body is required to minimize distortions of the electrical field about it . Different species of weakly electric fishes produce distinctive electric signals . Some discharges are long , with little or no variation within a rather constant frequency : these are called tone or wave discharges in distinction to pulse discharges , in which there is a long pause between signals ( Fig. 10.16 ) . Tone or wave pro- ducers tend to emit prolonged discharges of varying frequencies . Pulse producers increase their frequencies at night ; both types can modulate their frequencies , perhaps forming signals with rather specific meanings . Within these variations electrical impulses retain features serving to identify the species and sex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vocalizations . Weak electric signals serve also to preserve the schooling pattern in the mormyrid fish , Marcusenius cyprinoides , a nocturnal species that lives in turbid waters . ' o9 Environmental " electric noise " is a potential interference in electrolocation of fishes , especially if the frequency is close to the species ' own electric organ discharge ( EOD ) . To avoid such jamming , a fish emitting wave signals can shift its frequency ; this jamming avoidance response ( JAR ) allows individuals of a given species to continue recognition of their own EODs , even if the competing signal is considerably weak . For those species producing a pulse signal , the JAR consists of a change in rate of pulse emission ( instead of a pure change in frequency ) . Thus the JAR of a wave species is a gradual shift in frequency , whereas pulse species alter the timing by acceleration or deceleration of the EODs. ' 2 ' Summary In all these sensory systems emphasis is on those stimuli most appropriate to a given activity pattern and environment . A watery home @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ light is poor and any water-soluble substance is dispersed slowly Odor stoves at variable speed , quite dependemt on movement of water , and olfaction tells little of the direction and distance From which the odor enamates . Odor is unique among stimuli produced by vertebrates : odors last for hours , days or even weeks , whereas sound , light and electrical signals die at birth . Learned odors remain long in the memory and are very important in the homing of fishes . Odors are also of paramount significance in snakes ; they tend to live in regions of limited light , and they lack the ability to hear , so emphasis on olfaction was inevitable . Most birds are diurnal , and their poor sense of smell is compensated for by sharp hearing and excellent vision . Even nocturnal birds , with the apparent exception of the oilbird , have virtually no sense of olfaction : excellent hearing compensates for diminished visual signals in nocturnal birds . I n contrast to most birds , most mammals are nocturnal ; mammalian communication is one first of odors and second @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assumes a dimension not available to fishes . Odors in water float about the medium through which fishes themselves move : neither is static . A mammal can place its special scent on a stationary object , and the odor carries the additional aspect of location . The exploitation of odor in marking territories is unique to mammals . For all these sensory signals , including electricity and infrared radiation , the receptors ( or receptor systems ) are paired . The sole exception is the air bladder . The arrangement of receptors in pairs provides the receiver of a stimulus to estimate not only its direction but also its distance . ( External nares are so close together that their paired condition provides no information about the source of an odor but , because odors persist , the proximity of the two nares imposes no real limitation on their direction-finding ability . ) This ability to triangulate reaches the ultimate sophistication in the asymmetry of ears of some owls . Thus it is that each group of vertebrates lives in its own sensory world . The stimulus conveys not only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently its psychologic and hormonal state , and much of this information is excluded from or unintelligible to individuals of other species . Part IV Population Phenomena Certain activities collectively constitute the means for the preservation of populations . These processes are usually confined to intraspecific events and to responses of species to environmental changes . Reproduction is the means for not only maintaining the species but effecting increases in population . These increases are commonly temporary and eventually to be followed by population declines . In some species population densities fluctuate cyclically . These aspects of reproduction are tied to individual growth , and the two topics account for variations in structure and size of populations . 11 . Reproduction Because ovulatory cycles are best known for several species of laboratory mammals , it is helpful to become familiar with the phenomenon first in mammals . Except for data on the domestic fowl , information for the other classes is generally not extensive . There seems to be a similarity in gonadotropic and sex hormones throughout the several classes , but their specific functions and the target organs are not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which there is little or no information . Vertebrate Ovulatory Cycle Many species ovulate only once a year ; such a species is monestrous . Others may experience a succession of ovulatory cycles in which one of more ova are released each time ; these species are polyestrous . In some polestrous species a postpartum estrus occurs and then a female may be both lactating and gravid ; in such cases several broods may follow in rapid succession . Species in which the population may have some breeding members at any season but in which individuals have a long anestrous period are not necessarily polyestrous . Ova must be released while sperm are present if a zygote is to develop . In many species the female is responsive to courtship at the time of ovulation , and ovulation occurs even in the absence of coitus , such species being called spontaneous ovulators . Most mammals seem to be spontaneous ovulators , and a balance of estrogen and progesterone stimulates rupture of the follicle and release of an ovum . In other species copulation is needed for ovulation ; these species are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ovulators . The domestic cat , rabbit and ferret have long been recognized as requiring the stimulus of coitus before they ovulate . At least some voles ( Microtinae ) , the mink ( Mustela vison ) , the short-tailed shrew ( Blarina brevicauda ) , the molt ( Scalopus aquaticus ) and the camelids are induced ovulators . In spontaneous ovulations the regular level of ' circulating luteinizing hormone ( LH ) increases just prior to ovulation , as part of the negative feedback pattern ( in polyestrous species ) . The physical stimulation of copulation in induced ovulators causes secretion of luteinizing hormone-releasing factor ( I.I I-RF ) from the hypothalamus ( via a nervous impulse from the cervix to the hypothalamus ) . As an adjustment to this difference , induced ovulators are receptive at any time during their reproductive season , and such species do not experience regularly repeated estrous cycles characterized by ovulation . There is instead an estrous phase , during which receptivity increases , and , if mating does occur , this stage is followed by anestrus . There appears to be a longer @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spontaneous , ovulator . It is perhaps significant that species with great reproductive potential ( e.g. , rabbits and voles ) , which regularly experience cyclical changes in density , seem to be induced ovulators . This suggestion is speculative , for it is not known that all species of rabbits and voles are induced ovulators . The distinction between spontaneous and induced ovulation may not always be sharp . Although the laboratory rat is considered to be a spontaneous ovulator , vaginal and cervical stimulation may be followed by a reflex ovulation , the pelvic nerve carrying impulses to the central nervous system ( ens ) . It is clearly established that conception may occur at any time of the ovulatory cycle in women , even during menstruation . In cases with known dates of the last menstruation , the intense coitus of rape has been known to stimulate ovulation and to be followed by conception at any point in the cycle . Variations in the length of the human ovulatory cycle might be caused by coitus-induced ovulation , inasmuch as the luteal phase is a relatively constant 14 days.12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rhythm method of birth control . Among some aboriginal societies in which nutrition is minimal , conception is spaced by the term of lactation , sometimes four or more years . With the acculturation of some peoples , exercise is reduced and diet upgraded ; infant diets are supplemented by cow 's milk and grains , and a shortened period of nursing and an increased birth rate result . The increased caloric intake seems to be followed by more regular ovulation.ss6 Hormonal Aspects The ovulatory cycle is adjusted to climatic changes , which may very well be registered in the hypothalamus . The cycle begins with the secretion of the releasing factor of the follicle-stimulating hormone ( FSH-RF ) , which passes from the ' hypothalamus through a hypophyseal portal system to the anterior pituitary ( Fig. 11.1 ) . When it reaches the latter , FSH-RF stimulates the release of the folliclestimulating hormone ( FSH ) . Although it circulates throughout the body , FSH affects the ovaries ( specifically the follicles ) ; there is promotes growth of the follicle(s) and the ovum developing within . As the latter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ female for mating , both physically and psy- chologically . In oviparous reptiles and birds the follicle deposits fat in the ovum , and in mammals its role is the production of estrogens and some progesterone . Another effect of estrogen is the negative feedback , by which it retards the release of FSH-RF . At this time a second product of the hypothalamus , the luteinizing hormone-releasing factor ( LH-RF ) , moves through the hypophyseal portal system , effecting the release of the luteinizing hormone LH from the anterior pituitary . The accumulation of LH is believed to trigger ovulation in spontaneous ovulators . The postovulatory follicle under the stimulation of LH becomes the corpus luteum ( pl. , corpora lutea ) , which produces progesterone . In mammals progesterone effects endometrial development of the uterus in expectation of the latter 's role in housing the blastocyst . Progesterone also has a negative feedback to the hypothalamus , suppressing the release of LH-RF . The preservation of the corpus luteum depends in part at least on one or another substance from the pitu- Estrogen itary gland , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is filled by I I I in some mammals , in others the pituitary gland releases a postovulatory Iuteotruphic hormone ( I III Thus there is a rise in estrogen in the preovulatory phase of the estrous cycle , and at the same time there is a drop in the progesterone level . The accumulation of both steroids prior to ovulation suggests that each one plays a role in the release of the ovum from the follicle , and that the estrous cycle can not be simply divided into preovulatory estrogen and postovulatory progesterone phases . Fluctuations in estrogen and progesterone affect many aspects of reproductive behavior . In addition to responding to male courtship activity , the estrous cycle has ovulation and sexual receptivity as its central themes . Nest-building in rabbits , for example , is a hormonal response , and disappears after ovariectomy . The distinct gonatropin-releasing factors of the mammalian hypothalamus do not occur in the avian hypothalamus ; some birds , however , do have hypothalamic secretions that stimulate LH and FSH production , and avian LH and FSH are similar to those of mammals.79 Surgical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anterior pituitary is followed by regression of gonadotropic tissue of the anterior pituitary and the gonads , and by the failure of the usual responses to changes in photoperiod . Ovulation in birds is apparently caused by high levels of LH , the release of which is under neural control . The latter in turn is stimulated by progesterone . Sequentially , circulating progesterone attains a high level before release of LH , which peaks four to six hours before ovulation to release LH ; when injected , progesterone is followed by ovulation.692 It is not clear whether the bird pituitary secretes one or two gonadotropic hormones resembling LH and FSH . It has been suggested that the presence of an egg in the oviduct depresses the release of gonadotropin(s) , and that there is no negative feedback mechanism in birds . The avian follicle may produce small amounts of androgens . After the eggs are laid and incubation begins , LH and progesterone levels decline and the prolactin level rises . If the eggs are removed , LH and progesterone once again increase and prolactin levels fall , suggesting that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , usually with one egg being laid each day until a clutch is complete . In reptiles , on the other hand , the entire clutch is laid at once , placed in a nest , covered with sand or soil and usually given no parental care or protection . In addition to these hormones , one other , prolactin has various roles and occurs in a number of vertebrates . It is secreted by the anterior pituitary and is traditionally associated with activation of mammary tissue . It also seems , at least in laboratory mice and rats , to stimulate and maintain the corpus luteum , a role that may be widespread in mammals . In pigeons , prolactin , together with estrogen , stimulates proliferation of the crop lining to produce " milk , " a source of nourishment for nestlings . Not only does prolactin stimulate the crop of produce " milk , " but its release induces the feather loss and vascularization in brood-patch formation . In some birds ( e.g. , pigeons ) prolactin is antigonadotropic and suppresses ovulation But in other species ( some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gonadal development " ' In males of some fishes reproduction may be controlled by hypophyseal gonadotropins rather than by testicular hormones . Testicular tissue seems not to produce androgens in such species , and castration does not stop courtship . Prolactin occurs in fishes and is known to stimulate deposition of melanin in melanophores in the skin . Variations in levels of these hormones cause changes in reproductive structures , not only in the ovaries but in the oviducts , uterus , genitalia and mammary tissue as well as in behavior . Collectively these changes constitute the estrous cycle , and can be separated into a preparatory proestrus , estrus , met estrus , and diestrus . The quiescent period of the estrous cycle is anestrus . Ovulation normally occurs during estrus . In humans , if the ovum is not fertilized , the vascularized uterine tissue , which was built up under the influence of progesterone , sloughs off and passes out of the body . This phase may be brief or take several days , and is known as menstruation . This phenomenon is characteristic of humans and Old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ endometrial tissue occurs in the elephant shrew ( Elephantulus ) of Africa and perhaps in some bats . In the former , endometrial growths develop as ova mature , and serve for attachment of the zygote . In a sterile ovulatory cycle , these growths are lost , such discharge being likened to menstrual flow of the Old World primates . In the domestic dog a small amount of uterine bleeding occurs prior to ovulation , but his does not involve any sloughing off of the endometrium and is therefore not comparable to menstrual bleeding.81 The corpus luteum was first studied in mammals and is best known in these vertebrates . It produces substantial amounts of progesterone , at least during the early phase of pregnancy , and at a reduced level it produces estrogen . In addition to its effect on the uterus , progesterone also suppresses development of ova . In the Monotremata the corpus luteum is large but , during the prolonged passage of the egg , it shrinks and virtually disappears by the time the egg is laid . Corpora lutea also occur in fishes , amphibians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure develops in some ascidians and echinoderms ) . Although researchers do not agree on its function in nonmammalian vertebrates , the corpus luteum may stimulate the oviduct to provide a jelly-like covering in fish and amphibians or shell in reptiles and birds . It begins to form after ovulation by hypertrophy of the cells lining the follicle , and extension vascularization occurs in all classes ( although it is short-lived in birds ) . The progesterone secreted by these structures is similar in all classes . The postovulatory follicles in the hagfish ( Myxine ) enlarge and become granular , and may well be comparable to mammalian corpora lutea . These jawless vertebrates also form " preovulatory corpora lutea " ( or corpora atretica ) , which seem to be secretory . In elasmobranchs there is a corpus luteum that apparently produces substances which cause the uterus either to secrete material for the eggcase ( in oviparous species ) or to ' prepare the uterine wall for its role in pregnancy . In the eel-pout ( Zoarces viviparus ) the preovulatory corpora lutea are enlarged throughout pregnancy and are also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Preovulatory corpora lutea develop in amphibians and secrete sex hormones . They develop from the granulosa layer and apparently are part of t he regular sequence of unovulated eggs . Postovulatory corpora lutea also may develop in amphibians , but their function is not clearly established . In mammals progesterone induces vascularization of the uterine endometrium prior to implantation . Following implantation , the placenta in some species produces large amounts of progesterone . In other species , however , such as the nutria or coypu ( Myocastor coypu ) , the placental attachment is preserved with the influence of progesterone from the corpora lutea . In pregnant nutria , ovariectomy is followed by abortion , in contrast to the guinea pig , in which the progesterone of pregnancy appears to be placental , and ovariectomy does not trigger abortion . As in the nutria , in the domestic rabbit as well as in the ferret , the pig and the cow , the corpora lutea are the sole source of progesterone.81 In amphibians the corpus luteum is generally short-lived , there being little evidence of hormonal production in oviparous species @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as live-bearing caecilians , live-bearing salamanders ( Salamander atra ) and anurans ( Nectophrynoides spp ) .613 ' 113 Also , in anurans that carry the eggs in dermal pockets ( e.g. , Pipa pipa ) , the corpus luteum persists until birth or release of the young , but its function is not established . A corpus luteum is produced in the postovulatory follicle of all reptiles . It regresses quickly in oviparous species , but in live-bearers the corpora lutea remain throughout most of gestation . There are conflicting reports and opinions on its function in pregnancy : it may be necessary in the early phase but not necessary closer to parturition . The corpus luteum in Thamnophis elegans contains and presumably secretes progesterone during pregnancy ( Fig. 11.2 ) . Luteectomy prolongs pregnancy and reduces the number of normal births , but does not otherwise alter normal embryonic development.433 The corpus luteum of the snapping turtle ( Chelydra serpentina ) synthesizes progesterone , the function of which is not known.205 Accessory corpora lutea form in the ovaries of several mammals that release many more ova than are fertilized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ follicles . In either case they become luteinized and presumably secrete progesterone . In the domestic horse the original corpus luteum ( of pregnancy ) regresses about four weeks after ovulation and is replaced by a succession of several corpora lutea of later ovulations . In some other mammals the released ova greatly exceed those fertilized , and all follicles become functional corpora lutea . This phenomenon is known in some hystricomorph rodents ( e.g. , the porcupine , Erethizon dorsatum ) and the elephant shrew ( Elephantulus myurus ) . The African elephant ( Loxodonta africana ) frequently has several corpora lutea but only a single embryo . In the elephant a corpus luteum forms even in the absence of fertilization and may persist after a corpus luteum forms from a subsequent ( fertile ) ovulation.951 In addition , some follicles may become luteinized after pregnancy , and corpora lutea may persist from one pregnancy to the next . Presumably all these corpora lutea produce progesterone.81 As sexual maturity occurs , the cycle of sexual hormones from the hypothalamus , pituitary and gonads begins . In man and in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ year . In most species , however , there is an annual period during which males are fecund and females are responsive and receptive . In the nonbreeding period , gonads are generally refractory to exogenous stimuli . Gonads undergo a cycle , usually annual , and produce gametes and hormones . Generally the annual cycles of males and females are synchronized or at least broadly overlapping , but in some groups ovulation may occur at a time other than the mating period , and in some vertebrates mating may occur before the peak of sperm and androgen production . Although gonadal cycles of males and females are asynchronous in some species , the two sexes must be prepared for mating at the same time . While this seems obvious , some workers refer to supposedly different breeding seasons for males and females of a given species , when what is meant is that the two sexes have different gonadal cycles . I f the two sexes of any species actually had different reproductive seasons , it would quickly become extinct . Behavioral Aspects Ovulatory cycles are affected by the presence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same species . Some presumably polyestrous species , such as voles ( Microtus spp. ) , ovulate repeatedly in the breeding season in the wild ; when kept isolated in the laboratorty , however , females do not ovulate I bus ovulation is induced by mating or by sonic other form of ' sexual excitation The role of odors in ovulation is known for some mammals and may be more common than the literature suggests . Groups of virgin female laboratory mice in an experimental wind tunnel were placed upwind to , downwind from and below a group of males . Estrus , determined by vaginal smears 48 , 72 and 96 hours after the placement of the mice , was significantly greater in females downwind , whereas those upwind had a frequency characteristic of females kept remote from males ; estrus was most frequent in those females kept directly beneath the males.1094 Presumably odor from male urine stimulates estrus in female mice ? a phenomenon called the Whitten effect . Synchrony of menstrual cycles has been noticed for groups of women living together : female students , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spring menstrual onset than they were the previous autumn , when they began to live together . The synchronizing agent is unknown , but odor is a possibility.6'o In the Neotropical cichlid fish , Aequidens portalegrensis , the sight and contact of the pair stimulate both maturation and deposition of ova . The pair bond persists after egg-laying , with both parents guarding the eggs and fry . When separated from the male , the female does not spawn but , if a mirror is placed by a freshly isolated female , she continues the cycle of spawning and care of the eggs , the reflection providing the needed stimulation.826 Egg-laying in the budgerigar , a hole-nester in the wild , is stimulated by darkness ; it does not lay in extended light or in the absence of a nestbox . A particular low warbling call of the male also stimulates ovarian development and egglaying.121,122 Both internal and external factors affect the ovulatory cycle and are mediated through the hypothalamus ( Fig. 11.3 ) . It seems that behavioral studies have just begun to reveal the extent to which intraspecific contacts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The ova released at one time ( or within a restricted period ) constitute a major factor in determining the capacity of a species to reproduce . The mean number of ova released at one time is characteristic of a given species and may vary from one to millions . Many mammals ( most primates , many ungulates , proboscidians , most bats and so on ) bear but a single young at a time , and many oviparous vertebrates lay but a single egg . The kiwi , petrels and shearwaters lay but a single egg each season ; the frog Sminthillus of the West Indies and many lizards lay solitary eggs , one or more times a year . Clutch size ( in birds ) or brood size ( in mammals ) varies with certain environmental features . Clutch and litter sizes tend to increase with the latitude and sometimes with elevation at a given latitude ; the eggs are sometimes fewer in insular populations than in mainland ones . In many vertebrates there is a tendency for larger ( and usually older ) individuals to lay more eggs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The young in a brood or eggs in a clutch that mature at one time is predicated on the amount of FSH , and the actual number ovulated is proportional to the level of LH . Thus higher levels of both hormones promote increased brood size . Clutch or brood size varies about a mean in many species of vertebrates ; as the mean is exceeded , survival of young may decline . Density in this situation refers to the number of eggs or young in the nest ; as eggs or offspring increase , so does the problem of brooding and food-getting . In other words , there is indeed a limit to the eggs and young that females can care for at any one time.570 ' 572 This simple generality is confirmed by comparing egg-production among mating types . Behavioral mechanisms controlling brood or clutch size , and fecundity in general , affect the female more critically in monogamous or polygynous species . In polyandrous birds , in which a female may lay a series of clutches , each brooded by a different male , the female may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The same limitation is placed on mammalian litter size , especially for a placental mammal . In a reptile , amphibian or fish in which no parental care is provided , other factors must determine the upper limit of egg production . Role of Food . Food and feeding may underlie the relationship between fecundity and latitude . At higher latitude the longer days in spring coupled with gradually increasing temperatures greatly accelerate growth of plants and abundance of plant-feeding insects . This provides not only a sudden flush of food for young birds , but also food that the adult females can convert into eggs . In addition to the vernal increase in food at higher latitudes , the increase in daylength allows the parents more time to forage for food and to feed the nestlings . Variations inclutch site in birds and litter size in mammals indicate that fecundity is determined not only by endogenous factors but also by exogenous elements , among which food available to preovulatory females must be paramount . In oviparous fishes , production of eggs tends to increase with the size ( and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not increase in proportion to ovary weight , because there is a gradual increase of ovarian nonfollicular material in older females ; egg number , however , reflects the amount of fat available for vitellogenesis . Senility does occur in some fishes , and in the Poeciliidae fecundity in smaller , younger females exceeds that in larger , older ones . Latitude . Among passerine birds , clutch size tends to increase with latitude . In tropical regions , for some species e.g. , some sunbirds ( Nectariniidae ) and some birds of paradise ( Paradisaeidae ) a single egg is the rule , and in the boreal regions some birds may lay 10 or more eggs in a single clutch . The increase in clutch or brood size in the high latitudes varies inversely with length of breeding season and with number of clutches annually . At lower latitudes clutches are smaller and nesting is prolonged . In mammals tropical forms have smaller litters than related taxa farther from the equatorial regions . Perhaps because mammals are nocturnal and commonly have hidden nests , most relevant data relate to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however . Reared under the same laboratory condtions of light , temperature and food , the white-footed mouse ( Peromyscus leucopus ) from Michigan has mean litters of 4.28 ( SE 0.11 ) , whereas the same species from Campeche ( southeastern Mexico ) has a mean litter size of 4.67 ( SE 0.11 ) .573 Adequate food is unquestionably necessary for reproduction ; abundance is frequently followed by larger-than-usual broods and , in years of scarcity , reproduction may not occur . This phenomenon has been observed repeatedly in boreal birds . Many workers have commented on the gonatropic effects of food on wild vertebrates . Sprouted wheat ( five days old ) added to the diet of Microtus montanus was followed by and presumably caused a 41 percent increase in pituitary delta cells ; this area of the anterior pituitary secretes gonadotropins . Also , when fed sprouted wheat , this vole had more postpartum matings and a higher survival of young.750 ' 752 The Levant vole ( M. guentheri ) of the eastern Mediterranean produces large broods when fed an abundance of legumes . ' The relationship of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and reproductive success is undoubtedly not simple and direct . The significance of food in ovulation does not exclude a density-dependent role , such as will be discussed ( in Chapter 12 , on Growth ) . Adequate food is relative to the demands made on it , so that brood or litter size is affected not only by the abundance of food in the environment , but also by population density . Mortality . It is tempting to assume that the number of eggs or young is adjusted to the mortality rate of the species in any given region . This concept fits comfortably with the tenets of natural selection but is extremely difficult to demonstrate . Most evidence supports the opposite concept , namely , that mortality more frequently varies with productivity , and that local and annuall variations in productivity are possibly produced exogenously and are possibly nonadaptive . Mortality is frequently variable and , in nature , litter or clutch size is known to vary , sometimes widely , about a mean . " Mating Meeting potential mates is commonly assured by a preliminary set sequence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ site before females and advertise their presence by characteristic displays , sounds or odors . This is typical of many anurans , pinnipeds and passerine birds . Some migrants form aggregations , and mating may occur in autumn ( as in many insectivorous bats ) or pairs may form in winter ( as in many species of ducks ) . Also , many hibernating species aggregate in the winter and emerge more-or-less as a group in the spring . In nonmigratory and nonhibernating vertebrates , such as shrews and mice , populations tend to cluster so that individuals are usually not separated by distance . In all these situations there is very little need for a vertebrate to expend time and energy in search of a mate . Mating patterns fall into several types , and in nature the distinctions may not always be clear . ' $ ' In monogamy there is a pair bond involving one individual of each sex ; in a monogamous species each sex contributes equally to the genetic constitution of the next generation . In polygynous mating one male is associated with several or many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Polyandry in these respects is the opposite of polygyny . Not only are the distinctions not readily apparent in nature but , because most mammals are very difficult to observe , basic mating patterns can be inferred only from observations and a comparison of home ranges of the two sexes . Moreover careful observations tend to refute the long-held concept that in polygynous species the dominant male is the exclusive , or even predominant , mate of the females in his group . There is increasing evidence of mating by subordinate males . Considering the apparent variation in mating patterns in different classes , it is difficult to see clear-cut characteristics for any one class . Among fishes are numerous variations in mating groups , but no single pattern prevails . Spawning schools of fish may have a unique pattern in which simultaneous release of milt and roe by many males and females results in random fertilization . This pattern would occur in pelagic spawners , such as most species of herring ( Clupeidae ) . Among amphibians , detailed records do not suggest monogamy for most groups . The ease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ random mating affair in which polygyny may be common . Also , the complicated courtship of some salamanders does not preclude multiple matings for either sex . Most reptiles are not clearly known to have discrete or discernible mating patterns . Some lizards ( Iguanidae and Agamidae ) , however , exhibit marked sexual differences in size and color and are polygynous . Crocodilians are apparently monogamous . The prevailing pattern of monogamy in birds may be more imagined than real , for evidence points to a greater association between each member of a monogamous pair to their specific nesting site than to each other as mates . Female American robins and redwings tend to return to their original nesting locality but at a date later than the return of the males . When one member of a breeding pair of birds is removed experimentally , it is often promptly replaced by a new mate . The net effect of such " monogamy " may be the same as if it were based on a strong pair bond . If the real bond is to the nest site rather than to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult departure , behaviorally speaking , from typical avian monogamy . A variety of polygamous patterns is noted among birds , but polygyny is more common than polyandry . In most mammals that have altricial young , the female has a strong attachment to the nest , and in all mammals only the female can nourish the infant . The role of the male seems ambiguous , but clear-cut monogamous pairs are rare . There are conspicuous examples of polygyny among pinnipeds and artiodactyls , and some other ungulates form family groups consisting mostly of females . Because the great majority of mammals are both small and nocturnal , mating patterns must usually be inferred from sex ratios and home ranges ; these sorts of data do not support a concept of monogamy . In many species of small mammals , promiscuous mating is apparently the rule : males mate with any female in estrus and , when in estrus , females sometimes accept several mates . Several concepts have been proposed to explain variations in monogamous mating . Any deviation from monogamy involves an increased expenditure on the part of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in polygyny ) : this cost may be reflected in defending territory , in supplying food to the majority sex and the young or in defending the individuals themselves ( and the young ) against intrusion by an outside member of the minority sex . A polygamous pattern does not reflect a marked disparity from a 1:1 sex ratio , but instead results in a population of sexually unemployed members of the minority sex . A polygamous mating arrangement ? assuming a nearly equal number of males and females in the population must benefit the genetic constitution and survival of the young . This suggests a behavioral or ecological situation differing from that found in a monogamous system . In a polygynous system one male has two or more mates simultaneously , and his role in rearing the young varies among the several classes . He may take an active role to the extent of brooding the eggs ( as in some fish , some amphibians and many birds ) and of feeding the young ( in many birds ) ; or he may lie at the opposite end of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If he shares the care of the young , his effort will be diluted with an increase in the number of broods . Several students have pointed out a relationship between an irregularity in the occurrence of a critical natural resource and polygamy ; this suggestion requires that a dominant male defend a favorable nesting or feeding area , and that the females entering the area remain under the control of the local male . This would seem to describe the harem formation in some sea lions ( Otariidae ) : a male defends a rookery ( a rocky island for such an animal ) and females later come to the rookery to calve Presumahl ' the females are attracted to the rookery and not to the defending hull , lit courtship in such species is minimal . ' " In many seals ( Phocidae ) the fancily is a less rigid organization : in the gray seal ( Halicoerus grvpus ) a harem of 2 ( 1 cows may be under the control of a succession of two or three bulls in one season . In defending his cows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ young . There is no obvious advantage to the females in a harem , but a dominant male mates with all the females of his rookery , and such vigor is a theoretical advantage to the young . If in a monagamous pair a male contributed nothing to the care of the young , it would seem to make no difference to the female in question whether or not he remained after mating unless he defended her territory . If the nesting area contains a concentration of such resources as food or nest sites that are scarce elsewhere , and the male neither broods the eggs nor feeds the young , polygyny could easily result . Perhaps polygyny in the ring-necked pheasant ( Phasianus colchicus ) developed in such a situation . Where paternal care is needed for the proper growth of the young , as with many gulls , cormorants and pelicans , a concentration of nest sites does not result in polygyny . Several species of falcons ( Falco naumanni and F. vespertinus ) nest in colonies , but males share in incubating the eggs and hunt for food @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallinaceous birds , males assemble and display to each other , establishing a hierarchy , and attract females to their display grounds . The aggregation of displaying males is called a lek , and this word is used also to designate their area of display . Both subordinate and dominant males display to females that enter a lek , but only the dominant males mate . After mating , males defend neither the females nor the females 's territories . Polyandry , the mating of one female with more than one male , seems to evolve if the male assumes complete care of the young . In some ground-nesting birds the male may incubate a first clutch , although the female may not lay a second clutch . In many fishes ( anabantids , ariid catfish , some osteoglossids , some cichlids and others ) males brood the eggs in their mouth , and in many other fishes and some amphibians males guard the eggs . In either case the female 's parental role ceases at oviposition , and she does not usually lay a second clutch the same season . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , some pheasants , quail ( Gallidae ) and others , the male may incubate the first clutch , and the female lays a second clutch , for which she assumes total responsibility . Polyandry does not necessarily follow in this situation , but it is found in a jacana ( Jacana spinosa ) , the northern phalarope ( Phalaropus lohatus ) and some other birds . The cause of polyandry in birds is not clear , but if polyandry is to be effective ( 1 ) the males must incubate the eggs ( or at least the initial clutch ) and care for the young and ( 2 ) the female must be able to develop successive clutches . " This possibility does not occur in mammals because of the male 's inability to nurse the young . Mating arrangements in vertebrates appear to be relatively responsive to both population levels and availability of necessary parts of the environment . Thus they may vary both among , groups of species and within a given slick ' es Monogamy , however prevalent it may seem , may , itself be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Parthenogenesis and Intersexual Conditions Parthenogenesis , reproduction without fertilization of ova , occurs in a few vertebrates ? mostly amphibians and reptiles . In fish there are very few known examples of parthenogenesis , which perhaps rather reflects the limits of our knowledge than the biology of fish . In maturation of ova in a parthenogenetic species there is no reduction division in meiosis , so that the maternal diploid condition is continued . In a few parthenogenetic species , however , occasional fertile matings ( with males of related species ) do occur , and the offspring are then triploid . Diploid parthenogenetic daughters are genetically identical to the mother . The absence or scarcity of males in nature is evidence of possible parthenogenesis . Two types of experiments show whether the population is actually unisexually reproductive . By rearing isolated females through two generations , one can eliminate sperm storage as a factor and establish that viable eggs have been laid by the second-generation virgin females . Also , successful skin grafts between two individuals ( between mother and daughter or between siblings ) constitute evidence that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ graft suggests that the two animals are genotypically dissimilar . In fishes parthenogenesis is best known in some of the Neotropical poeciliid fishes , which include the mollies , guppies and swordtails.522 Poecilia formosa of northeastern Mexico and southern Texas is an all-female species that resulted from hybridization between P. sphenops and P. latipinna , 459 P. formosa reproduces by a variation of parthenogenesis called gynogenesis . " The female mates with a male of one of the parent species , and the sperm ? presumably by rupturing the fertilization membrane stimulates cleavage without fertilization ( i.e. , fusion of the two pronuclei ) . Fertilization may actually occur in P. formosa , in which case such offspring are triploid . In a related genus , Poeciliopsis , there are parthenogenetic species that are also apparently the result of a hybrid mating , and which mate with males of one of the parent species . A sperm does fertilize the egg , and the result is a self-sustaining , all-female triploid species . Such triploid species show features of both parents , but the paternal genome is deleted in ova development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are fertilized by normal haploid sperm . " Parthenogenesis resulting from hybridization exhibits typical hybrid vigor and preserves the F , condition . In the all-female species of Poecilia , the condition is clearly parthenogenesis from the genetic if not from the behavioral point of view . In Poeciliopsis there is a return from the parthenogenetic condition to a specialized bisexual type of reproduction called hybridogenesis . The original hybrid genome is perpetuated in each case . In amphibians and reptiles all-female parthenogenetic populations are apparently more common thanin fishes . In naturally occuring populations of the Nearctic Salamander , Ambystoma jeffersonianum " complex , " there are both diploid and triploid parthenogenetic specie , Oviposition occurs after the female picks up a sperniatophore of , r nor nil diploid male , recalling the sterile mating in Poelilia fc/rllx , . x a . The parthenogenetic salamander , Ambystoma tremblayi , for example , is triploid , but cleavage of its eggs is stimulated by sperm of the sympatric A. laterale. " ' a0 Parthenogenetic species occur in at least six families of lizards and in one family of snakes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lacerta . The scarcity of males in some populations of Lacerta suggested parthenogenesis . Several diploid species of these lizards are apparently the products of hybridization , the two genomes being heteromorphic . Occasional mating with males of a sympatric species produces sterile triploid females.213 There are also several parthenogenetic lizards of the New World teiid genus Cnemidophorus.656 Diploid , triploid and tetraploid individuals occur in nature ; mating of triploid females with normal males of a sympatric species produces a tetraploid offspring . Parthenogenesis in these species of Cnemidophorus is verified by the production of fertile eggs by virgin females and by skin grafts.620 The widespread gekkonid lizard Hemidactylus garnotii consists of triploid females , males being unknown ; 551 reciprocal skin grafts verified suspected parthenogenesis in this gecko.26 ' In the xantusiid lizard , Lepidophyma flavimaculatum of Panama , males are unknown ; in view of the established existence of parthenogenesis in the Lacertidae , Teiidae and Gekkonidae , an all-female population in the Xantusiidae is strongly suggestive of unisexual reproduction.999 The gecko Lepidodactylus lugubris is diploid , and males are all but unknown . As in H. garnotii @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gehyra variegata ogasawarisimae consists of triploid females and must be parthenogenetic . Also the agamid lizard Leiolepis triploida is an all-female triploid species , and the chameleon Brooksia spectrum affinis is all-female ; probably both these lizards are parthenogenetic.65 ' The worm snake Typhlops braminus is the only parthenogenetic snake known . It is a burrowing creature , and conceivably a bisexual fossorial snake might experience difficulty in finding mates . Not all reptilian parthenogenetic species are hybrids ; homomorphic pairs of chromosomes characterize at least some individuals of Lepidodactylus lugubris and Lepidophyma flavimacu1atum . Natural parthenogenesis does not occur in wild birds and mammals . Parthenogenesis in birds was established by incubating large numbers of eggs from virgin domestic hens . Hatching of a few eggs provided the beginning of a partly parthenogenetic strain . Because the avian female is heterogametic and because YY individuals do not survive , all young birds produced parthenogenetically are males . Such avian parthenogenesis is known in the domestic chicken and domestic turkey . Experimentally , virgin births have been induced in some domestic animals , such as rabbits : by rupturing the zona @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I lie origin of parthenogenesis in some natural populations of poeciliid fishes , salamanders and lizards can usually be traced to hybridization . Its persistence testifies to the existence of some desirable features of unisexual species . Inasmuch as productivity is a characteristic of females , an all-female population will be potentially twice as productive as a bisexual one , in which one-half is female . For a given biomass , a unisexual species should presumably make the same demands on its environment as does a bisexual species . Thus a parthenogenetic species can theoretically be twice as efficient in converting environmental energy to its own reproduction . Traditionally , unisexual species are considered to be evolutionary dead-ends because of their preservation of homozygosity . If a parthenogenetic species has once developed from a hybrid mating , it could do so again , probably most commonly along the area of sympatry of the two parent species . Each time a hybrid mating results in a parthenogenetic female , an element of heterozygosity is introduced into the parthenogenetic population , and the all-female population can adapt in step with its two hybrid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same individual constitutes hermaphroditism from Hermaphroditus , son of Hermes and Aphrodite . In hermaphroditism the production of gametes is usually sequential , the individual being first one sex and later changing to the other ; simultaneous occurrence of active gonads of both sexes is rare . In species in which testes mature prior to ovaries , the condition is protandrous ; in protogynous species the female sex develops first . Such individuals have a unique chance to function as both male and female parent in passing on vigor and desirable adaptations . Many families of fishes have bisexual members ; this has developed independently and there is a variety of gonadal arrangements . Gonadal plasticity or lability in fishes is apparent from experiments on some domesticated cyprinodonts . In these fish , males are heterogametic ( XY ) but , when exposed to estrogen solutions , they develop into functional females . Normal females are homogametic ( XX ) . Not only are such hormonally induced females ? still heterogametic ? fertile when mated with normal ( XY ) males , but some offspring from such matings are YY @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Similarly , young females become functional males when exposed to critical levels of testosterone ; when mated with normal females , the offspring are all females ( XX ) . The guppy ( Lebistes reticulatus ) of Central America and the Asiatic ricefish ( Oryzias latipes ) have been extensively investigated in such studies.114 Monopterus albus , an eel-like fresh-water teleost of the tropical Orient , is a well-known hermaphrodite : young individuals develop ovaries as long as 30 cm ( about 24 months of age ) , and at lengths of 42 cm or more ( at about 36 months ) most individuals are males . In this species sperm and ova are not produced simultaneously in the same individual . As an individual changes from female to male , production of estrogens gradually decreases and output of androgens increases . Protogynous hermaphroditism is found in various species of sea basses , or Serranidae ( species of Epinephelus , Polyprion , Myctoperca , Petrometropon and Cephalopholis ) . In some species of wrasses ( Labridae ) and parrotfishes ( Scaridac ) , some genotype model develop directly into functional males @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ males , a condition known as diandry . Genotypic females do not change into males . In Thalassoma Ibifasciatum , a wrasse of the West Indies , there is a series of color phases predicated on both sexual condition and social dominance . Those in a dull color phase can be either male or female . When they mate in schools , the dull-colored males participate in spawning , but in a pairing situation brightly colored males are dominant . In the Australian labrid fish . Labroides dimidiatus , a given group comprises a single dominant male , which displays aggressively toward the others , all of which perform as females . When the male dies ( or is removed experimentally ) , there may be ( 1 ) a takeover of the harem by a neighboring male or ( 2 ) aggression by the dominant female . Maleness is displayed by the dominant female in a matter of hours and is completed and functional in from two to four days.29 Hermaphroditism occurs in several deep-sea fishes , bx2 ' 941 and has been reported for some species of the marine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but individuals function as males early in life and later become females . Among the aulopiform fishes , bathypelagic families are all hermaphroditic , whereas the only two shallow-water families ( Synodontidae and Harpadontidae ) are bisexual . In the deep-water species the gonads are separate but apparently function at the same time . The bisexual condition in the shallow-water species may have evolved from the condition in the bathypelagic forms simply by the loss of one set of gonads . In bathypelagic fishes populations are low and scattered , and hermaphroditic or monoecious ( literally , " one house " ) species ensures reproduction . The hermaphroditic condition is common in the essentially benthic families Alepisauridae , Paralepididae , Chlorophalmidae , Ipnopidae and Evermannellidae , but it is not known if these species are self-fertile . Most of these species have a dorsal bilobed testis and a ventral bilobed hollow ovary.b82 The best-documented hermaphroditic fish is the sometimes self-fertilizing cyprinodont of the Caribbean , Rivulus marmoratus . The testicular element in the ovotestes increases with age , and eventually egg-laying ceases , secondary male features develop and the individual becomes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seasons , the time required on temperature and the individual 's genetic background . Reared at moderate or low temperatures , this species rarely changes to males.4o4,405 The occurrence of many sorts of hermaphroditic patterns among different taxa of fishes points out the absence of any single evolutionary trend . Those forms , such as the bathypelagic aulopiform fishes , which can produce both types of gametes simultaneously , may or may not be self-fertile . One can imagine that a deep-water fish population must be scattered , as is its food supply , and encounters must be infrequent . If this is actually so , it is easy to appreciate the importance of any meetings ' being bisexual . In a bisexual species with a 1:1 sex ratio , only one-half of the encounters would involve two individuals of the opposite sex . There is early gonadal plasticity in amphibians and reptiles as there is in fishes , and there are both natural and experimentally produced sex reversals as described for cyprinodont fishes . There is a difference in response of immature gonadal tissue to temperature : ire amphibians arid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ testicular tissue . In northern and alpine populations of the Eurasian grass frog , Rana temporaria , all new I ) transformed individuals possess well-developed gonadal cortices with premeiotic ovogonia , the testicular medullary part of the gonad remaining at first undeveloped . In those individuals that are genotypically male , the cortical ( female ) part of the gonad is gradually replaced by medullary cells that become functional testicular tissue . At low elevations and in central and southern Europe the gonadal tissue is clearly differentiated by the end of metamorphosis . Some populations of the bullfrog ( Rana catesbeiana ) in Taiwan are all female at metamorphosis , and males develop testes about six months later.458 Alternation of gonadal tissue can also be experimentally achieved in amphibians , by either manipulating temperature or rearing the larvae in male or female hormones . Generally testicular development occurs at higher temperatures ( 25 ? - 30 ? C ) , whereas at lower temperatures ( 10 ? C ) gonadal tissue becomes ovarian . The same effect of temperature on gonadal development has been reproduced experimentally in lizards ( Agamidae ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incubated at low temperatures and females from those at higher temperatures , regardless of genotype.135 Conceivably , sequential hermaphroditism endows an individual with a greater reproductive potential , for every individual could function as a female fecundity or reproductive potential resting on the performance of females . It would also reduce sibling mating . Parental Care in Fishes If there is a hypothetical primitive breeding pattern for bony fishes , it must include the production of a large number of small eggs shed and fertilized by a spawning school . This arrangement characterizes many pelagic species , such as cods ( Gadidae ) , herrings ( Clupeidae ) , the ocean sunfish ( Molidae ) , flying fish ( Exocoetidae ) and others . The eggs usually float at or near the surface where there is abundant oxygen , sunlight , food for the fry and predators . The parents do not guard the eggs . In some other species living in shallow waters , the eggs are demersal and scattered or placed in a nest ( a pile of small rocks ) , where they remain unguarded . Typically many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perch ( Percidae ) spawn in this manner . Many other fishes , however , make some provision for one or both parents to maintain a close relationship with the developing eggs and in some cases with the young . The mere construction of a nest may be regarded as incipient parental care . Many species of minnows build elaborate nests of small stones that hide or cover the eggs left unattended . The usual sequence is for one parent , usually the male , to remain until the young emerge . Whereas the larger percid fishes ( Percinae ) attach their eggs to submerged vegetation and abandon them , their small relatives , the darters ( Etheostominae ) , place their eggs on plants partially hidden by rocks , and the male guards the site . The nest of the Pacific salmon ( Oncorhynchus spp. ) protects not only the eggs hut also the young fish ( or alevins ) there from predators , until about tour months of age . A few examples illustrate the broad taxonomic spectrum through which parental care is well developed and even elaborate . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ routine for protecting their eggs and small young . The African Heterotis niluticus constructs a wall of aquatic vegetation about a shallow basin some one and a half m across . One parent guards the nest and later the small young . The Neotropical Arapaima gigas builds a nest in deeper water and both parents protect the fry . The oriental osteoglossid Scleropages formosus carries the eggs in the mouth , thus obviating the need for nest building . The bowfin Amia calva , a holostean fish , builds a large nest , and the male guards first the eggs and later the brood of fry . Among the common families in which males protect the nests are most of the sculpins ( Cottidae ) , fresh-water sunfish ( Centrarchidae ) , tidal blennies ( Blenniidae ) , gunnels ( Pholidae ) , midshipman ( Batrachoididae ) gobies ( Gobiidae ) and sleepers ( Eleotridae ) . In the fresh-water leaffishes ( Nandidae ) and catfish ( Ictaluridae ) , the parents not only guard the nest but remain and protect the small young . Nest-building , courtship and spawning in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well known . As spawning approaches , the male makes a spherical nest of small bits of vegetation attached to a rooted plant . He is very bright red at this season and , stationed at the entrance of his nest , he emerges at the approach of a dull-colored , egg-distended female . Spawning occurs within the nest , after which the male drives the female away and waits for another . He guards the fry and herds them together , even to the point of engulfing a stray individual in his mouth and putting it back into the nest . Oral incubation , the care and protection of eggs in the buccal cavity of one of the parents , occurs in a number of unrelated families . During this period , the incubating parent apparently fasts . Among the best-known oral incubators are the marine catfish of the family Ariidae , all of which except for Hexanematichthys australis , care for the eggs in this fashion . The eggs are large , from 15 to 30 filling the mouth of the male , and he cares for them until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the cosmopolitan cardinal fish ( Apagonidae ) the eggs are incubated in the mouth of one of the parents , usually the male . The jawfishes ( Opisognathidae ) , secretive bottom-dwellers of warm oceans , are also mouth-breeders . Oral brooding is not confined to marine fishes but occurs in some fresh-water families . The fresh-water anabantid fishes are widespread in the Old World tropics and include the gouramis , the fighting fish ( Betta spp. ) and many other favorites of tropical fish culturists . Parental care is well developed in these species : in some of them the eggs are carried in the mouth of the male , and in others the male places them in a bubble nest , where he remains until the fry are past the larval stage . The Neotropical armored catfish ( Callichthyidae ) have several ways of protecting their eggs . A number of species of Callichthys build froth-like nests of bubbles , which house the eggs and the young . The male forms the floating nursery of mucus-covered bubbles from the gill celfts and maintains the nest throughout the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anabantids . In another species , Hoplosternum thoracatum , after the made completes the bubble nest the female places her mouth against the vent of the male and withdraws milt . She places the sperm and then the eggs in the froth nest , after which the male assumes his role , caring for the nest and its contents and driving away intruders , even the female whose eggs he defends . Among the African cichlid fishes there is a transition from those forms that are substrate spawners to those in which the eggs and also the young are brooded in the mouth . In Tilapia galilaea , which extends from Jordan to West Africa , both parents carry the eggs and fry in the mouth , and biparental mouth-brooding also occurs in Tilapia lohbergen , Pelmatochromis guentheri and species of Tristarnella . In most species of mouth-brooding Cichliae , however , only the female cares for the eggs . There are some other very specialized forms of parental care . The male pipefish ( Syngnathus spp. ) and seahorse ( Hippocampus spp. ) , both of the Syngnathidae , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in front of the vent of the female ; the transfer of eggs to the male is quickly done , and fertilization occurs at this time . The eggs are large with abundant yolk . During brooding , the marsupium becomes highly vascularized , and through this mechanism the eggs receive oxygen ; a circulatory supply of oxygen may also bring nutrients . In both pipefish and seahorses the young are not cared for after they are discharged from the brood pouch . In the Neotropical banjo catfish , Aspredo laevis ( Bunocephalidae ) , the eggs are held in cup-shaped receptacles on the ventor , and the small young also remain in these cups for a short time . In the East Indian humphead ( Kurtidae ) the eggs are attached to a hook-like outgrowth from the head of the male . The development of parental care in fishes has occurred many times in diverse families and in many habitats of both marine and fresh waters . There is clearly no single trend in this behavior , except perhaps within a single family ( e.g. , Cichlidae ) . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cichlids ) the male assumes the responsibility for care and protection of the eggs and young ; presumably the female is in more urgent need of nourishment than he immediately after spawning . The environments provided by parental care assure not only physical protection but also an adequate supply of oxygen . In the oceans , nest-building is almost confined to littoral areas , and pelagic spawners occupy the surface strata of the open seas . Thus , if one of the parents carries the eggs orally , deeper waters can be occupied , and the oral environment insures a continuous flow of water ( and oxygen ) over the eggs . In fresh waters , either oral incubation or the construction of a bubble nest provides maximal oxygen , and it may be significant that all these cases are in the tropics , where lentic waters are frequently low in oxygen . It is suggested that the male in guarding the nest on a substrate not only provides protection against intruders but also , by constantly fanning the nest with his pelvic fins , maintains a constant supply of fresh @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parent to house the developing eggs , and the complexity of ' some of these relationships attests to their antiquity . Although these foster parents neither supply nutrition to the eggs nor actively defend them , they do give them physical support , and it seems appropriate to call the relationship phoretic . The finspot ( Puraelin us marmortus ) , a littoral clinid fish , lays its eggs in the lumen of a sponge ( Verongia fistularis ) , and the male then guards the eggs . A small liparid ( Careproctus melanurus ) of the North Pacific lays its eggs on the gills of a box crab ( Lopholithodes foramindtus ) , and the small larvae remain there until their yolk sac is absorbed . Similarly the Japanese tubesnout ( Aulichthys japonicus ) lays its eggs in the peribranchial cavity of an ascidion ( Cynthia roretzi ) . The most elaborate case of phoretic spawning is that of the bitterling ( Rhodeus spp. ) , a widespread minnow of Eurasia . In the breeding season the female develops a long tubular ovipositor with which it can determine the exact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a species of Unio or Anodonta ) stimulates her to place the tip of the ovipositor within the excurrent siphon of the bivalve , and pressure within the oviduct forces the tightly fitting edge down its lumen and onto the mussel 's gills . The male also responds to odors from the mollusk and releases milt into the incurrent siphon . The young emerge about four weeks later . In all these cases the surrogate provides physical protection for the eggs and also ensures that they have an abundant and constant supply of oxygen . Parental Care in Amphibians Among amphibians several groups of frogs and salamanders provide some protection for eggs and young , but it is not always clear whether nourishment is involved . If there is a maternal contribution to the nutritional needs of the developing young and the embryos are in the uterus , this is called viviparity , but there are some borderline cases that are here considered to be parental care . Although most amphibians lay eggs in water , most examples of parental care in this group occur in species that breed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world occur in eastern North America , and in this area are represented all families except the Hynobiidae . Much of our knowledge about their reproduction is the product of the lifelong studies of Professor Sherman C. Bishop.92 Salamanders that deposit their eggs in streams usually attach them to the underside of rocks . In these cases one parent is almost always with the eggs , the assumption being that the parent is in fact providing them with some measure of care and protection . Adult males regularly occur at nests of the hellbender ( Cryptobranchus alleganiensis ; Cryptobranchidae ) and are aggressive in defending the eggs . The mudpuppy ( Necturus maculosus ; Proteidae ) also guards its eggs , the protective role in this case being assumed by the female . In both the hellbender and the mudpuppy , the guarded nests are attached to the lower sufrace of some submerged object . The Congo eel ( Amphiuma means : Amphiumidae ) lays its eggs concealed at or near the margins of ponds , and the female coils about them during incubation . In families Hynobiidae , Ambystomidae , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in sh ; tllov1 %4 ; tter and attached to vegetation . In these four families neither parent remains with the eggs in water . In Ambystoma opacum and A. annulatum eggs are laid on land , in depressions beneath forest litter , and in these two species the female guards the eggs . I n some species of these four families the eggs are scattered , attached singly or in small clusters , and parental care then is impossible . In the Plethodontidae , eggs are laid either in water or on land but always attached to the lower surface of some protective cover , such as a stone or rotting log . In all plethodontid salamanders whose breeding habits are well known , the female remains with the eggs until hatching , and in the purple salamander ( Gyrinophilus porphyriticus ) and the dusky salamander ( Desmognathus fuscus ) the young may remain with the mother several days after hatching . ' oro , too In the plethodontid salamanders there is a broad spectrum of egg-laying sites , and this is the only family in which many species of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function of the adult with the eggs has been matter for some speculation . The adult female coils closely about the eggs and in terrestrial sites must elevate the relative humidity next to the eggs . Some students have suggested that the female 's dermal secretions contain a substance that prevents fungal growth , but fungus attacks only dead eggs.434 When with their eggs , female plethodontid salamanders do not eat , but their presence serves to ward off such active predators as carabid beetles . Although it is not clear why the primitive aquatic species of plethodontid salamanders assumed the habit of remaining with the eggs , in the terrestrial species this habit seems to prevent desiccation or even contribute moisture to the eggs , and is probably a major asset in the extensive terrestrial radiation of the Plethodontidae . Anurans have developed many means of remaining with their eggs , and it is likely that they offer more than protection from possible predators . Although there are few tropical salamanders , there is a great variety and abundance of tropical frogs and toads , and the greatest variety of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the terrestrial leptodactylid frogs , the attendant parent ( the male in this case ) probably functions much as does the guarding female in plethodontid salamanders . The terrestrial Darwin 's frog ( Rhinoderma darwini ; Leptodactylidae ) of Chile is a terrestrial breeder , and the male guards the eggs ; as the tadpoles begin to struggle within the egg , the male places them in his gular pouch , where they pass their larval life.142 Hylambates brevirostris , a rhacophorid , also carries the eggs in the buccal cavity ; in this case it is the female that assumes the protective role . The Australian leptodactylid Rheobatrachus silus is aquatic , and the female carries the large , yolk-rich eggs and young in her stomach , at least until the four-limbed stage is reached.183 In Crinia darlingtoni , a leptodactylid of forests of southern beech ( Nothofagus ) males house the developing eggs in lateral inguinal pouches In sonic anurans the eggs are carried in pockets in the back , as in Pipet pipa , in which the male moves them onto the dorsum of the female @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ andPhyllobates tadpoles travel on the hacks of the male or female parent , and they remain attached to the female dorsum in species of Crvptohatrachus ; the responsible parent eventually carries the young to water.202 Similarly species of Sooglossus of the Seychelles carry their tadpoles on the back of the male . In the semiterrestrial midwife toad ( Alytes obstetricans ; Discoglossidae ) of southwestern Europe , the male entwines the strings of eggs about his trunk region and carries them until they are ready to hatch , at which point he enters the water and the tadpoles escape from the egg membranes . Parental care is seen in many Neotropical hylid frogs . In species of Hemiphractu.s the eggs are kept on the back of the female present , and the larval stage is passed in the egg . In the species of Cryptobatrachus of the montane forests of Colombia , the eggs are placed in small depressions on the back of the female and in the species of Fritziana the eggs are contained in a single dorsal concavity . In species of the genus Gastrotheca there is a dorsal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) ; the eggs remain in this pouch ( Fig. 11.4 ) until young frogs emerge or , in G. marsupiatum , until he tadpoleshatch , in which case metamorphasis occurs in water . These hybrid species occur generally humid montane forests , which lack abundant standing water . ' Several species of Neotropical hylid frogs have disk-shaped or bell-shaped gills by which they attach to the dorsum of the female ( Fig. 11.5 ) . In early developmental stages these gills envelop the embryo like an allantois and later serve to retain the small frog until the four-legged stage . These gills are vascularized and apparently absorb oxygen from the mother . ' " One must assume that some nutrients are also obtained from the parent . Parental ( ' are in Reptiles Very few reptiles exhibit an awareness of their own eggs and young . In most cases gravid females dig a depression in the ground , deposit their eggs and cover them . The site is not uncovered , nor does the female usually remain nearby . The eggs are warmed by solar radiation and convection of heat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season . Although some lizards lay their eggs under bark , most reptiles deposit them in the sand or soil , or at least cover them by leaf mold . The substrate is frequently moist , but eggs are never laid in water . Many turtles moisten the ground with urine and dig a flask-shaped hole with the hind legs when the soil is soft ; such urine may also provide some moisture for the eggs . Most species build individual nests , but a few may lay eggs in communal nests . It is unusual for the parents to remain at the nest after eggs are laid . Among skinks ( Scincidae ) , females of the oviparous species of Eumeces coil about their eggs during incubation , and the Floridian Neoseps reynoldsi also broods its clutch of two eggs . Females of species of Eumeces not only remain with the eggs , defending them from potential enemies , but occasionally move and rotate them and release fluid from the bladder , which moistens the soil near the eggs . At hatching time the mother skink may also assist the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and she remains with them for 10 or more days after hatching.281 The females of species of " glass snakes , " Ophisaurus ventralis ( an anguid lizard ) , coil about the eggs until they hatch . This habit may possibly be found in a number of lizards ; when eggs are discovered , it is usually by accident , and a brooding female , should there be one , might very likely be disturbed . Among snakes , only boids and elapids exhibit any amount of parental care of the eggs . Of the Boidae , the Old World pythons coil about their clutch of eggs , covering them completely . Python molurus of southeast Asia and India ( and possibly several other species ) are thermogenic , so that their bodies raise the temperature of the eggs several degrees above the ambient . The king cobra ( Ophiophagus hannah ) is well known for its habit of building a nest of vegetative debris and " guarding " the site after egg-deposition . Individual females seem to vary in their degree of aggressiveness at the nest , and their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At times they rearrange the covering over the nest , perhaps to preserve the cover and maintain moisture within the nest . Crocodilians lay their eggs in a nest of damp decaying vegetation , sometimes 100 or 200 m from water . The adults remain nearby throughout the incubation , and the female is especially aggressive toward intruders . Mammalian predators , such as bears , viverrids and raccoons , prey on eggs of crocodilians , and monitors ( Varanus spp. ) seek and consume eggs of these huge reptiles . The young call from within the eggs and can be heard at 10 m or more from the nest . As hatching nears , one or both parents may assist their young in escaping from the shells ; they are either picked up in the mouth and released in the nearby water , or they may proceed to water under their own power . They stay in the vicinity of their parents for about another two months . There arc predators of young crocodilians , and biparental protection must greatly increase their chances of survival . Parental care in crocodilians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the New World and persists in captivity . It is surely an important aspect of their lives and may well account for their long and successful history ' ' " ' ' " i ' ' The conspicuous lack of concern that reptiles show for the next generation may be a consequence of the special features of the reptilian egg and the site in which it is laid . The shell allows the egg to be laid in soil or under the bark of a tree , so that both the shell and the immediate environment not only retard water loss but even augment the water content of the egg . Also , an egg buried or otherwise concealed is less open to predation than one visible . The amphibian egg , on the other hand , although frequently covered and concealed , is not in complete contact with the substrate and is therefore much more exposed to the risks of desiccation and predation . Parental care , as it is most commonly recognized , includes postfertilization activities that enhance survival of the young , and here it specifically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ectotherms , occuring in a variety of situations . Parental care is shown by both sexes , but males commonly assume most or all of this activity . This care in fishes extends from simple nest-guarding ( which may include fanning of eggs and removal of detritus ) to oral brooding , specialized brood pouches for the eggs and guarding of small young . Theoretical advantages to parental care always include an ultimate increase in survival of the young ( despite a possible destruction of all the offspring should the nurturing parent be killed ) . Possible advantages include increased egg-production ( when the male nurtures ) . Also , when the male parent provides the care , selection becomes especially rigorous ; he must succeed not only in obtaining a mate but in defending the eggs as well . Delayed Births In all classes of vertebrates there are some species that experience an extended period between mating and birth . The storage of sperm with delayed fertilization is known to follow mating in some kinds of bony fish , amphibians , reptiles , birds and mammals ; delayed implantation ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gestation of several orders of mammals . These modifications clearly result in birth at the most appropriate time in some vertebrates , but the function is obscure in others . Sperm Storage Sperm formation and mating may occur long before ovogenesis , and mating is : hen not immediately followed by fertilization . The sperm is stored in the female 's reproductive tract and may survive to fertilize ova months or even years later . In ; ome species secretions of glycogen or lipids seem to nourish the male gametes , which remain immobile in modified pits , folds or crypts in the female reproductive tract.4ss Several kinds of elasmobranches house sperm in the ( ducal gland ; in these fish , sperm apparently enter the egg lust prior to shell deposition . Among bony fish , sperm storage is best known in the guppies , mollies , swordtails and their allies ( Poeciliidac ) . Sperm become embedded in pits in the surface of the single median ovary and periodically enter the ovary , where they fertilize ripe ova in the lumen . They may remain stored for up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is external in virtually all species . Ova are fertilized internally in the species of Nectophrynoides ( Bufonidae ) of Africa and in the bell toad , Ascaphus truei ( Ascaphidae ) , of western North America . In the latter species sperm remain viable for months in the oviduct . In all families of salamanders , except the Cryptobranchidae and the Hynobiidae , sperm are contained in a small sperm packet , which the female picks up with her cloacal lips ; thus internal fertilization is widespread among the Caudata . Sperm have been found throughout the year in the sperm reservoir in the female common newt , Notophthalmus viridescens ( Salamandridae ) , and the salamander Desmognathus fuscus ( Plethodontidae ) , both of eastern North America . There is no obvious adaptive significance to delayed fertilization in amphibians . Perhaps it provides flexibility of mating time in animals that require a humid environment for sexual encounters , thus ensuring reproduction in periods of irregular precipitation . In contrast to amphibians , delayed fertilization in many reptiles has a fairly apparent adaptive significance . Delayed fertilization is best known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ species in all living orders . The tuatara ( Sphenodon punctatus ) , the sole modern rhynchocephalian , mates about nine months before egg-laying , and sperm must be housed in the female genital tract for that period . Marine turtles mate in the water shortly before the females crawl onto beaches to lay eggs ; because the formed eggs are shelled at the time of mating , sperm from one mating must fertilize the next clutch , which matures two years later . Sperm storage is reported for several species of pond turtles ( Emydidae ) . Among Squamata numerous species of both lizards and snakes mate some time before ovulation , and viable sperm may subsequently remain in the oviduct for as long as six years in some snakes . In the green anole ( Anolis carolinensis ) sperm can be found in folds in the vaginal tube throughout the year , and in an Australian skink ( Hemiergis peronii ) sperm survive in the oviduct from the time of mating in autumn ( February/March ) to ovulation in the spring ( September/ October ) , six or seven @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Phyllodactylus marmoratus , mates in late autumn ; ovulation and fertilization occur the following spring . In these species sperm are stored in lamellae in the upper oviduct , and presumably fertilization occurs as unshelled eggs enter the oviduct.542 Sperm storage occurs in the reproductive tract of female Iguanidae , Agamidae , Chamaeleonidae , Gekkonidae and Eublepharidae . The prolonged retention of viable sperm in the oviduct is a regular feature in the breeding cycle of many species of snakes , especially in the widespread family Colubridae and vipers ( Viperidae ) . After mating , some species of birds retain sperm for short periods ; sperm are stored in the oviduct and near the uterovaginal junction . In the bobwhite quail ( Colinus virginianus ) and the ring dove ( . Streplopelia risoria ) , sperm survive cur about one week , but in the ring-necked pheasant ( Phasiamus cochtcus ) and turkey ( Meleagris gallopara ) storage may persist for three or six weeks , respective ) the quail and the dove both form pairs , providing man ) opportunities for mating , but in the turkey and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common . Sperm storage and delayed fertilization in mammals are characteristic only of the insectivorous bats ( Microchiroptera ) . Autumnal mating is a regular event in many species of the Vespertilionidae , and sperm survive in the uterus ( in contact with , or with their heads embedded in the uterine epithelium ) and sometimes also in the oviduct . Ovulation and fertilization follow in the spring , about five months later , more-or-less simultaneously within a female colony . Because many bats segregate into male and female groups during hibernation , males and females do not necessarily associate when ovulation occurs ; in such species autumnal mating ensures a high incidence of pregnancy . In other species , however , both sexes remain in the same caves , and they mate in both autumn and spring and sporadically in the winter . In the noctule ( Nyctalus noctula ) of Europe , the single young are born in June , and mating follows from midsummer to October . In this bat , sperm is stored not only in the copulatory plug in the female but also in the cauda @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than one week , but less than two weeks in the dog , but more than 30 days in the hare ( Lepus europaeus ) . Sperm storage permits mating weeks or months before the next ovulation , and this sequence raises two questions : First , in the absence of the surge of estrogens and LH associated with ovulation and the drive for copulation , what conditions the female for copulation ? Second , when the sperm are quiescent in the genital tract , what stimulates their arousal just at the time of ovulation ? The advantages of delayed fertilization may include the very brief period during which an ovum can be fertilized . In the domestic hen , this may be 15 minutes , and in mammals for which such information is available ova must be fertilized within 12 hours of ovulation . Storage of sperm for weeks and months in bats that hibernate or migrate and hibernate might constitute an accommodation to sexual segregation at the season of ovulation . Delayed Implantation In many mammals the blastocyst remains in a condition of suspended development in the uterus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blastocysts , together with the uterus , form a placenta and development proceeds . This phenomenon prolongs gestation , frequently as long as one year , so that parturition occurs shortly before the next mating . Delayed implantation is common in some migratory or amphibious mammals , species in which the sexes are more-or-less isolated most of the year . Implantation may be delayed in species having a postpartum estrus ; if mating and fertilization occur during lactation , implantation is delayed for a longer interval than occurs in nonlactating females . The underlying causes of this difference may not be the same as in species that normally experihence a prolonged delaved implantation . Nursing , the physical . stimulation of the nipples increases pituitary output of prolactin and lowers FSHI secretion . Prolactrn delays implantation , whereas FSH increases estrogen output , which in turn promotes 11111 ) 1,1111,1 tit Such facultatively delayed implantation occurs in a number of genera of macropodid marsupials , the kangaroos . In many polyestrous species , gestation is shorter than a complete estrous cycle ; in these species pregnancy and lactation do not alter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ During lactation a fresh corpus luteum attests to postpartum ovulation . At this time , if there was a postpartum mating , a dormant blastocyst lies in the uterus . The end of nursing , whether by weaning or death of the young , seems to cause the corpus luteum of pregnancy to enlarge substantially , and its activity in turn either stimulates the blastocyst to resume growth or increases the receptivity of the endometrium . In nature , mortality of nursing young occurs with some frequency ; with a blastocyst already in the uterus , gestation resumes promptly . If there were no blastocyst , a new estrus cycle followed by a normal gestation would take twice the time to produce another young.138 There is a postpartum estrus and mating in the tammar ( Protemnodon eugenii ) , a wallaby of Australia , and implantation is suppressed by the stimulus of nursing . By the time the young ( or joey ) is weaned , the corpus luteum has become quiescent , and remains so until the following breeding season . Thus in the tammar implantation may be delayed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of many species of temperate and cool climate mustelid carnivores . Mating takes place in the summer , and parturition the following spring , so that there is a prolonged gestation , from 200 to 350 days . In the fisher ( Martes pennanti ) parturition is in spring , followed by a postpartum estrus , and blastocysts implant the following winter . Similarly the stoat or ermine ( Mustela erminea ) , a Holarctic weasel , mates in late spring ; blastocysts are dormant until the following winter or early spring . In the longtailed weasel ( Mustela frenata ) young are born in spring , and estrus follows the end of lactation in July . The blastocyst lies dormant until the following spring and implants about 3% weeks before parturition . The diminutive Mustela rixosa has a prompt development with no delayed implantation , even having two or three broods a year in some areas . In the western spotted skunk ( Spilogale putorius latifrons ) , implantation ( or nidation ) is delayed about 200 days , during which period progesterone production is minimal . The corpus luteum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ apparently stimulates the anterior pituitary to increase LH secretion , which is suspected as being the pituitary hormone initiating luteal activity shortly before implantation . Neither hysterectomy nor removal of the unimplanted blastocysts affects luteal activity . As in other mustelid carnivores , the placenta does not control luteal function , and produces little if any progesterone.ba304 There is a tendency for dormant blastocysts to implant in times of short days in winter ; in the marten ( Martes americanus ) implantation occurs experimentally under short but increasing photoperiods in late February in the wild . In the feral state , implantation occurs in January in the fisher ( Martes pennanti ) and the wolverine ( Gulu gulu ) , . hurtl alter the shortest days of the year but in Mustela . /renata blastocysts implant in March . Most commonly implantation in mustehd carnivores occurs as ( lays become longer , hut some species respond to decreasing daylength . Delayed implantation prevails in seals ( Phocidac ) and sea lions ( Olariidae ) but not in the walrus ( Odobenidac ) . The migratory species aggregate in the high latitudes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ males and females do not associate at other times . The harbor seal ( Phoca vitulina ) gives birth to young in late spring , and estrus and mating are delayed until after the end of lactation , in late summer . In this species implantation seems to be confined to a brief period at the end of November and early December . The bearded seal ( Erignathus barbatus ) mates after the young are weaned , and the blastocysts implant about 10 weeks later . Lactation lasts roughly three weeks , so that mating occurs not long after parturition . The northern fur seal ( Callorhinus ursinus ) is probably the most thoroughly studied pinniped . Migration is precisely adjusted for the subsequent social and reproductive events . Parturition occurs within a day and a half after of females reaching their summer home , and mating and ovulation occur within the same week , in late June or early July . Implantation is delayed until after lactation ceases but there is no causal relationship , for primiparous females also exhibit delayed implantation . The arrested development of the blastocyst in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period for mating followed by a rather solitary period and ( 2 ) a precisely timed postmigratory parturition . In most species , mating and ovulation occur within several days after parturition , usually during lactation . Mating occurs after lactation in some species that nurse the pup for a brief period ( e.g. , the hooded seal , Cystophora cristata ) . The corpus luteum is quiescent prior to implantation ; it enlarges and presumably releases progesterone after lactation . Implantation is not directly related to the end of nursing in pinnipeds . The brown bear ( Ursus arctos ) and the Nearctic black bear ( U. americanus ) mate in early or midsummer . Implantation occurs five months later , in November , in the black bear ; very small young are born in Feburary , after a gestation of about eight months . The nine-banded armadillo ( Dasypus novemcinctus ) has a prolonged mating season . Young females breed in late autumn , but older females mate in midsummer ; in either case the blastocysts implant in late November or early December . Prior to implantation , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lutea in marsupials , the postimplantation corpora lutea of armadillos are not greatly enlarged over their condition during diapause of the blastocyst . The roe deer ( Capreolus capreolus ) mates in midsummer , whereas late-autumn mating is the rule in other temperate deer . The blastocyst remains in the lumen of the uterus until December , when it implants ; fawns are born in the spring , as with other deer . During the blastocyst stage the corpus luteum is active and does not change markedly after implantation . Unlike delayed implantation in other orders , however , rapid growth of the early embryo in the roe deer is seen prior to implantation . Delayed implantation is unknown in other species of Artiodactyla . There is a day in implantation ( which may include a slow rate of embryonic development ) in severl species of Microchiroptera . The Neotropical fruit bat Artibeus jamaicensis has a delay during which cell division is retarded but not arrested , thus differing slightly from teh " reproductive diapause " of some carnivores and marsupials In . vlramineus the delay is from 8 to 10 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ waterhousii . The latter species mates in the autumn ; although implantation occurs promptly , development of the embryo is greatly retarded until the following spring.18 The bent-winged bat ( Miniopterus schreibersi ) , a vespertilionid bat of Eurasia , and Macrotus californicus , a phyllostomatid bat of western North America , both mate and ovulate in autumn.13 ? ' 38 In M. schreibersi , sperm are stored for up to six days in the microvilli and cilia of the lining of the uterotubal junction ( where the oviduct enters the uterus ) . Release of a single ovum ( always from the left ovary ) in October is followed by fertilization and delayed implantation during hibernation . ' ' ' In many species with delayed implantation there is a postpartum estrus , and implantation is concomitant with a sudden growth of corpora lutea , suggesting that luteal activity is required for implantation . Implantation does not follow the experimental administration of either progesterone or progesterone and estrogen , so the precise stimulus remains obscure . " ' Breeding Seasons A breeding season must be defined somewhat arbitrarily . For oviparous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time of oviposition . In many oviparous groups , however , sperm may be stored for weeks or even years , and egglaying may be separated from mating . In such animals there are ( at least ) two periods of reproduction : mating and oviposition . The two sexes may differ in times of fecundity : males may be capable of mating for an extended period , and females may be receptive for a restricted period . In species with sperm storage ( as in some bats and reptiles ) mating may be bimodal , spring and autumn , while births are restricted to a brief period each year . In species living more than one year but breeding annually , there may be two overlapping peaks of mating , older females becoming sexually active somewhat earlier than females breeding for the first time ; this occurs in some midlatitude lizards as well as in some mammals , such as the armadillo . If breeding seasons are truly adaptive , most births should occur at about the same time in any given region . To some extent this is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ salamanders and warblers , for example , differ in their environmental demands , and their times of oviposition differ too . Even within a group of families , such as passerine birds , while most nest and rear young in the spring , a few , such as the cedar waxwing ( Bombycilla cedrorum ) and the goldfinch ( Spinus tristis ) , tend to nest late in the summer . Regularity of reproductive patterns tends to reflect the predictability of seasonal environmental cues . Changes in daylength are regular , and in many animals increasing daylength stimulates gonadal recrudescence . Some autumnal breeders may respond positively to decreasing daylength . The role of photoperiod seems to be important for males , and females of many vertebrates are aroused partly by the males ' courtship behavior . In regions where rainfall vane from year to year and the quality of plant food is not so predictable as is daylength , reproductive seasons fluctuate with the rainfall . At lower latitudes , the amount of precipitation during the rainy season becomes increasingly important as a cue to annual reproduction . Virtually all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one time when conditions are optimal for nesting , development of the egg and feeding of the young . Because reproduction demands much energy from at least one parent , and growing young frequently have narrowly defined needs , their rearing is generally confined to these periods of optimal conditions . In regions where environmental conditions are irregularly optimal , such as in deserts , reproduction may be sporadic . Close to the equator , where environmental conditions tend toward only slight seasonal cycles , reproduction may continue throughout the year in a given population , whereas individuals within that population may have discrete times for breeding interrupted by periods of gonadal regression . Even in the tropics , however , seasonal rainfall or social interactions , or both , seem to produce recognizable reproduction seasons in many species . Vertebrates in higher latitudes have increasingly restricted times for breeding . Even in human beings , who are always prepared to indulge in heterosexual play , there are seasonal peaks in pregnancies . Because growth of eggs and their incubation , gestation of young , production of milk and care of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for bare subsistence , reproduction generally takes place when food is abundant . Among species of a family of even of a genus , there is a far greater variation in reproductive patterns than physical similarity would suggest . Even within closely related species of mammals , one may have delayed implantation and another direct development , one species may produce precocial young and another altricial young , whereas among congeneric species of reptiles one may be oviparous and another viviparous . Correlations of reproductive patterns and taxonomic position ( and genetic similarity ) are often difficult to establish because these modes are adaptive . The frequent lack of similarity among allied species has allowed these forms to diversify physiologically and ecologically , increasing the possibility for closely related species to dwell in overlapping areas . Such reproductive diversity may very well accelerate speciation and eventual morphologic diversity . Because gonadal activity of males is frequently more extended than that of females , FSH levels probably determine mating times . Progesterone and estrogen reach maximal levels around ovulation , and most wild vertebrates mate at this time or close to it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been questioned , mostly because of variations in reported strength of libido . A study of incidence of both intercourse and orgasm among married couples showed , however , a remarkedly close correlation between mating and ovulation , with a peak around the 15th to the 19th day , and a low shortly after the onset of menstruation. 72,1034 For many wild species the determining factors are not readily apparent and may not always include ! ciliate hormonal levels : for species in which females store sperm , mating may occur before ovulation , and there is little information on the causes of receptivity in such cases . Tropical Environments Characterizing tropical environments and contrasting them to habitats in midlatitudes are frustrating exercises , fraught with ambiguities and contradictions . Many temperate regions have summer temperatures exceeding those near the equator , and tropical variations in rainfall are matched by those far from the tropics . High tropical mountains are in some respects displaced temperate islands , and such mountains are subjected to low temperatures comparable to winter frigidity in midlatitudes . Although some tropical regions show little monthly variations in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ variable . Seasonal cycles in rainfall can equal those of temperate regions , and daily temperature extremes on equatorial mountains match seasonal variations in temperate regions . The single consistent aspect of the tropics is the potentially regular insolation , potentially regular because it is altered by both seasonal and sporadic cloud cover . The regularity of sunrise and sunset , and the heating effect of the sun , prevent the development of the sharp seasonal extremes seen in temperate regions . Nevertheless the differences between the equatorial tropics and midlatitude temperate regions are a matter of degree , and regions are not mutually exclusive and discrete : the tropics interdigitate with the temperate regions over broad latitudinal ranges on both sides of the equator . Not surprisingly , a wide variety of reproductive patterns is found in the multifaceted tropics . In subtropical regions of acyclic rainfall , reproduction for many vertebrates is closely associated with either rain itself or the flush of plant and insect growth produced by rain . Although a correlation sometimes exists between temperature fluctuations and variation in breeding times , the relationship varies among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and respond directly to changes in environmental temperatures . There is no demonstrably direct effect for birds and mammals ; these vertebrates probably respond to temperatureinduced changes in plants , insects and ( for hibernators ) soil temperature and texture . Seasonal reproduction represents an adaptation to annual climatic changes or climatically related changes , such as plant growth after the onset of an annual rainy period . Presumably these physical or biotic features to which breeding is adjusted favor one or more aspects of the entire process . In species in which small young forage for themselves , their appearance usually coincides with production of substantial amounts of their food . Tadpoles hatch when algal growth resumes , and young lizards and insectivorous birds frequently hatch when small arthropods are abundant . Close to the equator , breeding seasons show great diversity among resident species ; optimal times for nesting and care of young vary among major taxa . Also , optimal times lira ' , prevail MCI longer pet kids , and breeding seasons seem to be ended by the refractory stage as much as by changes in environmental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In contrast to monthly fluctuations in rainfall . Here again , however , optimal conditions occur in dry periods for some vertebrates and rainy period for others . In regions with two annual wet dry cycles , some vertebrates may breed twice a year , with all mature individuals par ticipating both times . Other species breed two or three times a year , each pope lation breeding only once annually , but the time depending on the geographic locality . Among tropical ectotherms there seems to be no prevalent pattern of reproduction . Some species have relatively well-defined periods during which pregnancy or oviposition predominates or occurs exclusively , while spermatogenesis is continuous throughout the year . Even where tropical breeding seasons are readily apparent , the environmental significance , when there is such , is sometimes obscure . In fishes inhabiting regions of seasonal rainfall , reproduction follows the onset of rains . An extreme case is the cyprinodont fish of South America and East Africa : their eggs lie in the bottom of dry temporary ponds , and development is arrested until rains flood the areas . Growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ends . These are annual fish with a complete population turnover each year . " In low latitudes where there is always high humidity , anurans may breed throughout the year . This is especially true of those species that deposit eggs on land . In the New World tropics species of Eleutherodactylus , which breed on land , have extended , or more-or-less continuous , egg-laying , whereas species of Hyla , which breed in water , have their time of oviposition correlated with rainfall . Bufo melanostictus of Ceylon lays its eggs mostly in the early part of the monsoons but takes advantage of any heavy rain after an extremely dry spell.54 ' As in species of Scaphiopus , incubation is brief , at times within 48 hours . In species of Pseudophryne , Australian anurans , egg-laying is protracted over almost two months ; if early nests suffer an unseasonal dry spell and the eggs become desiccated , the generation is continued by later egg-laying.106 In an aseasonal environment of Amazonian Ecuador , anurans have several schedules of reproduction . Some species breed more-or-less continuously . Dendrobatid frogs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ breed throughout the year as do some other terrestrial breeders , while other species that oviposit in water tend to breed most actively after heavy rains . The latter are sporadic , so that the reproductive cycles of many of the anurans in this aseasonal climate , although irregular , follow extrinsic cues . " ' Egg-laying in tropical salamanders , in contrast to that of lizards , is adjusted so that hatching occurs as the annual rains begin . One of the salamander parents coils about the clutch and remains throughout the dry season , protecting the eggs not only from predation but also from desiccation . This pattern characterizes species of the plethodontid genera Pseudoeurycea , Parvimolge and Bolitoglossa . Bolitoglossa rostrata , a tropical lungless salamander ( Plethodontidae ) inhabiting seasonally rainless montane meadow , at Guatamala , lay , eggs at the onset of the dry season ( November or early December ) , and the female remains with the eggs for about six months or until the resumption of the rains . Males are fecund throughout the year . ' In many tropical oviparous lizards and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' " Among some species of the iguanid genus Anolis , eggs develop with the approach of a rainy season . Ovogenesis may not directly depend on rainfall , for there are annual changes in temperature and daylength coincident with the annual maxima in precipitation . Oviposition , however , may be a response to rain and the resultant soft , moist soil , for a delay in rain seems to cause a retention of eggs in the oviduct in some anoles . The anole Anolis aeneus of Grenada , in the Lesser Antilles , is typical : maximal occurrence of oviducal eggs closely parallels early heavy rainfall . This relationship between rainfall and egg-laying is not universal.962 Another anole , Anolis acutus of St. Croix , also in the Lesser Antilles , breeds throughout the year ; ovigerous females occur in every month , and an adult female lays an average of one egg each month.869 Tropidurus hispidus , a Neotropical iguanid lizard , inhabits xeric habitats in Venezuela and has an egglaying period confined to part of the rainy season.834 In Agama agama of West Africa breeding occurs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ activity at the end of the dry season and the start of the rains . " ' Of three species of skinks on the Ivory Coast , Mabuya buettneri lays eggs at the end of one rainy season , and they hatch four months later . M. maculilabris generally lays eggs during the dry season , and in Panaspis nimbaensis both egg-laying and hatching occur in the same rainy season . Consequently , in the same habitat , hatching of these species is not exactly coincident but nevertheless does provide for the growing period of the young to fall during the rains , when insect food is most likely to be abundant ( Fig. 11.6 ) . " In the tropical scincoid lizard , Emoia atrocostata , reproduction has no discrete seasonal peak . ' In contrast the Oriental gecko , Hemidactylus flaviviridus , has a reproductive season between October and May.87 Reproduction in the Malaysian snake ( Homalopsis buccata ) continues throughout the year with no discrete peak in sexual activity.89 The live-bearing skink , Mabuya striata , in Tanzania breeds all year , whereas the sympatric egg-laying agamid lizard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ season , and its eggs hatch at the onset of the dry season . " Probably the correlation of rainfall and egg-laying has a different significance among the various tropical oviparous species . Although some students have suggested that young lizards that hatch at the beginning of the rainy season find insect food especially abundant at that time , others believe that moist soil provides water needed for the proper development of the embryo within the egg . Eggs of snakes are frequently laid in moist ground , where they not only avoid desiccation , but also absorb water during embryonic development . Eggs of the colubrid Spalerosophis cliffordi , when kept wet one day in four during incubation , increase almost one-quarter over the original weight in contrast to no significant increase for eggs kept in saturated air . There was no difference in size or weight of the young from these two groups of eggs.z44 Egg-laying in turtles of arid and semiarid regions is stimulated by rain . The rain seems to moisten soil sufficiently for digging ; all turtles nevertheless release urine in the soil before excavating the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muddies its newly laid eggs so that a shell of dirt adheres to them . Breeding seasons of birds may extend throughout the year in certain low-latitude habitats , but , even within a given species , not all individuals breed without interruption . Many nonmigratory birds of Central America ( 10 ? - 15 ? N ) breed in the spring , as do the bulk of migratory species that nest far to the north . For example , hummingbirds , which feed on nectar , deviate from this pattern : they live in the high mountains and nest mostly in autumn and spring , at the time when most flowering plants bloom . In midlatitudes many passerine birds have an annual period of reproduction , with two or more broods being reared within a single reproductive season of the year . It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between the one extreme of a prolonged or continuous reproductive " season " in the tropics and the other of a discrete season of two or more successive broods , as sometimes occurs in birds of temperate regions . Thus there is no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The irregular reproduction of birds in Australian deserts is dependent upon rainfall . In certain arid areas of central Australia ducks tend to move                     