@@773725

txt has an internationalist outlook , and a talent for promoting inter-racial harmony , is spurious and lacks historical justification , at any rate so far as the great mass of the English are concerned . Tolerance has only been imposed in the teeth of their resistance . The evidence on this score is overwhelming ; the only difficulty is to determine precisely where English racialism begins . The area of racial respectability , centred on London , has often appeared to extend no further than the lowland zone , bounded by Severn and Trent , and not invariably to all of this. * Henry viii , admonishing the men of Lincolnshire who had participated in the rebellious Pilgrimage of Grace , told them that they hailed ' from one of the most brute and beastly shires of the whole realm ' . t English governments could usually cope with insurrections from outside the zone , which lacked a pure English centre of gravity ; but a rebellion in the south-east was always a serious matter , and usually fatal . It was the south-east which determined the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Glorious Revolution and the Hanoverian settlement . Not until the nineteenth century , with its dramatic shifts in population and economic resources , was the north-west able to assert decisive political influence : the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846 was its first regional vic-tory , and in a sense its last , for the balance has since swung back to the south-east : no English government has been formed in recent decades without majority support in this area . But the real racial frontiers were fixed in the Welsh and Scottish marches . Beyond these limits even Roman military power had encoun-tered difficulties which ultimately proved too expensive to resolve . It is true that the Romans established a form of military occupation in Wales . But the normal processes of economic colonisation could not operate there ; the Welsh economy remained pastoral ; the people could not be effectively disarmed , indeed in the closing stages of Roman rule they were recruited as auxiliaries ; their tribal organisation , laws , lan-guage and customs remained intact ; only Christianity made any impact . In Scotland even the Roman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy made no progress north of the Tyne ? Tees , or indeed for many miles to the south of it . This pattern was repeated during the Germanic settlements , which made no substantial penetration beyond the line now known as Offa 's Dyke , and the Old Roman Wall . The racial and cultural frontiers began to solidify in the eighth century and have never changed by more than a few score miles . The Normans , as the residual legatee of the Old English State , became the dominant landowning element only within the areas of effective English occupation . Thus the relationship between England and its Celtic neighbours began to assume its modern form from the beginnings of the twelfth century . This relationship was , and remains today , essentially ambivalent . The English could never establish a cultural ascendancy in Wales or Scotland , or destroy in their peoples a sense of separate nationhood based on race , even though the English language became predominant and eventually triumphant . On the other hand , England was inevitably the paramount power , in a military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent should this preponderance based on greater resources of wealth and manpower be expressed in direct political sovereignty ? This question has never been finally answered ; perhaps there is no answer which all the parties can find fully acceptable . The claims of the Old English kingdom , as expressed for instance in Edgar 's coronation , were theoretically limitless ; and they were inherited by the Anglo-Norman monarchy . But to enforce them was a different matter : here the pattern of development is ragged and contradictory . Wales was just close enough to the English centre of gravity to permit conquest ; Scotland just too far away , and the modern relationship was established by diplomacy and agreement rather than force . But all this took time : throughout the Middle Ages the English confronted their Celtic neighbours in an atmosphere of mutual and often violent hostility . Moreover , racial fears were intensified by geographical factors . Both the Welsh and the Scots quickly learned to synchronise resistance to the English with the hostile efforts of England 's Continental enemies , above all the French monarchy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the struggle for supremacy in north-west Europe . Thus the racial antagonism , based on an arrogant sense of cultural superiority , which the English felt for the Celts , was sharpened by the fear that England was always the potential victim of a conspiracy of encirclement . The Welsh were the earliest victims of this terror-psychology . It is interesting that the Welsh initially saw the Normans as their natural allies , in more than just a military sense , against the hated English . Gerald the Welshman , writing in the late twelfth century , described the English as a people born to slavery : the noble Normans , and the freeborn , fearless Welshmen , were the racial types to be admired . But a hundred years later Nonnan and English interests and stock had coalesced and united in a common anti-Welsh racialism ; Edward t 101 determined on a final solution to the problem of the Welsh frontier by an outright and permanent military occupation , underwritten by a colossal infrastructure of castles , roads , ports , and towns colonised by Englishmen ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Church of Rome had always favoured the outright English conquest of the Celtic fringe ? a policy inaugurated in the seventh century by the Synod of Whitby ? as the only means whereby the Celtic Churches could be brought within its unitary system of discipline and administration . Thus the Archbishop of Canterbury , Pecham , was instructed to be the fugleman of Edward 's armies ; all Welsh who resisted were automatically excommunicated ; and one of the archbishop 's clerks wrote a racist diatribe which became the moral manifesto of conquest . The Welsh were Trojan debris ' , swept into the wooded savagery of Cambria under the guidance of the Devil . Their sexual promiscuity was notorious ; they spent their lives in theft and rapine , or sloth ; they were so depraved that only a few had learned to till the soil . Only the mild forbearance of the English kings had prevented the English from long ago blotting out the existence and memory of this detestable people ' . Edward 's military architect , James of Savoy , put the matter more prosaically : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Wales would always constitute a threat to the English , for , he said , ' Welshmen are Welshmen ' . More than a century later , continued Welsh resistance to the English Crown led to petitions to parliament for the enactment of racial legislation : privileges enjoyed by Welshmen residing in England should be withdrawn , and Welsh purchase of land in England forbidden ; Welsh tenants should be automatically obliged to give securities of good behaviour , and Englishmen in Wales should be given special legal protection against the malice of Welsh juries . In 1403 one of Henry 1v 's officers told him that ' the whole of the Welsh nation in these parts are concerned in the rebellion ' , and he pleaded with the King to ordain a final destruction of all the false nation aforesaid ' . No such extermination took place ; it was beyond the capacity , and perhaps the desire , of the English ; it proved impossible to carry out even a general policy of colonisation ; but the Welsh ruling class and aristocracy were largely destroyed , and Wales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process completed by Henry viii . The English undoubtedly wished to impose the same fate on Scotland . At all times they hated their northern neighbours even more than they hated the Welsh , because they feared them more , because a Scottish ? French alliance was a more dangerous combination , and because Scottish treachery ( as they saw it ) was more expensive and difficult to punish . It was always much easier for English governments to recruit IO2 English armies against Scotland than against France , though the chances of profit were far smaller . To fight the Scots was often a pleasure as well as a duty . The English attitude was summed up by Henry vin 's envoy in Scotland , Ralph Sadler , who complained to his master : Under the sun lives not more beastly and unreasonable people than here be of all degrees . ' * The Scots were saved by geography , by timely resistance , perhaps most of all by Elizabeth 1 , the first modern-minded English monarch , whose Scottish treaty of 156o prepared the way for a political solution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the English with the Irish is a saga of unrelieved tragedy , from the mid-twelfth century to the present day . Any theory that the English have a natural capacity for governing other races can not survive even the most cursory examination of Anglo-Irish history : English policy-makers committed every conceivable error from the first moment of contact , then sought to retrieve their blunders by savagery . The chief trouble , ironically , was that Ireland never sufficiently occupied the centre of England 's political consciousness . It was a marginal threat , a marginal problem , and a marginal asset . The English have never been able to let the Irish wholly alone ; on the other hand they have never given Ireland a high priority in their national schemes . Until the great labouring Irish migration of the nineteenth century , the mass of the English had had no direct contact with the Irish ; racialism , on this side of the Irish Sea , was a matter of hearsay , distant rumours of an unsatisfactory people . Contact between the races devolved upon a small group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powers of conquest , but lacking the means and numbers to achieve it . They were beyond the range of effective supervision from London . They were active and aggressive enough to arouse Irish antagonism and provoke periodic resistance ; but physically incapable of suppressing it without help from England . Thus Anglo-Irish relations became a succession of episodes , following a dreary and repetitive cycle of misrule , rebellion , suppression , and then malignant neglect , leading again to misrule and rebellion . The English settler class could not complete the conquest ; neither would they adopt a thorough-going policy of assimilation : they oscillated uneasily between the two . Irish society became stratified on a racial basis : the kind of relationship which existed between English and Normans immediately after zo66 was , in Ireland , frozen into permanent antagonism . English policy in 103 Ireland , right from the start , failed to create a viable state : it was never more than an occupation , and a precarious and partial one . Its political motivation was fear , its instruments invariably force . The English could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They could not administer it ; they could only , from time to time , subdue it . To complete the tragedy , the English in England , viewing Ireland from afar , conscious indeed of its existence only when misery erupted into violence ( which they then felt in duty bound to put down ) , came to regard the Irish as wholly unreasonable people , who could not be fitted into any known scheme of government , a society contra naturam . The blame for English failure was complacently shifted on to the heads of the victims , and the English closed their eyes to the true nature of the Irish problem . Their eyes are still closed : though Ireland can still attract English attention by violence , it can not command an understanding . Booksellers and publishers agree that it is not easy to sell serious books on Ireland to the English public ; and not one Englishman in a hundred has ever heard of the Statutes of Kilkenny . Yet these English laws , passed in 1366 and retained on the statute book until well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy which turned Ireland into the South Africa of the Middle Ages . They were wholly racist in inspiration , and their object was a crude form of apartheid . The attempt to govern the whole of Ireland was abandoned . The English colony was to be limited to the ' obedient shires ' which constituted the Pale . Those who lived beyond the Pale were officially designated as ' Irish enemies ' . As early as 1285 complaints had been made that Irishmen should never be appointed to bishoprics , ' as they always preach against the King ' . Now the Irish ? the custodians of an ancient church , which flourished when the English were still pagans ? were to be excluded by law from all ecclesiastical office . The English were not to enter into negotiations with the Irish ; or to marry them or sell them horses or armour . The English settlers were to be protected from ' degeneracy ' by a variety of prohibitions . They must not employ Irish minstrels , poets or story-tellers ; they must use English sermons , the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , such as hurling and quoits , and commanded to learn the use of the bow'and other gentle games ' . Thus religion had very little to do with the origins of the AngloIrish problem ; or , rather , it did so only in a sense which later history made richly ironic . The original English invasion of Ireland , in the 117os , was carried out at papal request , and with papal authority , by the bull Laudabiliter ( 115J ) . It is true that the bull may be spurious ; true also that its supposed author , Hadrian iv , was the only Englishman zoo ever to sit on the throne of St Peter . But Hadrian was more a cosmo-politan clerical careerist than an English nationalist ; and in any event the real authority for the conquest was contained in letters written to Henry if by Pope Alexander Ill , a resolute Hildebrandine pontiff , with no love for the English . The English were encouraged to brutalise the Irish in the name of papal supremacy . England 's title-deeds to Ireland were inscribed not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hated the Irish Church since the Synod of Whitby , and even before it . By the time Richard II visited Ireland in the 1390s , the racial mould had set . He classified its inhabitants into ' irrois savages , nos enemis ; irrois rebelz ; et les Engloss obseissantz ' . By'irrois rebelz ' he meant ' de-generate ' English , who had ' gone native ' . English-born and Irish-born English settlers were forbidden by statute to shout racist expressions at each other : they were to stand together , in racial solidarity , against the ' Irish enemies ' . Now from Richard II 's classification it is only a short step to Cromwell 's more famous one : ' English protestants ( loyalists ) and Irish papists ( rebels ) ' . And from Cromwell 's it is an even shorter step to the Unionist-Nationalist division in present-day Ulster . Religion , indeed , is not the root of the problem in Ireland ; it is merely the colour-ation of an underlying racist division which is much more ancient. * The identification of Irish nationalism with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Catholic sovereign Queen Mary who began the systematic plantation of English settlers in the confiscated lands of Irish rebels . Hence , when England turned to Protestantism under Elizabeth , the older Anglo-Irish landed class clung to the Church of Rome more as a protest against the newer English plantations than for doctrinal reasons . Catholicism and the Pope became an expression of Irish nationalism , and the Papacy , which had given Ireland to England , now exhorted the Irish to resist . No doubt Celtic conservatism helped to stiffen Irish resistance to reform ; but the main impulse in Ireland 's religious choice was political and racial . If England had remained Catholic , and France had turned Protestant , there is little doubt that Ireland would have turned Protestant too . As a final irony , it is arguable that England might have accorded I05 religious toleration to the Irish , while still clinging to her political sovereignty . Henri iv 's Edict of Nantes in France had set an important , and at the time successful , precedent . Its adoption was discussed in ruling English circles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time not definite ) except it be in some principal towns and precincts , after the manner of some French edicts , seemeth to me to be a matter warrantable by religion , and in policy of absolute necessity . ' But such a policy broke down on the rock of racialism , particularly now that northern Ireland had become the theatre of Scottish Presbyterian settlement . Ireland thus became , and remains , the victim of a racial aggression , masquerading in the trappings of a religious controversy ; and faith became the emblem of race , and thus of allegiance . The growing aggressiveness of the English towards their Celtic neighbours , reflecting a new consciousness of their nationhood and racial unity , also found expression in hostility towards alien elements within the English community . The ruling class of the early Anglo-Norman kingdom had a distinct cosmopolitan flavour : we hear of no complaints against Lanfranc and Anselm , both Italians , on the grounds of race . The Jews , too , came to England for the first time in the wake of the Conqueror , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chief towns . For seventy years or more they appear to have lived unmolested . But as the twelfth century progressed , the native population , including the largely French-speaking aristocracy , began to draw fierce distinctions between themselves and those not of the nation of the realm of England ' . It has always been in the economic interest of the English State to protect foreigners and allow them to go about their business to our mutual profit ; equally , it has always been the popular desire to persecute and if possible rob them . When the medieval State was strong , foreigners were safe ; the moment the Crown relaxed its grip , their lives and property were at risk . Alien trading communities had always to be placed under the personal safeguard of the King . The Jews were a case in point . They were , in a legal sense , the property of the Crown , which systematically farmed ' them . They alone , in theory at least , were allowed to lend money at interest ( at rates usually around 50 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could tallage them at will , and at death their property reverted to the Crown , or could be possessed by the heirs only on payment of a heavy percentage fine . The Crown made it possible for the Jews to enforce the law against their debtors so that , in turn , it could take its cut . At Westminster special justices of the Jews and a separate exchequer were set up to administer the community . Their dealings were vast and played a Io6 crucial role in the money economy : they financed the development both of agriculture and the arts , and made possible the very rapid advance in English standards of life and culture which was such a marked feature of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries . Aaron of Lincoln , perhaps the most successful Jew in English history , operated in 25 counties ; among his clients were the King of Scotland , the Archbishop of Canterbury , a score of bishops , abbots and earls , and innumerable lesser fry . He financed the building of Lincoln Cathedral , Peterborough and St Albans Abbeys , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1185 the Crown set up a special exchequer , the Scaccarium Aaronis , to collect his debts , a process which took 20 years ; it was probably the biggest financial windfall ever received by an English government . But rising English racial consciousness made it increasingly difficult for the Crown to guard its proteges . The Church , heavily in debt to the Jews , fed the racial flames by manufacturing tales of Jewish ritual murders : the first and most notorious , of the child St William of Norwich ' in 1144 , eagerly spread by monks whose splendid estates and edifices the Jews had financed , led to an ugly rash of anti-Semitic riots . It is significant that this occurred during the worst years of Stephen 's reign , when central government was near breakdown . Henry it 's reestablishment of law and order allowed the Jewish communities to flourish once more ? indeed reach the height of their prosperity ; but soon after his death anti-Semitism again took to the streets . There were pogroms in London , Norwich , Lincoln and Stamford ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the royal castle , were massacred . The ability of the Crown to protect the Jews was a faithful index of its general authority : when John was brought to his knees at Runnymede , the victory of the constitutional ' forces was symbolised by the insertion of three anti-Semitic clauses in Magna Carta . Archbishop Stephen Langton , one of those who helped to draw it up , celebrated in English history as one of the architects of the constitution , was a notorious antiSemite : he had an archdeacon , who married a Jewess and apostatised , burnt as a heretic , and he tried to enforce regulations compelling Jews to wear distinctive signs sewn on to their clothes . Magna Carta undermined the economic basis of English medieval Jewry , though the communities struggled on . In 1264 , when the Crown was again humiliated , there was a further wave of pogroms : part of Simon de Montfort 's popular appeal ( he was , ironically , a French racist who despised the English ) was his aggressive anti-Semitism . By the time Edward t , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government , English Jewry was near to ruin . In 1275 he enacted a Statute of the Jews with the object of transforming h , 1 ' I07 them from usurers into artisans . But this aroused the fury of the city tradesmen ; moreover , it took from the Jews their unique role of service to the Crown . In 1290 Edward washed his hands of the problem and expelled the entire community , which was now destitute . In the fourteenth century English agriculture suffered grievously from the absence of Jewish finance , and the failure to provide a native substitute . The departure of the Jews created a new role for the Italians , both in the economy and in the English racial consciousness . They became the new hate-objects in the towns . The Italians were unpopular because they were bankers ; because they were the chief beneficiaries of the system of papal provisions to English benefices which developed during the later Middle Ages , and because they were successful tradesmen , with regular emporia in the chief cities . With the decline of Crown authority under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives and property were increasingly vulnerable , with Parliament naturally leading the xenophobic pack . In 1440 ? 2 Parliament passed measures which , in effect , sanctioned piracy against merchant ships owned by foreigners . In 1456 and again the following year , there were anti-Italian riots in London . The Italians fled in terror to Southampton and made it their operational base ; but in 146o an anti-alien faction captured control of the town , and the Italians left . One of the objects of Edward iv 's restoration of royal power was to make England safe for foreign communities , and to end the legalised piracy conducted against foreigners in the Channel . On the whole he and his Tudor successors made steady progress ; but hatred of the Italians remained a strong English characteristic . It was , of course , reciprocated . The prevailing Italian view seems to have been that England was a rich country , inhabited by barbarous fools , ripe for plucking by the civilised and the sophisticated . England , said the papal envoy Piero da Monte in 1436 , was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many precious things , full of pleasures and delights ' . Silvestro Gigh , Henry vin 's agent in Rome , put the point more crudely ( or so the King was told ) : Let the barbarous people of France and England every one kill another . What shall we care therefore so we have the money to make merry withal here ? ' The English saw the Italians as greedy cosmopolitan adventurers , with no sense of nationhood , loyalty or patriotism . As one Elizabethan writer put it : The Italians serve all princes at once , and with their perfumed gloves and wanton presents , and gold enough to boot if need be , work what they list and lick the fat even from our beards . ' Anti-Italian feeling was one of the great popular engines of the English Reformation . It was , however , the French who above all crystallised , and then for io8 centuries symbolised , the xenophobia of the emerging English nation . From the middle of the twelfth century until the middle of the nineteenth , the external history of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sometimes the hostility is expressed in open war ; sometimes in diplomacy or commerce ; sometimes in all three simultaneously . From time to time a different enemy ? the Spanish or the Dutch ? flits briefly across the stage of history , as it were to separate the combatants ; but always , and inexorably , the great brooding conflict between French and Englishmen seizes control again , and re-establishes the pattern of cross-Channel hatred . It is one of the great tragedies of mankind , this senseless aggression and rivalry between two wellendowed and immensely civilised peoples ; and who can swear that it will not break out again ? Perhaps it is inevitable that the English should view with suspicion any power which occupies the southern shores of the Channel . We first hear of rabid anti-French feeling in England in the 1050s , when a French-speaking faction formed at the court of Edward the Confessor . But neither the Channel nor language provide a satisfactory explanation for the origins of the quarrel . The Normans had no sooner established themselves in England than they began a policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of AngloFrench diplomacy was quickly established , with the French encouraging and financing anti-English factions in Wales , Scotland and Ireland , and the English financing and arming anti-French coalitions in the Low Countries and Germany . Henry i inaugurated England 's anti-French diplomacy in Germany by marrying his daughter to the Emperor , and later taking a bride from German-speaking Lorraine . Henry ii began the new policy of subsidising elements hostile to France on her northern and eastern frontiers , and even in Italy ; it was continued by Richard I and John , who built up an immense anti-French alliance in Flanders and along the Rhine . Over seven centuries the amount of English gold which has flowed overseas for this purpose is beyond computation . At one time or another , every independent territory ? kingdoms , principalities , duchies , . palatinates , counties , archbishoprics and city-states ? within military striking distance of France , has been in the service of the English taxpayer , as can be seen from the exchequer pipe-rolls stretching from Henry ii to William Pitt the Younger . This enmity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they still spoke their language from birth , when indeed many of them still owned broad estates in France . The loss of Normandy in 1204 enormously widened the cleavage , because it meant that men who owned lands on both sides of the Channel had finally to choose their national allegiance ; it meant also that the zog southern side of the Channel was now a hostile shore ; it was thus a decisive event in English history. * But it did not only begin the struggle between the French and English States : it served to give that struggle an increasingly strident nationalistic flavour . The collapse of the French language in England in the fourteenth century was both a cause and a consequence of that intense phase of the struggle we know as the Hundred Years ' War ; it brought a cultural separation between the French and English ruling classes which made reconciliation more difficult . Yet the English attitude to French culture was curiously ambivalent . It was something the English ? particularly the educated and leisured classes ? felt they needed . French was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scholarship . The first flowerings of English national literature in the late fourteenth century were accompanied by strenuous efforts to keep up the study of written and spoken French . French was the vehicle by which new cultural elements reached this country ; it was the hallmark of the fashionable and the pretentious to punctuate their speech with French words and expressions . In the intervals of hostilities , fourteenth- and fifteenth-century Englishmen travelled widely in France , just as Englishmen would rush to Paris in the brief Peace of Amiens in 1802 , and again after Waterloo . From the late fourteenth century we get the first French-conversation manuals for the use of English travellers . One , entitled La Maniere de language qui t'enseignera bien a droit parley et escrire doulx franois , and dating from 1396 , tells the Englishman what to say while on the road or at an inn . It unconsciously gives the English racial view of the French : how to instruct lazy , incompetent and venal French hostlers in their duties ; how to tell French innkeepers to clean up their filthy and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not messed-about ; how to take advantage of the lascivious French habit of supplying girls to travellers , and how to avoid being cheated in consequence . It differs only in detail ? certainly not in fundamental attitudes ? from the phrase-books supplied to the English Grand Tourists in the eighteenth century , or even the patrons of Mr Thomas Cook . The English were already beginning to attribute to the French all kinds of undesirable habits and attitudes and , with more justice , political customs which the English found abhorrent . Of course this racialism was based partly on fear : France was four times England 's size , with many times its wealth and population ; it was universally assumed that the French were aggressive , predatory and malevolent towards the English : an early English proverb had it : ' When the Ethiopian is white the French will love the English . ' Torture was believed to have had its origins in France , and to flourish there . Fortescue drew rabid distinctions between English and French law , entirely in England 's favour ; the English @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commonwealth while the French King was essentially an uncurbed tyrant . A fifteenth-century Frenchman related with horror that he overheard two citizens of London say that they would go on dethroning or executing kings until they found one who suited them . In 146o , the Duke of York and the Earl of Warwick , fomenting from Ireland a revolt to overthrow the Lancastrians , accused the Crown in their manifesto of seeking to introduce the abominable and servile French custom of conscription . Henry vii , exasperated with Parliament , said he would never summon one again , and would rule after the French fashion ' . Even at moments of national reconciliation , the English racial hatred for the French festered beneath the surface . At the Field of the Cloth of Gold , the Venetian ambassador overheard a snatch of conversation between the Marquis of Dorset and one of his friends : ' If I had a drop of French blood in my body , I would cut myself open and get rid of it . " So would I. ' To some extent all English medieval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While the tradition that the aristocracy owed some form of unpaid military service to the Crown persisted , there was a natural reluctance to cross the Channel for royal wars which brought no obvious profit to leading landowners ; after the loss of Normandy this became the chief bone of contention between John and his barons , as we shall see . But with the development of purely professional armies in the late thirteenth century , a huge segment of English society began to acquire a vested interest in perpetual warfare with the French . The armies , from top to bottom , were well paid so long as the Exchequer could continue to ship sacks of sterling silver across the Channel . The Black Prince got &; a day for active service , an archer 4d , which was the annual rent for an acre of fertile arable land . Military success brought enormous profits , for all prisoners were ransomable , some for sums running into tens , even hundreds of thousands ; there was an elaborate system for the distribution of this livestock booty among the various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Calais and other III centres of trade . This system had the merit of keeping down the slaughter ; but it was also a prime motive for renewing the conflict at the slightest excuse . ' By reason of these hot Wars , ' wrote a contem-porary of Edward III , many poor and mean Fellows arrived to great riches . ' The Duke of Gloucester complained to Richard H that peace ' was disheartening to the poor knights , squires and archers of England ' . Professional soldiers were not the only profiteers ; a huge segment of the English economy had a vested interest in supplying the wartime com-missariat ; in the mid-fourteenth century , for instance , 2,000 bales of English cloth were supplied in a single year for the use of the navy . There was a popular impression that the wars brought a net profit to the English nation as a whole . It was assumed that war , if properly con-ducted , would pay for itself : this was emphatically laid down by Parliament in 1376 . For the King , as personal head @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and appalling risks . It was shown time and again that the King could establish the ascendancy of the monarchy in popular esteem by successful operations in France , even if these were expensive ; equally , failure was bound to bring political retribution at home . Richard I , for instance , was one of the most irresponsible mon-archs ever to occupy the English throne . He was interested solely in the professional business of warfare and treated England ( which he visited only for six months in a reign of ten years ) purely as a bank for his expeditions . To get money , he auctioned off the government . As his biographer says : ' Everything was for sale ? powers , lordships , earldoms , shrievalties , castles , towns , manors and the rest . ' Richard joked : ' I would sell London if I could find someone to buy it . ' * Yet all this was redeemed by his dazzling reputation as an international com-mander ; a besotted and bellicose public made him a folk-hero even in his lifetime , and has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , was a conscientious sovereign , but was ruined by military failure . The wretched Henry III , whose real interests lay in religion and the arts , who had no aptitude for government and still less for warfare , nevertheless felt it incumbent on himself personally to conduct expeditions to France ; their inevitable failure , compounded by his preposterous scheme to make one of his sons King of Sicily , brought about the political crisis which made him the prisoner of the parliamentary party . Even his masterful son , Edward i , got into trouble towards the end of his reign through an unsuccessful French war . Edward in inherited a disgraced and humiliated throne ; his father had been shamefully murdered , and he himself placed under the tutelage of a rapacious oligarchy . Yet all this was erased by the splendour of his French victories , ephemeral though they proved . His reputation as a warrior-king even survived long years of dotage , marked by economic distress and political chaos . Richard ii , who was mad , would probably have destroyed his dynasty in any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at authoritarian rule on the basis of peace and alliance with France , under which the French Crown pledged its support for Richard against all manner of people who owe him any obedience , and also to aid and sustain him with all their power against any of his subjects ' . It was thought intolerable that an English king should conduct a frontal assault on the liberties of his subjects with the aid of England 's natural enemies ; when Richard was brought to trial , 58 magnates , lay and ecclesiastical , were each asked to give their opinion separately : they were unanimous that he should be deposed and placed in perpetual imprisonment . The question of war with France continued to have a direct bearing on the fortunes of the English monarchy until the middle of the sixteenth century . Henry v reconstructed a strong central government ? of a type denied to Richard ii ? entirely on the basis of his successful French campaigns ; and it was the military failures which followed his death which destroyed the Lancastrians . A monarch was under no compulsion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Henry vii declined to take the risk , and their prudence made possible the restoration of political stability . But it is significant that Henry viii , anxious to recreate the glamour of the English monarchy , embarked on unprovoked and senseless aggression against France . Polydore Vergil states that Henry considered it his duty to seek fame by military skill ' ; he commissioned an English translation of a French biography of Henry v , and in the introduction the translator calls on him to emulate his illustrious predecessor . Henry , a conservative in all things , responded to the appeal with the same mindless improvidence of a Richard i or an Edward iii ; but maybe also he had a shrewd instinct that a victory over France still exercised a mesmeric appeal over the English public of all classes . He was , in this respect as in others , the last medieval king of 113 England . Something of this old-fashioned and backward-looking potentate lingered on in his daughters . Mary felt the loss of Calais more than any other of her sorrows , though it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even Elizabeth , as a young sovereign , felt the old hankerings , and tried to grab Le Havre . But experience brought wisdom . As the first modern-minded English mon-arch , she brought firmly to a close the long and fruitless history of England 's efforts to acquire possessions in France . How was it possible that the English persisted in these atrocious and consciousless wars of aggression ? Apart from Henry v , a very un-English monarch , whose fanatical religious zeal convinced him that he had a mission from Almighty God to occupy the French throne and who attributed his remarkable victories to the enthusiastic intervention of the Deity , the English did not take their French claims as anything more than a pretext . Violent chauvinism , I fear , was the biggest single impulse throughout . When , in 1295 , an Englishman , Thomas de Turber-ville , was discovered to be working as a spy for Philip the Fair , the event created a national sensation ; such treachery was regarded as unprecedented , and a crime against nature ; as the spy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tear him apart with their bare hands . The Edwardian victories bred in the English a violent arrogance . Milan 's ambassador to Burgundy wrote to his Duke in 1475 : The English are a proud race , who respect nobody , and claim a superiority over all other nations . ' The wars brought grave economic difficulties to England , but little direct physical suffering . The chief victims were French peasants. * Elaborate rules , on the whole well observed , governed relations between the combatants , but there was no protection whatso-ever for civilians , who were invariably robbed by both sides and mur-dered in their thousands . Whole communities starved to death in the wake of voracious armies . Pestilence was the only impartial leveller . It debilitated and then destroyed the Black Prince ; the arch-aggressor Henry v met a miserable end from dysentery . The Church , the one inter-national institution which commanded some kind of respect , made periodic efforts to arbitrate . On several occasions the popes were able to arrange truces ; but equally often they egged on the combatants , especially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the oppos-ing sides . All the armies were blessed by the national hierarchies . Wyclif , in this as in other respects ahead of his time , denounced ' the sin of the realm in invading the kingdom of France ' ; but his was a lonely voice. * Very few people questioned the morality of anti-French aggression , merely its expediency . Indeed , the only restraints on English militarism were financial . But these restraints were important . The medieval English were exception-ally violent , aggressive , xenophobic and racialist ; they were also greedy , parsimonious , business-minded and pharisaical . They applauded aggres-sion ; they were much less anxious to finance it . They thought war was a business , which should turn in a profit . In fact it never did so . From the reign of Richard I , when the French wars opened in earnest , the English Crown was heavily in debt , and at times actually bankrupt , for three centuries ; and the biggest single drain , by far , was the aggression in France ; the retention of Calais alone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Only the action of Edward iv , in renouncing his French claims in return for a regular pension , brought the English Government back to solvency ; and it was Henry viii , by resuming the war , who once more toppled the English Government into debt , a position from which it has never since recovered . Of course these facts are more apparent to modern historians , who can analyse the State accounts over long periods , than they were to the English ruling class at the time . But whenever the English grasped the point that the war was losing money , as from time to time they did , they were abruptly overcome by a rash of pacifism . One might say that much of the history of England has been a conflict between xenophobia and avarice , with the latter usually , in the end , getting the upper hand . The irresistible force of the English desire for war meets the immovable object of the refusal to pay for it . The English love to inflict violence on foreigners ; happily they love money @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the structure of English political society . Consider , for instance , the history of Magna Carta , which is an example of this process in operation ; it also illustrates the English political genius for transforming the muddles in which they involve themselves into triumphs of the national spirit . It is worth examining in some detail because it tells us a great deal about our national character . The crisis which led to Runnymede really began in 1204 , when John lost Normandy in circumstances which suggested he lacked nerve , resolution and energy , and was quite possibly a coward . The English ruling class wanted the duchy back , for personal as well as national reasons ; but they did not think John was the man to recover it , at least by a frontal invasion ; at all events they were not prepared to help him do so . It was easy to make life difficult for the French King , by financing his enemies , and by using the navy to protect them . This John did ; and so far so good . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Flanders . He carried on financial warfare on a considerable scale . The anti-French emperor , Otto , got i , 000 marks a year ; the Count of Boulogne a pension of r , 000 ; large sums went to the Dukes of Limburg and Brabant , the Counts of Flanders and Holland , and to hundreds of Flemish knights kept permanently on John 's payroll . The anti-French coalition thus created was not as formidable as it looked on paper , but it had considerable nuisance value . The English did not resent the role of paymaster . They were quite prepared to defend their own territory . Great preparations were made to resist invasion . Every male over 12 took an oath . Constables were appointed to organise the urban communes for the defence of the kingdom , and the preservation of the peace against foreigners and other disturbers ' . These steps were not unpopular ; on the contrary . But what aroused increasing opposition was John 's evident determination to make the English fight in France , under his command . They thought he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knew he was cruel , and a liar ; most of them believed he had murdered his nephew Arthur with his own hands , in a 116 drunken rage. * Though quite prepared to fight the French by other means , they would not serve under him across the sea ; nor would they finance such an expedition . John 's advisers warned him against such a policy in 1205 ; but he returned to it again and again , as if his honour could not be satisfied until he personally beat Philip Augustus on his own soil . In 1213 he conducted a formidable inquest on the military service owed to him by his tenants-in-chief . Many of the barons , par-ticularly from northern and eastern England , made their opposition perfectly plain . But the next year John sent an army to bolster up his motley Flanders coalition , and himself landed in La Rochelle to attack the French from the south . This venture , flying in the face of growing national sentiment , might have undermined criticism by success . But John was deserted by his Poitevin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ north met complete disaster at the Battle of Bouvines . He returned to England a conspicuous and humiliated failure ; but almost his first act there was to impose a provocative three-mark ( 40s ) scutage per knight 's fee on all the barons ? the vast majority ? who had not come to France with him . This was the immediate , as well as the funda-mental , cause of the baronial revolt . Now all Anglo-Norman and Angevin administrations had faced baronial conspiracies , which were ill-formulated and narrowly based affairs , promoted by personal frustrations and ambitions . But John , like Stephen , was gravely weakened by a headlong conflict with the Pope . This was no novelty either ; but always , in the past , the majority of bishops had closed ranks behind the King . It was John 's misfortune that he not only had to contend with the masterful Philip Augustus in secular matters , but in Church affairs faced the most audacious and relentless of all the medieval popes , Innocent ill . In 1205 Canterbury fell vacant . The monks of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; then , terrified by John 's angry reaction , accepted his nominee . The Pope quashed both elections , summoned the chapter to Rome , and forced on it an English cardinal , Stephen Langton , who was a reliable exponent of his canonical views . There was no precedent for such a brutal infringement of the royal prerogative , and John naturally refused to confirm the appointment : from 1207 , when he was consecrated , until 1213 , Langton was unable to set foot in England . In 1208 Innocent imposed an interdict on England , which in theory at least meant the suspension of all Church rites ; and the next year he excommunicated the King . By itself , such a breach with the Church need not be disastrous : John began by taking the interdict calmly ? it was not widely observed ? and even threatened to hang anyone who insulted papalist clergymen ; but after his excommunication , more and more of the bishops turned against him , and his anger and exactions increased . Royal agents seized Church property , and diverted its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ &oo,000; was thus obtained . These funds largely paid for John 's successful expeditions in 1210 ? 12 in Scotland , Ireland and Wales ; and to that extent his conflict with the Church was popular with the laity . But a kingdom at odds with Rome was the potential object of a crusade : and Philip laid claim to John 's throne in the name of the Deity , rather as the Conqueror had done 150 years before . In 1213 John abruptly turned Innocent from an enemy into an ally by resigning the kingdom to him , and receiving it back under an oath of fealty ; all charges against him were withdrawn , the bishops returned , and Innocent now exerted his considerable diplomatic powers on behalf of his new subject . This desperate act of realbolitik might have solved all John 's troubles . But the military disasters of 1214 , and his ill-judged reaction to them , turned many of the barons , who had stood by him against the Church , decisively against him . The Church , in theory ? and in practice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ now on his side ; but many of the senior clergy had bitter financial grievances against the Crown . In any case , the submission to Rome had placed the Crown in a new legal context , opening the gates wide to constitutional opposition . It was now possible , for instance , for the barons to lay their grievances against John in the papal court . How far opposition to an anointed king was lawful had been for half a century a subject of debate . In 1159 John of Salisbury had published his Polycraticus , the first attempt to expound a philosophy of politics : this declared it obligatory to dethrone , even assassinate , an evil king ; but of course John of Salisbury was thinking purely in terms of a conflict between Church and State . An alternative view , on behalf of the royal administration , was put in the Dialogus , written by Henry ii 's treasurer about 1178 : Though abundant riches may often come to kings , not by some well attested rights but ... even by arbitrary decisions made at their pleasure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemned by their inferiors . ' How far all , or indeed any , of John 's barons were familiar with such arguments is not known ; but the legal revolution of the twelfth century had forced all landowners to take a much more sophisticated interest in the law , and to adjust their ideas accordingly ; and it is significant that John 's most resolute critics came from the younger , better-educated , generation . In any case , the barons were perfectly aware of what might be called the constitutional tradition of the English State . They might not know of Athelred 's concessions of 1014 ; but they certainly knew of the coronation charters . John had given one himself , in which he had promised to end an abuse of Richard 's of particular concern to the barons ? the royal device of forcing tenants-in-chief to get their charters re-sealed on payment of a stiff fee . Versions of both the laws of Edward the Confessor and of Henry is coronation charter were circulating at this time . Magna Carta was not a bolt from the blue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice ; it was called great simply because it was so long . Nevertheless , though the background to the crisis is clear , everything else about the charter , except its basic chronology , is surrounded by mystery . Far from being simple , it is one of the most puzzling and complex events in English history . As we have seen , a baronial party had been collecting even before John went on his disastrous French expedition . After his return , he met these barons at Bury St Edmunds in November 1214 , at London at the end of the month , and in the new year in London again : discussions were angry and inconclusive , and a truce was arranged until April . Both parties appealed to the Pope . In March the Pope instructed the barons to abandon their conspiracies , but on the other hand told the King to meet their just demands . In April , the King met certain barons , probably loyal to him , and later in the month they acted as intermediaries with the rebels ; on 26 April @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provide a charter himself , saving his right of appeal to the Pope ; he also offered to go to arbitration , with the Pope as superior ' . The barons occupied London , and further truces were arranged . On 15 June the King met the barons at Runnymede , and in the next five days the charter was negotiated , agreed , signed and sealed . On 17 July the King met the barons at Oxford to arrange for the execution of the charter ; but the meeting broke up in disagreement , and immediately afterwards the King wrote to the Pope asking him to quash the charter . The barons defied the King in August , the Pope excommunicated them , and civil war broke out . This is the chronology ; but what of the objects and motives of the parties ? This was a protracted and multiple negotiation . There were the northern and eastern barons ; there were other barons who supported iig them ; there were some barons who supported the King ; there were some who regarded themselves as intermediaries ; there was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; there was a Church party loyal to the King and another , under Langton , which was intrinsically hostile to John , or at least neutral , but under pressure from the Pope to support him ; there was the Pope himself , represented by his legate ; and finally the King . All had different objects and motives ; no wonder there was confusion and cross-purposes , with letters and envoys travelling to and fro between Rome and England , and up and down the country . The dissident barons were clear , or thought they were clear , on their objects . They did not want to serve abroad , or pay for others to do so , except by consent . They wanted an end to a variety of exactions they felt were illegal ; trial by the customary processes ; and affairs of State to be settled in the King 's great council , with their right of attendance ( in the case of great barons ) or representation ( in the case of lesser barons ) guaranteed . The first demand ? service abroad ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It is conceded in a preliminary draft , called The Unknown Charter of Liberties ' , probably drawn up in May . But it does not appear at all in Magna Carta itself . As for the exactions ? as regards wardship , marriage , and so forth ? kings had always readily conceded them before ; it may have been a positive advantage to the administration to have them codified , as Magna Carta does ; in any case , many of these dues were already obsolescent . The demand for formal councils is still more mysterious . The strongest kings had always been anxious to conduct important business surrounded by as many tenants-in-chief as possible . That was the object of the solemn crown-wearings , three times a year . At one of them , for instance , the Conqueror had settled the plan for Domesday Book . Rufus had insisted that all his magnates should attend him from time to time , and regarded those who did not as potential rebels . A king liked to do business with the great personally , look them in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , no great act of State could be carried through effectively without the general approval of the aristocracy . All Henry I1 's solemn assizes had been attended by a multitude of barons . John had not only continued this practice , he had formalised it . In 1213 he had held an assembly at St Albans , to which he had summoned not only tenants-in-chief but four men and the reeve from each township on the royal lands ; a few months later , at Oxford , he had again summoned the barons , plus four lawful men from each shire , to discuss , as the writ said , ' the affairs of our realm at our colloquy ' . Why should the King now be forced to concede what he had already expressly practised ? 120 We can not make sense of the charter if we regard it as a baronial document . Nor was it simply a version of a baronial list of demands , sifted and softened down by an establishment party , under Langton . Langton was a feeble nonentity , unfamiliar with English politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so far as he possessed the Pope 's confidence ; when he lost this , shortly after the charter was signed , the Pope snuffed him out , and he ceased to count at all . What , then , was the charter ? The only real answer is that it was a muddle , a spatchcocked compromise which did not represent the attitudes of any of the parties ? or , rather , represented bits of all of them ? and was therefore unworkable as a political settlement . Its very spirit was confused . Baronial demands in the past , and indeed on this occasion , were essentially conservative . They wanted the clock put back to where , in their view , it had always been : this was what the coronation charters meant . All revolts against the King were in the strict sense reactionary . It was the King who , traditionally , had the reformer 's role . Henry n 's great assizes were essentially innovatory . It was Henry , Richard and John , prompted by the demands of the administration and its growing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them beneficial . The barons stood for stability , the Crown for movement . But the charter , as eventually signed , stands for both . It is a document without a unifying viewpoint . Nor is this surprising , granted the circumstances of its creation . The parties involved were too numerous , the physical forces behind them too evenly balanced , to produce any other result . The barons dropped the demand about overseas service . But they successfully inserted a security clause ' , appointing a committee of 25 barons as watchdog on the King 's behaviour . The Church got in a clause about its own rights . London got in a clause protecting its liberties . Virtually all the parties were in debt , so three clauses were accordingly inserted , the onus of which fell largely on the Jews . The drafting of the treaty , as of the earlier barons ' demands , was in the hands of the administration , for the Chancery clerks alone could do a job of this kind . So many clauses were inserted to suit the convenience of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approved by royal officials . Some radical fellow even succeeding in putting in a bit to protect the rights of villeins . During these five days of argument and re-drafting , the charter grew and grew . It became enormous , in its totality quite beyond the comprehension of any one of the parties . After the solemn agreement , when the exhilaration died down , men began to read the small script again . All of them found something they disliked . To the northern barons , the overseas service clause was crucial ; to omit it was to yield the whole issue . Some of them left Runnymede in anger before the charter was even signed . To I2I John , the inclusion of the security clause was equally intolerable ; when , a month after Runnymede , the barons made it clear they intended to enforce it , he denounced the whole document . But if the King had adhered to the charter , in the sense he placed on it , the barons would have denounced it in their turn . The story of Magna Carta , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but of one which failed . Happily the genius of the English for rewriting history while it is still happening turned an acrimonious disaster into a triumph of constitu-tional good sense and moderation . As Cnut was transformed from a Scandinavian ruffian into an English Christian gentleman , as the dis-aster of Dunkirk was transmuted into the prelude to victory , so by a process of constructive national myopia the confusion and muddle of Magna Carta was canonised as the bedrock of the English constitution . Innocent III conveniently died the next year , closely followed by John himself ; the removal of the two chief actors cleared the way for creative fiction . With a new , young king on the throne , the charter , suitably amended , could be represented as a solemn concordat , to which all the community subscribed ; what was actually in it mattered less than the consensus it inspired . It was reissued in 1216 , and again the next year ; it took its final form in 1225 , was confirmed by the King in 1237 , in 1297 and on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It was entered as the first document on the statute book , thus ousting from the honour the more important and deserving acts of Henry Ii . It became a national institution , a symbol not of the civil war it provoked , but of the constitutional peace it was supposed to have established . Few read it ; everyone quoted it. * Archbishop Pecham flourished it against the King in the defence of the rights of the Church ; Edward I flourished it against the Pope in defence of the rights of the State ; Parliament cited it against the Crown and the Crown against Parliament ; unlettered peasants used it against their masters , masters against townsfolk , towns-folk against rural lords . To appeal to Magna Carta became the one , great , unanswerable argument which any and every section of society could employ . Within a generation its provisions became largely incompre-hensible ? some of them remain enigmas even today ? but it was none the less the written embodiment of the golden English past , a massive monument of constitutional rectitude . For the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ old . So the English came to see compromise , consultation , the settlement of dispute by argument as opposed to force as their outstanding national characteristics ; and in time shaped their habits to conform with this image . The history of Magna Carta is a triumph of English hypocrisy ? always one of our most useful assets . The development of English political society in the long shadow cast by Magna Carta is rich in irony and paradox . It can not successfully be analysed in terms of conflict between the classes . Men believed that such conflicts were , or ought to be , unnecessary , for each section of the community had its ancient and predestined role to play , and conflict was a sign of malfunctioning , to be corrected by a return to the past . What everyone wanted was continuity ; all men were , or believed themselves to be , conservatives ; political progress was thus in fact achieved only by what might be termed constructive self-delusion , by the use of conservative instruments to achieve radical reform . This applied both to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , who undoubtedly regarded himself ? and was so regarded ? as an ultra-orthodox conservative , inaugurated a social revolution by statute under the impression that he was putting the clock back in the soundest possible manner . His two great acts of Quo Warranto and Quia Emptores were designed , as he saw it , to curb and redress illegal innovations over the whole field of tenurial rights , to stop landowners from acquiring privileges for which they had no warrant , and from creating new social structures in the disposition of their lands . He intended them to be thoroughly reactionary pieces of legislation , which would have met with the warm approval of such illustrious predecessors as William the Conqueror and Henry it . They were indeed popular for this reason ; but their net effect , in the long term , was to destroy the tenurial basis of society , to undermine the system ? which went back to the origins of English society , and which the Conquest had merely reinforced ? under which political , military and jurisdictional power sprang directly from the ownership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisive events in English history , for henceforth men would have to seek power increasingly through the formal institutions of the State . Yet these institutions were seen not as instruments of change but , on the contrary , as the tenacious guardians of custom , a guarantee that the past could always be conjured up to buttress the present against the future . Parliament was essentially a development of the later Middle Ages ; not until after 1325 was it established that it must include representatives of the shires and boroughs ; not until 1376 do we find a Parliament angrily and self-righteously taking to task a corrupt and unsuccessful administration ; not until the mid-fifteenth century do we 123 find a desperate government , in extremis , submitting a form of national accounts to Parliament , to prove that it simply could not carry on without more money . Yet nobody regarded Parliament as in any sense an innovation , still less a revolutionary instrument ; they believed it had always existed and had always exercised , more or less , its current functions ; its customs had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time out of mind ' . There were no historical or constitutional textbooks ; such relevant literature as existed always stressed the immemorial antiquity of everything . In any case , institutions were seen not merely as ancient but as natural and God-ordained . In the twelfth century John of Salisbury had described the State as a body , with the King the head and other sections of society as the limbs and organs . The image persisted , though sometimes with variations . In the mid-fifteenth century , Sir John Fortescue , in a sophisticated discussion of how England was governed , saw the King as a stomake which dystrybuteth the mete that it receyveth to all the members and reteyneth no thynge to hym self but only the neuryssynge ' . Such natural arrangements could not be changed ; they could only live , and grow . Even where commentators had a distinct political viewpoint , they presented it as fact , not programme . Thus , a mysterious document called the Modus Tenendi Parliamentum , now known to date from 1321 , is clearly written from the point @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and privileges . But he does not say : This is what Parliament ought to do ; ' he says : This is what Parliament does , and has always done . ' He was lying , or rather exaggerating . But his tract was popular , and was reissued and added to many times over the next century ; eventually the practice of parliament ? influenced no doubt by the tract ? did indeed come to correspond with its theories . Parliament , in fact , did not become an open political issue until long after it had established itself as an indissoluble part of the political fabric . It spoke for the realm ; that was its job ; the more accurately it reflected opinion ? that is , the more representative it was ? the more effectively that job could be performed . Broadly speaking , Parliament was there to help the King to perform some national task which was beyond his own unaided powers . Its duty , says an official document of 1300 , is ' to hear and do what is necessary for the common @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on Aristotle 's Politics in 1340 , says : The King convokes Parliament to deal with hard matters . ' Two hundred years later , we find Henry viii telling the Commons that his power , majesty and dignity is never so great as when Parliament is sitting and the Crown is operating through it . Parliament is the servant of the executive government , though a servant which enjoys consider-124 able ( and increasing ) trade union rights . Its primary function is to raise emergency revenue . The King is always in debt , for his normal sources of income , through which in theory he should conduct the business of the kingdom , tend to be static , and are continually overtaken by the creeping inflation which is characteristic of all dynamic societies , and is a constant motive-force behind political change . Only Parliament can provide the money , because only those who attend it can , in practice , ensure that it is collected . But Parliament does other things to help the King . His sworn duty is to prevent undesirable change . Society is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the King must call a halt , by some resounding statute ; such acts often have the opposite effect to that intended ; they invariably have unforeseen effects ; but this point is never grasped . Parliament is called in to give the King 's acts authority and to make them work . It shares the job of dealing with petitions and grievances , and eventually takes over the whole business . There is nothing new in this . Grievances have always been presented to the Crown for redress . They call not for change and innovation , but for reform ? for the restoration of ancient rights , and the original , mythical justice . Parliament thus comes to be identified with liberty because it is seen as the most effective means by which new oppressions can be removed , and the past restored . Even Milton , writing Areopagitica during a political revolution , had no higher ambition for Parliament than this : When complaints are freely heard , deeply considered , and speedily reformed , then is the utmost bound of civil liberty that wise men look @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the origins of Parliament as an attempt to challenge , let alone usurp , the power of the executive . In the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries , Parliament was employed to ratify the deposition of kings , but it always did so on the instructions of the ruling group and the new monarch , to vest with legality a fait accompli , and usually on the grounds of restoring justice . This power , said Parliament , was based ' on ancient statute and modern precedent ' . Again , Henry viii used Parliament to provide a legal framework for the religious revolution he had ordained ; but again the object was to restore what all agreed , sincerely or not , to have been the original situation . That was what the Middle English word ' reform ' meant ; not until the late eighteenth century did it assume the modern connotation of introducing change without precedent . Indeed , the idea of a dynamic conflict between the executive and institutions representing the public was , and is , wholly alien to the English mind . The English have always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . What they wanted ? what 125 they have always wanted ? was the kind of regime provided by Edward i , one of the greatest of the English kings . Edward was 35 when he came to the throne , an immensely experienced administrator and soldier , with a European reputation . He was tall ? over six feet ? wore his clothes and armour well , moved with grace and dignity , had a fine , powerful voice , a wide vocabulary , a talent for impressive phraseology . His manners were exemplary , with a touch of gravity . He always looked and behaved like a king . He understood perfectly , and shared , the assumptions , tastes , likes and dislikes , prejudices and emotions of the ruling territorial aristocracy . It did not occur to him that a king who knew his business need fall out with those whom God and nature , logic , precedent and ancient custom , had appointed to act with him in the affairs of the community . He put his theory of the constitution neatly in 128o when he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what the prelates and magnates of the realm shall advise , especially as no one supposes that such prudent men will give the King advice dis-sonant with or contrary to reason ' . He was a thoroughly professional king , active , industrious , well informed , able to discuss details of law with his judges , to draft a statute , to preside over the King 's Bench , and the Court of the Exchequer , to draw up a line of battle and supervise the construction of a fortress . He was the last English monarch to pos-sess a detailed grasp of the whole range of government activities . But even he found this exacting role a strain . He sought to conserve his time and energy by the deliberate and methodical conduct of business , regu-larly summoning Parliament in the late spring and late autumn , to coincide with the busiest periods of the financial year , thus concentrat-ing administrative work at a fixed time and place . But it is significant that all the troubles of his reign occurred during the last decade , when he was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . No medieval king was safe once he had passed the prime of life : kingship was a pitiless and ultimately thankless career . No later monarchical head of government came within measurable distance of Edward as a chief executive . Some could not even act the part : his own son , Edward ii , whom he despised , was a man of common tastes , who enjoyed digging , rowing and village sports ? harmless enough to us , but fatal to the authority of medieval kingship. * Some tried to act the part without the substance : Richard s theatrical dress-ing-up of the throne , his instructions that men should grovel before him , and genuflect when his eye alighted on them , his flourishing a sword at his archbishop ? these empty gestures carried no weight and eventually aroused contempt and hatred . The big men of the realm could see that he was not the genuine article , that he did not know his business , and he was snuffed out without compunction or pity . As for Henry vl , even the commonest people could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for being seen always in the same old blue surcoat , ' as thowth he hadd noo moo to channge with ' . * His virtues were disastrous handicaps . Loathing warfare , he sang hysterically during the battles which his supporters insisted he should witness . He could not even recognise the stinking quarter of a convicted traitor , as it hung in the London street ; he had to be told what it was , and recoiled in horror . He was prudish : Fie , fie , for shame ! ' he said to a troupe of topless dancers , and he objected even to seeing naked men taking the waters in Bath . The English did not want a monk on the throne , and only the vigorous efforts of his ferocious wife , a she-wolf of France ' , kept him on it so long . Edward 111 could , and did , perform the physical functions of mon-archy with success . He got on well with the grandees , was successful in battle , enjoyed the military theatricals of chivalry ? as in the Garter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never mastered the less spectacular side of government business . His debts were beyond remedy , his administration was always in chaos , and his regime , such as it was , quickly dissolved into warring factions when , at the age of 6o , his powers began to fail . His was a facade of professional kingship . Perhaps , as the complexities of administration grew , this was all anyone could reasonably expect . Henry v made a deliberate effort to grasp again all the reins of power ; hugely self-confident , industrious , clear in his objectives and determined to have his way in all things , he was a fright-ening and much feared figure among the ruling class ; but he simply did not have the time to supervise directly the administration of justice and finance , while engaged on a war of conquest . A king , increasingly , had to choose those aspects of government on which he preferred to concentrate . Edward 1v restored the authority , and solvency , of central government by deliberately renouncing his foreign claims . Even so , there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period of office . He had to stoop to things I27 which his predecessors would have found repugnant . He sold his birth-right in France for a ( very welcome ) pension from the French Crown ; he personally engaged in trading operations , which brought him huge profits ; he ran the Crown lands with the sharp eye of an estate agent ; he was the first king ? the first English politician , indeed ? who engaged in a deliberate policy of fostering good public relations , especially with the mercantile community of London . Six London aldermen were made Knights of the Bath , not for any particular services , but merely to mark Edward 's coronation ; a very early example of the honours list . In 1474 we find his wife , Elizabeth Woodville , no doubt on the King 's instruc-tions , writing to one of her bailiffs , and commanding him . to deliver to our trusty and well beloved the mayor and brethren of my Lord 's city of Coventry and their wives . . . twelve bucks of this season to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ six of the said bucks to the said mayor and his brethren , and the other six of them to their said wives .. . In 1482 Edward invited the Lord Mayor of London , the city aldermen , and ' a certain number of such head commoners as the mayor would assign ' to meet him in the royal forest at Waltham . There they were given an excellent morning 's sport , and afterwards they were . brought to a strong and pleasant lodge made of green boughs and other pleasant things . Within which lodge were laid certain tables , whereat at once the said mayor and his company were set and served right plenteously with all manner of dainties as if they had been in London , and especially of venison both of red deer and of fallow and . . . all kinds of Gascon wines in right plenteous manner . Twice during the meal Edward sent the Lord Chamberlain to make them cheer ' , and did not sit down to his own dinner till he saw that they were served ' . Afterwards the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ days later he sent the wives of his guests two harts and six bucks with a tun of Gascon Wine ' . * For this shameless type of PR exercise Edward was well suited : a large , fleshy , handsome , carnal man , always smiling , friendly to all , a great teller of dirty stories.t He boasted of his womanising , claiming he had ' three concubines , which in diverse properties diversely excelled , one the merriest , the other the wiliest , the third the holiest harlot in the realm ' . Edward 's smooth good looks he inherited from his mother , Cecily Neville ; but he had brains , too , - one of the cunningest men who ever sat on the English throne - and every kind of accomplishment . His handwriting was superb . He was a beauti-ful and enthusiastic dancer . He understood accountancy , and his reform of the royal household led to a dramatic cut in expenditure . But above all he was a glad-hander . It was said that he knew the names , faces and incomes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the Middle Ages , indeed , the monarchy was beginning to lose some of its executive functions and was becoming , to some extent , a show put on for the benefit of the public . A king in the high Middle Ages had to keep friendly relations with the great territorial magnates to be reasonably secure ; the circle of mandatory approval widened dramatically in the fifteenth century , and in the next it embraced a significant proportion of the entire nation . A king had to devote himself to certain aspects of government business , and spend laborious days in the details of administration ; his real power depended to a great extent on the actual amount of time he was prepared to spend exercising it ; this principle held good until the days of George Hl , the last sovereign who attempted to be a professional ; it was George 's eventual incapacity through madness , and the idleness of his sons , which led to the final collapse of monarchical authority . But the ability to concentrate on administration had increasingly to be supplemented by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ true ( though incomplete ) professional , who was far abler and more industrious than his son , was never so secure on the throne , and could not risk putting his authority to the test , because he lacked regal glamour . Henry viii was idle , irresponsible , ignorant , lacking in judgment and totally oblivious to any sense of duty to the community . But he knew how to beat the big drum of monarchy , and the nation trouped in his wake . Through all the vicissitudes and miscalculated adventures into which he led the realm - disastrous foreign wars , state bankruptcy , the debauching of the currency , change of religion , government by confiscation and judicial murder - the great mass of the people obediently followed . The English have always responded to strong central government , invested with majesty and colour , and operated by a self-confident will . Henry 's last speech to Parliament was.an astonishing performance . His government had nothing to report but failure , but the King subjected the assembly to a magisterial harangue , in which all sections @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shortcomings . He contrived to give the impression that the nation was entirely to blame for any evils which had befallen it , and that it was exceedingly fortunate he was still prepared to remain at the helm and protect it from the worst consequences of its folly . The speech was heard in breathless admiration , and was never forgotten by all those present . Many of them , we are told , actually wept tears of love , penitence and gratitude . This gift of royal showmanship Henry passed on , in all its plenitude , to his dazzling daughter Elizabeth . To be sure , she supplemented it with an enviable range of qualities and accomplishments : a subtle intelligence , industry and self-discipline , prudence and deliberation , a warm heart and a virtuous mind . But without it she could not have kept her throne , let alone given a divided , weak and desperately vulnerable nation the strength which comes from unity and a common purpose . No woman had ever presided successfully over a medieval court , whose function was to associate the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a fair division of its spoils . Their animal energies found natural expression in violence , whether civil or international ; such energies could only be diverted into more useful channels by the cynosure of the throne , whose authority sprang from its tenant 's ability to epitomise and transcend the ruffianly virtues of a military aristocracy . A woman 's sex was thus a daunting handicap . Elizabeth 's political genius consisted in turning it into an asset . She did not attempt to disguise her sex ; on the contrary she emphasised it . In her great speeches , she always reminded her hearers that she was a woman . But she was a woman sui generis . They could turn her out in her petticoats , she said , and she would make a living anywhere in Europe . She had a woman 's body but the heart and stomach of a king ' . She was careful not to say of a man ' . She was not an emancipationist ; she did not believe in woman 's liberation . She did not seek to play a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to control in their pride . The English had burnt Joan of Arc for precisely that mistake . Elizabeth vaunted her sex . Her weapons were an astonishing wardrobe , a collection of jewels which even the popes envied , false hair , paint and powder , and the universal knowledge that behind these trappings lay a resolute and imperious spirit which it was perilous to challenge . Elizabeth did not need men , unlike her wretched half-sister Mary , and her 130 still more unhappy cousin Mary of Scotland . She was chaste by choice , and virtuous by policy and inclination . The mystique of her court ? the cult of the Faerie Queen , the sexual favourites , the pretend love-affairs , the political minuets she danced with the popinjays who surrounded her ? was an elaborate and calculated exercise in royal diplomacy , designed to replace the licensed gangsterism of masculine chivalry by a non-violent system which a woman could manipulate . It seems to us in retrospect shameful that this noble and virtuous queen , whose intelli-gence soared above her courtiers ' , and whose ability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ devoted and accomplished advisers , should have felt it necessary to demean herself to this mas-querade . But there was no other way . Behind this public-relations facade , Elizabeth did her best to super-vise the actual operations of government . But she was obliged to be selective . Thanks to her knowledge of languages ( English did not become an accepted vehicle for diplomacy until the late eighteenth century ) she was able to negotiate with ambassadors , and correspond with their masters , directly ; she thus kept foreign policy firmly under her control , and all the decisions were ultimately hers . Dynastic and religious policy , too , she settled herself , though with great difficulty . But in finance her touch was less authoritative , because although she decided how and when funds could be allocated , her supervision effectively ceased once the Exchequer issued the money ? as she was painfully aware , for it was at this point that the corruption and incompetence began. * Nor ( beyond a little genteel piracy ) could she carry through the revenue-raising operations by which Edward iv @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Elizabeth inherited a bankrupt government during a period of raging inflation , and maintained the credit of the State only by the desperate expedient of selling the royal estates , and creating monopolies for purchase . In fact throughout her reign she covered the gap between revenue and expenditure by living on capital . On the other hand , she always finally managed to meet her obligations ; England 's credit was better than that of any other state . The truth is that Elizabeth handled as much business as any one person reasonably could . She was a hard-working , devoted public servant , rapid at her paper-work , abstemious in food and drink , a professional whose pleasures were essentially func-tional and constitutional . But the economic problems of her reign ? and 131 the frantic efforts of her Government to cope with them ? were beyond her ability to supervise , or perhaps even comprehend . In the last resort the Tudor monarchy , which revived the ancient notion of the omni-competent sovereign , proved inoperable because the widening scope of government made the constitutional sharing of responsibility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ones of rising difficulties , and increasing inability to face them . Like all her great predecessors , she died tired and dispirited , worn down by a system of government which placed too great a burden on a single body , and by the insatiable de-mands of a people which always expects too much of its ruling servants . The old English monarchy , the one-man , one-woman show , founded by Alfred , endorsed by the Conqueror , died with her . It was a cruel system , which murdered its failures and killed its successes by overwork . Three of the greatest of its practitioners , William 1 , Henry ii and Edward iii , had been stripped to the skin and robbed of their rings the moment they breathed their last . It was hard for a monarch to die in dignity ; even Elizabeth lost her hold on the creatures she had elevated . The English evolved a new type of constitution , and thus made their unique contribution to the history of human society , not from any love of change but because their old @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to operate it . I have made the point that the idea of government by a process of conflict between Monarchy and Parliament was wholly alien to the English mind . The Monarch was , in fact , a member of Parliament , its supreme member . The English did not want self-government . What they wanted was authoritative government , operating under the law , in a highly conservative manner , and in the national interest , with the King taking the decisions and answerable for them . In local administration they assumed responsibilities because there was no one else ; but even here it was self-government by the King 's command ; and the r , 000 or so civilian knights , who took on these roles in ever-increasing measure , felt themselves to be overworked . No one wished the King to escape from his responsibilities ; but it was a tall order to expect him every-where and always to discharge them to the general satisfaction . When , as frequently happened , he proved incapable of doing so , there arose the question of who was to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not at issue . What was at issue was the composition of the King 's council . Here was the central political problem of the Middle Ages , and it was one the English never solved . Beyond a vague assumption that the King ought to be advised by his natural ' counsellors , the great magnates and prelates , there was no consensus , and even this vague assumption was eroded in time . The English were never prepared to 132 accept any written set of rules , for which there was no precedent ( only in our own time , and with reluctance , have they been prepared to give formal acknowledgment to the existence of a prime minister , and they have never given legal definition of his rights and duties ) . The security clause of Magna Carta , which placed 25 barons in supervision over the King , and gave them the right to resist him if he broke it , was the one important clause never to be put into operation , though to the baronial party it was the core of the document . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a committee of management , laid down by statute . They may have derived from the precedent of the college of cardinals in Rome , or the imperial electors in Germany , or more likely from the experiment in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem , a limited monarchy conducted on the crazy theoretical principles of Continental feudalism . But it is significant that their most enthusiastic advocate was an alien , Simon de Montfort ; and he finally snarled in disgust that ' the English always turned tail ' when it came to placing formal restrictions on the Monarch 's choice of ministers . Such ideas were periodically revived : during the reigns of Edward II and Richard II , during the minority and dotage of Edward in , and throughout the reigns of Henry vi and Edward vi , all kinds of proposals were made for some kind of formal oligarchy to supplement the manifest incompetence of the Sovereign . None was generally accepted , or operated with success . The English managed by a series of expedients , usually born and terminated in blood , and punctuated by judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to get formal protection from arbitrary proceedings by the King ? expressed in the famous Clause 39 of Magna Carta ? was frustrated not by the Monarchy but by their own clumsy efforts to usurp its authority . The life of a magnate who played politics was more seriously at risk in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries than under the Norman , Angevins and early Plantagenets . William I did not believe in capital punishment , least of all for the aristocracy ; nor , on the whole , did Henry II ; and even a magnate caught in flagrante delicto , in open and violent rebellion against the Crown , usually got a full and fair trial . It was the King who sought , in 1352 , to define and limit the categories of death for treason . But as the practice of changing the government by force developed , judicial standards in political cases declined . Not only did Parliament invent the disgraceful practice of impeachment , but the rival oligarchies proceeded against their opponents with a ruthless disregard for the substance , and often the forms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost were adjudged ' guilty by notoriety ' and often got no real trial at all . The judicial massacres of public men were sufficiently 133 numerous to produce structural changes in English society . The habit of members of the English ruling class of executing each other , often on trumped-up charges or even without trial , and sparing neither friend nor close relatives , became internationally notorious . A foreigner at Elizabeth 's Court noted with disgust that the savage English aristocracy openly boasted of their ancestors or kinfolk who had gone to the scaffold , swearing , in their horrible , godless way , that no one could claim true nobility without a history of treason and judicial murder in his family . By the mid-sixteenth century the old medieval clans had virtually wiped themselves out on Tower Hill . Government by landed oligarchs had , indeed , already discredited itself a century before . Sir John Fortescue wrote that the King 's advisers should not , on the whole , be drawn from the magnates , who were corrupt , incompetent and selfish , but from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State service . On the whole this advice was followed , and it became increasingly common for the council to consist of the professional managers of Parliament . Thus Parliament was eventually drawn into the executive role of government ; but the process was unconscious and haphazard , and no one ever attempted to justify it on a theoretical basis , or indeed on any basis except convenience . When Elizabeth died there was no general agreement as to how the country ought to be governed . That was still entirely up to the King , and his methods would not be challenged until he got himself into trouble over money . If he managed to keep solvent he would not be challenged at all . There can be no doubt that this consensus among the propertied classes in favour of strong central government , preferably conducted by one man who knew his business and respected the need to take advice from the proper quarters , was fully shared by the great mass of Englishmen . The common English people are not docile ? they have never been docile ? but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , reverence existing institutions and customs , and as a rule are provoked to protest only when menaced by change . It is true that , with the development of the cloth-manufacturing industry in the last decades of the fourteenth century , a different spirit begins slowly to show itself . Parliament noted sombrely in the middle of Elizabeth 's reign : The people who depend on making of cloth are of worse condition to be quietly governed than the husband men . ' The rise of industrialism coincided with the demand for the spread of political responsibilities . But until the last part of the eighteenth century the overwhelming majority of the English people were directly engaged in agriculture ; and agricultural workers in England are notoriously reluctant to press demands of any kind . ( Hence , even today , though their productivity has 134 risen , and is rising , faster than in any other industry , they have the lowest average wage-rates of any male occupational group . ) Moreover the very structure of society was based firmly ? and until the nineteenth century , it seemed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Roman Britain firmly declined to adopt the city-civilisation Rome proffered them ; even the wealthiest , while accepting the towns as administrative centres and economic instruments , made their homes in the midst of their estates . The Old English were an incorrigibly rural people , who saw with indifference the Roman cities crumble into ruins , and whose own towns were built as markets and fortresses . The Normans and their successor-rulers encouraged urban growth as a source of revenue , not of culture , and their few experiments in deliberate town planning ( such as Winchelsea ) were conspicuous failures . It was the land that mattered : its ownership was universally regarded as the ultimate source of satisfaction , the criterion of worldly success , and the only sure index of status . The English respect hierarchies , but only those based on real estate . The Old English wergilds , a system of classification which governed not only social status but legal and political rights , and military and financial obligations , were strictly related to landed property , with the exception of clergy and substantial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of the common law abolished monetary compensation for criminal offences ; but it was , pari passu , replaced by a social hierarchy based , not on a hereditary caste system , but on the actual , current occupation of land . The English , indeed , are acutely but also realistically ? perhaps even cynically ? conscious of status . A man , whatever his origins , who did not have the land was nobody ; a man , whatever his origins , who did have the land , could take his place in the hierarchy , with all its public rights and duties , to which his possessions entitled him . From the fourteenth century onwards , efforts were made by statute to oblige men of a certain estate to take up the distinctions and burdens of knighthood . From the mid-fifteenth century , the right to elect knights of the shire to Parliament was limited by statute to freemen holding real estate to a minimum value of 40S annually , and with some exceptions this remained the basis of the suffrage until 1832 . The test of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ received an individual writ of summons to Parliament . Hence a man was noble not by right of birth but by ownership of land . Even an eldest son of a peer was a commoner until he succeeded his father ; younger sons remained commoners all their lives , and drifted down the social hierarchy , unless they acquired land by marriage or industry . The formal status of peers even of the highest rank was in peril if their estates dwindled . The ruthless landed snobbery 135 of the English was often enforced with outspoken brutality . It is worth quoting the statute passed in 1478 depriving George , Duke of Bedford , of his titles , on the grounds that his estates were insufficient : ... for as much as it is openly known that the same George has not , nor by inheritance may have , any livelihood to support the said name , estate and dignity , or any name or estate , and often it is seen that when any lord is called to high estate , and has not livelihood conveniently to support the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often causes great extortion , embracery and maintainence , to the great trouble of all such countries where such estates shall happen to dwell . . . . Wherefore the King , by the advice of his lords spiritual and temporal and the commons assembled in this present parliament , and by authority of the same , ordained . . . that from henceforth the same . . . naming of a duke and all the names of dignity given to the said George , or to the said John Neville his father , be from henceforth void and of no effect . And that the same George and his heirs from henceforth be no dukes , nor marquesses , earls or barons . Until the end of the nineteenth century , insufficiency of estate was considered absolute , or at least adequate , grounds for refusing a peerage to a man otherwise entitled to it by virtue of public services . A successful general , admiral or politician usually had to demonstrate that he had a sizeable property and the income to support it before his claims were acknowledged . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiating , through Sir Philip Sassoon , with Lloyd George for suitable recognition of his wartime services , such as they were , the point was made that if he accepted an earldom Parliament must vote him 250,000 to justify the title ; eventually Haig settled for ? 1oo,000 . Land carried with it direct political power , and still more political influence ; it was universally acknowledged that it must be linked to status . Those who owned land must be brought into a loyal relationship with the Crown . Conversely , those whose loyalties were suspect must not own it . From the beginning of the thirteenth century , there was a general feeling that foreigners whose allegiance lay elsewhere should be debarred from ownership of English land . This eventually found statutory expression , and remained the law of the land until 187o . As late as 1864 , justifying his opposition to the repeal of the statutes , Lord Palmerston wrote to the Lord Chancellor : I do not think we ought to alter the long established law of our land to suit the private purposes of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to our social habits and political organisation the possession of Land in this Country is directly or indirectly the source of political Influence and Power and that Influence and Power ought to be exercised 136 exclusively by British subjects and not to pass in any degree into the Hands of Foreigners . It may be said that the possession of landed Property by a few Foreigners would produce no sensible effect on the working of our constitu-tion , but this is a question of Principle and not of Degree and you might on the same ground propose a law to allow Foreigners to vote at elections , as well as to allow them to purchase the means of swaying the votes of other Persons at elections . Within the harshly realistic English system which related status and power to land it follows , as a corollary , that there was infinite room for mobility . The English class system has always been severe but never exclusive . If even dukes could drift down the hierarchy , assisted in their declension by a tremendous statutory boot from Parliament , the newly rich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vacancies . The turnover at the top was very rapid . Very few great landed families held together for more than a century or so . The chief cause of their eclipse was not death in battle or on the scaffold but the failure to beget male heirs . In the fourteenth century 13 earls died without any legiti-mate children at all , and four left only girls . This led to a sharp contrac-tion in the numbers of the great proprietors , but a corresponding increase in the size of their estates by inheritance . The fundamental cause of the Wars of the Roses was the narrowing of the gap between the Crown itself , whose revenues were falling , and those of the few great proprietors , which were rising ? the King became a mere Primus inter pares of half a dozen heads of families , who alone or in combination could replace him almost at will.t But the wars and their aftermath virtually wiped out these super-aristocrats , and the nobility of the late sixteenth century was , for all practical purposes , a new creation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much compunction in allying itself with its social inferiors , if the price was right . In the fourteenth century , one-third of the daughters of London aldermen married into the nobility ; in the next century this propor-tion rose to over 50 per cent . All the professions , law , warfare , public 137 service , the Church , offered to the man of meanest origins a speedy entry into the upper echelons provided he acquired enough money to purchase land . Of the richest and most magisterial medieval prelates , one , Wykeham of Winchester , had a peasant father , another , Wolsey of York , was the son of a butcher . Such men could acquire wealth and status very rapidly indeed ? often in a mere decade ? but they were not resented provided they conformed equally quickly to the manners and prejudices of the men they joined . All kings created new grandees from lowly origins , through the Church or the civil service , but it is significant that the two kings who were most successful in managing the aristocracy , Edward r @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ men who were circumspect in their social behaviour , and who showed an early aptitude for assuming their traditional responsibilities as landed proprietors . New men who behaved arrogantly risked judicial murder or ( in the case of one imprudent bishop ) being torn apart by a London mob . The children of such upstarts invariably conformed , and their parents ' birth was rarely held against them , for there were few whose family origins would bear prolonged investigation . When an angry London mob screamed at John of Gaunt , Duke of Lancaster , that he was the son of a Flemish butcher ( his mother was widely believed to have been an adultress ) , they were motivated not so much by snobbery as by xenophobia . The English landed class was thus ( and has remained ) flexible , because all suitable persons were admitted ; rich , because its financial standards of admission were high ; and tiny , because its unsuccessful members were expelled . The income tax returns for 1436 reveal 51 magnates with an annual average income of ? 865 ; 183 greater @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ averaging ? 6o ; 1,200 esquires averaging ? 20 ? 35 ; 1,600 property-owners averaging ? 10 ? 19 and 3,400 with ? 5 ? 10 . ( Some of the men with the largest incomes , who also supervised the returns , deliberately underestimated their incomes , in some cases by as much as 50 per cent ; thus the Duke of York 's real income was at least ? 7,000 , not ? 3,231 , as stated , and the Earl of Warwick 's was at least ? 6,000 , not ? 3,116 ; ever since the eighth century , the English aristocracy had been engaged in various forms of tax-evasion on a massive scale , and of course still does so , though it is nowadays called taxavoidance . ) Thus less than 7,000 people owned virtually all the property in the country , and controlled a nation of three million . It may be asked : how was this astonishing social and economic imbalance preserved ? What prevented the great mass of the propertyless English from rising and sweeping away this minute ruling class ? Certainly there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no 138 standing army . Even Richard n 's amateurish efforts to recruit a permanent force of Cheshire archers was violently resented by the aristocracy , and held as one among many good reasons why he should be deposed ( and murdered ) . There was no professional police force . The ruling class was armed , and to some extent trained to warfare , but then so was virtually everyone else . It is true that in theory men of villein status were not permitted to bear arms ; but they in fact did so ; moreover villeinage was in rapid decline in the fourteenth century , and soon after became obsolete . And in many parts of England , particularly in the east and north , the great majority of the peasants had always been free . In any case , the supposed defence needs of the realm led the Government positively to encourage large numbers of peasants to become proficient in the use of arms , especially of the long-bow . This formidable and characteristically English weapon required a great deal of training to master ; but in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to 600 yards and at a distance of up to zoo yards could penetrate chain mail . Most able-bodied Englishmen knew how to handle it . The villages often trained together , as an operational unit ; from Oxfordshire in 1355 we have an echo of their brutal war-cry , the signal for general pillage : Havok , havok , smygt faste , gyf good knok ! ' No medieval English Government could possibly have withstood a peasant uprising which aspired to take over the State . Yet this motivation was lacking . It was never difficult , in those times , to assemble a crowd , often of thousands , sometimes of tens of thousands . There was huge misery everywhere ; a large proportion of the population suffered from chronic ailments , beyond the skill of doctors , even if they had been available to the poor ; many were incurable cripples ; the merest rumour of some miraculous cure , of a travelling miracle-worker , was sufficient to set up a stampede which the authorities were powerless to control . These hysterical crowd-movements were a recurrent feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than in England , but nevertheless to be found here ; the chroniclers superstitiously paid them as little attention as possible ; there was , as it were , a conspiracy of silence about the fearful potential of the mob . There is no doubt that agitators could have diverted this uncontrollable energy into directly political channels . But in England the elements of political conspiracy were lacking . There may have been good reasons for this . Slavery itself had been killed by the Normans . Villeinage was never as oppressive , or as widespread , here as across the Channel . It was already in decline in the twelfth century , and the slow declension was never , as on the Continent , successfully reversed , or even arrested . Moreover , many of the villeins themselves were men of substantial 139 property , with a stake in the existing order ; there are cases where we know they declined a change of status , for sound economic reasons . There is evidence of a very widespread distribution of property , if only on a small scale , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they were the medieval equivalent of a strike , organised and carried through to achieve specific , limited objectives , not to overthrow society . The aim of most of them was to put the clock back . None sought to impose an alternative government . The English medieval peasant was deeply conservative , as were , many centuries later , his industrial progeny . In 1926 the General Strike was wholly successful , in that it brought transport and industry to a standstill ; but , having achieved this , the workers could go no further , as they lacked the desire ? though they had the opportunity ? to take over the State ; so they went back to work . It was the same with medieval uprisings ; the furthest their political aspirations could reach was to present petitions to the authorities for the redressing of their wrongs , in the belief that the King , if informed of their grievances , would not hesitate to restore the ancient law . They were usually deceived ; but their faith in the virtue of a divinely inspired kingship never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a sovereign who had introduced dramatic changes in the religious structure of the country ? changes which the northern peasants bitterly resented and which , indeed , were a chief motivation of revolt ? the Pilgrims of Grace put implicit trust in the King 's word that they would get redress , dispersed quietly , and were then massacred in detail . The truth is , rebellious peasants were not violent revolutionaries , but violent reactionaries . The attitude of the English masses can be seen in its most striking form during the fourteenth century , a period of fundamental economic change . The agricultural system of early medieval England had been based on high farming ' ; that is , large estates farmed directly by their great secular and ecclesiastical owners , and based to a considerable extent on labour services . Some of these estates were big business , by any reckoning . In 1322 the cathedral church of Canterbury farmed 8,373 acres of arable and owned 13,730 sheep ; the Priory of St Swithin 's had 20,000 sheep . The standard of living of all had been rising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into cultivation ; population had increased steadily too . By the early fourteenth century , only marginal land remained ; it may be that the population had reached saturation point , at any rate in terms of the existing methods of exploitation . The large estates were often grossly inefficient . Compulsory workservice was no more effective in England than compulsory knightservice . High farming required large injections of capital to work at all , especially when harvests were bad . After the expulsion of the Jews , it 140 was difficult for big landowners to get bridging finance , even at crushing rates of interest ; and increasing taxation often pushed them deeply into debt , and so destroyed what credit they had . In 1315 ? 17 there were three appallingly bad harvests , caused by torrential rains and floods . It brought the last general famine in English history. * But if thousands of peasants died of starvation , the great landlords were badly hit too . Indeed high farming in England never really recovered from this catas-trophe . Many of them began to lease out major portions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the old manorial system , the labour market for agricultural workers , paid by the day , grew rapidly . Large-scale farming for the market ceased to be attractive ; marginal land fell out of cultivation . The fall of money incomes from farming was one reason why the English ruling class was so attracted to the French wars , which offered the only other occupation they knew which would bring cash profits . The peasants were keen to get land , because they were less affected by agricultural recession ; the estates were keener to sell or lease it , because they had to raise money for war taxation . Moreover , the effects of Quo Warranto proceedings were diminishing the social value of large estates . Into this already critical situation , the Black Death introduced a new and revolutionary element . This mixture of diseases , in which pneu-monic and bubonic plague were predominant , arrived in August 1348 and lasted until the end of 1349 ; a second wave struck in 1361 ? 2 , attacking mainly children , and a third in 1369 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point of view , affecting the labour market in the 1370s . The cumulative impact on the popula-tion was dramatic . Over the country as a whole it fell by about one-third ; in many areas by a half or more . There was an immediate and rapid increase in wage-rates , which rose 30 per cent in the decade 1340 ? 50 , 6o per cent in the next decade , and continued to rise . There was also a steady upwards movement in what we would call wage-drift ' , with employers forced to concede a range of amenities to get any labour at all . Boon-labourers at harvest expected a midday meal of bread , ale and pottage , plus either beef , pork and mutton , or a fish dish and five her-rings . For the first time in English history , the ordinary man had the possessing class at his economic mercy . t 141 The rich and the well-to-do sought desperately to reverse the trend by legislation . Ordinances put out in 1349 , revised and enacted as statutes in 1351 , were the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to work for them . They were accompanied by sumptuary legislation which sought to underpin the crumbling classstructure by denying the masses the right to exercise their new purchasing-power . These acts recall the despairing economic legislation of the late Roman Empire . They were almost wholly ineffective because they could not be generally enforced ; and the spasmodic attempts to enforce them provoked anger . The clock could only have been put back by bringing about an actual and massive cut in the standard of living , the first for centuries . This was beyond the power of any medieval government , or indeed of any modern one ; it was something only war or natural disaster could achieve . A statutory freeze of wages was unacceptable to the peasants , who preferred to withdraw their labour ; it was unacceptable , in the end , to the landlords , who preferred to evade it and pay high wages simply in order to stay in business . Rents fell and land declined in value . Villeins ran away in large numbers because the economic opportunities now open to them greatly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enforce work-services , but the thing was impossible without an expensive apparatus of repression , which did not exist . Where action was taken it was too weak to secure compliance , but irritating enough to provoke violence . Moreover , the King 's courts were available to free peasants ; even lowly elements of society could , and did , seek legal protection . The peasants were capable of pleading the Great Charter in their support , even if it did not strictly apply . They were litigious , and if the law failed them could be relied on to resort to arms to resist what they saw as a novel and revolutionary invasion of their ancient rights . There were numerous uprisings , most of which were successful in attaining their short-term object of frustrating Parliament 's attempt to control the economy . By the 1370s the Government , reeling from military disaster and divided by rival factions , had virtually abandoned the hopeless attempt to freeze wages ; instead they sought to tap the new wealth of the masses by resorting to poll-taxes , that is by a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income . This monstrous device , of Continental origin , was the perfect formula to provoke civil commotion . Attempts to take a preliminary census , in 1377 , led to riots in the big cities , such as London , and resistance almost everywhere . In 1381 , the actual imposition of a shilling poll-tax was the signal for revolution , particularly in the heavily populated areas of the south-east . A peasant had to pay 2s for himself and his wife in ready cash ; in many cases he did not possess it . His lord 142 might pay it for him , advancing the money against future labour . But in many villages there was no longer a lord ? he had contracted out ? and the peasant , for the first time , came up against the revenue officers directly . He could not pay , and so he took to arms . Yet the Peasants ' Revolt was essentially an exercise in English conservatism , or rather in two kinds of English conservatism . The representatives of the propertied classes wanted to put the clock back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peasants acquired their present economic bargaining-power . The peasants also wanted to put the clock back , but to an even more distant , and largely imaginary , period . It was thus a conflict between two reactionary forces , operating under different time-scales . The authorities saw the peasants as revolutionaries , in that they offered violence against due forms of law . The peasants saw the authorities as revolutionaries , in that they used the instrument of the statute to demolish ancient customs . They turned first against the Church , for clerical landlords were the most unscrupulous and tenacious in their employment of new legal devices ; and anti-clericalism had been a burgeoning English tradition for over two centuries ? the earliest organised peasant riots , of which we have records , in the 1230S , had anti-clerical objectives . There were assaults on monasteries and even on Cambridge University . But the rioters , if anti-clerical , were not antiChristian ; on the contrary , they sought a return to a primitive Christianity . Lawyers were also objects of attack , as the agents of new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seized and burnt ; lawyers were captured and beheaded in the name of the King . But the ancient law itself was not challenged ; on the contrary , it was exalted , and quoted in support . The men of Kent said they would pay no new taxes ; no taxes at all , save the 15ths which their fathers and forebears knew and accepted ' . One of Wat Tyler 's demands was that there should be no new law ? only the law of Winchester ' , a reference to the legislation , real or imagined , of Edward i , already a century old . The peasants demanded an end to attempts to restore villeinage , a return to the ancient free market in land , and the right to rent land at the old price of 4d an acre . This programme was , in effect , a revolutionary one . But it was presented in the customary English manner ; that is , the sanctification of change by dressing it up in the guise of a return to an earlier order . The rebels delved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some surprising symbolism ? though they were thinking in real terms , not symbols . The Kentish rioters called themselves men of Kent and Jutes ' . In East Anglia , there were demands for county kings ' , of the Northfolk and the Southfolk , each of whom would issue county 143 charters ' , modelled on Magna Carta . There were evidently , among these people , living memories of pre-Norman times : not even of the great unitary Wessex state but of the kingdoms of the heptarchy which had preceded it . Indeed , Norfolk and Suffolk had already been merged in the Kingdom of East Anglia by the mid-seventh century , at the time when the great Sutton Hoo treasure was buried . The rioters of 1381 were thus going back over 800 years , to a form of territorial tribalism . The riots were put down without much difficulty . Some of the leaders were murdered or hanged , but there was no general repression . The State was in no position to carry one out ; and the English have always quailed before the prospect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all essential points . On the Continent similar ? and much more bloody ? uprisings led to a genuine reaction , in which the villeinage system was brutally reimposed , and was to endure in some respects until the French Revolution and beyond . But in England the agricultural revolution , of which the Peasants ' Revolt was an illogical by-product , went on almost unhindered , to the great benefit of the community . By the end of the century high farming was dead , and the new pattern of freeholders , tenant farmers and landless labourers , which was to last until the end of the eighteenth century , was firmly established . But the revolt undoubtedly struck terror into the English ruling class . Its one real consequence was to turn that class decisively against the new religious movement associated with Wyclif . There was here un-doubtedly a confusion in ideas , for Wyclif was in some respects a conser-vative , upholding the ancient rights of the State against the clerical encroachments of Rome ; he had the support of what would later be called the Whig element @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John of Gaunt , and the Black Prince 's widow . But he also , through his use of the vernacular , had a great and growing popular appeal ; he challenged the established order in the Church , and a wide range of religious assumptions . His views were shared by many poor clergymen , in revolt against their ecclesiastical superiors . It was not easy to make a distinc-tion between those religious reformers and a priest like John Ball , who had been released from the Archbishop of Canterbury 's prison to take a leading part in the peasants ' uprising . At any rate , the authorities were in no mood for such hair-splitting . All innovation , reform , change ? call it what you will ? was dangerous . Hence in the 138os there was a series of moves to suppress Lollardy . The prelates recovered their nerve ; the State moved to assist them , for the first time hunting out and burning heretics on a considerable scale ; the kings , Lancastrian , Yorkist , even Tudor , took on a new role as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political subversion sent the ruling class back to ' 44 the old , discredited altars . The one clear result of the Peasants ' Revolt was to delay the Reformation in England by 150 years . The English eventually approached the business of changing their religion , if that is a correct description of what happened in the middle decades of the sixteenth century , in a characteristically haphazard and confused manner , and were later to congratulate themselves on the constitutional propriety with which it was done , and the admirable compromise which they eventually evolved . Yet the breach with Rome , and indeed the three centuries of growing hostility to the papacy which preceded it , had comparatively little to do with religion as such ; its principal dynamic was anti-clericalism , which was itself a form of English xenophobia . The papal aggression of the twelfth century had ended the old easy relationship between Church and State which had been such a striking and constructive feature of Anglo-Saxon society . The Becket affair made it clear that henceforth the two powers , one national , the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and often of conflict , with public opinion inevitably moving in support of the national position . The thirteenth century , it is true , saw the universalist claims of the papacy come near to triumph . The English King became a vassal of the Pope . For the first time the Pope had a major voice in senior clerical appointments . Even a dominant personality like Edward r could not get his own man made Archbishop of Canterbury . A large number of ecclesiastical benefices were made subject to the system of papal provisions , under which nominees of the Pope , most of whom were Italians , enjoyed the revenues of English bishoprics , canonries and rectories , without in most cases ever setting foot in the country . Yet the power of the Pope was more theoretical than real . Successive kings found their relationship with the Pope convenient , chiefly because it enabled the State , in the name of the Pope , to impose heavy taxes on the clergy . Throughout the later Middle Ages , vast sums were raised in this manner ; the Pope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , if he was lucky , the State took the rest . If papal action at any point constituted a real challenge to the Crown , the King could immediately turn to Parliament for assistance ; and Parliament always faithfully reflected the growing anti-clericalism of the English people . In 1286 , Edward i passed the first anti-clerical statute , Circumspecte Agatis , which began the erosion of the powers of the Church courts . Thereafter the position of the papacy in relation to the English State was in steady , and irresistible , decline . Already , in 1318 , Pope John xxii wrote sadly 145 that the status and , what is more , the liberty of the ecclesiastical dignity is more depressed and trampled on in England than in all other parts of the world ' . This is scarcely surprising , in view of the claims of clergymen to a separate caste status , their enjoyment of between a quarter and a fifth of the wealth of the country , and their lack of a recognisable role in society : they were parasites and were seen to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society could be easily marshalled ? indeed would marshal itself ? against them . As Boniface viir 's bull , Clericos Laicos , admitted in its opening words , laymen are notoriously hostile to clerks ' . The trouble with the clergy was that there were too many of them , and most of them were in the wrong places . In the late thirteenth century about 50,000 clergy were serving an English population of three million . Nearly half of them were in some 78o religious houses , fulfilling no obvious social need . There were about 9,000 parishes , but their distribution was grossly uneven . Far too many of them were concentrated in the towns ? over ioo in London alone . There was an enormous bias in favour of the south-east . Clergymen did not want to serve in the wilder and poorer districts of the north and west . This certainly helps to explain the difference in the regional attitudes towards the Church . In the south-east anti-clericalism was sharper and more general , for men had ocular evidence of a swarming , idle and grasping @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same animus against Rome because the clergy were less visible , and indeed in many cases were obliged by sheer lack of numbers to work extremely hard . What the Church lacked above all was any general sense of pastoral zeal . The best minds in the Church , from the Pope down , concentrated on the maintenance and extension of privilege and jurisdiction , to the exclusion of its real spiritual purpose ; the medieval Church was ruined by legalism . Men like Bishop Grosseteste , the pious and active apostle of Lincoln in the thirteenth century , were rare birds . He rightly said that clergy should not take secular offices , but should devote themselves to ministering to their flocks , and raising moral standards . But his warnings were ignored ; the Crown found it cheaper to employ clerical servants because they could be paid in benefices , instead of from the Exchequer . It is true they were more difficult to punish if they proved corrupt ; but on the whole it was judged the lesser of two evils . As a result the overwhelming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them never engaged in pastoral work , or even visited their sees . The popes could not insist on active pastoralism , for they were themselves the main beneficiaries of the absentee and pluralist system . With no pressure from the Pope , and little supervision from 146 bishops , with absenteeism at all levels , especially in the richest ( and key ) posts , the ordinary clergy were naturally lax . Most of them had wives , or mistresses , and raised families . Few knew their duties . Many were illiterate , and not just at the lowest levels : the Black Prince , for instance , succeeded in getting an illiterate friend made Bishop of Lincoln . The Church did not know what was going on in the parishes ; it did not even know how many there were . In 1371 it was thought there were 40,000 parishes in England ; investigation ( for tax , not spiritual , purposes ) showed there were , in fact , less than 9,000 . The truth is that the clergy , like , for instance , qualified @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the availability of pickings , and not according to actual need . Moreover half of them , the regulars , had no obvious public function at all . In the Dark Ages the monasteries had served an important economic and social purpose , as well as a cultural one : they forced the pace of technological change in agriculture . Even up to the beginning of the fourteenth century the monks were very active , and usually efficient , farmers . But the collapse of high farming , and the spread of leasehold , turned the monks into a rentier class , without any role in society other than as conspicuous consumers , living on the labour of others . In the second half of the fourteenth century we get the first demands , in Parliament and outside ? and often from hard-working parish clergymen ? for the general confiscation of clerical estates , especially of the regular clergy . In 1385 some of the Commons wanted all the temporalities of the Church to be seized , and they were echoed by Langland in Piers Ploughman : Taketh here londes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The senior Church authorities played into the hands of the confiscators . Some of the priories were offshoots of foreign mother-houses , and their profits went abroad . There was no protest from the English hierarchy when in 1295 Edward I , inspired by the xenophobia arising from the war with France , made the first seizures of alien priories . He was followed in 1324 by his son , and in 1337 ? 60 and again in 1369 by his grandson . These foreign religious properties were wiped out and engulfed by the State . The Commons petitioned for the monks to be expelled , on the grounds that they were spies . A few bought charters of denization , and survived . The English Church got a share of the spoils , and the Pope got his cut too . In any case , the papacy was not in a position to protest : the crushing of the Templars had set a dreadful precedent , as Langland shrewdly noted : For coveityse of that crosse ? men of holy kirke Shul tourne as Templeres did ? the tyme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ confessions of moral turpitude , extracted under torture , to justify the seizures ? were them-selves consciously echoed by Parliament when , in 1536 , it appropriated the lesser monasteries : For as much as manifest sin , vicious , carnal , and abominable living , is daily used and committed among the little and small abbeys , . . . whereby the governors of such religious houses spoil , destroy , consume and utterly waste . . . to the high displeasure of Almighty God , slander of good religion , and to the great infamy of the King 's Highness and the realm .. . The Church , indeed , was in part the architect of its own destruction . Powerful prelates had never hesitated to misuse Church property , and even to grab it , with the barest show of legality , for their own purposes . Cardinal Wolsey was merely the last of a long line of ecclesiastical con-fiscators when he suppressed a group of small religious houses to found his Cardinal College ( now Christ Church ) at Oxford. * There was nothing new about the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long English tradition , inaugurated with the approval of the Pope . The Church was self-devouring , and riven by bitter animosities . An arch-bishop of Canterbury called the Cistercians the worst possible neigh-bours ' because of their greed and love of litigation . The Black Monks hated the Austin canons , and both hated and feared the Franciscans . There was constant litigation between regular and secular clergy , between diocesans , who engaged in mutual excommunications , and between bishops and chapters . A case concerning the tithes of the Priory of Lenton , begun under King John , was still being conducted in an animated manner at the Dissolution , over 300 years later . Another , involving the rights of the Dean and Chapter of Durham to administer the spiritualities of the see during an episcopal interregnum , first came before the courts in 1283 , survived the Reformation , and was last argued about in 1939 ; it is still unresolved , though dormant . At no stage was the English Church able to present a united front against its critics ; and this is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clergy opposed either the Henrician reformation or the Elizabethan settlement . The English clergy nearly always sided with the authorities , even when their brethren were being persecuted . The only occasions in the whole of English Catholic history when a majority of the bishops opposed the State were during the desperate crisis years of King John 's reign ? and then only for a very short time ? and in the first year of Elizabeth ; and on this second occasion the bishops had been hand-picked by Mary for their ultramontane views . Henry viii had to execute only one bishop , Fisher of Rochester , who was a notorious opponent of reform in any shape ( he hotly defended pluralism and absentee clergy ) , and who was certainly guilty of treason , in 1533 , when he invited the Emperor to invade England . Among the ordinary clergy , acquiescence in the changes in religion was the prevailing pattern . Less than 1 per cent of the regulars defied Henry viii when he seized their property ; less than half of 1 per cent of the seculars rejected @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been dead by the time the Reformation came ; but it certainly put up very little resistance . Of course the Church of England had been conditioned to lay supremacy long before Henry viii made it formal . What killed papalism in England were the French wars of the fourteenth century . Edward n1 's statutes of Provisors and Praemunire , which in effect made it a capital offence to obey the Pope as opposed to the King , were the direct product of English xenophobia , generated by hatred of the French and the new consciousness of English nationalism . Praemunire in particular was an omnibus statute which could be used against anyone and everyone who defied the King on spiritual matters . As one papalist at Henry vin 's court remarked , no one really understood the statute , or could construct a defence against a charge under it , because it meant whatever the King wanted it to mean . Yet many , perhaps most , Englishmen would argue that it went no further than what had always been the accepted position of the English Crown in its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ great continuity of English history . William i had demanded , and got , no less . The consequences of John 's surrender of the realm to the Pope was a temporary aberration , and the surrender itself illegal and ultra vises . The popes could do nothing against the solidity of the English State . Martin v , early in the fifteenth century , conceded : ' It is not the Pope but the King of England who governs the Church in his dominions . ' In 1486 many precedents were quoted , in Parliament , by the Lord Chief Justice and the Bishop of London for the proposition that ' the Pope could not lawfully act in derogation of the King and his Crown ' . Several popes tried to persuade the English monarchy to repeal Praemunire , but were brushed aside . The relationships between individual clergy and the papal see were rigidly and ruthlessly controlled . Papal powers were 149                     