@@774400

txt  | hostilities in Europe and strategic nuclear forces in the United States . Many people believed that the doctrine of first use might compensate for deficiencies in NATO 's conventional forces ; by focusing Soviet attention on a nuclear war too horrible to contemplate , they might avoid the kind of conventional war that Europe had experienced only too recently . The problem with relying on the threat of first use was that it would make the alliance vulnerable if the Soviet Union began to exploit the fear of nuclear war to gain concessions . An aggressive nuclear posture also risked alienating popular support for NATO 's defensive strategy . ' So the threat of first use had to be balanced with a credible conventional capability . The concept of a flexible response dovetailed with what FRG strategist Uwe Nerlich has called the " differentiated threat " that the NATO alliance faced . In contrast to a " generalized threat " of Soviet aggression that would be countered by massive retaliation , the differentiated threat might include overt Soviet attack , suppression of the Eastern satellites , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exertion of political influence through an implied threat of military force . ' Despite numerous indications that the alliance should expand its conventional capabilities , NATO 's shift from an approach of defense and denial to one of " defense and detente " undercut arguments for bolstering defense capabilities . In 1966 , the Belgian minister of foreign relations , M. Pierre Harmel , had advocated a posture based on strong defense plus greater interaction and negotiation with the Soviet Union . After NATO accepted the premises of the Harmel Report in 1967 , the alliance emphasized increasing security by searching for areas of common East-West interests that could be exploited to reduce the risk of military conflict . Through a policy of detente , the allies would try to forge political , economic , and military links that might be used to constrain Soviet behavior . The introduction of detente as formal NATO policy greatly appealed to Europeans , who believed that it reduced the risk of military escalation and provided room for European political and economic initiatives . Under a policy of detente , Europe might no longer be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ superpowers , but it might actually play an important role at the substrategic level . Moreover , the shift to detente reinforced the FRG policy of Ostpolitik , which involved tacit German  | acceptance of the status quo in central Europe in return for possible political concessions on Berlin and emigration from Eastern Europe . Finally , detente was seen as consistent with the prospect of rapid decline in defense expenditures and troop levels after U.S. disillusionment with and withdrawal from the war in Vietnam . For all the reasons just discussed , NATO failed to commit the level of conventional military resources implied in a strategy of flexible response . U.S. interest in improving NATO capabilities resurged in the mid-197 ' 0s after a steady buildup of Soviet forces became clear and after analysts indicated that NATO could be made substantially more efficient without major expansion of resources . In any case , there was general disillusionment with detente . Although NATO became more efficient , particularly in operational planning , the Carter administration was forced to conclude in 1977 that it must increase real defense resources , particularly new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By the end of the decade , Soviet deployment of SS-20 missiles had upset the balance of intermediate-range nuclear weapons in Europe , 10 years of improvements in Warsaw Pact technology had served to magnify the greater size of Eastern conventional forces , and the Soviets had greatly expanded their airborne and naval force projection capabilities . Having increased the pace of its military spending , the Soviet Union went on to show that it was willing to use force either directly ( as in Afghanistan ) or as an implicit threat ( as in Poland ) ? it would use its military capability in a variety of ways to gain political objectives . Although the possibility of a direct attack on Western Europe still seems remote in the early 1980s , the Soviet buildup has changed the nature of any attack that might occur . In its defense planning in the early 1970s , NATO assumed that the Soviet need to deploy support troops before an attack would serve as an early mobilization warning to the allies . Now , however , the Warsaw Pact forces have been built @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before an attack , so Soviet mobilization would be less likely to draw the allies ' attention to an impending attack . NATO might have less warning to permit redeployment of its forces . The imbalance in conventional forces has focused attention on the theater nuclear forces . In some parts of Europe , public pressure has mounted against NATO 's 1979 decision to proceed with  | deployment of 572 Pershing and ground-launched cruise missiles in Western Europe unless the Soviet Union agreed to stop SS-20 missile deployments . This " double-tracked " policy ? to pursue negotiation on the one hand and simultaenously prepare to modernize the intermediate-range NATO nuclear force on the other ? threatens to become more controversial as a negotiated agreement appears less likely and actual NATO deployments become more probable . The strength of the protest reflects not only a concern about escalating East-West confrontation , but also a rejection of the very premise of nuclear deterrence . A sizable minority believes that a position of nuclear strength simply encourages Soviet counter efforts and increases the risk of engagement ? with nuclear weapons as the prime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deterrence as a security concept suggests not alternative forms of defense but a shift to neutrality as a means of eliminating any cause for hostilities . Nuclear protestors in Europe believe that in rejecting detente the United States is returning to a dangerous policy of confrontation . Thus nuclear protest , which threatens the very heart of the NATO alliance , frequently takes on an anti-U.S . cast . The lure of detente in Europe is grounded far less in trade opportunities , a motive U.S. analysts often emphasize , than in the strongly felt need to control the use of Soviet power on a crowded continent through every available means . Europeans insist that alliance military strategy be developed in the full context of East-West relations . The alliance must resolve several political and military issues related to strategic doctrine : What new policy for dealing with the East should replace or modify that of defense and detente ? How can NATO strengthen public faith in the morality and feasibility of deterrence ? How best can conventional forces and nuclear weapons be balanced and deployed to meet the objectives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member nations be persuaded to finance the force structure implied in an integrated strategy ? The broad outlines of defense expenditures in the United States and the Soviet Union over the past two decades have been  | well-documented . While there is considerable controversy over comparisons of absolute levels of defense capabilities , there is little argument about the trends . Not only has the rate of increase in defense outlays been much greater in the Soviet Union , but the lower wage structure has permitted a far greater expansion in outlays for military equipments . This imbalance created a substantial investment gap over the past decade , which is apparent in virtually every area of military capability . The NATO allies of the United States make a greater proportionate contribution to NATO defense than Soviet allies provide in the Warsaw Pact , but the real increases by NATO allies in the 1970s were not sufficient to offset the rapid increase by the Soviet Union and the real decline by the United States . ' The impact of the aggregate trends in defense outlays is reflected in adverse shifts in key @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , armored personnel carriers , T-72 tanks , multirole tactical aircraft , chemical delivery systems , and artillery have dramatically altered the traditional NATO advantage in technological quality . This erosion in NATO 's technological edge accentuates the persisting imbalance in absolute force levels . Comparing absolute force levels in NATO and the Warsaw Pact is difficult because of the asymmetries involved in their force structures . Realistic comparisons can only be made in the context of specific scenarios , and such scenarios are inherently subjective . Three advantages of the Warsaw Pact force structure are emphasized in most scenarios . First , in the critical central Europe front , the balance of active forces favors the Warsaw Pact with some 67 divisions facing 48 NATO divisions . Second , the pact has much larger armored forces , including a total of some 27,000 main battle tanks compared with NATO 's roughly 18,000 . Again these forces are concentrated in the central front , where the pact deploys about 32 armored divisions compared with NATO 's 21 . Third , the Warsaw Pact has a substantial advantage in extra divisions available @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the proximity of its reserves compared with NATO reserves in the United States . These differences in force structure would give the pact important advantages in mounting an attack . The erosion in NATO 's technological edge has now made it far more difficult to counter those pact advantages . ' The Soviet Union 's improved intermediate-range nuclear capability is particularly important because it affects the vital linkage  | between conventional and nuclear deterrence . Soviet dominance in nuclear delivery systems at the theater level would reduce the probability of NATO 's first use of nuclear weapons in the face of conventional attack and , therefore , widen the gap between conventional conflict in Europe and the strategic nuclear deterrent in the United States . Soviet perceptions of that linkage are the key to successful deterrence . Soviet estimates of the possibility of confining hostilities to the conventional level may well be increased if it can shift the theater nuclear balance in its favor . The planned Soviet deployment of 324 intermediate-range ( roughly 2,800 miles ) SS-20 nuclear missiles is nearing completion . NATO 's plan to deploy 108 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , unless negotiations for cuts by the Soviet Union are successful , is designed to offset the new Soviet edge . Soviet improvements at the theater nuclear level have been matched by steady advances at the strategic nuclear level and by impressive improvements in global power projection with naval and airborne forces . Comparisons of defense outlays , numbers of weapon systems , and quality of armaments are fraught with numerous statistical dangers , and many intangible factors affect the strategic balance . The advantages enjoyed by the Soviet Union are significant ? a large conventional force with an impressive armored capability , internal lines of communication , standardized equipment , centralized control , and the possibility of offensive surprise ? but there are important disadvantages as well . The Soviet Union heads an alliance with severe economic problems and questionable wartime reliability . As a result the Soviet Union contributes a much larger share of Warsaw Pact outlays , a burden that should increase in the future . An inefficient economic-planning system , a discredited agricultural sector , and a dismal transportation network will make the costs of future military @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possibility of a two-front war with both China and NATO in the event of major hostilities , and there are sharp ethnic problems within the Soviet Union that will be exacerbated by higher population growth and lower economic growth in those regions with ethnic problems . In contrast to the Soviet Union with its large , well-equipped force supported by a mobilized military industrial base but a weak overall economy , NATO has smaller active forces , a more  | decentralized military industrial base , and much greater overall economic strength . The long-run strengths of the Western alliance economic vitality , democratic processes , voluntary cooperation paradoxically limit the alliance 's ability to mobilize its defense resources . If there is sufficient warning time and a clear consensus on impending attack , the superior mobilization potential of the West will be decisive , but the alliance remains vulnerable to assault on short notice . Even in the latter case , however , the advantage of geography well-suited for defense , particularly given urban obstacles in northern Germany , and the uncertainty concerning the use of tactical nuclear weapons to engage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any attack with certainty . Moreover , it is quite clear that any such attack would result in so much destruction that potential economic or political objectives would be lost regardless of the military outcome . Alliance solidarity in demonstrating a commitment of deterrence ? and to defense if deterrence should fail ? therefore looms as a major factor in assessing the military balance . The real increases in defense outlays in the United States at the end of the Carter administration and the sharp increases initiated by the Reagan administration should begin to redress some of the dangerous trends of the 1970s , but they can not be reversed overnight . The scope of the required effort may make it , ironically , even more difficult to justify specific programs because the existing gaps will persist in the short term regardless of the pace of increased defense outlays . Thus a well-articulated strategy will be needed to outline the logic of the pace and form of expenditures beyond the established need to make up the overall defense deficit . In the meantime , the stark reality remains that NATO must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an important shift in the balance of intermediate-range nuclear forces , a continuing imbalance in conventional capability that has been complicated by technological equivalence , and an expanded Soviet capability to project forces all over the world . The energy crisis of the 1970s brought a dramatic new dimenslon to alliance security planning : The members of NATO became  | painfully aware of their vulnerability to intense economic shocks from even brief interruptions in energy supplies . Long-term trends toward even greater energy dependence and continued exposure to potential interruptions in supply from the volatile Middle East indicated for the first time that an economic problem generated outside the alliance region could have an immediate , devastating impact on all alliance members . The proximity of the Soviet Union to vital energy sources in the Middle East , the revolution in Iran , the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , the Iran-Iraq war , and the continuing Palestinian problem , illustrated so dramatically in the Israeli occupation of Lebanon , all suggested that energy economic vulnerability would continue to have serious military overtones as well . These developments raised central questions concerning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the possibility of using the alliance framework as a means of improving political and military stability in the Middle East , and the prospect of including Japan in any new regional security agreements . Virtually all of the members of NATO have important interests outside Europe that periodically focus their attention elsewhere , but those involvements have typically been outside the alliance framework and their chief impact has been a temporary shifting of resources that might otherwise have gone for alliance objectives . In the NATO accounting framework , which counts all defense spending as an alliance contribution on the grounds that it provides resources that could be made available to NATO , actions outside the region actually have provided net increases in alliance resources . Because vital interests of the joint European community have not been threatened in the past by potential actions outside Europe , NATO has served only as a forum for consultation and assessment of the impacts of unilateral defense commitments elsewhere , rather than as an active actor in other regions . Indeed the thrust of events since World War II has been to reduce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , although a web of important political and economic relationships , regrettably illustrated by the conflict between Argentina and the United Kingdom remain . The dominant economic , political , and military position of Europe had worked in the colonial period to bring world markets into line with the realities of " world empire " and to reduce the vulnerability of the international economic system to extra-European shocks . The vestiges of that system  | continued to provide substantial leverage for economic stability in the immediate postwar period . The gradual abandonment of colonial influence forced a political and military retreat to the territorial region of NATO , leaving numerous power vacuums in its wake and effectively separating the Western military alliance from world markets . This has been particularly apparent in the Middle East . While the United States emerged from World War II as a global power with corresponding interests and commitments , its European allies slowly shifted to a narrower regional orientation . As world markets moved in the direction of increased economic interdependence and potential vulnerability , the alliance found itself with a sharply reduced set of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to promote regional political stability . Despite this vulnerability , Europe frequently sees the efforts of the United States to fill the power vacuum as diverting resources from the primary European theater , placing excessive emphasis on actual or potential Communist exploitation of crises and insufficient emphasis on the fundamental sources of discontent , and overemphasizing military aspects of multidimensional problems . Observers in the United States , on the other hand , are more inclined to emphaze the links between local crises and broader international issues . Thus Communist exploitation of Third World unrest is linked with detente in Europe , Cuban activity in the Caribbean is perceived as a strand in the web of Soviet-supported intervention including Angola and the Horn of Africa , and the invasion of Afghanistan and operations in the Horn of Africa are viewed as part of a potential encirclement of Middle East energy supplies . As a result , many U.S. analysts feel betrayed by an alliance that commits the Europeans only to their own defense and that does not provide support for U.S. initiatives elsewhere that are seen as contributing directly to NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any such commitment to obtain security objectives through concerted action outside the traditional regional limits of the alliance , it would clearly constitute a major shift in alliance policy . The record of allied support for the actions of its members outside the NATO area has been dismal , from French efforts in Algeria and in Vietnam to the French-British Suez adventure and through Portugal 's struggle with Angola and U.S. efforts in Vietnam . In this context , the extent of fundamental disagreement on policy  | toward the Middle East and the Caribbean reflects the rule rather than the exception in alliance behavior . Indeed , the history of the management of crises outside the NATO area reflects a general reluctance to burden the consensus on the defense of Europe with peripheral issues and a desire to use the apparatus of NATO consultation only for issues of direct relevance to the military dimension of the alliance . The specific issue of the need for a force projection capability to defend vital European and U.S. interests in the Middle East lies at the center of the current debate on the need @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threats from outside the narrow territorial provisions of the North Atlantic Treaty . The issue encompasses questions on the nature of threats to the stability of the current political structure of the region , the possibility of indirect or direct Soviet intervention , and , hence , the extent and form of risk to an uninterrupted supply of oil . The appropriate structure of the military force that might be required to meet Middle East contingencies clearly depends on the answers to these questions . The European allies have been more inclined than has the United States to emphasize the dangers of producing East-West confrontation in the region , the importance of a fundamental solution to the Palestinian problem , and the risk of oil-supply restrictions as the result of the internal instability of Middle East regimes . The United States has been more inclined to see the major risk to the region as intervention by the Soviet Union or its client states , either through direct military action or internal subversion . The need to deter conventional Soviet intervention , particularly in Iran , is clearly a major concern , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force . The potential use of a rapid deployment force raises numerous structural questions for NATO in addition to the issues of overflight rights and base use . If the force is to be constructed within the limitations of current personnel strengths , at least some of the forces must come from the reserve currently designated for reinforcement in Europe . In addition , the staggering logistical problems in supporting such a force suggest that some support troops now deployed in Europe or allocated to a NATO reinforcing role could also be diverted . This implies that the European allies may have to assume a greater role in providing reserves for European contingencies and in supplying wartime and peacetime host-nation  | logistical support . A further budgetary implication of the rapid deployment force is the need to expand U.S. airlift and naval capabilities , expenditures that will undoubtedly come at the cost of improvements in other , general purpose , force capabilities . The implication is that potential U.S. commitments in the Middle East will place more pressure on the allies to augment their contributions to conventional defense capabilities in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strategic role of Japan and the dilemmas of excluding such u major economic power from the NATO framework . If the separation of world empire and world markets makes the alliance more vulnerable to external economic shocks , the exclusion of the world 's third leading exporter ( behind the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany ) makes it far more difficult to develop an integrated economic and military strategic framework . Japanese dependence on Middle East oil suggests that potential for an expanded role in defending vital oil supplies and sea lanes , and the continued deployment of U.S. forces in South Korea and the potential use of the seventh fleet in defending maritime traffic indicate possible future areas for Japanese contributions . The question of e extent and form of future Japanese defense initiatives reflects e severe limitations of viewing evolving military , economic , and political issues from the narrow perspective of a limited NATO region . The implications of the trends outlined here are clear . As the United States seeks to meet its expanding commitments outside the NATO area , additional strains will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the essential improvements in the ' Alliance 's conventional force capability . To the extent that the U.S. initiatives are developed with the support of other alliance members , the chances for general strengthening of the alliance 's overall defensive posture will be improved . On the other hand , if U.S. initiatives are undertaken without alliance support , the prospects for appropriate adjustments in force structure will be weakened . Despite the alliance 's record of disagreement on policies outside NATO , the direct implications of potential disruptions in Middle East oil supplies for European and North American security are painfully obvious . The force adjustments that will be required demand that the narrow regional focus on NATO be expanded to meet new strategic realities .  | NATO is a voluntary alliance equipped to deal with only a few of the issues facing its members ; it has no authority to compel compliance with its proposals for military outlays or force structure . The solidarity essential to effective deterrence must be forged , not forced . Members who believe that the burdens of defense are being equally shared are more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faces a dilemma : Actions taken to improve equity can , in fact , be highly divisive . For example , criticism of the Europeans , designed to stimulate greater European efforts , may effectively reduce support for defense outlays in the United States . Thus it is not at all surprising to find NATO leaders attacking allied contributions in internal NATO debate , yet underscoring the importance of those contributions in public discussions . The challenge is to maintain alliance unity while nudging each nation to carry its fair share of the load . The implications of increasing Soviet military power at a time of slow economic growth in NATO countries make this a difficult period of adjustment for the NATO alliance . The Western allies must arrive at a workable consensus on the exact nature of the threat from the East , on how to meet it , and on how to share the burden of meeting it . They must do so with a minimum of internal recriminations , because discord would minimize the effectiveness of whatever deterrent strategy they agree upon . Yet coordination of NATO policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the alliance . First , members of the alliance disagree on the nature of the threat and on the role nuclear weapons should play in the strategy of flexible response . Second , although Europe has traditionally been the focus of NATO defense efforts , the need for coordinated defense efforts in other parts of the world has never been stronger ? and this is an area on which consensus has proved totally elusive . Past Soviet use of overt forces in Eastern Europe served to draw NATO together by emphasizing the threat to Europe , today the Soviet Union can achieve most of its objectives in Eastern Europe through economic leverage and through subtle political pressure based on the potential use of force . The most direct military threats to the alliance may well lie outside of Europe , particularly in the Middle East . Third , the NATO allies must evaluate the objectives and implications of economic relations  | Finally , the strategy of flexible response will be increasingly costly in a period of reduced economic growth . If NATO abandons the policy of possible first use of nuclear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be staggering . Even if the current nuclear posture is maintained , closing the gap in conventional forces will cost a great deal . In either case , the cost of maintaining a credible posture of flexible response will increase . There is no current alternative to a central role for U.S. forces In European defense and little prospect that an independent European defense organization will emerge . Such a shift would require dramatic change in the FRG 's perception of its defense role and a arp reversal in Western Europe 's perception of the need to manage RG military strength . However , the forward deployment of U.S. conventional forces , at least at their current strength , could become an issue if the need to use U.S. military resources in other parts of the globe forces a reassessment of U.S. strategy in Europe . The burden-sharing debate , which is clearly related to the perived costs of deploying U.S. troops overseas , currently centers ore on bringing the Japanese into NATO 's security framework an it does on changing European roles . The sharp increase in S. defense spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Europe 's efense spending , could change the U.S. position in that debate . is is particularly likely to happen if NATO forges no consensus n how to meet security threats outside of the traditional NATO religion . And the record suggests that NATO will have difficulty arrivg at such a consensus . I listorians of the NATO alliance may argue that NATO 's current roblems are not new ones . Over the decades there have been many attempts to shift the strategic balance , Soviet military capabilities ave often been reported as vastly superior to allied capabilities , ? onomic conflicts within the alliance have been common , and ATO has never responded to crises outside of Europe with a tingle voice . Yet NATO survives . But if the nature of the current challenge is not new , it is sweeping in its impact . Whether the alliance can continue muddling through with only a partial mobilization of defense resources and a gue consensus on its flexible response strategy will depend largely On its ability to manage three painful trends . First , NATO must deal with the reality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both in terms of budgets  | policy of potential first use of nuclear weapons . Failure to sustain the first-use policy will inevitably mean higher defense spending or a fundamental change in alliance deterrence strategy . Second , at a time when the alliance must act to restore a force posture consistent with the strategy of flexible response , it must also deal with pressing security issues in the Middle East . Resource commitments must not only be expanded , but they must also be redistributed . This will inevitably lead to a broader , more intense debate of the traditional burden-sharing issue , and this time results of the debate could have significant long-term impacts on the structure of the alliance itself . Third , the economic dimension of alliance security interests is expanding , both in regard to the appropriate long-run structure of East-West economic interaction and with respect to energy requirements . The perception of the success or failure of detente , the role of economic relations in an overall East-West security framework , and the linkage of economic , political , and military issues within the alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alliance responses . The following chapters suggest that the prospects for developing an integrated response to these pressing issues are not good . Agreement on appropriate burden sharing will become more difficult as real defense outlays in the United States grow more rapidly than outlays in Europe . Although further progress on standardization , interoperability , and rationalization within the alliance is possible , potential improvements in efficiency will fall short of the required improvements in forces , and , therefore , there is no possibility that the alliance will be spared from real increases in the resources that must be committed to defense . In the face of clear requirements to reallocate forces , NATO has few mechanisms for implementing substantial shifts in relative commitments by its members  --  the programs that do succeed in reallocating contributions are too small to have much impact , and there is little prospect of expanding them . Finally , political and economic constraints in Europe indicate that even sustaining current levels of defense spending will be difficult in the near term , not to mention the problems of reassigning roles or expanding defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse . The problems are serious , but they need not be fatal . The form and tone of U.S. leadership could well be decisive . The challenge will he to remain  | focused on long-term U.S. national interests , rather than giving in to short-term frustrations , and to exploit U.S. advantages in quiet hut forceful diplomacy , rather than yielding to divisive polemics .  | Emerging pressures within the NATO alliance will require both an increase in the overall level of defense outlays and a redistribution of defense effort . This painful adjustment will increase the potential for divisive recriminations over the equity of various national contributions . The normal problems of internal bickering in the face of substantial opportunity costs to defense spending in a time of economic recession will be exacerbated by the scope of the required adjustments shortterm war-fighting coalition in which immediate defeat of the enemy on the battlefield was essential to national survival . Of course the allies did face significant problems in World War II in setting resource priorities and haggling over command structures , but the objective was clear , the threat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions . NATO is not a short-term war-fighting coalition , but a long-term standing alliance designed primarily to deter the use of force by the Soviet Union . Certainly a convincing war-fighting potential is an important element of deterrence , but it is not the only element , and , in some ways , expanding current potential too rapidly may even be counterproductive . If current defense outlays were so great that the long-term economic base of the alliance were threatened , or the political base of the alliance were endangered , deterrence could conceivably be reduced .  | A clear statement of NATO 's primary objective illustrates the problems . The objective is to prevent the Soviet Union from using force overtly in a direct attack on the members and from using the threat of force to obtain political objectives . Deterring a Soviet action implies altering the decision-making calculus of Soviet leaders so that the risks of the use of force are perceived to be great and the gains from the use of force are perceived to be small . But this is not enough . Soviet aggression could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gains from the use of force very small . Thus NATO faces important constraints in the way in which it achieves deterrence . The long-term objectives of alliance cohesion , economic well-being , democratic values , and political independence must constantly be weighed against the threats to survival and the costs of reducing military risks . Assessing the burden that each member of NATO bears in meeting its obligations to the alliance is therefore no easy task . The central problem lies not in quantifying contributions , a task to which volumes have been devoted , but in agreeing on how deterrence can best be achieved . Without a consensus on how broad alliance objectives should be translated into specific actions , evaluation of national contributions is impossible . Indeed the intensity of the burden-sharing debate is primarily a symptom of underlying differences concerning the nature of deterrence . The language of deterrence concerns perceptions and risks , not facts and achievements . The fact that the members of NATO have not lost a foot of territory to Soviet aggression since the inception of the alliance may have had something to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the risks of attack , but we can not be certain that an attack would have occurred in the absence of NATO . We will never have access to such counterfactual evidence . If we can not unambiguously assess the impact NATO has had on Soviet actions , how much more difficult must it be to assess the impact of a change in the number of NATO divisions on Soviet perceptions . Yet the need to assess national contributions in a consensual alliance compels a search for things that can be measured . The measurement of burdens quickly drives us away from discussions of perceptions and risks , the essence of deterrence , to lists of facts and achievements . Without a clear consensus on the path to deterrence , arguments about member contributions tend either toward  | broad generalizations or to focus on narrowly defined , more easily measurable military criteria , with little attention to other important aspects of alliance behavior . The continuous quest for alliance efficiency , which became intense in the 1970s , involves some problems that require no value judgments about member contributions ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ output given a constant level of expenditures , or , conversely , could the same level of output be produced at less cost ? Many of the most important burdensharing issues facing NATO , however , involve decisions in which some members of the alliance gain and others lose . Because such decisions require value judgments , the arguments for them are rarely persuasive to the losers . No matter how detached the theory , in practice alliance proposals to increase efficiency usually imply shifts in the distribution of costs and benefits . However , appropriate such reallocations may seem theoretically , the reality is that changes will generally be based more on political strength than on analytical insight . Beyond the dominant problems of agreeing on alliance objectives and making normative value judgments lies the complex problem of how to evaluate national contributions to alliance goals . Napoleon 's observation , " If I must make war I prefer it to be against a coalition , " suggests that the strength of an army may be different from the sum of its parts . As Jeffrey Record has argued , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the continent than Germany at the beginning of World War II , but their fragmented deployment made them vulnerable to the Nazis ' superior , concentrated Blitzkrieg approach . ' Not only leadership of the " fog of war " determine the outcome of battles ; tactics , coordination , and readiness also play vital roles . The 1973 ArabIsraeli war once again demonstrated the importance of integrating armored , infantry , artillery , air support , and air defense forces . Tanks without air support and fighters without ground support both proved vulnerable to new technology . A simple count of tanks or aircraft provides only limited insights into a country 's combat effectiveness . Evaluating alliance efficiency is even more difficult than evaluating national contributions to the alliance , for some of these can at least be measured . One can count tanks with some certainty . It is difficult to compare tank quality , more difficult to estimate  | the readiness of an armored force , and more difficult still to gauge the ability of one force to defend against another with a different size , structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of integration we consider , the more dependent we are on the professional judgment of the analyst and the more likely we are to measure efficiency using value judgments that favor one country over another . Analysis of burden sharing will be affected by varying assessments of alliance objectives and by normative value judgments , but such judgments must be made , and how the distribution of alliance burdens is perceived will affect alliance efficiency and solidarity . In this chapter we discuss the information by which burden sharing is often measured , with the understanding that these data provide an incomplete basis for final judgments . No broadly accepted operating definition of burden sharing suggests valid or reliable ways of measuring alliance contributions . A reliable measurement can be replicated by different analysts with the same results , but there are technical problems in converting estimates to a common base ? for example , expressing the contributions of different countries in constant dollars from some base year . More important is the question of validity , which involves agreeing on just what it is we want to measure . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sum of all personnel on active duty in a uniformed military service in the member countries , we can produce fairly reliable estimates of alliance military capability after we define the terms " active duty , " " uniformed , " and " military . " However , not many people will accept this as a valid measure of NATO military strength . Without agreement on alliance objectives and a strategy for meeting them , attempts to measure members ' contributions , however precise and reliable , will mean little . Alliance objectives may be pictured as series of concentric rings , with European-based military concerns at the center , nonmilitary objectives important to defense ( including regional economic growth , political stability , and political integration ) in the next ring , and global **27;2070;TOOLONG concerns in the outer ring . The wider the circle being considered , the more all-encompassing  | the discussion is likely to be , and the less likely a general consensus on specific objectives is likely to be . Current debate on burden sharing touches on issues in all three rings of analysis : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and global contributions to the alliance , particularly in the Middle East . Analysts are often tempted to limit discussions of burden sharing to the military commitment in Europe , which lies at the center of alliance objectives . This tendency is dangerous for at least three reasons . First , the military objectives of the alliance are partly determined by broader economic and political issues , which , if handled properly , can prevent conflict from escalating to the military level . Second , military capability depends on long-term economic and political stability . Third , because the military focus of the alliance is primarily deterrence , it is important to convince the Soviet Union that any attack would be met with appropriate force . Political and economic cooperation among NATO allies , by indicating that national interests have been subordinated to alliance needs , would enhance NATO security by strengthening the appearance of alliance solidarity . Analysis of burden sharing is further complicated by the fact that many alliance objectives conflict with one another . Large current defense outlays affect such economic objectives as price stability and could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on war-fighting capability in the event deterrence should fail could produce a public outcry over NATO strategy , reduce alliance solidarity , and weaken the deterrent value of military forces . Establishing the capacity to rapidly expand production of war material in case of a crisis might well conflict with the objective of meeting current military requirements at minimum cost . An expansion of mobile forces to meet global contingencies could conflict with the objective of upgrading forces deployed in Europe . Thus , actions that some members of the alliance view as con tributions might be assessed differently by others and might even be seen as net liabilities . Even allies that agree about NATO objectives might assign different priorities to them . Moreover , differences in priorities might develop not only among member countries but also among different government agencies in each country . The more one studies NATO objectives , the clearer it becomes that the concept of NATO burden sharing has little practical utility beyond the realm of specific agreements to which the allies have  | committed themselves . Such commitments are normally only military , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : for example , economic sanctions against Poland following the imposition of martial law in Poland , aid to Turkey , Greece , and Portugal , and authorization of basing or overflight rights for the U.S. Rapid Deployment Force . The same actions taken unilaterally outside the formal NATO consultation process might or might not be seen as contributions to alliance objectives , depending on a particular analyst 's point of view . Clearly not all foreign-policy questions facing the members of NATO are alliance issues , despite the protests from some critics that a lack of overall consensus means that the alliance has little value . On the other hand , it is true that there is now no institution capable of dealing with all of the economic , political , and military issues important to NATO 's effectiveness . The annual economic summit meetings provide the opportunity to integrate economic , political , and military issues , but representation at these meetings is limited to seven major powers , time is restricted , and the need for consensus makes resolution of complex issues highly unlikely . Expanding the NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ strained consultive process , yet it is difficult to envision any other body that could assume such responsibilities . There is therefore little alternative to expanding discussions beyond a narrowly regional military focus , to consider , for example , economic sanctions and adjustments to the U.S. Rapid Deployment Force . The simplest way to measure national contributions to the alliance would be to compare defense outlays using some common currency conversion . If U.S. defense outlays were twice as large as FRG defense expenditures , we could then argue that the U.S. contribution to NATO was twice that of the FRG . Such comparisons are neat , simple , and easy to understand . Unfortunately they are also misleading and potentially dangerous . Before moving on to the central issues of the equity of contributions , it is useful to highlight the major problems with simple budget comparisons .  | Certainly not all national actions that affect NATO 's overall deterrence posture are reflected in national budgets . Support of an Olympic boycott , cooperation on economic sanctions , the tone of public discussions of defense policy , actions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to cite just a few examples , would clearly not be reflected in annual outlays . Moreover , all spending that contributed to alliance objectives , such as financial aid to an economically troubled ally , would not be included in the defense budget . Even comparisons of military budgets can be deceptive . Each national government has its own definition of expenditures that are included in the defense budget , with varying treatments of retirement pay , civil-defense outlays , research and development , nuclearprogram expenditures , and so forth . NATO has agreed on a common set of definitions that are used in alliance deliberations , but national definitions are still used in the domestic budget process . As a result , different rates of increase , or decline , in defense outlays can be used depending on the preference of the analyst . For example , estimates of defense outlays by the Federal Republic of Germany are always annotated to note that aid to Berlin , which Germans consider as a defense expenditure , is not included . In the final analysis , the defense budgets of member @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They do , of course , reflect an assessment of security objectives and force requirements that shape long-term trends , but annual budgets are dominated by incrementalism , economic constraints , and political realities . NATO consultations have some marginal impact on the level and structure of national outlays , but alliance influence is indirect and it is overwhelmed by national politics . Because the level and structure of outlays is not directed by the alliance , measuring alliance contributions must involve an assessment of the structure as well as of the level of defense outlays . Clearly , not all defense expenditures provide the same benefit to the alliance . U.S. outlays for forces deployed in Europe provide  | u more direct contribution than forces targeted on other contingencies . British nuclear forces may be less important to NATO than the British Army of the Rhine or naval force in the North Atlantic . Presumably forces in Greece and Turkey oriented on the potential threat from the Balkans are more useful than forces structured to deter each other . The issue of which forces to count as contributions to NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be achieved . United States forces in the Pacific force the Soviet Union to consider a number of global contingencies and , arguably , prevent a greater massing of forces in Europe . The mobility of forces is also a consideration , because in the event of an outbreak of hostilities virtually all national forces could be reallocated to meet alliance needs . Even if some distinction were drawn between forces currently targeted for use in NATO and those designed for other contingencies , the technical problems of sorting out the proportion of expenditures for NATO would still be substantial . For example , training bases in the United States are used for all forces , not exclusively for units deployed in Europe or earmarked for NATO , and research and development costs are spread over all systems regardless of their current location . Such overhead support Costs would have to be allocated to determine any arbitrarily defined NATO share of U.S. defense outlays . NATO has solved these difficult problems of assessing the composition of defense outlays by agreeing to count all defense expenditures as alliance contributions . That @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enhances regional deternce and that resources could be reallocated to meet alliance objeces . This accounting procedure has much to recommend it , including the fact that no other formula could achieve consensus of alliance support . But the fact that NATO has adopted this accounting convention has not removed arguments over the composition of outlays from the political arena . Political perceptions of relative defense contributions are still deeply influenced by assessments of how national outlays fit into alliance strategy . Focus on the defense budget directs attention to the increment of new defense inputs , rather than to an assessment of the overall  | strategic balance . Clearly , many of the factors affecting the military balance have little to do with the budget outlays . Iceland has no defense forces and no defense budget , yet its vital position makes it a critical element in alliance defense . Similarly , land provided by one ally for the military forces of another does not enter into budget computations , but it is still an important contribution to the alliance . Annual budget increments may even be a poor guide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paid for defense inputs can be misleading . Conscript forces are normally paid a wage below their market value , and therefore budget outlays for personnel can understate the real cost to society of military forces . At the other extreme , protection of a domestic defense industry from international competition often means that the price paid for weapon systems overstates their true resource costs . These factors are particularly important when international comparisons of defense spending are desired . Such comparisons are further distorted by differences in tax laws that change the net cost of resources to the government . For example , if military pay is taxed , the correct international comparison would be net-after-tax payments rather than gross outlays . The level of defense spending is certainly an important determinant of how defense capabilities will change over time , but the structure of outlays can be just as important . Some of the annual increment goes just to make up for depreciation of resources accumulated in the past , some provides for an accumulation of assets that will remain in future years , and some simply funds current @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tax laws have encouraged careful treatment of the depreciation of capital goods , but defense budgets have no comparable treatment of the deterioration of current equipment . Defense outlays therefore reflect gross outlays , not net increments after depreciation . The time patterns of defense outlays impose an additional confusion in comparing expenditures . The defense department may be authorized to obligate funds for a project that will span several years . Thus , in a given year , total obligational authority , permitting the expenditure of funds over a number of future years , will differ from the level of current outlays . If Congress authorizes the procurement of several new weapon systems , total obligational authority will increase immediately , but current outlays will only  | go up when those funds are actually committed in the future . A chart of defense expenditures will therefore show obligational authority leading actual expenditures . This accounting distinction provides ample room for selective interpretation of defense trends . It is even conceivable that different analysts could report both a rise and a fall in defense spending in the same year , if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increased and current outlays were to decline . Increments in defense spending include increases in real inputs , manpower , and equipment , but they also reflect increases in prices . A comparison of defense outlays therefore requires the separation of real increases in resources allocated to defense from apparent Increases caused by inflation . This process is complicated enough in a single economy in which different prices increase at different rates ; it is even more complicated when comparisons are made across different countries . The solution is to express defense outlays in terms of the dollar of some base year by computing what it would have cost to buy the defense inputs at the prices that existed in the base year . If 1972 were used as the base year , for example , we could estimate each year 's defense outlays based on 1972 prices and obtain a more accurate picture of real annual changes in resources committed to defense . Such a process would be highly cumbersome , however , so instead of using each individual price , an aggregated index is created that shows how a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given year . Defense outlays of any particular year , say 1980 , can then be expressed in terms of base-year dollars , for example dollars of 1972 , by dividing 1980 expenditures by the ratio of the price index in 1980 to the price index for 1972 . Clearly the constant dollar estimates of defense outlays produced in this way are a theoretical construct , and they are highly sensitive to the index of prices used in the adjustment process . Ideally a special index would be constructed including only prices paid for defense goods , properly weighted to give the greatest importance to the goods that constitute the largest shares of defense outlays . Such special indexes , however , are open to a good deal of criticism  | because of numerous data problems . In many NATO countries , such special indexes are simply not available , and analysts are forced back on broader indexes , such as the gross national product deflator , that attempt to measure changes in a broad array of prices . These cumbersome problems are typically acknowledged in appropriate technical footnotes in studies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The rates of inflation portrayed by different indexes , reflecting different sets of prices , frequently vary sharply , and therefore estimates of real defense spending will vary significantly based on the index selected . In addition , details on rates of inflation are only available after expenditures have occurred , and thus disputes over current real levels of defense spending can not be settled until some time in the future . Disparities in international rates of inflation further complicate these problems of making meaningful comparisons of defense outlays . When defense outlays expressed in national currency units must be converted to one currency for comparisons , a problem similar to the price-index dilemma is encountered . International exchange rates have varied sharply from year to year , based on swings in balances of trade and capital flows . Hence estimates of defense outlays expressed in any one currency will also vary dramatically from year to year . Shifts in exchange rates do reflect shifts in resource costs for those goods traded in international markets , but not for the larger portion of national output that is produced and sold in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some base year for computation will exclude some real changes in resource costs , but annual exchange rates will tend to overstate shifts in such costs . For example , using December to December changes , the German mark appreciated by 14.4 percent against the dollar from 1977 to 1978 , appreciated by 8.4 percent from 1978 to 1979 , and depreciated 11.4 percent from 1979 to 1980.2 This swing in exchange rates by itself would produce an apparent rapid increase in FRG defense outlays expressed in dollars from 1977 to 1979 and a rapid decline from 1979 to 1980 , but such swings would dramatically overstate actual shifts in real defense purchases .  | Comparing the financial contributions of NATO member nations is difficult even when experts agree about alliance objectives , because definitions of defense spending vary and amounts spent must be adjusted for inflation and corrected for shifts in exchange rates . These are problems of simply tabulating the contributions of different members . They are primarily technical questions  --  aside from the issue of objectives ? which lend themselves to positive , or relatively value-free , analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex , because it addresses the question of the total level of effort that is required and how that effect should be distributed over the member countries . Those are normative , or valueladen , questions , and the answers will inevitably depend on the preferences of the analyst . Or to put the matter a bit differently , they are political questions that will be answered through political processes . The principles of public taxation illustrate some of the possible distributions of the burden . The benefit principle suggests that taxes should be distributed based on the benefits received from expenditures on which the taxes are spent . The ability-to-pay principle suggests that those with the same income should pay the same tax ( horizontal equity ) and those with higher incomes should pay higher taxes ( vertical equity ) . The benefit principle is very hard to operationalize in an alliance designed to deter the use of force through the threat of retaliation that might reach the strategic nuclear level . If deterrence is indivisible , if it either succeeds or fails , then the member countries all gain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the large countries in size , population , or income have more to lose , but when the issue is national survival such differentiations are not terribly convincing . On the other hand , the strategy through which deterrence is pursued and the allocation of forces to implement that strategy will affect the distribution of peacetime benefits from alliance mem bership . This suggests the possibility of a modified benefit principle that focuses not so much on the benefits from successful achievement of alliance objectives , but on the benefits from such things as arms sales , balance-of-payments advantages , and enhanced economic cooperation .  | The ability-to-pay criterion directs attention to the tax base by which ability-to-pay will be measured and the structure of tax rates . A number of tax bases could be used , including income , wealth , the value of goods produced , or the value of goods consumed , and most countries use a combination of all of these . Tax rates on income are normally progressive the higher the level of income , the higher the tax on additional income ? but most other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are based on constant rates . The ability-to-pay criterion is the one most often cited in NATO burden-sharing discussions , using income ( gross national product or gross domestic product ) as the tax base , and a constant or progressive tax rate . The argument is frequently made that the tax structures in the member countries , which are modestly progressive , should also be applied in burden-sharing analysis . British economist Gavin Kennedy 's application of the abilityto-pay criterion in his book Burden Sharing in NATO uses a progressive tax rate and per capita income as the measure of ability to pay . ' He first compared the per capita income of each member nation with the average per capita income of all member nations . Based on 1975 data , he estimated that the Federal Republic of Germany had a per capita income 1.39 times the NATO average , while Turkey ranked last with only 15 percent of the NATO average . He then applied the progressive British tax structure to determine what each country 's tax rate should be . If a country 's income were 20 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pay a relative tax rate equivalent to that of a British citizen whose income was 20 percent higher than average . The next problem was to determine the appropriate share of the gross national product ( GNP ) that should be allocated to defense in each country . This was done by selecting one country as the standard , assuming its share of GNP going to defense was appropriate , and then computing what every other member 's share should be based on relative tax rates . Of course , the list of appropriate shares varied depending on the country selected as the standard , but the appropriate rank ordering of shares remained constant , based solely on per capita income . Kennedy 's approach addressed each of the central burden-sharing issues . Contributions were based on defense outlays , the total level of effort required depended on the share of GNP to defense in the country selected as the standard , the ahility-to-pay criteria was applied , a progressive tax structure was used , anti ability to  | pay was based on per capita income . There is , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 1982 Department of Defense Report on Allied Contributions to the Common Defense suggested another approach to the ability-to-pay criterion . ' The report 's prosperity index begins with an ability to pay based on each country 's share of NATO ( the report also includes Japan ) gross domestic product ( GDP ) . Based on this criterion , the United States should contribute 38.19 percent of NATO defense outlays and Italy 5.82 percent . This ranking is modified , however , by multiplying GDP shares by a per capita GDP scale and standardizing the results . In essence , the tax base is gross domestic product , and the tax rate is determined by relative per capita income . Thus the prosperity index is based on income modified by a progressive tax rate . Countries that rank higher in per capita income than in absolute income wind up paying a larger share of defense outlays than they would if only income levels were applied . The revised index shows that the United States , with higher than average per capita income , would contribute an increased share of 40.46 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ income , would drop to 3.75 percent . The Kennedy and Department of Defense studies are suggestive of a wide range of progressive tax structures that might be applied in analyzing the NATO burden . The details of their analyses are less important than the suggestion that countries with higher total incomes and with higher per capita income should carry a larger share of the NATO burden . These arguments provide rationalization for the large share of defense outlays contributed by the United States ; they also highlight Japan 's low contribution . Certainly some tax rate could be found that would make the United States share exactly correct based on ability to pay . Whether such progressive tax analogies are appropriate is clearly a normative issue . There is no mechanism for taxing the member countries and no political process for determining what tax base or rate structure is most acceptable . There are clearly numerous problems in comparing defense outlays : Many contributions can not be reduced to annual financial blows ; there are technical issues in comparing outlays over time and  | across various countries ; and there @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of outlays . Shifting the analysis from financial flows to real inputs of manpower and equipment helps with some of the technical problems of comparisons , but it also creates new ones . Estimating numbers of tanks or manpower strength does not entail the confusion associated with different currencies in different years , but it does introduce problems of estimating the quality of different inputs that are just as intractable . For one thing , there is no valid technique for arriving at a total for different kinds of contribution . It is particularly erroneous to assume that total defense capability is proportionate to manpower levels . Moreover , differences in training , morale , and leadership  --  or in quality of equipment - are extremely difficult to measure but are essential for a meaningful comparison . Clearly , no single measure of burden sharing provides a valid measure of alliance contributions , but the longer the period selected for analysis and the wider the range of indicators used to evaluate contributions , the clearer a picture we are likely to have of the distribution of the NATO burden . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viewpoints , demonstrate the shortcomings of relying on any single measure of input . Table 1 outlines total defense spending of 14 NATO nations , plus Japan , over the past two decades . The data for 1960 and 1970 are more reliable for comparison than the figures for 1975 and 1980 because exchange rates were fixed in the earlier period . The estimates for 1975 and 1980 are quite sensitive to the exchange rate used to convert national outlays to dollars equivalents . The last two columns on the right indicate what the 1980 contributions would have been using the exchange rates for 1970 and 1975 respec tively . Data from different years should not be compared to estimate growth in defense outlays , because the figures have not been corrected for inflation . From 1960 to 1970 , the U.S. share of NATO outlays remained fairly stable at slightly more than 70 percent of total NATO expenditures , although by 1970 a large proportion of U.S. spending was  | allocated to the war in Vietnam rather than to the defense of Europe . By 1975 the distribution of spending @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fell to just less than 60 percent . This decline was due partially to reduced U.S. expenditures as troops were withdrawn from Vietnam , partly to real increases in European outlays , and partially to devaluation of the dollar , which produced an apparent increase in European outlays . At the end of the decade , the U.S. share remained roughly constant at about 60 percent of the NATO total . That conclusion holds whether the exchange rates for 1970 , 1975 , or 1980 are used to convert national contributions to dollar equivalents , but the distribution of spending among certain other NATO allies varies substantially depending on what rate is used . For example , when FRG outlays in 1980 are converted using 1970 exchange rates , the FRG dollar expenditure was $13.5 billion ; if 1980 rates are used , the total was $25.1 billion . A similar pattern is observed for the French figures . The effect of using 1970 exchange rates is exactly the reverse for Greece , Italy , and , particularly , Turkey . The estimates in Table 1 suggest therefore that the ranking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the exchange rate used to produce dollar estimates . The U.S. share , on the other hand , remains constant at more than 70 percent through 1970 , drops sharply to less than 60 percent from 1970 to 1975 , then remains steady at about 60 percent through 1980 . Table 2 provides several bases for comparison by relating specific contributions to several different measures of the ability to provide resources . The first two columns show the percentage of each member 's gross domestic product that was allocated to defense in 1980 and the average for 1970 to 1975 . Using this criterion , the major contributors in the early period were Portugal , the United States , Greece , and the United Kingdom , all with defense outlays of about 5 percent of GDP . The United States contributed ( .2 percent compared with a NATO Europe average of 3.7 percent . By 1980 , the U.S. share fell to 5.6 percent , while the European average remained remarkably stable at 3.7 percent . The largest  | single shift was Portugal 's , from 6.5 percent to 3.6 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Luxembourg , Canada , Denmark , Italy , and Norway allocated the lowest percentages to defense in this period . Figure 1 , which shows the percentage of GDP allocated to defense , suggests that the share of income going to defense does not increase with the level of income unless the United States is included . Ability to pay based on GDP is clearly not the most important determinant of defense shares . A comparison of countries with similar GDPs might lead one to question why the United Kingdom 's contribution is so much greater than France 's , and France 's greater  | than that of West Germany . Canada and Japan , a non-NATO ally , appear to contribute abnormally little to defense . Figure 1 tends to support Sen. Joseph Biden 's suggestion that we analyze contributions to NATO in three subgroups . The first group would include the allies with major strength : the United Kingdom , France , and the Federal Republic of Germany . The second group would contain those countries of the southern flank poorer in per capita income : Italy , Greece @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ include the seven small , comparatively rich states of the north : Belgium , Canada , Denmark , Iceland , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , and Norway . ' Note that the countries in the second group , except for Italy , cluster in the upper left quadrant of Figure 1 , and the states in the third group fall in the lower left . Much of the criticism in burden-sharing debates focuses on what is perceived as the defense free riding of these rich northern countries and Japan . The third column in Table 2 , which presents estimates of per capita defense expenditures in 1980 , introduces population to the equation . From this perspective , the relatively poor countries with large populations ( primarily group two , the southern flank ) drop from their position as strong contributors to become weak ones . The United States continues to make the largest expenditures , but the gap between it and both France and the FRG narrows sharply . The United Kingdom , one of the leaders in share of GDP allocated to defense , now shifts to the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ introduction of population to the analysis suggests an additional ability-to-pay criterion : per capita income . When per capita income is arrayed against the share of GDP allocated to defense , as in Figure 2 , the Biden classification is very enlightening . The figure shows four quadrants formed by lines indicating the average per capita income and the average share to defense in NATO countries . Note that the average share is defined here as total NATO defense spending divided by total NATO GDP , not simply the average of individual-country defense shares . As anticipated , the poor countries of the southern tier with below-average per capita incomes have below-average defense shares , except for Greece . The countries of northern Europe and Canada with above-average per capita incomes all have below-average defense shares . The three European allies with major strength the United Kingdom , France , and the Federal Republic of Germany tend to cluster near the NATO  | averages in both per capita income and defense shares . The United Slates is the only country above average in both categories . While equity arguments might suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with per capita income , Figure 2 shows that the reverse pattern holds in NATO , although the correlation is weak . Columns four through eight of Table 2 provide rough estimates of equipment and manpower contributed to the alliance . The equipment portion of total defense outlays is extremely important , because it represents expenditures that contribute to future defense capability . While it may be feasible to mobilize manpower fairly  | quickly in a crisis , there are apt to be substantial bottlenecks in industrial production , which will place a premium on available equipment . Thus equipment outlays provide an important measure of long-term defense contributions , which can be compared with relative confidence . Column four in Table 2 shows that the United Kingdom allocated by far the largest share of defense outlays to equipment in 1980 , roughly 25 percent , more than the United States with 15 percent . The largest portion of defense outlays each year goes to current personnel costs ; hence differences in pay scales alone can produce substantial swings in total expenditures . Such differences may not , however , reflect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel may be misleading . Moreover , personnel outlays , while required for current readiness , contribute only to short-term defense . Column five shows that in 1980 the United States contributed 39 percent of the total active NATO force , followed by Turkey , France , Italy , and the FRG . The numbers in parentheses reflect the minimum number of months of compulsory service ; a " V " indicates voluntary systems in the United Kingdom , Luxembourg , Canada , and the United States . Differences in personnel systems will obviously affect the quality of personnel and the availability of different skills . Differences in recruitment systems , the proportion of recruits who remain for further voluntary service , and the length and effectiveness of training programs will all influence manpower quality in different ways . A system of short-term compulsory service assures that all the skill levels available in a society will be reflected in the military force structure . It provides a large base of trained reserves and reinforces a commitment to the common support of defense . On t he other hand , short periods @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effectiveness in active units . A system of voluntary service means that there will be greater manpower stability and hence more opportunity for effective unit training . On the other hand , the force may not reflect the ski levels available in the society , particularly if military wage level are not competitive , and the volunteer force will provide a smaller pool of trained reservists . Indeed , so many factors affect judgment of manpower quality that estimates of ' unit effectiveness are of necessity relatively subjective .  | Active forces are only one part of the manpower picture . Column seven of Table 2 presents the reserve figures as well . The reserve estimates suffer from serious definitional problems , reflecting " recent training " ( as defined by the International Institute of Strategic Studies ) but including wide ranges of readiness . However , the ratio of reserve forces to active-duty forces does reflect substantial differences in manpower policy among the allies . As might be expected , countries with short periods of compulsory military service tend to have a larger pool of trained reserves and a larger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ large active force , is an exception to this pattern . So is Turkey , which has a huge active force , a relatively long period of compulsory service , and a comparatively small reserve force . The United Kingdom , Canada , and the United States , with their volunteer systems , have active forces that are substantially larger than the pool of available reserves . Column eight in Table 2 indicates the percentage of the labor force included in the reserves . The small countries of northern Europe , with the exception of the Netherlands , have relatively high reserve percentages ; more than 10 percent of Norway 's labor force Is in a trained-reserve status . Greece leads the list in this category with 13 percent . Only 1.2 percent of the U.S. labor force is in the . serve pool . The final column in Table 2 represents only one of many criteria tat might be used to assess broadly defined contributions to NATO . learly , economic development assistance to other NATO members ould affect their defense capability as well as their economic and litical stability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ international tension , would benefit NATO , although not eryone would consider such aid part of alliance objectives . The rations of northern Europe score very well in this area , with Norway locating almost 1 percent of its GNP to development assistance . The different patterns of defense contributions make assessments extremely difficult . The substantial U.S. contribution is reflected high levels of defense spending , active-duty forces , and defense ending on a per capita basis and as a percentage of GDP . On the other hand , the share of the labor force allocated to active duty  | is roughly the same in the United States as in Europe , and the proportion of reserves with recent training is much lower . The redistribution of the burden within NATO in the early 1970s , based largely on the reduction in U.S. defense outlays , ended in middecade , and since then the percentage of total outlays contributed by the United States has remained at roughly 60 percent . Recent trends suggest that the U.S. share of outlays may begin to increase . Table 3 compares the annual increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Republic of Germany , the United States , the United Kingdom , and France for the period 1971-80 . A positive entry in the table indicates that the rate of defense growth was greater than the rate of GNP growth , so that  | the percentage of GNP devoted to defense was increasing . The figures for the FRG show an increasing GNP commitment to defense through 1975 and a decreasing commitment from 1976 to 1979 . The United States showed a sharp decline in defense through 1978 , a break in the pattern in 1979 , and a reversal upward in 1980. ( ' urrent budget projections indicate that U.S. defense outlays will continue to grow more rapidly than overall GNP . The comparative growth rates in the United Kingdom reflect fairly sharp annual swings and no general pattern over the decade . The French pattern shows a reversal of the German trend , with a declining defense share from 1971 to 1974 and an increasing or constant share from 1975 to 1979 . The contrasting patterns of the United States and the FRG are particularly important because they suggest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ countries . What this maze of statistics suggests is that assessments of burden sharing will in the end be highly subjective . Virtually every NATO country can point to a strength that offsets weaknesses in other contributions . Moreover , the trends in national contributions tend to shift dramatically over short intervals , and it is dangerous to make broad projections based on recent performance . Regardless of the measures of contribution , the standard of equity , or the time period examined , however , a case can be made that the relatively rich countries of northern Europe have contributed somewhat less than a fair share to the alliance . Although Japan is not a member of NATO , a similar case can be made that it has benefited greatly from the existence of the alliance without making a substantial contribution to the common defense . Unfortunately , all too often discussions of alliance burden sharing begin with those countries and lead to excessive generalizations about he performance of all alliance members . This tendency to generalize about the performance of all NATO allies is particularly damaging in a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative importance of Europe to its overall defense posture and promoting a maritime strategy based on more unilateral United States actions and greater emphasis on  | strategic mobility . Indeed , disagreements on burden sharing tend to reflect differences on strategic priorities as much as concern for specific national contributions . There is an unfortunate , but perhaps inevitable , tendency for the burden-sharing debate to focus on recent increments in defense outlays rather than on long-term contributions to the strategic balance . The political structure in the United States contributes to more frequent sweeping reappraisals of defense policy and wider oscillations in defense spending . The limitations of coalition government in Europe and the different dynamic of parliamentary systems tend to produce more moderate swings in defense outlays . When the recent defense buildup or , perhaps more precisely , the recent defense recovery ? in the United States is seen in that perspective , the performance of its European allies is far more acceptable . This does not suggest that the level of NATO effort is now appropriate and that efforts to redistribute the burden should be abandoned . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence of inequities in burden sharing , the momentum for any change in the distribution of alliance burdens is more likely to come from efforts to improve specific alliance capabilities than from centralized efforts to redistribute contributions . The catch is that the leadership required to guide the alliance toward a redivision of labor must come from countries willing to back up their arguments with resource commitments . Recent trends in defense outlays suggest that only the United States is currently in a position to perform that function . Thus a shift toward a broader division of labor that includes defense efforts outside the traditional NATO region may imply a larger burden for the United States .  | If any Soviet attack were to be met with a massive strategic nuclear response from the United States , the ability of NATO forces to wage an effective air-ground battle in Europe would have little relevance to deterrence . It would be a gross oversimplification to suggest that such a strategy was ever the essence of NATO planning . The large conventional deployments of the 1950s suggest that even the practitioners of massive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The threat of strategic nuclear retaliation was seen , however , as the primary contributor to deterrence . The introduction of the strategy of flexible response in the late 1960s emphasized the importance of having a range of options for defense in Europe , including the potential first use of nuclear weapons , in addition to the ultimate threat of a strategic nuclear response . Although every NATO commander had certainly been concerned with the potential effectiveness of conventional forces in countering a Soviet attack , the strategy of flexible response increased the relative importance of those capabilities in the alliance deterrence posture . The commitments of the United States with the war in Vietnam in the late 1960s and early 1970s stimulated a number of studies that addressed how conventional defense in NATO could he improved despite U.S. troop withdrawals . ' In the face of declining real U.S. defense spending in the early 1970s ,  | the central question remained : Was the conventional defense of Europe possible given pressing resource constraints ? Studies from the NATO hierarchy and from such independent thinktanks as the RAND Corp . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ significant improvements in NATO capabilities would be possible without substantial changes in resource commitments . ' Just how could the alliance 's conventional capability be improved without greater resources ? The critics pressed for improvements in three areas : the positioning of forces , tactics , and weapons production . The positioning of ground forces in NATO has been influenced by a number of factors , including national preferences and historic chance , that are not consistent with optimal defensive tactics . Foremost among these is the commitment to forward defense along the Republic of Germany ( East German ) border ? a posture dictated by strong Federal Republic of Germany ( West German ) preferences , the proximity of the border to major urban areas , and the narrowness of the Federal Republic of Germany ( FRG ) . Forward deployment could make defensive forces more vulnerable to penetration and encirclement , and defense away from the border could take greater advantage of natural obstacles such as north-south rivers . Although the Carter administration reportedly gave serious consideration to possible adjustments in this forward defense posture , it ultimately abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to this issue of how far east NATO forces should defend , there are the issues of whether forces are properly deployed along the north-south axis to defend the major avenues of likely Soviet attack and , more particularly , whether armored forces are properly allocated to meet Soviet armored forces . The standard criticism here is that the bulk of U.S. and FRG armored forces are in the north . The initial north-south disposition of forces was clearly influenced by the availability of military posts and the zones of occupation after World War II . Subsequent redeployments have been limited by cost and political acceptability . The analysis of whether current deployments are appropriate is complicated by uncertainty over potential lines of communication and logistical support during conflict . The most logical lines would run back through France , but French withdrawal from the military arm of NATO means that the possibility of lines running hack through Belgium and Holland must also be considered . For example , the  | U.S. Eighth Infantry Division was positioned to the west of the Rhine as a partial adjustment to the shift in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positioning is inconsistent with its current planned wartime deployment on the east of the Rhine . Even modest adjustments to deal with such problems of positioning through the Army 's Master Restationing Plan have thus far met with strong opposition on budgetary grounds in the United States and on political grounds in the FRG . The troop deployment issue also includes the prospects for reinforcement from the United States in time to influence any potential battle in Europe . This focuses attention on warning time , strategic mobility , and prepositioned equipment in Europe . Having equipment stored overseas and sorted for rapid issue to units ( Prepositioned Overseas Materiel Configured in Unit Sets , or POMCUS ) clearly reduces the time for potential reinforcement , although it also raises issues of the relative priority of equipment for active units , the maintenance of stored equipment , and the vulnerability of storage sites to attack . Most arguments for greater NATO efficiency have stressed more reliance on POMCUS despite the potential problems . The second set of recommendations focused on improvements in readiness and tactics . At the technical level , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ units , more stockpiling of ammunition for the early phases of combat , better preparation of forward defenses with obstacles and demolitions , and more emphasis on urban defense . At a somewhat more abstract level , some critics have argued for tactics that stress mobility instead of attrition , although it is not clear that current tactics do in fact overemphasize attrition or how greater mobility would be achieved . The central criticism of the 1970s , however , was that NATO forces suffered from a lack of standardization in doctrine and a lack of interoperability of weapon systems , communications equipment , and command procedures . The impact of the failure to standardize production was apparent to a series of NATO commanders . Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster 's estimates indicated that the failure to standardize reduced NATO efficiency by 30 percent . NATO Assistant Secretary General for Defense Support Gardiner Tucker was particularly active in publicizing the problem . He noted in 1976 that the ACE mobile force of 5,000 men from seven nations employed seven types of combat  | aircraft , six types of recoilless rifles , four @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three different rifles , and three types of machine guns and was supported by seven different logistic trains . He also observed that NATO was introducing six new communications systems from six nations , none of which was capable of communicating with the others . ' The interoperability debate suggested a response that might actually reduce defense costs : standardization in production . The idea was simple : Decide on the best design of weapons and equipment to meet NATO needs and have all countries procure the same product . This would imply greater efficiency in production and interoperability of forces at the same time . The problem was deciding who would wind up with the large production contracts . U.S. firms dominated arms sales in NATO , and standardization based on market competition would imply even larger U.S. sales . On political grounds , standardization required an opening of the U.S. market to European firms that might in the short run be less efficient producers . Such a flood of European sales in the United States would provide a two-way street in NATO procurement in place of the one-way boulevard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ POMCUS issue , the redeployment debate never got very far , but the tactical and production issues were grabbed by policy makers . The code words became rationalization , standardization , and interoperability : Rationalize procurement to reduce costs ; standardize equipment and tactics ; and modify equipment where necessary to make it interoperable . Estimates of military and economic inefficiency did not escape scrutiny in Congress , particularly given the concern for the overall extent of U.S. deployments in Europe . In August of 1974 , the Nunn Amendment to the 1975 Defense Appropriations Authorization Act instructed the secretary of defense to assess the economic and military costs from a lack of standardization , to devise appropriate remedies , and to report the results in semiannual intervals . In the same month , U.S. defense analyst Thomas A. Callaghan , Jr. , produced a study of U.S.-European Economic Cooperation in  | Military and Civil Technology . ' He argued that NATO wasted an estimated $11.2 billion each year in duplicated research and procurement inefficiencies and called for a North Atlantic Common Defense Market through a gradual reduction of government procurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Callaghan Report , in 1975 Congress passed the Culver-Nunn Amendment to the Defense Appropriations Authorization Act of 1976 , stating that it was the sense of Congress that the goal of standardizing or at least having interoperable equipment in NATO was sufficient to override the Buy America Act of 1933 , which required government procurement of U.S. products unless there was at least a 50 percent price differential with imports . A similar amendment in 1976 called for all new systems deployed in Europe to meet NATO requirements , more licensing and coproduction of weapons in Europe , and a two-way street based on initial collaboration by European industry . At the same time , pressure for coordination in Europe emerged through Eurogroup , a body including European NATO , less France , Iceland , and Portugal , that had been established in 1968 to demonst rate the extent of European commitments to NATO . After France lost the Mirage competition with the U.S. F-16 fighter , and Denmark , Belgium , Netherlands , and Norway agreed to coproduction of the F-16 , France agreed to join an expanded consultative body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the integrated military structure , was to channel recommendations for coproduction and standardization to the Atlantic Council through the Conference of National Armaments Directors . The result of this proliferation of interest was the development by 1976 of ' more than 150 study groups , panels , project groups , and steering committees within or associated with NATO that were examining various aspects of standardization and interoperability . The studies on rationalization , standardization , and interoperubility met a warm response in the mid-1970s in Washington , where u heightened political awareness of the importance of conventional defense in an age of nuclear parity , a recognition of the limitations of . the resources available for defense , and increased emphasis on the central importance of European security produced a new commitment to improving alliance efficiency . These attitudes influenced the initial structure of President Carter 's defense program when he  | came to office in 1977 : The SALT II treaty would be pressed to deal with the strategic balance ; overall defense spending would be cut to meet other social priorities ; and greater emphasis would be placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stress greater efficiency . The primary vehicle for improving NATO efficiency was the Long Term Defense Program , proposed at a NATO meeting in May 1977 , just four months after President Carter took office . To understand the impact of that program , it is first necessary to examine how the proposal fit into the normal NATO planning process . The NATO planning process follows a logical sequence : Identify the nature and level of the threat from the Warsaw Pact , consider economic and political constraints on possible defense outlays , develop broad guidance for planning by NATO commanders , evaluate preliminary force proposals , convert force proposals into agreed force goals , and track national compliance with those approved goals . NATO , however , has virtually no control over the ultimate budgetary decisions of member nations , and that separation of functions imposes serious constraints on the effectiveness of the overall process of planning and allocating resources . Because voluntary national compliance is essential , the NATO planning process has traditionally been highly constrained by national intentions and by incremental , nonprogrammatic , and insufficiently focused on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with a brief summary of the actual planning process that follows a continuous two-year cycle , illustrated in Table 4 . Ministerial guidance for the generation of force proposals is produced in odd-numbered years , and specific force goals by nation and weapon system are developed in evennumbered years . The adopted force goals thus apply for a twoyear period . Annual compliance with the force goals is evaluated in a fall review process that culminates in a NATO Five-Year Force Plan . The plan contains national budget and force projections and actual commitments for the next year . The central organization in the planning process is the Defense Policy Committee . Since France left the integrated military structure  | of NATO , the Atlantic Council , which includes France , has retained its dominant alliance role in the political and economic areas , but the Defense Policy Committee ( DPC ) , which does not include France , has assumed control of military issues . The meetings of the DPC at the ministerial level in May and December each year provide the key points in the planning cycle . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the May meetings provide ministerial guidance and review force goals in alternate years . The annual development of a five-year force plan begins each spring with the circulation of a defense-planning questionnaire ( DPQ ) that asks each member of the integrated military structure for data on actual outlays during the past fiscal year , accomplishments to date in meeting force goals , and plans for the entire sixyear period . The responses are reviewed by NATO commands and the international military staff in Brussels , including a series of visits to each capital to explain responses in more detail . During  | these exchanges , staff members obtain important insights on political and economic constraints through contacts at each ministry of defense . Each fall , national plans are reviewed in trilateral sessions among the international staff , the international military staff at Supreme Headquarters , Allied Powers Europe ( SHAPE ) , and representatives of the major NATO commanders . Subsequently , the international staff produces draft country chapters for the multilateral reviews held by the Defense Review Committee . The multilateral reviews , in which each nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political factors , economic capacity , and force goals in reviewing national proposals . The ultimate five-year plan is then approved by the Defense Policy Committee based on reports from the NATO Military Committee on the suitability and risks of the proposed plan and estimates from the Defense Review Committee on whether NATO force goals have been met . ' This process does provide for a wide exchange of planning information for the next five-year period , but it does not provide much leverage for altering national plans . The need for alliance solidarity limits the forms of pressure that can be applied . The multilateral reviews can be made unpleasant for national representatives , but the pressure has limited utility because it is in general being applied to those who are already convinced of defense needs . NATO arguments can be used by national representatives in domestic debates over defense policy , but national political and economic constraints still dominate . The process of defining force goals is quite similar to the process used in developing annual five-year plans . In the odd-numbered guidance years , military estimates are combined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provided by the Defense Policy Committee . That guidance translates current threat assessments , estimates of technological trends , economic forecasts , and political analyses into specific implications for NATO force structure , and it initiates the development of force proposals by NATO commands . Those country-by-country proposals are then consolidated in the Military Committee and forwarded to the Defense Review Committee , where they are evaluated for their political and economic implications , risk levels , and consistency with the guidance . In the next year , trilateral and multilateral reviews are held to review proposed force goals that detail desired objectives  | by weapon system and nation . The Defense Planning Committee , meeting at the ambassadorial level , then approves the force goals , which are subsequently noted at the May ministerial session . The ultimate force goals are designed to provide a realistic challenge to each country and to adjust NATO force posture to correct for specific deficiencies . The absence of leverage to compel members to meet established goals , however , leads to a number of compromises in setting objectives . Goals are defined as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national plans . They are not combined , integrated programs of related objectives , but rather listed as individual requirements , making it difficult to develop any centralized estimates of tradeoffs among different goals or to demonstrate the importance of particular programs from an alliance perspective . In this regard , the systems-analysis capability of the NATO staff has fallen far behind similar national capabilities . The five-year planning horizon has also made it difficult to focus on long-term objectives and to trace progress toward long-term goals . For example , a force goal of providing a particular naval objective may be declared as fully met without any commitment of funds because the implementation falls outside the five-year horizon . The central problem of the planning process is not organizational but structural , because the voluntary nature of NATO produces a fundamental gap between planning and budgeting . The result is that NATO planning has been overly constrained by national budgeting projections in the name of sustaining consensus , and it has not been sensitive enough to the overall level of effort required . Thus the process runs the risk of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the focus on incremental adjustments , but wrong by a wide margin in matching Warsaw Pact capabilities . As a result , there have been periodic attempts to break away from the normal incremental process to provide broader reviews of NATO strategy and resource allocation . The current planning cycle can be expected to do a reasonable job in highlighting specific problems and monitoring progress in their solution , but it can not be expected to produce any dramatic shifts in alliance strategy or the overall level of resource commitments . Thus there is frequent pressure to produce ad hoc , out-ofcycle alliance reviews of objectives and force structure , reviews that may capture political attention and ultimately influence alliance  | strategy . The real success or failure of such reviews depends on their ability to overcome the central problem of linking objectives and actual resource commitments . The Carter administration 's effort to improve NATO efficiency through the out-of-cycle Long Term Defense Program ( LTDP ) should thus be seen as an attempt to highlight particular issues in the ongoing planning process , to emphasize rationalization , standardization , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that permitted greater analysis across specific force goals on a more programmatic basis . The initial emphasis was not on expanding the resources available to the alliance , but in squeezing greater defense ? and , it was hoped , deterrence ? from available resources . The proposed program was designed to improve some aspects of the planning process ? lengthening the time horizon , promoting specific programs , stressing standardization ? but it did not address the really fundamental issue of linking planning with resource commitments . On May 11 , 1977 , the London summit meeting produced a communique calling for a long-term defense program , but the issue of resources was not even addressed . One week later , the Defense Planning Committee , assembled for the normal May ministerial sessions , advocated an annual increase in real defense spending of at least 3 percent per year by all NATO allies . The timing of these decisions gave the appearance of a linkage between the LTDP and the 3 percent proposal , but in fact the two were only linked in time , not in substance . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ May of 1978 , called for 10 specific action programs that were to he developed , in all but one instance , through task forces independent of the normal administrative structure . The programs were to focus on midterm planning through 1984 and longer-range projections through 1995 . Five of the programs covered combat capability ( readiness , air defense , electronic warfare , maritime posture , and **29;2099;TOOLONG ) , three dealt with reinforcement and supply ( reinforcement , reserve mobilization , consumer logistics ) , one covered the broad area of rationalization , including  | standardization and interoperability , and one assigned to the Nuclear Planning Group dealt with the medium- and long-term theater nuclear-force programs . ' The central weakness of the Long Term Defense Program was the fundamental problem in all NATO defense planning ; the limited ability to bring national budgeting decisions into line with NATO objectives . The initial call for a new programmatic approach was accompanied by an agreement to increase real defense expenditures at an annual rate of about 3 percent , but there was no linkage between that figure and the requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of compelling national compliance . As a result , the program did provide some shifting of priorities by extracting selected items from the normal planning process for greater emphasis , but it did not have a major impact on the overall level of alliance effort . The Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979 and the subsequent creation of a command structure for a rapid deployment force in the United States led to a reexamination of the priorities envisioned in the Long Term Defense Program . The review was based on the possibility of a reallocation of NATO resources resulting from potential action in the Persian Gulf . Two phases of adjustment were envisioned , with increased emphasis on war reserve stocks , electronic warfare , and chemical defense in Phase I , and additional reserve units , maritime forces , and procedures for the wartime commitment of civil air and merchant ships in Phase II . Unfortunately , progress in most of these areas has been very slow . As Secretary of Defense Weinberger noted in his 1982 report on allied contributions , " Critical deficiencies and shortcomings exist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ satisfactory in at least 60% of ' the measures identified in the conventional LTDP areas . " While the Long Term Defense Program may be criticized for failing to stimulate a greater commitment of defense resources , it did provide an important political focus on alliance efficiency and an interesting experiment in applying economic incentives for alliance military adjustments . The two-way street arguments held out the prospect of expanded defense sales to the United States if Europe were able to develop its own , more efficient , integrated defense market . Unfortunately , while numerous successful collaborative projects were promoted , serious limitations to a meaningful restructuring of the alliance defense market remain .  | The Long Term Defense Program was based on the assumptions that the alliance military posture was essentially correct and that the central problem was inefficiency in key structural areas , particularly conventional readiness and reinforcement . Shifts in Soviet global military capabilities have since drawn the first assumption into question . The hope that dramatic increases in alliance efficiency would make it possible to achieve the improvements within a framework of constant or slowly increasing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One element of the Long Term Defense Program did hold out the promise of linking resources to NATO planning . A series of studies in the early 1970s estimated enormous savings from the coproduction of equipment , and the Carter administration seemed willing to open U.S. markets to permit the European allies to share in production benefits as well as reduced economic costs . Agreements on standardization held out the promise of linking planning and resource commitments by providing participants direct economic benefits , and the lure of those benefits could be used to gain concessions to increase alliance efficiency . The attention given to the potential economic and military benefits of standardization , reflected in its prominent position in the Long Term Defense Program , has produced significant improvements , but overall those gains have been far less than the reformers of the early 1970s anticipated , and they have not yet led to substantial shifts in resource allocation . The central problem has been that the more comprehensive acquisition patterns , which have the greatest prospect of achieving economic savings and increasing military efficiency , have also generated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used to reduce the redundancy in research and production and to contribute to standardization , running the gamut from licensed production , coproduction , bilateral or multilateral collaboration , partial specialization , and full specialization through free trade or centralized management . As one moves along this scale from least- to most-industrial integration , there are corresponding increases in the potential for economies of scale and greater alliance standardization . Greater industrial  | integration , however , increases the extent of disruption to current national production patterns and generates greater domestic political opposition . Licensed production , such as the production of the Hawk missile , the Sidewinder missile , or the F-104 jet in Europe under license from the United States , provides a minimum of disruption to domestic production bases and reduces the cost of research and development . Normally , however , it does not eliminate redundant facilities or provide access to the economies of large production runs . Coproduction , involving a principal contractor who coordinates subcontracting and assembling of subsystems over firms in two or more countries , such as the coproduction of the F-16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Netherlands , FaireySABCA in Belgium , and others , reaps the benefits of specialization at the subsystem level , but redundancy in assembly typically reduces the savings from eliminating facilities and extending production runs . Full collaboration extends the amount of integration to include initial coordination of research and development as well as ultimate production . As with coproduction , contracts are normally awarded based on the national distribution of ultimate final purchases , although this principle is in general inconsistent with the most economically efficient division of effort . While trilateral projects are not uncommon , collaborative projects are typically bilateral because of the numerous problems of agreeing on design specifications and the complexities of coordinating production . Consortiums formed to execute coproduction and collaborative projects are normally designed to last only for the life of the project , partly because of the complexities of variations in company law provisions and procurement restrictions in different countries for different products . The ad hoc nature of the consortium limits the extent of managerial integration that occurs , hence restricting the long-term reorganization of industrial structure that can be promoted through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond coproduction and collaboration , is based on careful coordination in setting requirements and conducting research and development of related systems . The family-of-weapons proposals initiated by the Carter administration illustrate this . After agreement on tactical requirements and specific performance characteristics of similar weapon  | systems , this approach envisions the division of research , development , and , ultimately , procurement of particular systems . The first family-of-weapons memorandums of understanding were signed by the United States , the United Kingdom , France , and the Federal Republic of Germany in 1980 , providing for FRG-United Kingdom development of an advanced , short-range , air-to-air missile and U.S. development of a medium-range version . Work is progressing on similar agreements on antitank guided weapons , air-delivered weapons , and naval mines . Such partial specialization would have the advantage of slowly shifting national research , development , and production efforts into a pattern consistent with overall alliance objectives without seriously distorting the current distribution of industrial capacity . The problem , however , is in finding systems where specialization can produce real increases in efficiency and where the pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ identifying systems where partial specialization may be feasible and advantageous suggest the problems of moving to broader specialization of defense functions and production responsibilities on a national basis . Specialization based on free trade and comparative advantage would inevitably produce further concentration of production in those nations that now have the largest domestic markets and , hence , the greatest existing economies of scale in production . Clearly this would increase the current ratio of U.S. to European arms sales and threaten national arms industries in Europe . Thus standardization through market specialization would come at too great a cost in economic disruption and political support for the alliance . The alternative of achieving broad alliance specialization through central management would permit the retention of national production capabilities , but not necessarily in a pattern that would support other domestic non-NATO objectives . Moreover , the balancing of research and production outlays with ultimate end-product purchases under a system of partial specialization suggests that an incredible balancing of interests would be required to achieve general specialization at the alliance level . As we progress through various schemes for sharing research and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clear that there is a basic trade-off between efficiency gains and political acceptability . The highest level of ' integration  | in research and production that has been attempted thus far is partial specialization based on the family-of-weapons concept . The efforts in that area are still in the initial phases well short of production . Licensing and coproduction schemes have been successful for particular weapon systems , but they typically provide limited momentum for any long-term restructuring of the defense market .  | Coproduction and collaborative projects are designed primarily to reduce research and development costs , share technical expertise , and guarantee larger markets . Although the listing of such projects can fill pages , their impact on NATO standardization has thus far been quite limited . There has been a substantial impact in exchanging information on purchasing schedules , but not on the scope or structure of international purchases . Attempts to standardize even weapon concepts through standardization agreements and NATO basic military requirements have produced few agreements and no collaborative projects . The limits to standardization have been significant . A long history of independent national procurement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limiting the potential for coordinating new purchases . The lack of a European procurement organization exacerbates the problem of reconciling national preferences and limits the scale of potential sales . The desires of some allies for third-country arms sales mean continuing disagreement on equipment specifications . At the same time , the desire of each country to control arms sales based on political interests limits the willingness of the major exporters to collaborate with others who may ultimately veto sales . The transfer of technology for defense production risks sharing techniques that could eventually be used in civilian production and raises the prospect of lost export sales . Finally , the desire to provide guaranteed markets for domestic producers limits the scope and the form of potential collaboration . None of these problems would be insurmountable if the economic rewards of collaboration were great enough . While the potential for savings remains great , however , the actual savings from the initial experiments with coproduction have been small . The  | dynamics of the process are perverse . The savings from a major overhaul of the system of production may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ typically increased costs . In most cases , the compromises required in joint research and development have produced cost increases by delaying production , adding specifications that some participants did not require , and producing inefficient divisions of production responsibilities based on ultimate purchases rather than on comparative advantage . As a result , the first steps toward integrated production did not reflect the savings that some observers had forecast based on more sweeping reforms . In 1975 Thomas Callaghan estimated the potential waste in research , development , and procurement at more than $10 billion per year by assuming that all European research and development were redundant and that inefficiencies in the scale of production cost 10 percent of U.S. procurement and 25 percent of European procurement. ) s His estimates were probably excessive . Military research and development have numerous spin-offs for the private commercial sector , and it is unlikely that such outlays are completely redundant . Moreover , several subsequent studies have questioned the extent of the economies of scale that are available from greater integration . A 1978 study by English defense analyst David Greenwood on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Increased NATO Commonality , Standardization and Specialization argued that dramatic changes in the scale of production would be required to produce significant savings : Scale economies of only 10 percent could be expected even if production took a huge leap from 50 percent of the minimum efficient scale to 100 percent. ) 6 Moreover , the potential for scale economies differs sharply from industry to industry , with some economies in aircraft , missiles , and land-based platforms but little evidence of such economies in ship building , ammunition , construction , training , or support.1 7 The potential for savings appears to be the greatest in those sectors in which research and development costs are a large proportion of total costs , because collaboration and coproduction do offer the prospect of spreading those costs over large production runs . Here again , however , there is a trade-off between the higher development costs in cooperative projects and the division of ' those  | costs over more units of output . Thus in specific projects where research and development costs were high , national procurement was limited , and economies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficient , but the number of such projects is undoubtedly limited . The larger budgetary savings envisioned by some observers , however , can only be achieved through a sweeping restructuring that eliminates redundant facilities . Such a revision is unlikely , given the higher costs obtained in the preliminary collaborative schemes that must be the first step in any reorganization . The alarming conclusions must therefore be that the incremental collaborative steps that are feasible will not necessarily make a major contribution to standardization and that the steps that would help to ensure standardization are not supported by a strong economic or political impetus . In theory , economic rationalization could be a useful force for the promotion of standardization , but the evidence suggests that , while there is a clear argument for limited collaboration , more substantial savings would only result from sweeping revisions that can not be obtained through incremental changes based on economic incentives . The burden for standardization and interoperability must therefore rest on military rather than on economic arguments , and the alliance is not apt to achieve substantial resource savings in collaborative production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relating available resources to alliance objectives , but there are important limitations to what can be accomplished . Improvements in the disposition of forces could make a difference , but there is strong political opposition to peacetime reallocations , and abandonment of forward defense along the Republic of Germany border is unthinkable in the Federal Republic of Germany . More emphasis on strategic mobility to ensure the potential for rapid reinforcement will he feasible but expensive . In the area of standardizing tactics and enhancing interoperability , much has already been clone , and the potential for new breakthroughs is limited , short of actual standardization of equipment . The constant search for  | a new defensive approach based on greater mobility has not yet produced a clear alternative to current doctrine . Greater collaboration in production would enhance military capabilities by improving interoperability , but preliminary coproduction schemes have not generated the anticipated cost savings or restructured the defense market . Standardization will not be cheaper , but will be more expensive . The efforts of the past decade to improve NATO efficiency have been insufficient to offset low increments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet capabilities , and there is no indication that new breakthroughs are on the horizon that will spare the allies from allocating more resources to defense . Gen. Bernard Rogers , supreme NATO commander in Europe , has estimated that , even with the improvements that have been made , providing a credible conventional defense will require an average real increase in allied defense spending on the order of 4 percent during the six-year period 1983-88 . This would not appear to be an unreasonable burden given the enormous stakes , but based on recent defense spending trends within the alliance , it is not at all clear that even such a modest target is within reach . Efforts to improve efficiency within the alliance must of course be pressed , but they must unfortunately be supplemented with real increases in alliance resources . The key question then becomes how NATO plans and requirements can be used to influence national contributions . The Long Term Defense Program has not achieved that objective . The program has provided a blueprint for NATO priorities through the early 1990s , and it has increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requirements . The program , however , did not provide a mechanism for ensuring adequate resource commitments . The gap between alliance planning and national budgeting remains a central problem .  | If NATO is serious about a credible conventional deterrent in Europe , there is no alternative to a substantial increase in defense resources over the next decade . If the alliance goes further and broadens its strategic approach ? strengthens its military base , develops joint economic-military approaches to the East , and begins to think of security as a global rather than a European issue ? a redistribution of alliance roles will have to accompany the expansion in resources . In the absence of a clear consensus on how the increased effort should be distributed and with NATO 's limited ability to get national members to comply with central planning , the adjustments are likely to be incremental and painful . The risk is that alliance critics in the United States , who expect Europe to quickly fall in line with the new levels and global orientation of U.S. defense outlays , will become increasingly frustrated with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in turn , produce greater pressure for the United States to reduce its European alliance commitments and to pursue a more independent defense posture based on global mobility . The stark reality is , however , that frustrating as alliance relationships may be , the NATO structure still serves vital U.S. security interests at acceptable costs . Significant breakthroughs are more likely to  | come through intelligent diplomacy than through threats of bringing U.S. troops home if the allies fail to meet specific demands . Unfortunately , the formal NATO structure is extremely limited in its ability to deal with resource issues because of the difficulty of linking the common objective of deterrence to private national interests . As a result , the United States is more likely to influence the defense of contributions of other members through a web of bilateral relationships than through centralized alliance control . In analyzing the dynamics of NATO burden sharing , it helps to understand the principle of what economists call " public goods . " Public goods are products whose use by some consumer does not limit their consumption by others . Their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refuse to pay for them . For example , a lighthouse provides light to guide all ships into the harbor , not just the ships of the lighthouse owner . Clean air is enjoyed by everyone , not only those who pay for pollution controls . But ship owners who refuse to pay for the operation of the lighthouse can not be denied light , and the individuals who refuse to help finance pollution controls can not be refused the benefit of clean air . Understandably , private parties resist providing such public goods because some users are always able to ride free on the contributions of others . A governing body can solve this problem by taxing all users , but when no central authority exists the problem is more difficult to resolve . To some degree , NATO 's deterrence strategy is a public good . It benefits all allies , regardless of their defense contribution , and adding new members to the alliance does not significantly increase its costs or reduce the amount of protection on which the other members can depend . As a result , practical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bill : How do you link the amount spent on defense with the amount of security received ? Providing security for one of the allies normally improves security for all of them , but figuring out how much security each member truly wants and needs and getting each committed to a defense contribution commensurate with its true preferences is an impossible task . The same principles apply in a military alliance as apply in a free market in this regard . When public and private interests diverge ,  | a free market will generally not allocate resources effectively . As a rule , a market economy will tend to underproduce public goods , because there is no mechanism for forcing consumers to reveal their true preferences and pay an appropriate share of the cost . ' In applying the theory of public goods to the NATO alliance , U.S. economists Mancur Olson and Richard Zeckhauser stress that nations that place a higher absolute value on the public good of deterrence will wind up supporting a disproportionate share of the common burden ; the defense interests of countries that place a lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more concerned countries . ' A few countries will inevitably try to go along for a free ride . Olson and Zeckhauser argue that an unequal distribution of defense contributions in NATO is inevitable and that the larger nations , which have greater interest in deterrence , have little bargaining power to increase the contributions of the smaller members . They believe that attempts by the large members to convince the others to bear an equitable share of the burden are likely to be divisive , unproductive , and , on the whole , harmful to U.S. interests . The alliance , however , offers its members not only the public good of deterrence but also a number of " private goods , " or benefits with important private dimensions . The larger countries assume a larger share of the defense burden , for example , but they are also more likely to enjoy the advantages of leadership ( including the opportunity to influence strategy and the disposition of forces ) , greater political prestige , and increased opportunities for economic and political ventures with other allies . They have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have enormous peacetime implications , affecting among other things arms-production contracts , employment levels , and the international balance of payments . Obviously , force decisions are even more important in the event deterrence fails and conventional hostilities break out . The forward deployment of forces along the Federal Republic of Germany 's eastern frontier makes those forces more vulnerable than if they were further west , for instance , but the FRG has a major interest in ensuring that combat occurs as far east as possible . The shift from a NATO strategy of massive retaliation to one of flexible response , has , by increasing the range of responses , increased the importance of private benefits associated with different aspects of NATO planning .  | Olson and Zeckhauser anticipated that the dominance of the public-good aspects of the alliance , based on a strategy of deterrence through the threat of strategic escalation , would mean that large countries would contribute more . They did in fact find a strong correlation between national income and the share of income spent on defense . Recently this pattern has not held @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclear deterrence to one emphasizing a wider range of defense capabilities . ' Whereas Olson and Zeckhauser emphasize the public-good aspect of NATO objectives , the extent to which variations in force capability and distribution affect the different allies suggests that NATO defense is an impure public good . Forward defense in the FRG may be public good for the United Kingdom , but it has a strong dimension of private good for the Federal Republic of Germany and negotiations on deployments in the FRG are likely to reveal German preferences quite accurately . ' Although Olson and Zeckhauser do not provide a general theory of alliance behavior , their model remains an important point of departure for discussions of burden sharing . Without ignoring the dilemmas of leadership when burden sharing is disproportionate and defense efforts are suboptimal , they emphasize the pitfalls of applying too much pressure to increase alliance contributions and conclude that the distribution of alliance responsibilities will be based on an application of the self-interest of member nations . The corollary to their conclusion is that a redistribution of alliance contributions requires altering how members perceive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emphasize the private-good aspects of security ? tactics , jobs , contracts ? over which it has considerable influence , rather than the publicgood aspects , over which it has little control . The challenge of leadership in an alliance has been described as convincing members to place the common welfare above private interest ? at the same time using private interests to gain increased public commitments . ' To , convince other members to place the common good above national interests , alliance leaders are compelled to demonstrate their own commitment by accepting a disproportionate share of the burden . The constant danger is that countries like the United States will grow weary of the burdens of leadership and irritated that other allies , whom they may view as taking a free ride at their expense , do not value deterrence more .  | In the absence of mechanisms for compelling equal contributions , NATO leaders must exploit the web of bilateral relationships that link economic , political , and military interests among the member nations . In this context , shifts in alliance burdens are more likely to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ short-term pressures of an adversarial nature . The possibilities for using private interests to public advantage vary among different NATO cost-sharing programs . The NATO infrastructure program has been highly successful because it is precisely focused and links national and alliance interests . Coproduction agreements have the same advantages , although the number of such projects with significant economic savings has been limited . Joint NATO procurement projects , such as the purchase of the Airborne Warning and Control System ( AWACS ) , do hold the promise of directly supporting NATO requirements , but it appears that there will be many obstacles to this approach . Linking NATO planning with national resource commitments has been most effective at this level of individual projects , although even there the record is mixed . Efforts to influence aggregate levels of defense spending have been even less effective . The commitment of the allies to real annual growth in defense spending of about 3 percent a year , initiated in 1977 , has not been fulfilled precisely because it is not linked to specific national interests . The NATO infrastructure program , initiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to unanimously approved projects that provide operating facilities that would be available to all alliance members during hostilities . The program provides for airfields , naval bases , storage facilities for petroleum and ammunition , warning installations , navigation aids , communications facilities , training installations , forward storage sites , air-defense missile facilities , and wartime headquarters . It excludes facilities for the sole use of national forces , such as barracks . To minimize annual negotiations , infrastructure programs are approved in five-year increments , and the formula for sharing their costs is also renegotiated every five years . Annual increments to the  | program , or " slices , " are implemented by the host nations in which construction is to occur . Specific projects are proposed by the host nation , which agrees to provide the land and public utilities at no cost , and then approved by unanimous vote . Infrastructure programs represent less than 0.3 percent of NATO defense spending . Not surprisingly , allies who benefit directly from a project often assume a greater share of its costs . The United States , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , pays only 27 percent of infrastructure costs ; the FRG , which accounts for slightly more than 10 percent of total NATO defense spending , also contributes 27 percent of the infrastructure outlays . ' Contributions to the infrastructure program tend to be more balanced than other defense contributions because they are a small part of total spending , because they apply to specific , carefully monitored projects , and because they apportion expenses so that countries receiving most of the benefits contribute most of the costs . Infrastructure outlays are militarily significant because they are so closely linked with operating requirements . ' With all of these advantages , the obvious question is why infrastructure outlays can not assume a larger role in total NATO expenditures . Indeed , the United States has actively pushed for such an expansion , urging a midterm increase in the present five-year program . ' The characteristics that make the infrastructure program so effective , however , also limit its potential for expansion . For one thing , there is a strict requirement that projects serve common interests and be available to all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are excluded . Moreover , the host nation initiates and executes projects , so projects are generally sequenced based on national rather than alliance priorities . Many nations have sought a steady rate of construction to avoid inflationary pressures from surges in building programs . At the same time , the rule of unanimity in approving projects , designed to prevent concentration in any one country , tends to restrict the number of projects in the FRG . Finally , although infrastructure projects tend to increase employment and improve the balance of payments in a country , the host nations must still provide land , utilities , and access roads as well as a percentage share of other costs . These outlays must be weighed against other national needs , such as the infrastructure for national knees . ' Therefore , greater outlays for NATO infrastructure projects  | mean reduced spending for national forces , a fact of budgeting that tends to offset the obvious " multiplier " advantages of obtaining funds from other NATO countries for joint projects . Thus the small , precise scope of the programs and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encouraged equitable cost sharing and limited expansion of infrastructure projects . Moreover , a shift in the current program guidelines would require unanimous agreement , so a change to accommodate projects for national forces would be extremely hard to implement . In August 1975 , NATO authorized a jointly operated Airborne Warning and Control System ( AWACS ) , which would be structured around the " look-down " radar capability developed by the United States . A number of modified Boeing 707s with Westinghouse radar equipment were to be supported by a jointly manned main operation base and forward operating bases . A multinational memorandum of understanding was signed in December 1978 by the 13 participating countries ( NATO less Iceland and France ) for the joint procurement of 18 AWACS aircraft , at a unit cost of $70 million , plus 11 British Nimrod aircraft to be procured by the United Kingdom . In May 1979 , the United States signed an acquisition charter with the NATO Airborne Warning and Control Programme Management Organization ( NAPMO ) . The project is being implemented by the U.S. Air Force and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and maintenance costs represented a breakthrough in the scope of NATO collaboration , but the AWACS project also demonstrated the difficulty of making acceptable trade-offs between efficient procurement and equitable distribution of costs and benefits . Clearly , it would have been most efficient to purchase the aircraft and radar directly from the United States , however , that implied effects on the balance of payments and employment that were unacceptable in Europe . Hence some formula was required to offset these factors . Since 1961 the United States had been arguing for " offsets " to reduce the impact on its balance of payments of stationing troops in Europe . The Europeans were quick to suggest the same remedy for the AWACS project .  | The European allies wanted most of all to avoid net balance-of-payments losses , to sustain their own defense industries , and to encourage technology transfer to Europe . ' ? Accommodating these national goals meant sacrificing the economy and quality that come with specialization in international trade , but not to accommodate them would have made collaboration on the project politically impossible . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economically and politically acceptable . A 1976 study by RAND Corp . outlined four possible offset strategies : internal offsets within the project , such as coproduction of component parts ; external military offsets , such as U.S. agreement to procure other weapons and equipment from Europe ; external nonmilitary offsets , including changes in the civil trade sectors to benefit the European allies ; and financial offsets , such as the U.S. purchase of European government bonds at below-market rates of interest . The RAND study concluded that structuring offsets within the AWACS project itself would be very inefficient , that external nonmilitary offsets would be difficult to implement , and that financial concessions would be strongly opposed politically . RAND stressed that external military offsets would be the most effective means of meeting all objectives , particularly given the broader objectives of developing a two-way street in arms trade between Europe and the United States . The authors of the report predicted , however , that the allies were most likely to settle on the inefficient alternative of using internal offsets , because of the simplicity of limiting trade-offs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handled through economically inefficient but politically acceptable coproduction arrangements , despite substantial increases in costs . ' However , the coproduction agreement determined only how the benefits of production would be distributed , not how system acquisition and operating costs would be divided . In the end , ground-system costs were apportioned according to infrastructure shares . The costs of aircraft acquisition were divided according to a complex formula based on ability to pay , investment costs , benefits of industrial collaboration , and U.S. research and development expenses . Final shares were 32.94 percent for the United States , 20.02 for the Federal Republic of Germany , 7.65 for Canada , 22.61 for the United Kingdom , and 16.78 percent for the other participants . '  | The AWACS procurement combined inefficient internal offsets , typical of virtually all collaborative defense projects , with the same format for negotiating budget shares that NATO used for the infrastructure system . To the extent that AWACS sets a precedent as a NATO system based on a group assessment of an urgent military requirement , it constitutes a major success for the alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insistence on its own aircraft system , the allies ' failure to agree on more efficient offsets , and the complex process of determining equitable cost shares demonstrate the limitations on projects of this type as a prototype for alliance procurement . The potential for expanding a project-oriented program such as AWACS to include a larger part of defense outlays is limited . One alternative is to determine NATO 's broad requirements and get national commitments to expand defense budgets enough to meet those requirements . This approach emphasizes expansion of the total resources available to the alliance . Simple rules of thumb , such as commitment to expand defense spending by a designated percent each year , are anathema to budget analysts , who like to balance the incremental costs and benefits of competing programs . They are not devoid of merit , however . In a 1981 article on defense budgeting , Herbert Stein , former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers , sympathized with the advocates of such rules of thumb , arguing that the ordinary bureaucratic machinery frequently yields dangerous answers to questions of gross requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed , he continued , not as an alternative to rational decision making , but out of frustration with the reality of inertia , inadequate information , uncertainty , and special interests . The problem with rules of thumb is that without an analytical base they are difficult to sustain . As Thomas C. Schelling wrote in The Strategy of Conflict , commitments based on an agreed-upon principle are often more convincing than those based on an arbitrary quantitative standard . " NATO 's agreement in 1977 to increase real defense spending on the order of 3 percent a year was a response to the perception  | that " logical " national budget processes were not producing the resources the alliance needed . The " 3 percent solution " was plagued from the start by problems because it involved an arbitrary commitment to a specific quantity with no reference to quality . The agreement grew out of the 1977 London summit ( the third in a series of economic summit meetings conducted by the United States , the United Kingdom , the Federal Republic of Germany , France , Italy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Council meeting . At the latter meeting , President Carter urged the alliance to adopt a number of steps designed to improve efficiency and to emphasize long-term priorities . He argued for a long-term defense program ( LTDP ) that would stress improvements in combat capability , nuclear-force modernization , and equipment standardization and that would provide specific goals through 1984 . Although the allies approved the concept of an LTDP. neither the summit nor the council meeting dealt with the question of how such a program could be financed . That task fell to the Defense Policy Committee ( DPC ) , which met a week after the council meeting . After a good deal of negotiation , the DPC accepted U.S. Defense Secretary Harold Brown 's proposal for annual real increases in defense spending of about 3 percent per year from 1979 to 1983 . One year later , the agreement was elevated to a communique by the heads of state at the Washington summit held in May 1978 . In a 1981 study known as The Three Per Cent Solution , the staff of the Foreign Policy Research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and improved efficiency rather than increases in resources , Europeans saw the 3 percent proposal as a way of increasing the U.S. contribution , which had been declining through the 1970s . Certainly , the 3 percent figure was developed more as an estimate of what was politically and economically feasible than as an assessment of the resource needs implied in the LTDP . The authors of the study observed that the LTDP and the 3 percent rule arose from different concepts and were related more by coincidence than by analysis . Almost immediately , interpretation of the 3 percent commitment challenged accountants on both continents . Debate reopened on all of the key measurement problems : What price index should be used to convert current outlays to constant-dollar or " real " outlays ? What outlays should he included as defense expenditures ? Did the rule apply to all defense spending or just NATO-related  | spending ? And should funds committed to future programs be counted , or only actual expenditures ? To the standard array of questions were added the difficulties of measuring growth and the possibility of shifting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of growth . Between the London and Washington summits , Washington bureaucrats argued about whether the commitment would imply real increases in defense spending . The Office of Management and Budget argued that only NATO related outlays should be counted , the National Security Council argued that the rule be applied to the entire defense budget , and the Department of Defense held that under NATO accounting conventions all defense spending is counted as a NATO contribution on the grounds that it provides resources that could be made available to NATO . The United States finally decided to accept the NATO accounting conventions and agreed in December 1977 to increase real total defense spending , but the public debate caused understandable concern in Europe . " The Federal Republic of Germany also waivered on interpretation of the 3 percent commitment . German Defense Minister Hans Apel , who in 1978 had argued for a strong link between the 3 percent increase and implementation of the LTDP , switched positions in 1979 and suggested that only programs related to NATO force improvement should be counted , not total defense outlays. " 8 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use in converting annual outlays to real expenditures . Thus publicly released figures on real defense growth have been made available only after a considerable time length . Figures now available suggest that although growth has been in the " region " of 3 percent , most countries have not met the target figure . Table 5 compares increases for the first five years under the 3 percent rule with the average rate of growth in defense outlays from 1971 to 1978 . The first column shows three countries with rates of growth well below 3 percent in the years before the 3 percent rule : Portugal , which was withdrawing from colonialism ; the United Kingdom which had a dismal economic record the whole decade ; and the United States , whose annual real defense spending actually declined an average of 2.69 percent a year in that period . Using NATO definitions , seven countries exceeded the 3 percent target between 1977 and 1978 ( before it was officially endorsed at the Washington summit ) , six countries met the target from 1978  | to 1979 , four countries reached @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1981 , and six between 1981 and 1982 . Recent declines in defense spending in Denmark , the Federal Republic of Germany , Italy , Norway , and the Netherlands are particularly disturbing in light of their larger growth rates from 1971 to 1978 . In the 1970s , real defense spending grew more rapidly in Europe than in the United States , so Europe 's share of total NATO spending increased . That pattern has now been reversed . Although current defense budget projections are highly tentative , the Department of Defense in the spring of 1982 anticipated real increases in outlays  | ( according to national definitions ) from fiscal year 1982 to 1987 of 7.7 , 10.5 , 8.0 , 9.6 , 8.0 , and 4.6 percent , respectively . Even substantial reductions in these rates would leave U.S. growth well above European levels . An average growth rate of 6 percent in the United States and 2.5 percent in Europe would push the U.S. share of total NATO outlays from 57 percent in 1980 to 63 percent in 1985 . Agreement to sustain real defense growth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preventing major shifts in alliance burden sharing . One can criticize the 3 percent rule as producing only marginal adjustments to overall defense spending , generating counterproductive efforts to juggle defense accounts , distracting attention from the more important issue of the content of defense spending , and serving in some cases to put a ceiling on defense outlays . However , a general guideline on resource commitments will remain important as a standard of long-term contributions . Over time , the accounting confusion will diminish because annual juggling acts can not hide long-term trends forever ; already there is broader consensus on how the 3 percent is to be measured . It is more difficult to counter criticism that the growth rule is not linked to NATO strategy and provides no help in gauging the effectiveness of NATO outlays . The 3 percent rule does focus on input , without sufficient concern for strategy , and the LTDP does focus on output , without sufficient concern for resources . The underlying problem is the gulf between alliance planning and national budgeting . Greater emphasis must be placed on linking resource @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense spending will ever be " enough , " because security risks can never be completely eliminated . Practical decisions about how much defense is enough require judgments about the level of risk and about competing claims on resources . No analyst can argue that 3 percent annual increases are essential . One can only describe the balance of forces and estimate potential risks at different growth levels . Unfortunately , defense analysts have not produced a menu of alternative force structures based on different spending levels . Indeed , they seem almost reluctant to indicate the real levels of spending needed simply to keep pace with the Warsaw Pact countries  --  as if the magnitude of their estimates might encourage a sense of futility .  | The 3 percent rule reflects a political rather than a military assessment of reality , but once it was made it developed a life of its own , becoming a symbol of commitment both to NATO and to the concept of sustained real growth in defense spending . Ironicallly , the problems of measurement have helped sustain the principle . Apparent shortfalls can be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in interpretation . In any case , the NATO defense ministers made a standing commitment to the 3 percent rule in 1981 and reaffirmed it in 1982 . The commitment to 3 percent growth in defense spending remains a troubled aspect of NATO policy . Dependent as NATO is on national budgeting processes , a pledge to a particular rate of growth is effective only as a long-run target ; disputes about yearly variations in spending can be dangerously divisive , particularly given the problems of measurement . The 3 percent solution is simplistic and isolated from strategic planning , but given the decentralized nature of NATO 's budgeting , it is difficult to conceive an alternative . Certainly the alliance would benefit , however , from a thorough analysis of how different paths and increments of spending would affect national interests and how those interests could be exploited to achieve alliance objectives . Clearly , defense spending in the NATO countries is shaped primarily by decentralized national budgeting processes . Although NATO planners try to influence the level and structure of national defense spending , pressures from NATO are remote @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . NATO 's infrastructure program , which unlike most NATO programs links NATO planning and budgeting , represents only an infinitesimal part of total defense outlays , and the factors that allow equitable burden sharing in that program also limit the potential for its expansion . The few systems that NATO itself has procured , such as the AWACS , have been financed through a complex set of internal offsets that have added to project costs . Therefore , NATO is unlikely to purchase more than a few such commonuse systems .  | The infrastructure and AWACS projects emphasize common NATO funding of specific alliance programs . The 3 percent rule illustrates another approach : providing a broad target to keep national contributions at a common level . The 3 percent rule does not change the current distribution of defense spending within NATO . Indeed , implicit in the common growth rate is a deemphasis on burden-sharing arguments and a focus on increasing NATO 's total defense budget so that the alliance can try to match the force improvements of the Warsaw Pact alliance . The problem with such a simple @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inevitable assaults from domestic budget slashers . Moreover , the focus on real growth is difficult , depending as much on inflation rates as on specific outlays . The difficulties of measurement have made the 3 percent standard more politically acceptable in some ways : Shortfalls can always be debated , and performance can not be measured right away . They have also reduced its effectiveness in stimulating defense efforts . It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that NATO defense outlays approximate a zero-sum game ? an exercise in which the size of the pie is fixed , and negotiations affect only the distribution of slices . The size of the pie is determined by the sum of national budget decisions , which in the long run are influenced by national perceptions of how much threat exists and how much military power is needed to meet it . The size of the pie can be altered only to the extent that NATO succeeds in convincing its member nations of the reality of the threat . Meanwhile , formal cost-sharing programs have only a marginal impact on total spending levels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efficiency , but their scope is limited , and they often exist at some cost to national defense programs , as in the substitution of NATO infrastructure spending for national infrastructure projects . When NATO pushes a particular measure of defense effort , performance judged by that measure appears to improve , but probably at the expense of other goals . Moreover , the process of measurement itself can distort the thing being measured , as the 3 percent rule illustrates : To some extent , member nations may have simply shifted outlays between years to give the appearance of larger increases . This does not mean that such rules are not useful or that priorities should not be defined , but it does suggest that any single  | criterion is apt to be misleading and that a range of programs is needed to ensure that standards do not slip . The prospects for fundamental reform of NATO financing are limited . The programs that have helped the most to integrate NATO are restricted in nature , and those that could have a broad impact are hostage to national budget planning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the NATO burden , the tools to bring it about are limited . Any division of effort is more likely to reflect changing national assessments of the degree of threat than centralized decisions on equity . If greater defense effort is required and a revised division of effort is needed , how can they be achieved ? The release of a massive infusion of resources through greater production efficiency remains unlikely . Centralized alliance programs do not have the required impact on national programs . The alternative may be to emphasize the private-good aspects of the alliance through bilateral arrangements that can link economic , political , and military interests . This would require emphasis on the unique characteristics of each member and stress quiet diplomacy based on a broad range of common interests . To explore the possibilities of such an approach , we turn now to a sharper focus on bilateral U.S.-FRG relationships and their linkage to overall NATO objectives .  | context of the alliance to deal with problems outside the traditional alliance boundaries . At the alliance level this translates into acheving real growth in defense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those outlays on NATO priorities through the Long Term Defense Program ( LDP ) , modifying priorities to accommodate the new structure of the U.S. rapid deployment force , and dealing with such economic factors as high technology trade with the East that have the most direct effects on Soviet military capabilities . Most of this can be pressed within current alliance negotiating procedures . Many of the fundamental adjustments can not , however , be pursued effectively within normal alliance channels . Several issues ? adjusting alliance roles to accommodate a new Japanese defense posture , developing a coordinated economic and military approach to the East , linking Soviet global capabilities and actions to EastWest negotiation strategy cut across interests of the alliance members that can not be handled within the limited regional military context of NATO . The NATO structure can adjust incrementally to accommodate shifts in some of these areas , but it can not be expected to integrate the global and economic issues that lie outside the formal range of alliance responsibilities . Such fundamental adjustments must be handled through an interlocking web of bilateral relationships that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ used to facilitate the achievement of alliance objectives . For example , consider the broad range of U.S.-FR ( relationships , including questions of negotiating strategy with the Soviet Union over strategic arms , intermediate-range nuclear missiles , conventional forces , Common Market steel subsidies and agricultural tariffs , the COCOM ( Coordinating Committee ) lists of restricted military-related exports to the East , the Siberian natural-gas pipeline deal , host nation support of U.S. forces in wartime and peacetime , terrorist attacks on U.S. bases , treatment of minority soldiers , macroeconomic policies that affect export markets , capital flows and exchange rates , coordinated policies toward nations , particularly Poland , that have defaulted on international debt payments , and cooperative policies to reduce and manage energy dependence . This list , of course , is only suggestive , but even these issues point out the enormous overlap of bilateral relationships that cut across economic and military concerns .  | To oversimplify , the Federal Republic of Germany 's ability to meet the NATO target of 3 percent real increases in defense outlays will depend primarily on the pace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contributions may depend very directly on issues of host nation support of U.S. forces at the level of facilities , social acceptance , and personal security . Each of these issues lies outside the range of formal NATO relationships , yet each has a vital impact on NATO 's overall security posture . An emphasis on the bilateral context of security relationships makes policy analysis far more difficult , but it also makes it far more realistic . Calling on all U.S. allies to meet specific targets and support common policies is one thing . Understanding and nurturing the unique capabilities of each ally is more difficult , but potentially far more effective . This section explores specific aspects of U.S.-FRG security relationships that illustrate the possibilities and problems of using the full range of bilateral relationships to reinforce common security objectives and to help the NATO alliance in adjusting to the pressing issues that lie outside the traditional alliance framework . We begin with an analysis of the unique FRG role within the alliance and proceed in subsequent chapters to highlight bilateral security and economic issues . The Federal Republic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in NATO . One of NATO 's main problems has been to manage German military strength in a way that provides for the security of the FRG and its neighbors at the same time that it ensures an effective link between the U.S. strategic nuclear deterrent and the European theater . The forward deployment of U.S. forces in the FRG under the NATO framework allays fears of German military power , provides a link to the strategic deterrent , and makes a conventional defense of Europe credible . At the same time , the strength of the Federal Republic 's conventional forces , its economic leadership in Europe , and its preference for joint European action have greatly strengthened alliance solidarity . The ERG 's special relationship with France , nurtured by  | President Giscard d'Estaing and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt , was the key to numerous breakthroughs in political and economic cooperation within the European Community . That relationship , together with the forward deployment of two French divisions in the FRG , served to strengthen France 's commitment to NATO . Furthermore , the leading FRG role in promoting detente @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also gave the FRG increased influence in northern Europe . Moreover , economic ties that the FRG developed with Eastern Europe provided the alliance with potentially important channels of communication and influence . Because of its close relationship with the United States , its leadership position in Europe , and its channels to the East , the FRG role has been critical to alliance strategy . For the first half of NATO 's history , the Federal Republic of Germany was clearly subordinate to the United States . A surge in German economic and military strength in the 1960s began to shift the power structure within NATO , producing growing pains but not the growth in FRG political influence one might have expected . At this point , however , the FRG has clearly acheved parity with the United States in the sense that neither country is capable of preserving the current international system without the other . ' This vital role makes it extremely difficult to evaluate FRG alliance contributions on any meaningful scale . In any case , it is useful to evaluate the FRG military role in Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Federal Republic 's share of total NATO outlays rose steadily from just under 5 percent in 1960 , to over 6 percent in 1970 , to almost 11 percent in 1975 before settling back to roughly 10.4 percent in 1980 , placing the FRG second to the United States in defense spending , just ahead of the United Kingdom and France . The Federal Republic of Germany accounted for almost 21 percent of Europe 's NATO outlays in 1980.2 With per capita defense spending of $423 in 1980 and a reserve force of 750,000 , the FRG ranked second only to the United States . ' By some other measures , the FRG contribution , though substantial , was less impressive . FRG defense spending as a share of GNP  | was only 3.3 percent in 1980 , placing it seventh in NATO ; a 14.8 percent share of defense outlays going to equipment ranked the // was the fifth largest , as was the ratio of reserve forces to its total labor force . Some critics contend that the low proportion of GNP going to defense indicates that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the scale of FRG commitment and its large per capita contributions . They say , moreover , that figures on defense outlays do not take into account the land and tax exemptions provided for allied forces , adjustments for the lower pay levels permitted by a conscript force , and forms of host nation support that do not enter the national budget . When such factors are added in , the Federal Republic compares favorably with other European allies , although it falls short of the U.S. commitment to defense of 6.2 percent of the GNP . Most criticism of the FRG effort focuses not on the level of current defense spending but on the trends implied in recent budget decisions . The Federal Republic 's defense budget grew at a real annual rate of 2.91 percent from 1971 to 1978 , met the NATO guideline of 3 percent in 1978 , then began to decline , remaining under 2 percent a year from 1980 through 1982 . Current projections for 1983 suggest the prospect of no real growth in defense outlays . The major question is whether these declines represent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward defense cutbacks . FRG defense outlays in the 1970s produced one of the best equipped forces in NATO : A field army of 335,200 troops deployed in 12 divisions provided half of the forces of NATO 's central army group . The FRG has contributed an impressive six armored divisions , which constitute about 20 percent of all alliance armored divisions in Europe and more than 25 percent of those in northern Europe . That force includes roughly 3,800 main battle tanks , accounting for almost 40 percent of NATO tanks in northern Europe , which will increase to about 4,900 tanks when the Leopard II deployment is completed . ' The naval force , which accounts for about 70 percent of NATO combat vessels in the Baltic , includes 24 submarines , nine destroyers , and 112 naval aircraft , whose mission is to defend the Baltic , approaches to the Baltic , and part of the North Sea . An air force of  | 106,000 men and 552 combat aircraft provides roughly 30 percent of combat air strength in central Europe . ' The Federal Republic 's system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military force and a constant supply of trained reservists for each service . Roughly one quarter of the reserve force of 750,000 completes reserve training every year . Thus the FRG can mobilize 1.25 million troops relatively quickly . A core of six territorial force brigades , manned in peacetime at about 50 percent strength , can be expanded in wartime to 12 brigades with 480,000 reservists . ' That represents a formidable force with recent training . There are , however , several problems with the current and projected force structures . Critics have argued that the force needs more reserve divisions and equipment , better preparation of border defenses , greater emphasis on war reserve equipment and expendable stocks , and larger annual outlays for equipment modernization and research and development . ' Trends in military spending have provoked particular criticism . Through the 1970s the Federal Republic was able to increase real defense spending and , at the same time , to expand public spending for social services even faster . From 1961 to 1979 , the total federal budget increased 370 percent , while military outlays increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average real rate of growth in military spending of 2.1 percent was exceeded by an overall annual increase of 4.3 percent in the national budget . National prosperity permitted an emphasis on social budget priorities without retarding military growth . Slower economic growth in the 1980s , however , has brought sharp cuts in projected military spending . Those cuts have sharply reduced training levels and procurement : 14 of 62 procurement programs in the LTDP have not been carried out . Unless the relative priority assigned to social programs in the budget is reversed , further delays in key equipment programs must be expected . Equipment deficiencies will be exacerbated by personnel problems that are inevitable , given current population trends . The annual pool of potential conscripts will start to fall in 1983 , dropping below the current 252,000 required to sustain the force by 1988 . The number of conscientious objectors is also increasing , particularly among Germans who have passed the qualifying examination for university study . This poses a problem for the force structure .  | More important , it may represent a challenge to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has the Federal Republic contributed substantial conventional forces , it has also consistently supported alliance nuclear strategy , although with little enthusiasm for potential warfighting roles for nuclear weapons . By signing the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty , the FRG accepted important limitations on its strategic military role , committing itself to rely on its NATO partners ' assurances of nuclear deterrence . Chancellor Schmidt helped initiate arguments to modernize at the theater nuclear force level to combat Soviet deployment of the SS-20 missile on the grounds that such forces constitute a vital link between Europe and the U.S. strategic nuclear deterrent . The ensuing debate produced NATO 's 1979 " double-tracked " decision : to negotiate with the Soviet Union , yet at the same time to deploy Pershing and ground-launched cruise missiles unless the Soviet Union could be persuaded to halt deployment of the SS-20 . However , the Federal Republic played a mediating rather than a leading role in pressing for modernization and agreed to deployments on FRG soil only if at least one other continental ally also participated . Concern with FRG support of this vital element of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decisions but on its leadership in implementing change , the limits to its commitment , and the vocal , though as yet ineffective , domestic opposition to deployments on FRG soil . Beyond supplying substantial conventional forces and supporting NATO 's decision to modernize the theater nuclear force , the FRG has consistently advocated NATO coproduction agreements as a vehicle for promoting standardization , partially because of its aversion to foreign arms sales as a means of reducing weapon ' costs . It is also participating in the first " family-of-weapons " agreements , through which participating countries will divide research , development , and , ultimately , procurement of different weapon systems after they have agreed on tactical and performance requirements . More facilities have been constructed in the FRG under the NATO infrastructure program than in any other country , and the Federal Republic has agreed to a share of infrastructure costs equal to that of the United States .  | The history of the agreements to offset the balance-of-payments effects of the forward deployment of U.S. and British forces reflects FRG sensitivity to the financial implications of NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ net impact on international monetary relationships . Recent emphasis on host nation support has produced a bilateral agreement with the United States concerning wartime support ; negotiations on forms of peacetime support have progressed more slowly . On the whole , FRG support of NATO strategy in many areas indicates a willingness to carry its share of the alliance burden , but a reluctance to assume leadership in any reallocation of responsibilities . FRG nonmilitary contributions to NATO are difficult to evaluate unambiguously . The Federal Republic 's leadership in trying to coordinate European monetary policy and its support of joint European Community policies reinforce common European military defense efforts at the same time that they often conflict with U.S. priorities . Bonn 's provision of economic aid to Turkey and Greece since 1964 and Portugal since 1978 has already helped the alliance . In the wake of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , the Federal Republic supported the boycott of the Moscow Olympics , expanded its aid to Turkey and Afghanistan , and indicated a general readiness to do more in Europe if the United States committed forces to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against the Soviet Union after the invasion of Afghanistan , and it has been criticized , severely in some quarters , for its reluctance to impose economic sanctions when martial law was declared in Poland . The United States in particular has been unhappy that the FRG did not cancel the Yamal gas-pipeline agreement with the Soviet Union . On the other hand , the FRG policy of sustaining a consistent , if limited , level of economic interaction with the Soviet Union provides the alliance with a broad framework for later use of sanctions and incentives to influence Soviet behavior . Economic sanctions have become a major issue among the allies , who approach Fast-West trade differently and who have different  | perceptions of the success or failure of detente and the potential effectiveness of sanctions . Some critics of FRG policy believe that too much is dictated by German interest in the East-West trade , particularly in certain export sectors , and by German sensitivity to the effect reduced trade would have on employment , and , hence , on German politics . But although East-West trade is certainly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason for the FRG position on economic sanctions . The Federal Republic wants an effective long-term policy framework for East-West relationships and views economic incentives and sanctions in that light . In Bonn 's experience , economic sanctions against the Soviet Union , particularly in connection with Berlin , have not been effective . Substantial concessions were reached in the 1970s through economic incentives , however , so the Germans see some role for incentives in long-term policy with the East.i l Criticism of the FRG role in NATO has centered on the trend toward reduced military outlays , Bonn 's reluctance to use economic sanctions , and its reluctance to be a more forceful leader on issues such as modernization of intermediate-range nuclear forces . Criticism of FRG actions outside the traditional NATO region generally focuses on how persistently FRG policy conflicts with U.S. policy . Bonn supported the European Community 's initiative for a Middle East solution involving the Palestine Liberation Organization , for example . It emphasizes the use of economic aid rather than military threats to resolve crises , stresses regional development , and deemphasizes the East-West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ none of these positions to the point of serious confrontation with the United States , a history of persistent disagreement on global matters has made some critics question the extent of FRG NATO military commitments . Except for the most recent budget trends , however , Bonn 's military contribution in Europe has been exceptional . One problem with shifting alliance strategy to emphasize nonmilitary and global objectives is that it threatens the consensus on European military security that lies at the heart of the alliance . Critics of the Federal Republic could take advantage of such a shift to raise fundamental questions of FRG loyalty despite its vital military contributions to NATO .  | The security provided to all members of the alliance is not proportionate to their national contributions , so some countries tend to take a free ride at the expense of the others . As the first line of alliance defense , however , the FRG does not have the luxury of relying on others to make up for shortfalls in its war-fighting capabilities and has a major interest in sustaining the other allies ' contributions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ FRG border is particularly important because the country is so narrow , and the border is so close to major population and industrial centers . FRG vulnerability gives the alliance a good deal of leverage over German military contributions , but certain political , economic , and demographic realities limit the Federal Republic 's ability to enlarge its military commitments . The special nature of FRG history continues to limit the size and form of FRG military strength and the nature of Bonn 's leadership . The size of FRG armed forces remains an issue with many of its neighbors , particularly France . The FRG constitution limits the role of its armed forces to defensive action , which has been interpreted as action only in the NATO region . The Federal Republic has renounced the development of nuclear weapons , and a reversal of that policy would clearly be viewed with great alarm in many countries , particularly the Soviet Union . Any role for FRG forces outside the NATO region would resurrect all of the issues associated with Germany 's behavior in the two world wars . Josef Joffe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is already Republic of Germany ( RG ) Africa Corps and asks if NATO really wants the FRG equivalent in the Middle East . ' Such nervousness about the German military does not affect marginal shifts in the German military role , but any radical shift in the FRG alliance role would bring a sharp reaction . Because of the Federal Republic 's commitment to European institutions , its perception of economic and political interdependence with the rest of Europe , and its special relationship with  | France within the European Community , it tends to act as a broker in a multilateral , consensual approach to formulating policy . ' 3 As a broker , the Federal Republic of Germany is not free to take the lead in a redivision of labor within the alliance , but it is wellsuited to participate in a more gradual adjustment of tasks . The FRG could not help to build a force projection outside the NATO region without fundamental redefinition of its role as a military force , nor without a clear NATO mandate for a shift in responsibilities . As it stands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic initiatives . In this area , the Federal Republic is less restricted by its own history , and the limitations of its military power can be viewed as a real advantage . The FRG commitment to NATO and the central importance of the U.S. nuclear deterrent to FRG security has not , until recently , been questioned by any of the major political parties in the Federal Republic . The coalition of the Christian Democrats ( CDU ) , Christian Socialists ( CSU ) , and the Free Democrats ( FDP ) has affirmed its commitment to NATO 's double-tracked decision on theater nuclearforce modernization and has agreed to the NATO pledge of sustaining real defense growth of roughly 3 percent a year . The Social Democratic Party ( SDP ) , which moved into opposition with the fall of former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt 's government , was committed to a strong defense position within the alliance , but during the campaign prior to the March 6 , 1983 , elections , it moved further left , particularly on the issue of intermediate-range nuclear-missile deployments . The radical left wing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its antiwar , antinuclear , environmentalist orientation , question the NATO commitment as the foundation of FRG security . Ostpolitik , which was a central element of SDP foreign policy under Chancellor Willy Brandt , is now widely accepted as a dimension of FRG politics , and the CSU/CDU/FDP coalition has agreed to the validity of the agreements reached by the earlier SDP/FDP coalition . The emergence of Chancellor Helmut Kohl 's coalition government should therefore mean a slightly heavier emphasis on military priorities and a slowing of initiatives toward the East , but should by no means produce a major shift in the basic structure  | of foreign policy . Moreover , the major parties all broadly accept the social programs that have expanded greatly over the past two decades . The CSU/CDU/FDP coalition might reduce the rate of growth of social spending , but it will probably not greatly reduce programs already in place . As a result of this broad consensus on the key elements of domestic and foreign policy , policy disagreements have tended to arise from within a bloc , not from outside.14 Within the former @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the FDP favored larger reductions in social programs , and the SDP urged tax increases to sustain social spending . To reduce the stridency of arguments about the budget , the principle of proportionate reduction was employed , so that military spending was cut in the same proportion as social programs , even though social spending increased at a much higher rate than defense spending over the past decade . Thus despite a strong commitment to NATO , slowed economic growth and a budget structure that favored social programs worked to produce real cuts in defense spending . The March 1983 elections sharpened the differences between the ruling coalition and the opposition . The SDP candidate , HansJochen Vogel , stressed differences with the CDU/CSU on the deployment of intermediate-range missiles , and at the end of the campaign , he even mentioned the possibility of a working arrangement with the extreme Green coalition . The SDP share of the vote dropped from 42.9 percent in 1980 to 38.2 percent in 1983 , but this was probably more a rejection of SDP economic than foreign policies . The Green coalition picked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 5 percent minimum required for representation in the Bundestag , in a sharp improvement over its 1980 showing of 1.5 percent . Thus , although the SDP lost strength in parliament , its shift to the left in the campaign , coupled with Green representation , implies a vocal opposition to defense programs that must be managed carefully by the Kohl government . Priorities can of course be shifted , as the first Reagan budget showed . But even with a broad consensus to increase military spending and reduce the growth of social programs , the Reagan administration faced great opposition to its subsequent budgets . In the FRG , radical budget changes would be resisted not only because of normal pressures from the bureaucracy and interest groups , but also out of concern for the stability of the political structure . Although the  | United States often views the Federal Republic as a model of political stability , there is a strong sense in the FRG that economic prosperity has shielded the system from destabilizing pressures and that a lower rate of growth could raise fundamental social problems . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Germans a sense of pessimism , despite the Federal Republic 's recent enviable record . Thus , in addition to the short-term constraints of sustaining the new Kohl coalition , any Bonn government would face general resistance to a drastic restructuring of priorities . The Federal Republic has survived many recessions , but the current state of its economy will clearly affect its role in NATO . The economic downturn in 1974-75 , caused by the rapid increase in oil prices after the OPEC embargo , produced a surge of inflation , a fourfold increase in unemployment , and a real reduction in national output . Real growth rebounded sharply from 1976 to 1979 , and the rate of inflation fell back to more normal levels for the FRG . But the level of unemployment did not recover so quickly . By 1980 recession came again , after the drop in Iranian oil production . In 1981 the real rate of economic growth was negative , inflation remained at about 5 percent , and the unemployment rate surged above 5 percent . At the same time , the German mark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pressures , particularly from oil purchases made in dollars . The devalued mark made FRG products more competitive on world markets and helped to stimulate exports , but despite forecasts of partial recovery in 1982 , the real rate of growth actually declined another 0.6 percent in the first quarter . Moreover , high levels of unemployment persisted , and the proportion of foreign citizens unemployed continued to rise . It was no longer possible to export the unemployment problem by returning foreign nationals to their homelands because they were now long-term residents . So unemployment brought with it new problems with non-German , particularly Turkish , minorities . The vulnerability of the Federal Republic to shifts in foreign trade , underscored by energy dependence on the one hand and Japanese competition on the other , has generated real concern about  | the long-term performance of the FRG economy . Continued high rates of growth , which financed higher private-living standards , larger social programs , and real growth in military spending , are no longer taken for granted . The FRG faces unpleasant new constraints in setting national priorities . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unequal load in international organizations such as the European Economic Community and is reviewing its long-term capacity to sustain current military and social programs . At the same time that economic growth problems threaten new military programs , particularly procurement of new equipment , declines in the population pool required to sustain the military force structure will force difficult adjustments . The Bundeswehr will either have to expand the role of women in the force ( a step that is unlikely , judging from comments in the FRG Ministry of Defense 's 1979 White Paper ) , lengthen the period of conscript service , increase the retention rate of volunteers , or reduce the active force . " Thus the Bundeswehr will face real problems in sustaining the current force structure , much less expanding it . And given the pace of current procurement programs , adjustment to a more equipmentheavy force structure does not seem feasible . We have just been discussing the Federal Republic of Germany 's ability to change its armed force in peacetime . The perception that war was imminent would of course expedite reallocation of resources @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ perceive that enough threat exists to substantially shift the level or structure of its defense effort . Short of actual conflict , the central security issue for the FRG is how to handle the reality of Soviet power on a crowded continent in which any outbreak of hostilities , conventional or nuclear , would have disastrous consequences . The FRG strategy is one of political deterrence . The Germans view military capability as but one element in a broad effort to raise the perceived costs of using force , reduce the benefits of military action , maintain channels for defusing crises , and politically influence any decision to use force . The FRG considers a strong NATO and a clear link to the U.S. strategic deterrent as central , but not the only , factors in defense strategy .  | The FRG process of Ostpolitik involves seeking political agreements to open channels of communication with Eastern Europe , to ease RG emigration restrictions , and to secure Berlin 's position . The FRG has used both Ostpolitik and incentives to foster a structured interdependence with the East . This process was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ label detente would suggest , as to provide more room for negotiation to achieve political objectives that could not be obtained through confrontation . When the United States shifted toward a policy of negoatiation with the Soviet Union in the early 1970s , it was for different reasons . The United States was primarily interested in gaining support for initiatives to end the war in Vietnam and in reaching agreement on strategic arms limitations . Thus it perceived detente as a global security process . The FRG viewed detente as a highly successful political process aimed at regional political objectives . ) The FRG regional political detente was reinforced by U.S. global security detente , which permitted more room for maneuver at the substrategic level . However , U.S. disenchantment with the continued Soviet military buildup , Soviet military behavior , and the results of the negotiation process effectively ended U.S. detente with the Soviets . U.S. and FRG policy diverged . To the FRG , the Helsinki Final Act ( which confirmed the North American role in European security and served as a basis for humanrights debates in Eastern Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relaxation of emigration restrictions represented clear gains achieved through a policy of political negotiation . Ostpolitik required a tremendous investment of political effort and the painful deferment of reunification . But the German nation had traditionally existed as several states , and the process of detente had brought the country improved access and communication , a goal perhaps as important to the German nation as reunification . Although the Federal Republic of Germany agrees with the United States that the Soviet use of force anywhere can not be condoned , the FRG is far less likely than the United States to sacrifice what it sees as major steps toward peace and political normalization in Europe in the name of global security . Just as the FRG sees deterrence in a political framework , so it views NATO primarily as a political arrangement to commit the United States to European defense . The United States is more  | inclined to view the alliance as part of a global security system . Although U.S. planners stress the danger of a direct conventional attack on the FRG , the Federal Republic emphasizes the importance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ defense analysts , added military capability inevitably increases security . FRG analysts often stress the social , economic , and political costs of larger armed forces and conclude that too much defense is as dangerous as too little . The U.S. shift toward greater confrontation in its dealings with the Soviet Union limits the Federal Republic 's ability to negotiate regionally with the Soviets . At the same time , major economic problems in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union have reduced , not expanded , FRG use of economic incentives to arrive at political agreements . East Europe 's debt levels and Soviet military actions have increased the perceived risks of long-term economic projects with the East , particularly those based on Western credits . Although the Federal Republic has declined to renounce projects to which it had already agreed , the pace of new projects has slowed considerably , and the Eastern share of total FRG trade has declined since 1975 . Although Bonn continues to emphasize the need for continuity in its economic relations with the Soviet Union , the reality is that market conditions and the risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level of economic interaction . The agreement at the 1982 Versailles summit to exchange information on credit arrangements with the East and to review such projects periodically implies a reduced scope for national initiatives in the future . A major obstacle to a redivision of labor in NATO is the difference in how various nations perceive threat . To the Federal Republic , continuing negotiations with the East are vital to a policy of political deterrence , and the negotiating process should not be hostage to short-term problems with the Soviet Union outside of Europe . To the United States , Soviet global behavior must dictate the pace and form of any negotiation . Bonn is more apt to emphasize regional issues , the political framework of military deterrence , the importance of national will , and the long-term importance of economic relations with the East . Washington , on the other hand , stresses the importance of global forces to deterrence and the leverage available from short-term variations in economic relations . Differences over  | East-West economic relations may become less important as the Eastern debt structure reduces trade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likely to persist until the role of negotiation in East-West policy is clarified . Economic constraints , FRG perceptions of European and domestic political pressures , and differences in FRG and U.S. interpretations of the nature of the Soviet threat seriously reduce the likelihood of a major adjustment of the FRG role in NATO . Certainly the prospect of an FRG military role outside of the region is virtually nonexistent . The further discussions of a redivision of labor within NATO stray from the core issue of military roles in Europe , the more rapidly consensus declines . Questions of military specialization ? conventional versus nuclear capability , the balance of ground , air , and naval forces , and the issues of active versus reserve troops ? cause fewer problems than questions of nonmilitary cooperation . Agreement is more difficult to achieve on such aspects of NATO policy as regional aid to countries in NATO 's southern flank , economic and political relations with Eastern Europe , and military , political , and economic initiatives in the Middle East and the Third World . For some members of the alliance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disguised attempts to reduce contributions to the alliance . For others , the discussions offer an opportunity to redefine national nonmilitary initiatives as serving NATO purposes when in fact they were conceived to serve primarily national purposes . To redescribe NATO roles without actually changing them is to sidestep the fact that NATO 's real defense resources must be expanded , not reduced , and national objectives must be increasingly subordinated to NATO objectives . As the nature of East-West relations has changed from confrontation to detente to the current posture of defense and negotiation , the relative importance of an effective division of labor within the alliance has increased . Under a policy of confrontation , interaction with the East was limited . With a strategy of massive retaliation , convincing the East that NATO would be willing to retaliate was  | more important than figuring out what different allies would contribute to defense . Under a policy of detente , East and West interacted more , but detailed coordination of political negotiations was not so vital at first as it would later become . The strategy of a flexible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but as political negotiations with the East assumed greater importance in alliance strategy , emphasis on the military was reduced accordingly . The current policy of defense and negotiation requires far greater coordination ? not only to sustain the military strategy of a flexible response , but also to integrate a subtle new balance of political and economic incentives and sanctions . But as the problems with the Federal Republic of Germany illustrate , forging a consensus on anything more than incremental military changes will be difficult . NATO forces not only provide a military deterrent , they also reinforce NATO 's political structure , and any new division of military responsibilities must reflect both of these functions . The U.S. conventional force in Europe must be large enough to convince both the allies and the Soviet Union that conventional defense is feasible , but not so large as to suggest a strong reluctance to use nuclear weapons , if necessary . The FRG force must be large enough to help combat any threat to NATO effectively , but not so large as to be threatening to political or military relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be large enough to ensure that nuclear first use is not the only alternative in alliance strategy , , so that the U.S. nuclear deterrent does not become hostage to weak conventional defenses in Europe . Restructuring of military responsibilities within the alliance must take account of these broad principles , but within them there is room for substantial adjustment . The most common argument in discussions of new military roles in NATO is that the FRG must assume a greater conventional military role , particularly in concentration of ground and reserve forces , to free U.S. troops for potential roles elsewhere , particularly in the Middle East . Despite problems posed by the current recession . in the long run the FR ( : could clearly expand its NATO )  | commitments enough to take up any slack produced by a diversion of U.S. support troops , although such expansion would face important domestic opposition in this period of reduced funds for active forces of the Bundeswehr . A major withdrawal of U.S. forces would clearly place enormous strains on the European allies , however , and the FRG capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or threatened withdrawal of sizable U.S. forces , if viewed as punishment for perceived weaknesses in European defense commitments or as an incentive for greater European efforts , would be far more likely to undermine the political and military structure of the alliance than to add to U.S. security . The Federal Republic of Germany could clearly play an important economic and political role within the European Economic Community by providing aid to NATO 's economically troubled southern tier ( particularly Portugal , Greece , Turkey , and now Spain ) . Its strong trade position , its preference for economic aid as an instrument of foreign policy , and its long record of aid to southern Europe make the Federal Republic a natural leader in promoting political stability through economic development . It would be more difficult for the FRG to coordinate EastWest policy , , because the political priorities and economic interests of the NATO allies differ fundamentally , and the allies disagree about the impact of short-term changes in economic relationships . Alliance consensus on global objectives is also limited . NATO policy in the Middle East and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ again , national priorities in these areas differ fundamentally . The Federal Republic , whose constitution essentially prohibits any force projection capability outside of Europe , believes economic assistance could relieve the bases for many conflicts , and it would emphasize regional development strategies to prevent crises rather than military arrangements to combat them . The Federal Republic has also displayed a strong preference for multilateral approaches through the European Economic Community in initiatives outside the region . The FRG approach frequently conflicts with the U.S. approach , which stresses the security dimension of crises , especially their impli- As a global superpower , the United States is sensitive to any potential escalation of conflict that might ultimately threaten strategic stability . The FRG , which has more limited military obligations , has more flexibility and can afford to emphasize economic issues . Understanding such differences in perspectives does not make policy coordination any easier . Because consensus on global policy h unlikely , calls for a division of labor on global issues usually emphasize the advantages of multiple approaches and the value of exploiting diversity within the alliance . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ help prevent disagreements about them from making consensus on the central issue of European defense more difficult . Central to any reorganization of NATO responsibilities is the future FRG role in the organization . Among other possibilities , the FRG could serve as a special link between NATO and the East , could play a stronger leadership role in a European defense organization , or could continue acting as a broker for the alliance . Even if the FRG remains essentially the alliance broker , as is likely , it will have to change its defense posture to be more flexible and effective . The FRG central position in the NATO alliance , its healthy trade relations with Eastern Europe , and its successes with Ostpolitik make it a natural candidate to be intermediary in EastWest relations a role encouraged domestically by pressures from the SDP 's left wing and the emerging Green coalition and externally by increased confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union . Chancellor Schmidt 's role in pressing for negotiations with the Soviet Union over the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces suggests a broader role for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limit FRG flexibility as an fastWest intermediary , however . Foremost among these is its need for  | a firm anchor in the West to make up for its military disadvantages in dealing with the Soviet Union . Without strong alliance support , Moscow 's military advantages over the FRG will inevitably translate into political advantages . The triangular relationship between the Soviet Union , the Republic of Germany ( RG ) , and the Federal Republic of Germany further constrains Bonn 's freedom to maneuver . Moscow 's relationships with the RG are of central importance to its overall position in Eastern Europe , so Soviet concessions to Bonn are ultimately limited by the Soviet need to sustain control in the RG . Although the FRG need for natural resources and the Soviet need for manufactured goods and high technology suggest tremendous trade potential , trade requires credit and long-term trust . Growing debt levels and a deteriorating political climate in the East have retarded the development of trade and , therefore , have limited the incentives Bonn can offer Moscow . The special FRG relationship with France is also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign policy . The FRG , which prefers to act in concert with the European Economic Community and NATO , is sensitive to allied criticism of unilateral initiatives in Eastern Europe . It was stung by the Western press 's bitter attacks of its slow response to the imposition of martial law in Poland . Finally , although increased confrontation between the United States and the Soviet Union theoretically increases the value of FRG lines of communication to the East , the increased linking of strategic and substrategic issues also makes such communication more difficult . As former Chancellor Schmidt emphasized , the Federal Republic of Germany 's strength is its firm anchor in the West , based on a close relationship with the United States . Suggestions that it lead in developing a European defense organization designed to give Europe a more independent role within NATO tend to ignore how such a change would affect FRG-U.S. relations , on the one hand , and are unrealistic about the prospects for greater political cooperation in Europe , on the other . Proposals fora more independent European role have been urged throughout @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ viable alternative to a major U.S. role in NATO , because Europe alone can not meet the Soviet threat or resolve the issue of managing FRG strength . Critics such as Pierre Lellouche , director of studies of the French Institute of Foreign Relations in Paris , argue that Europe has never made a serious effort in its own defense and could create a credible force based on FRG conventional strength and French and British nuclear power . However , such arguments exaggerate the deterrent effect of European nuclear forces , understate FRG political , economic , and military vulnerability , and overstate the degree of political consensus in Europe . The prospects for an independent European security framework remain dim . As Cornell Professor Peter Katzenstein has argued so effectively , FRG vulnerability and preference for a consensus approach to change make it far more comfortable as a regional broker than as a global leader . Bonn 's preference for subtle negotiations frequently exposes it to criticism from those who expect forceful initiatives or sharp shifts in policy , but the value the Federal Republic places on balance and continuity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In the past , Bonn 's negotiating position was based on a strong alliance defense commitment , a commitment that provided the balance of defense and detente urged in the Harmel Report . While the United States used detente as an excuse for reducing defense spending in the early 1970s , real increases in FRG defense spending slowly increased the FRG share of total NATO outlays . More recently , however , FRG defense spending has slowed in real terms , while U.S. outlays have surged . Critics have charged the Federal Republic with pursuing detente too long and ignoring the adverse shift in the balance of military power , the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan , and the imposition of martial law in Poland . FRG cutbacks in defense spending and its disagreement on Middle East and Third World policies have threatened NATO consensus on the structure of European defense . The NATO allies have begun once again to argue about nuclear weapons , forward defense , and the level of U.S. deployments.  | Defusing alliance problems may be partly a matter of changing perceptions of FRG defense contributions . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if negotiations should fail has become a central part of its defense contribution , and top priority should be given to fulfilling that obligation . The FRG has also committed itself to a 3 percent rate of growth in real defense outlays , which has become a political symbol of commitment . Although there is nothing magical about a 3 percent growth rate , an FRG failure to approach that target would be damaging . The FRG host-nation support program , plus improvements in its war reserve stocks and reserve readiness , could also have great political significance , particularly in the United States , where such programs are taken as key indicators of the commitment to a viable conventional deterrent . The FRG may well be able to make modest improvements in ground and reserve forces and to expand its role in coordinating development aid to NATO 's southern tier and the Third World . However , shifts of NATO responsibilities that call for a substantial withdrawal of U.S. forces , a sharp increase in FRG active forces , or joint FRG military operations outside of Europe are likely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can remain effective as a broker within the alliance only if it continues as a strong contributor to the alliance , but it should arrive at that conclusion as part of a general consensus rather than being threatened to do so by shortsighted threats of massive U.S. withdrawals of troops , threats that would ultimately endanger both European and North American security .  | Most NATO objectives are public goods in the sense that benefits can not be limited to those who contribute . Moreover , many of the common objectives of alliance members ? limiting energy dependence , promoting economic growth , regulating East-West trade ? are beyond the scope of the formal NATO structure . One way to influence the level and structure of alliance contributions is to link private benefits from alliance ? influence over strategy , procurement patterns , economic gains ? to cooperation in providing the public good of deterrence . This is certainly not a new idea . The U.S. Congress has understood for some time that pressure on the level of U.S. forces in Europe , either explicit or implicit , could be used @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to host countries , such as the Federal Republic of Germany ( FRG ) , and there were formal bilateral programs in the 1960s to offset those advantages . Offset programs demonstrated FRG willingness to support common security arrangements and increased the Federal Republic 's influence on the evolving strategy of flexible response . This linkage of U.S. troop deployments , offsetting economic impacts of . such deployments , and alliance strategy has played an important role in the structure of FRG-U.S. security relationships . Under the Bretton Woods System of inflexible exchange rates , offsetting balance of payments impacts of troop deployments  | was a major concern . Bilateral U.S.-FRG negotiations on the issue emphasized financial flows rather than the level of FRG alliance contributions . The linkage of troop deployments to such offset contributions was rarely made explicit , but it was clearly an important influence on the form of bilateral relationships . Although the shift to a regime of floating exchange rates in 1973 eliminated the rationale for offsetting balance-of-payments impacts , the implicit leverage from U.S. overseas deployments has remained . The precise relationship of general entreaties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed Stevens ' amendment , which would cut U.S. troop strength to 331,700 ? to specific FRG responses has not been made explicit . ' Much of the Congressional debate , however , has focused on the welfare of U.S. troops and , in particular , on long-term construction projects . These issues fall under the general heading of host-nation support and raise fundamental questions on the appropriate mix of responsibilities between the U.S. and FRG governments . The ideas of linkage and leverage are not neutral terms . They suggest patterns of pressure that could well be counterproductive in a consensual alliance . But it might be possible to use those interrelationships in ways that move both parties into closer agreement on the best ways of providing and sustaining appropriate contributions to deterrence . Efforts by one partner to simply cut contributions and force the other to contribute more could well be counterproductive , but efforts to expand the contributions of each partner in ways that are mutually reinforcing could have a multiplier effect on the overall level of deterrence obtained . Specifically , agreements on expanded FRG contributions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in U.S. attitudes toward the alliance and thereby sustain greater levels of overall effort . Bilateral offset and host-nation support agreements therefore have a special place in an examination of linking relationships outside the formal alliance structure to the pattern of alliance contributions . Although offset arrangements were linked to balance-of-payments issues that are no longer central , they provide an important precedent for other possible agreements and useful insights into the difficulties of executing compensatory payments schemes . Host-nation support issues are frequently raised in the context of offset agreements , but they differ in their emphasis on direct budgetary support . Such arrangements could play a role in any shift toward a sharper  | alliance division of labor , but they raise numerous questions in defining national financial obligations . The forward deployment of U.S. troops in Europe and the dominant position of U.S. arms producers have produced opposite effects on the U.S. balance of payments , with the former generating a flow of dollar claims overseas and the latter a return flow to the United States . Because the net flow of outlays for troops in Europe has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ produced a net flow of dollars overseas . Beginning in 1961 , the United States pressed the FRG to help offset the balance-of-payments impact of troop deployments by expanding weapon purchases from the United States and undertaking other actions in support of the dollar . Between 1961 and 1975 , eight such agreements were reached . These agreements can be understood only in the context of the Bretton Woods System under which the United States agreed to convert its currency to gold at a fixed exchange rate . Other nations pegged the value of their currencies to the dollar at fixed rates . The international Monetary Fund ( IMF ) was established to help maintain the fixed rate system and to permit members to borrow funds as needed to support their currencies . If a country developed chronic balance-of-payments problems , it was expected to alter its domestic economic policies by imposing tighter fiscal and monetary restraints and thus reduce its demand for imports . Currency devaluations were only a last resort , and then only with the approval of the IMF . A country 's balance-of-payments position involves three kinds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the sale of exported goods and services and debits for purchases of imported goods and services . Second , the capital account includes credits for the flow of funds into a country for direct investment or the purchase of domestic securities and debits for flows out of the country for investment overseas . Finally , changes in the reserve positions of central banks reflect the net flow of funds resulting from transactions in the current and capital accounts . Prior to 1971 , the United States consistently ran surpluses in its current account because of its strong trade position . Substantial  | investments overseas , including Marshall Plan assistance , more than offset the current account surpluses , producing , however , an accumulation of dollars overseas in the form of increases in the dollar reserve position of central banks . These dollar balances did not threaten the value of the dollar as long as central banks were content to hold them . The dollar overhang became a problem in the mid-1960s when Charles DeGaulle demanded conversion to gold at the fixed exchange rate . The problem subsided as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the dollar overhang remained . Faced with a deficit in the U.S. current account and growing speculation against the dollar , President Nixon abandoned the convertibility of the dollar to gold in 1971 . By 1973 , a system of flexible exchange rates had replaced the Bretton Woods System , and the related obligations to defend fixed exchange rates no longer applied . Thus the offset agreements between the U.S. and the FRG began in the period of mutual obligation to support the fixedexchange-rate system and ended as the system of flexible exchange rates was introduced . The offset agreements were based on the narrow view that a subset of the wide spectrum of international transactions , those relating to NATO military outlays , should be kept in balance . Of course such a limited perspective ignores the offset in other trade and capital flows . The same problems encountered in attempting to balance currency flows within a collaborative program of equipment development and production are met when any subcategory of trade is considered in isolation . For example , the impact of military outlays on the balance of payments depends @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1980 the United States had a surplus in arms sales to NATO , a deficit when direct outlays to support troops in Europe are included , an overall surplus in merchandise trade with Europe , a deficit in total merchandise trade with the entire world , a surplus in the overall current account , a deficit in long-term capital flows , and a surplus in short-term capital flows . ' Attempts to shift the balance in one portion of the payments accounts alters the pattern of overall international specialization and has ripple effects in other areas . To argue that U.S. outlays for troops in Europe should be offset by a return flow of dollars in some specific accounting category , for example arms purchases in the United States , is to ignore the offsets that already exist .  | Nevertheless , the political pressure in the United States to eliminate any balance-of-payments effect from U.S. troop deployments was intense . In November 1960 , a U.S. mission arrived in Bonn to ask the FRG government for $650 million for the support of U.S. troops there . The United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ NATO imposed a persistent drain on the U.S. balance of payments and that the United States should be relieved of the resulting pressure to take steps domestically to defend the dollar . In 1961 the FRG signed the first of eight offset agreements , providing not for direct payments to the United States but for a two-year program of arms purchases totaling $1.425 billion . As shown in Table 6 , the agreement was renewed in 1963 and expanded in 1965 to include advance payment for future arms purchases and the early repayment of postwar debt . Faced with budget problems , Ludwig Erhard 's government asked for relief from the agreement in 1966 , but Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara responded by threatening to cut U.S. troop deployments to the level of the FRG offset.4 U.S. insistence on the offset contributed to fiscal problems that led to the fall of the Erhard government in November of that year when the Free Democrats defected from the coalition with the Christian Democrats . After the completion of the FRG military buildup , the focus of the offset agreements shifted more and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ $500 million in U.S. Treasury bonds at market interest rates as well as a pledge not to convert dollars into gold . After the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 , military purchases again assumed a larger role in the offset arrangements . In 1971 the first agreement for direct payments in support of U.S. troops was reached , with a commitment of 484 million for barracks renovation . The last agreement for an offset of some $2.2 billion was reached in 1973 just as the concern over the level of troops deployed in Europe reached a peak in the United States . In 1976 the Federal Republic agreed to provide $68 million in support of construction associated with the shift of one U.S. brigade to northern Germany , but the agreement was reached outside the context of the normal offset process , which by then had yielded to the new system of flexible exchange rates .  | accounting ingenuity more than real adjustments , and it came at a significant political price to the FRG . The main purpose of the offsets was to assist in the stabilization of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not to convert dollars to gold . It is not at all clear that any of the transactions in the agreements were actually changes from the normal pattern of international trade and capital flows . The equipment purchases from the United States would undoubtedly have occurred without the agreements because the FRG defense industry had not yet recovered and U.S. equipment was the cheapest and best available , although the flow of equipment payments would have been delayed until delivery rather than the negotiated policy of advance payment . The purchase of Treasury securities created a short-term flow of dollars to the United States , but also required a subsequent return flow of interest and principal to the FRG . Moreover , such purchases constituted a logical use of accumulating dollar reserves in the FRG . Thus the net impact of such transactions based on negotiated agreements was not to alter the normal flow of funds , but simply to provide a link between the military account and the capital account in the balance of payments . The net saving from the sale of securities was the marginal difference between market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have had some small impact on the timing of transfers , but they had little effect on the overall level of transactions . After 1973 the stated objective of stabilizing the dollar no longer made sense in a system of flexible exchange rates , but the negotiations continued for the next three years from their own momentum . By that time , they had become part of the debate over the level of U.S. troop deployments in Europe . By 1950 , the U.S. occupation force in the FRG had declined ) to roughly 98,000 , and total deployments in Western Europe carne to only 122,000 , as indicated in Table 7 . The U.S. vision of N A I t ) as an extension of the strategic nuclear deterrent did not originally include a large forward deployment of U.S. forces in Europe . The Korean War changed all that . By 1953 , U.S. troops in the FRG had  | increased 250 percent , to 254,000 . Despite the subsequent addition of FRG forces to the alliance , U.S. deployments in the FRG have remained remarkably stable since the mid-1950s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ issue after Soviet actions in Hungary in 1956 and the periodic Berlin crises of the late 1950s and early 1960s , but by the middle of the 1960s the large deployment of U.S. troops surfaced as a major strategic and political issue in the United States . Debate over the deterrent role of tactical nuclear weapons , France 's departure from NATO 's military structure over the issue of control of strategic nuclear weapons , the question of appropriate burden sharing now that the European economies had recovered , and the prospect of substantial commitments in Vietnam caused U.S. policy makers to reevaluate the role of U.S. troops in NATO strategy . In August 1966 , Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield introduced the first of several " Mansfield resolutions " calling for substantial troop withdrawals from Europe on the grounds that the European allies were capable of contributing more and that U.S. strategic forces would act as a deterrent even if U.S. ground forces were dramatically reduced . Although Mansfield never linked proposed force reductions to specific European actions , his resolutions strengthened the hand of those who wanted to use @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The offset negotiations of the 1960s took place at a time when policy in several areas was being reexamined . As economists reappraised the international economic system , NATO was revising its strategy , adjusting to France 's new independent role in the alliance , and becoming more conscious of the implications of U.S. commitments all over the world . The question of troop deployments centered on how the new policy of flexible response was to be implemented , how overseas deployments would affect the U.S. balance of payments , and , tangentially , how the stationing of troops in Europe affected the U.S. budget . The weight of evidence suggested that shifting U.S. troops to the United States would reduce the U.S. budget only if the units were deactivated or no provision were made for their quick return to Europe.6 With that in mind , plans to return as many as two divisions to the United States were abandoned . Early in 1967 , the United States decided to withdraw two-thirds of a division but  | to rotate the division back to the FRG for annual exercises . The units @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ REFORGER ) exercises began in 1969 . When the Soviet Union invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968 , the European allies ( except for Portugal , Iceland , and France ) formed EUROGROUP to promote an upgrading of Europe 's contribution to NATO . EUROGROUP held its first informal meeting in 1968 , partly in response to U.S. pressures , and later produced annual " packages " outlining European commitments . A study led by Netherlands Minister of Defense Wim Dem Toom recommended a European Defense Improvement program ( EDIP ) , which projected extra European defense expenditures of $1 billion over five years . The program was adopted in December 1970.8 Meanwhile , despite Congressional pressure , President Nixon decided to press for financial support of the dollar rather than direct support of U.S. troops and to dissociate consideration of troop levels from the issue of offset negotiations . The president declared in his 1970 speech to the Atlantic Council that U.S. forces would be withdrawn only in a framework of mutual force reductions ? a position that proved extremely useful in countering Congressional pressure for unilateral withdrawals . ' The year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " marked a turning point in the debate about troop withdrawals , although arguments persisted through 1975 . In May 1973 , the White House issued a National Security Council decision memorandum stating that it should be U.S. policy to convince Europe to pay for the extra cost associated with assigning U.S. troops to Europe rather than the United States , including costs for items such as transportation , relocation allowances , and dependent education . While the White House labored over the nuances of support , Sen. Mansfield launched another major attack on troop deployments . In September , t he Senate voted 49-46 to pass Mansfield 's amendment to the annual appropriations bill requiring withdrawal of 40,000 troops from Europe . Only a major administration effort succeeded in reversing the vote the next day , to 44-51. 1 n November , Sens . Henry Jackson and Sam Nunn headed off pressure for unilateral reductions by guiding through an amendment of the 1974 defense appropriations act requiring troop reductions in Europe proportionate to any reduction in offset payments . The Jackson-Nunn amendment also urged the allies to increase their  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : troops in Europe . This pressure on budget offsets was a departure from the traditional emphasis on balance-of-payments offsets that had , by then , become irrelevant . // ensured that the terms of the amendment would not be invoked . Meanwhile , the October 1973 Middle East war , with increased readiness levels of U.S. and Soviet forces , heightened the importance of the troops in Europe , and pressure for unilateral withdrawals declined as talks on mutual and balanced force reductions ( MBFR ) began in Vienna . The final Mansfield amendment was defeated in June 1974 by a vote of 35-54 . A new Jackson-Nunn amendment passed in August , requiring withdrawal of 12,000 support troops by June 30 , 1976 , but stipulating that they could be replaced by combat forces . Two brigades were deployed to replace the withdrawn support troops . By this time , the focus of discussion was shifting from troop levels to combat readiness as NATO became acutely conscious of the need for more efficiency . The introduction of flexible exchange rates ended negotiations for balance-of-payments offsets at about the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ withdrawal from Vietnam ended pressure for troop withdrawals . At a Washington summit meeting in 1976 , President Gerald Ford and Chancellor Helmut Schmidt announced that flexible exchange rates made further offsets unnecessary . The FRG made a one-time payment of $68 million for construction costs to help relocate a brigade to northern Germany , but it was not regarded as an offset . ' 1 The greatest U.S. pressure for troop withdrawals came at a time when detente seemed to have reduced the possibility of conflict in Europe , when the United States had enormous commitments in Southeast Asia , and when economists were especially sensitive to the impact of military payments on the evolving international monetary system . In the context of troop deployments to Vietnam , force adjustments in Europe in the late 1960s were minor , but they were big enough to mobilize the European allies to minimize furl lief reductions , particularly after the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia . The realities of the situation stimulated a greater European willingness to accept offset commitments and to increase contributions to NATO .  | Whether the threat of troop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is another matter . Secretary McNamara linked troop withdrawals to offset discussions in 1966 , but after the Erhard government fell , FRG offset commitments were reduced and shifted from military purchases to finance . The Jackson-Nunn amendment of 1974 , designed to ward off unilateral withdrawals , may have had a marginal impact on offset negotiations , but the surge in European arms purchases that followed is probably better explained by the Middle East war . In any case , while the impact of threatened withdrawals on negotiations is debatable , the political effect in Europe was clearly strong resentment . Moreover , the emphasis in offset negotiations was on how troop deployments affected the international balance of payments , rather than on NATO burden sharing or alliance efficiency . Pressures the United States might have applied to improve the alliance were diverted to financial arrangements , which on the whole affected the international economic order very little . Even when the United States became concerned about the effect of troop deployments on its budget in the early 1970s , the momentum of earlier discussions was sufficient to divert attention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a period of flexible exchange rates . By the late 1970s , the United States was less concerned about how its balance of payments was affected by the forward deployment of U.S. forces and more concerned about the effect overseas deployments had on its budget . Devaluation of the dollar rapidly increased the costs of maintaining U.S. troops overseas and shifted U.S. attention to the role host nations could play in supporting those forces . The FRG had provided direct support to the United States in 1971 and 1976 , but normal policy was to offset effects on the U.S. balance of payments indirectly ( as through arms purchases ) rather than to directly reduce the level of U.S. outlays . Indeed , NATO policy and bilateral status-of-forces agreements specified that the support of deployed forces was the responsibility of the  | nation of origin rather than of the host nation . Major exceptions to this policy were the infrastructure program , which funded facilities used in common , and support of occupation forces in Berlin . The principle that each country would maintain its own national forces was consistent with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European allies should focus on maintaining their own forces rather than on reducing U.S. burdens . By the end of the decade , several factors caused policy makers to reconsider this principle . U.S. initiatives to develop a rapid deployment force primarily for Middle East contingencies raised questions about how much support should be expected from the NATO allies , particularly for the European support structure . Suggestions for a new division of labor and greater specialization within the alliance included different forms of host-nation support . The Long Term Defense Program ( LTDP ) , which emphasized alliance efficiency , served as a vehicle for considering the deployment of U.S. forces in the FRG . The U.S. Department of Defense , as part of its Master Restationing Plan , proposed a major construction program to rationalize the disposition of forces and facilitate force modernization . Members of Congress criticized the idea of such construction in Europe on the grounds that the FRG should help with the funding , just as Japan had agreed to provide more than $1 billion to defray U.S. operating costs for relocation-construction and facilities-improvement programs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reviewed what support the FRG was providing and how it could be encouraged to provide more . The department 's studies showed that the Federal Republic was already contributing substantial support by providing real estate , customs exemptions , payments for forces in Berlin , and direct support for maintenance and security associated with U.S. forces . Nonetheless , Ambassador Walter J. Stoessel transmitted eight points of concern about the support of troops to FRG Minister of Defense Hans Apel in November 1980 . According to Defense Department testimony , highest priority was given to the first four points : wartime host-nation support , the Master Restationing Plan , family housing assistance , and the modernization of facilities . The issue of wartime host-nation support offered the clearest opportunity for role specialization in the alliance , because a focus on the sequence of reinforcements the United States would need in wartime highlighted the prospect of initially augmenting coin hat  | troops rather than logistical support units . The use of FRG reserve units to provide rear-area security , medical , and logistical wartime support would have important implications for the peacetime @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Stoessel demarche , the FRG agreed to provide much of the requested wartime hostnation support , although details must still be worked out . " The more difficult issues of peacetime host-nation support are still under negotiation . The Master Restationing Plan poses problems because it involves shifting U.S. bases and , thus , raises complex issues of land ownership . U.S. forces now occupy land inherited during the postwar occupation . Proposed shifts in land ownership involve issues of who owned the land before the Nazis and , subsequently , the occupation forces took it over , as well as sensitive relationships between the Federal Republic and the Laender ( states ) on land use and taxation . Moreover , questions of funding responsibility between the country of origin and the host nation imply a review of the whole spectrum of existing support . These peacetime initiatives are proposed at a time when funding for the Bundeswehr , the FRG armed forces , is already strained by budget limitations . Additional host nation support would undoubtedly come only at the cost of competing domestic military priorities . The wartime host-nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the importance to NATO of bilateral initiatives . Despite Congressional pressures , however , the process of expanding such agreements to peacetime host-nation support raises basic questions about support responsibility and role specialization , not to mention difficult administrative problems . The danger is that important initiatives for force modernization and rationalization may be held hostage to the debate on appropriate levels of host-nation support . Budget concerns may detract attention from the potential effect on military readiness . Appreciation of the dollar may reduce some of the pressure for increased hostnation support , but the issue is likely to remain a major source of contention , with serious implications . The level and nature of NATO defense spending is vitally linked to the web of relationships between members . The history of offset  | negotiations between the United States and the FRG from 1961 to 1974 illustrates the importance of the link between NATO troop deployments , defense spending , and international economic relationships . Those agreements were negotiated at great political cost , however , and probably had little impact on the international flow of payments . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the support costs for U.S. forces in Europe . Replacement of the gold standard with flexible exchange rates , the devaluation of the dollar in the 1970s , and greater emphasis on a division of alliance behavior have shifted attention to the issue of host nation support . Bilateral negotiations on such issues can help shift resources for NATO programs , but NATO leaders must first untangle the confusion in current cost-sharing arrangements and the mix of obligations between host nations and the countries that send troops to them . Such relationships have a clear impact on NATO readiness and solidarity . Rationalization of troop deployments in the FRG is directly linked to the host-nation support implications of the Master Restationing Plan . Congressional emphasis on such support suggests that it has an important impact on perceptions of burden sharing . Thus host nation support appears to be an appropriate and effective area for linking bilateral interests and NATO goals . The history of offset agreements shows that this is a sensitive area , but it also reveals that bilateral influence can be used to support common interests .  | NATO @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests , but that convergence is now in jeopardy . Growing economic interdependence among the economies of the industrialized West , between North and South , and even between East and West , has made coordination of economic policies more important and more difficult . Security and economic interests are related in several important ways . In the broadest sense , national security interests are involved when national values are threatened in the international arena , and economic well-being is an important national value . Growing economic interdependence increases the vulnerability of national economies to overseas shocks and heightens the importance of economic factors as a component of national security interests . President Carter 's declaration that the Persian Gulf was an area of vital U.S interest was clearly related to the dependence of the U.S. and , more importantly , of its allies on crude oil exports from that region . Economic policy is also an instrument for pursuing national security objectives . The Soviet threat can be countered by expanding alliance military capabilities or by adopting economic policies that can weaken the military production capability of the Soviet Union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or linked to the behavior of potential adversaries , or changed quickly to impose sanctions against specific actions . Freezing the assets of  | Iranian citizens in response to the seizure of hostages at the U.S. embassy in Teheran was a clear application of economic policy to pursue national security objectives . Finally , the economic base of a country determines the potential military capability that can be sustained in support of national security objectives . To be sure , the percentages of national output that can be allocated to defense vary widely . In wartime , the economy can be expanded dramatically ? even beyond its long-term growth potential ? by using capital capacity to the fullest extent possible , expanding participation in the labor force , and accepting extraordinary inflationary pressures . Even in peacetime , some countries , such as the Soviet Union , are able to sustain large proportionate allocations to defense that might be socially unacceptable elsewhere . But short of hostilities , the proportion of national output allocated to defense remains remarkably constant over time within each country . As a result , changes in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Each of these relationships between economic and security factors has become more important . Interdependence has simultaneously placed national economies at greater risk in the international arena and provided a wider range of economic interrelationships with which national security interests can be pursued . Economic policy instruments have also grown in importance as the scale of destruction in modern warfare has expanded . Particularly in conflicts that might lead to involvement of both superpowers , policy instruments short of the actual use of force have become extremely important . Strategic nuclear balance between the superpowers has also increased the importance of conventional forces . If strategic nuclear escalation is perceived as less of a credible deterrent , actual conventional conflict becomes more likely . Moreover , superpower nuclear strength is increasingly irrelevant to conflicts that do not directly involve the superpowers . As conventional forces increase in relative importance , economic capacity to sustain those forces also becomes more critical . An age of rapid technological changes in weapon systems also places a special premium on a high-technology industrial base in general and on a dynamic research and development program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a strong , growing economy and the ability to pursue national security objectives is increasing .  | Coordination of economic policy within the alliance is therefore a vital element of security policy . Unfortunately , the current disarray in economic policy ? growing protectionism , fundamental disagreements on inflation and unemployment priorities , the burden of huge debt levels on the international banking system , a dismal record of real growth , and divergent views of East-West economic relationships ? threatens both the consensus on security policy and the economic base for pursuing it . The growing concerns with alliance burden sharing are largely symptoms of these fundamental economic problems . Surely there is a relationship between objections to Japanese commercial policy ? nontariff barriers to trade , export subsidies , undervaluation of the yen ? and growing hostility in West Europe and the United States to the small Japanese contributions to the common defense . Low rates of increase in real defense spending in the Federal Republic of Germany ( FRG ) are certainly related to low real growth in the FRG in particular and throughout the industrialized West in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the burden-sharing problems , but it would go a long way toward reducing the most troublesome symptoms in the short run and toward permitting a more reasoned approach to longer-term alliance issues . Although important mutual economic interests remain , economic pressures are producing divergent perspectives within the alliance that , in turn , strain the fundamental security relationships . The liberal postwar economic order was premised on the strength of the U.S. economy , the interdependence of Western economies , a limited amount of interaction with the command economies in the sphere of influence of the Soviet Union , and a dependence of the developing economies on growth in industrial markets . The expected interdependence of the Western economies did increase dramatically , but it was not matched by the growth in political integration that some had anticipated . Developments in the 1970s confirmed trends in each of the other areas that had already become apparent in the 1960s : The United States lost its position of overall dominance in the international economic system , the OPEC embargo  | and oil price increase illustrated the interdependence of the industrialized and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between East and West remained restricted , those relationships became an increasing irritant within the alliance . Moreover , the high rates of economic growth in Europe , which permitted rapid increases in per capita income , financed a wide array of new social welfare programs and strengthened the stability of the Western democracies , slowed sharply in the late 1970s and complicated alliancewide problems of dealing with rising inflation and unemployment . As shown in Table 8 , the rate of growth in real gross national product in the developed countries declined from an annual average of 5.1 percent in 1960-73 to 2.7 percent in 1974-81 . The output of those countries actually fell by one-half a percent in the recession year of 1982 . That pattern of secular decline in real growth held for the European community as a whole and for every major industrial country . The decline of real growth in the industrial West has increased competition within the West for export markets . It also crippled the economies of the non-oil-producing developing nations , which have been hit with large oil bills and dwindling export demand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , ran out of steam and then collapsed in the face of reduced exports and mounting debt . OPEC has fared better , but recent trends pose problems even for the oil exporters . Recession in the West , the emergence of nonOPEC sources such as NorthSea oil , internal OPEC disagreements over pricing and production strategy , and energy conservation measures are forcing at least short-term declines in crude-oil prices . Ironically , the long awaited decline in oil prices may prove to be a mixed blessing : Many developers of alternative energy sources and some exporters ? notably Mexico and Venezuela are deeply in debt . Substantial oil price drops could thus provide added pressure on a banking structure that is already in trouble . The Communist countries have done no better than the West , as illustrated in Table 8 . The Soviet Union benefitted from high oil prices in the 1970s , but its long-term structural problems are enormous . Eastern Europe has had even greater problems , with no growth in 1980 and real declines in 1981 and 1982 . Western banks , which supported detente @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there just as they were caught with excessive loans to the developing countries . The world economic system is clearly in a period of fundamental change , with important consequences for the balance of economic , and hence military , power . Moreover , economic instability increases the risks of a general political instability and expands the threat of hostilities . Political and economic systems that permit free access to world markets with limited , direct government involvement in trade or commercial relations clearly favor the relatively open economies of the industrial democracies . Current living standards in the industrial world are increasingly dependent on access to foreign markets , and loss of access or significant changes in the terms of trade that result from changes in the political systems of trading partners , for example Iran , represent serious threats to the economic vitality of the West and , hence , to its political health and security . Global military strength that prevents political change caused by external coersion thus has a direct impact on the political and economic systems of the alliance . To the extent that U.S. forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they contribute directly to alliance interests in regional economic and political stability . In the following sections , we examine the nature of current economic changes and their implications in more detail . As shown in Table 9 , patterns of economic interdependence vary sharply over different regions . The industrialized West dominates world trade with 61 percent of world exports and 64 percent of imports . Most of those transactions , some 42 percent of world trade , occur among countries in the West . Exports from the North to the South ( including OPEC and other developing nations ) account for 16 percent of world exports , and flows from the South to the North amount to some 19 percent . The COMECON nations still account for a small percent of the total , and half of that is within the COMECON bloc . This pattern of intense interdependence within the West , substantial North-South commerce , and limited interaction of COMECON with the rest of the world economy provides a useful context for discussing emerging economic trends .  | The postwar economic order was based on a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the disastrous competitive devaluations of the 1930s , a commitment to reduced trade restrictions in order to obtain the advantages of international specialization , and a recognition of the need for multilateral economic assistance to the developing nations . This framework established under the Bretton Woods agreements was institutionalized in the International Monetary Fund , the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs ( GATT ) , and the World Bank . The system envisioned a special role for the U.S. economy in general and the dollar to gold at a fixed rate , and the values of other currencies were pegged to the dollar , with the understanding that each nation would adjust its domestic monetary and fiscal policies to maintain the established , fixed exchange rates . Trade surpluses accumulated by the undamaged U.S. economy were offset by flows of dollars to Europe in the form of Marshall Plan aid and direct investment . Some scholars have argued that the system was also based on a tacit understanding that the special position accorded to the United States would be used to finance the bulk of the alliance 's security requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would reinforce the alliance commitment . ' Although the United States did assume the major financial burdens of the alliance , this was more through default than connection with any integrated economic-strategic framework , and while the United States did support , at least initially , the development of a united Europe , it is not at all clear that this policy was pursued as compensation for a privileged economic position . Nevertheless , the dominant economic position of the United States did permit it to assume and sustain an enormous financial and military commitment to NATO . Through the early 1960s , the United States was effectively shielded from international economic shocks because its strong program of direct investment overseas gave it secure access to raw materials and expanding international markets , international trade constituted a minute share of total economic output , and the role of the dollar as the international reserve currency permitted the accumulation of dollars overseas without excessive pressure for adjustments in the domestic economy to maintain fixed exchange rates . By the late 1960s , however , the shifting economic balance in  | the West @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of dollars overseas and the risk of deficits in the U.S. balance of trade made long-term convertibility of the dollar into gold at relatively stable exchange rates doubtful . President Nixon suspended convertibility of the dollar in August of 1971 , and the fixed exchange rate system was ultimately replaced in 1973 . Under the new system of floating exchange rates , market forces were basically left free to determine the relative values of international currencies , with intervention , in some cases substantial intervention , by central monetary authorities to keep adjustments from becoming too precipitous . This system was at first praised by advocates of free economic markets as a way of freeing domestic economic policies from concerns for the international economy . New problems , however , quickly emerged . Domestic inflation in the United States , in part a legacy of the failure to raise taxes to fund the war in Vietnam , helped to make U.S. exports less competitive , reduced the demand for dollars in international markets , and forced a significant devaluation of the dollar . This devaluation , which ultimately should have made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of imports and thereby added to the overall rate of inflation . The devaluation of the dollar was further fueled by the sharp increase of oil prices in the wake of the OPEC embargo . Of course , exchange rate shifts are based on changes in relative prices between countries , and the increase of oil prices in the United States was matched by increases elsewhere . The difference was in the way national economic policy reacted to the increases in energy prices . In the United States , monetary policy was used in an attempt to keep the real price of energy from rising . That is , the supply of money was expanded in an attempt to stimulate the economy and protect it from the real income losses being imposed by OPEC . This policy failed because of OPEC 's control of the terms of trade . The result of the rapid monetary expansion in the United States was further international pressure on the dollar . From 1973 to 1980 , the dollar declined by 43 percent relative to the German mark and by roughly 15 percent against a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ high U.S. interest rates in 1982.2 The new result was a clear illustration of the extent to which economic conditions in the United States were becoming linked to international economic developments .  | This growing interdependence was reflected in the degree of integration in international capital and product markets . In 1970 total foreign trade , including both imports and exports of goods and services , equaled roughly 8 percent of the U.S. gross national product , but by 1980 it was almost 25 percent of GNP . These aggregate figures conceal an even greater level of economic interdependence in particular market sectors . By 1980 fully one-third of U.S. acreage was committed to agricultural exports , one out of every six jobs in manufacturing depended on foreign markets , and one-third of U.S. corporate profits were derived from international investments and exports . ' As the interdependence of the U.S. and world economies was expanding , the dominant position of the United States as the world 's leading producer and trader was rapidly eroding . In 1955 the United States produced roughly one-third of the world 's output , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as high as that of the FRG . By 1975 the United States produced one-fifth of the world 's output , with a GNP only three times the size of Japan 's and less than four times that of the FRG . While the U.S. GNP was 50 percent higher than the total output of the European community in 1970 , they were roughly equal by 1979 . These aggregate figures were reflected in per capita income levels . By 1979 the United States stood just ahead of NATO ally Netherlands in per capita GNP and behind Denmark , the FRG , Luxembourg , Norway , and France While the importance of trade to the U.S. economy was growing , and flexible exchange rates made the economy more sensitive to international economic conditions , the U.S. share of international trade was declining . Exports by the European Economic Community and Japan grew rapidly , and the expanding competition for intermediate- and high-technology markets , particularly steel , automobiles , and consumer appliances , was reflected in disputes within GATT negotiations on tariff levels and other trade barriers . Until the 1960s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ freer trade through multilateral agreements . Its strong market position permitted substantial concessions in the name of greater world economic efficiency . By the early 1970s the United States had lost not only its market dominance but also much of its commitment to further liberalization . Powerful interest groups , such as the AFL-CIO , shifted from supporting free trade to pressing for import quotas and limits on foreign investment .  | At the same time , the interdependence of the developed economies was underscored by the need for the coordination of policies to manage the twin problems of domestic inflation and unemployment . Restrictive monetary and fiscal policies in one nation designed to reduce inflation could simultaneously limit growth and reduce employment elsewhere through the impact on international trade , interest rates , and international capital flows . In the late 1970s the United States was pressuring Western Europe and Japan to adopt less restrictive monetary and fiscal policies , to increase their rates of economic growth , and thereby to stimulate economic expansion in the United States and elsewhere . By 1981 the positions were reversed , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic policies and resultant high interest rates in the United States . Annual economic summits among the United States , the FRG , France , the United Kingdom , Italy , Japan , and Canada initiated in 1974 have expanded the mechanisms for coordinating international economic policies , but they have also reflected the extent of continuing disagreement . The degree of economic , much less political , integration in the European Economic Community has also been drawn into question by a growing polarization in national economic policies . The Federal Republic of Germany retained a strong commitment to avoiding inflationary pressures through restrictive monetary and fiscal policies , even in the face of substantial recession the early 1980s . The socialist government of Francois Mitterrand in France , on the other hand , embarked on a program of economic reflation in an assault on unemployment . These divergent policies threaten the current attempt to link the exchange rates of the European community in the European Monetary System ( EMS ) and further weaken the prospects for fundamental agreement on the management of the international economic system . At the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment with supply-side economics , whose basic tenet is that reductions in marginal tax rates , particularly for those at higher income levels , will stimulate economic activity and savings , thereby facilitating economic growth and simultaneously reducing inflationary pressures . The substantial tax cuts initiated in 1981 were accompanied by an unprecedented reduction in nondefense spending and a commitment to expanding defense outlays in a sharp reversal of national priorities . The projected deficits resulting from this  | combination of fiscal policies interacted with restrictive monetary policy designed to halt inflation to produce a sharp increase in interest rates . Those high rates threatened the success of the new economic program , strengthened the dollar on international markets , and drew sharp criticism from Western Europe in general and from former Chancellor Helmut Schmidt in particular . At the Ottawa summit in the summer of 1981 , Schmidt argued that high international interest rates , fueled by U.S. economic policy , were slowing growth in the FRG , adding to budgetary costs , and forcing reductions in all areas of expenditure , including projected increases in defense outlays . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing sense of pessimism , particularly in the Federal Republic . The energy crisis worked to slow growth rates in the West and to aggravate differences on economic policy . Despite important improvements in foreign policy coordination , reflected for example in voting patterns in the United Nations , the pace of economic and political integration in Europe has clearly stalled . Basic questions on the nagging problem of the Common Agricultural Policy , the future of the international monetary system , the commitment to a liberal economic order with its emphasis on reduced trade barriers , and adjustment to budgetary restrictions with implications for defense and social welfare programs all remain . The sense of pessimism is perhaps greater in Europe than in the United States , but even there the prospects of a supply-side miracle are dimming , and the reality of high interest rates , high unemployment , difficult budget choices , and continuing economic interdependence is a clear reminder of the economic constraints that will inevitably affect U.S. international security relationships . National Economic interests frequently diverge on specific relationships within the industrialized countries , but those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and common security interests . Policies of individual industrialized countries toward the developing countries are more sharply divided . Divergent historical experiences , political perspectives , and economic interests produce fundamental differences of ' opinion  | within NATO on appropriate policies toward the OPEC states and other developing countries . It is , of course , impossible to argue that there is anything resembling a West European position on virtually any international question , much less on highly complex relationships with the developing world . In public argument , however , European governments tend to be more sympathetic than the United States to the socialist orientation of many developing nations , less prone to view leftist political movements as threatening , and less likely to view political disputes as extensions of East-West confrontation . Such views may follow from fundamental differences in perceptions of political processes at work in the Third World , or from greater economic dependence on imported resources and export markets , or from budgetary and force-projection restrictions that limit the influence Europeans perceive they may have in other regions . But whatever the source , such divergent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for continuing dispute among alliance members . Of course , those broad generalizations about European attitudes must be modified by the special legacies of past colonial ties and traditional relationships with particular regions or countries . Nothing could illustrate the potential implications of such relationships more starkly than the conflict between Argentina and the United Kingdom over the desolate Falkland Islands . The OPEC oil embargo and subsequent surges of price increases , first in the mid-1970s and then again in 1979 , provided a sharp reminder of the dependence of the industrial nations on specific , critical raw materials and posed a major challenge to the international economic system . The oil price increases constituted a fundamental shift in the terms of trade between OPEC members and other nations and forced declines in real income levels outside OPEC . Attempts by the industrialized countries to avoid those real income declines through expansionary monetary policies or domestic price controls simply increased inflationary pressures and delayed the required fundamental adjustments to the new cost of energy . Prior to the second oil shock in 1979 , , resulting from the drop in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | conservation , to develop alternative energy sources , and to present a united front of purchasers against the OPEC supply cartel generally produced more internal bickering than concrete results . Cooperation improved after 1979 , primarily because lower rates of growth in the West and higher energy prices acted to limit demand and encourage conservation . Nevertheless , the fundamental issues of meeting future energy requirements and preparing the international monetary system for inevitable future problems remains . The first wave of petrodollars was recycled fairly easily in the early 1970s through the growing eurodollar market , a network of international banks primarily in Europe , Japan , and Canada that accept deposits and make loans in foreign currencies , normally dollars . OPEC deposits in the eurodollar market were funneled to borrowers in the industrialized nations , the developing countries , and Eastern Europe . High rates of return on loans to the developing world lured substantial funds from the eurodollar market , despite the risks involved and growing debt levels in many developing countries . At the same time , the framework of detente permitted a rapid expansion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finance purchases of Western exports and to fund capital-improvement programs . By the time of the second round of recycling in the face of the oil price increases of 1979 , however , the loans that had been made to many developing nations and Eastern Europe produced substantial debt levels , and the prospects for recycling additional OPEC funds in those directions were diminishing . Large debt positions gave the Western banks leverage to press for economic reforms in the debtor states , but at the same time made the banks hostage to demands for further loans to finance economic recovery . The OPEC oil price increases prompted , or at least nourished , sharp disagreements on policy toward the Middle East . The original embargo was triggered by U.S. support of Israel in general and by the outbreak of the 1973 Arab-Israeli War in particular . The subsequent Camp David peace agreements were based on a U.S. effort to work toward a fundamental solution by reducing tensions between Egypt and Israel before addressing the broader Palestinian issue . The nations of Western Europe , on the other hand , favored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Europeans stressed the need to work through the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) in reaching a settlement , while the United  | States refused to negotiate with the PLO as long as it denied Israel 's right to exist . The overthrow of the shah of Iran in 1978 ended a special strategic relationship with the United States , drew into question the overall security of the Persian Gulf area , and raised the risk of exploitation of the crisis by the Soviet Union . Iran 's seizure of hostages from the U.S. embassy emphasized the shift in the U.S. strategic position in the region , and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan seemed to confirm the worst about future trends . The United States viewed these events as a new strategic challenge . The Carter Doctrine declared the vital interest of the United States in the Persian Gulf region and a rapid deployment force was created to project U.S. military power into the area . Despite , or perhaps because of , greater European dependence on Middle East oil , these U.S. actions were not greeted warmly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the stress on the projection of conventional force in the face of internal stability problems , and the renewed potential for the development of a strategic military role for Egypt and Israel were officially described in Europe as peripheral to the central political problem of finding an enduring peace through settlement of the Palestinian issue . Whether this view follows from a different political assessment , or from a desire to deflect future Arab oil restrictions away from Europe , or from an inability and unwillingness to accept the military force projection responsibilities implicit in an alternative assessment remains an open question . In any case , the net result has been that common oil dependence , which might have been a catalyst for greater economic , military , and political cooperation , worked instead to produce tensions as the allies sought secure sources of energy , attempted to avoid the inevitable consequences of reduced growth rates and real levels of income , and wrestled with long-term policy alternatives toward the Middle East . In the early 1980s several factors converged to reduce OPEC power and force reductions in crude-oil prices @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new non-OPEC oil sources in Mexico , the North Sea , and Alaska , and encouraged expansion within existing sources as well . At the same time , high energy prices encouraged non-oil substitutes coal in particular and encouraged conservation . Recession in the West reduced short-term demands and encouraged use of existing stockpiles in  | anticipation of energy price drops . The precipitous short-term decline in energy prices lowered inflationary pressures and shifted world terms of trade against OPEC . The sharp cuts in crude-oil prices , however , pose new problems . First , excessive short-term swings divert attention from long-term energy-dependence problems that remain very real . Economic instability in OPEC runs the risk of political instability and threatens long-term access to crude oil . Second , sudden price shifts endanger investment patterns and debt financing that was predicated on increasing energy prices . Certainly , energy priced at marginal cost should result in the proper use of nonrenewable resources over time , but large swings in prices based on shifts in market structure may give poor signals about long-term marginal costs . Falling oil prices could well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prices caused in the 1970s as the international financial system adjusts to revised trade and capital flows . The 1970s saw an enormous expansion in the external debt of the non-oil developing countries from roughly $U.S. 100 billion in 1973 to almost $600 billion in 1981 ? an annual rate of increase of almost 20 percent . ' That debt increase was facilitated by growth in their exports of 18 percent per year in the same period and by low real interest rates resulting in part from an abundance of recycled petrodollars . Problems in financing the enormous external debt became painfully apparent in the early 1980s , however , as world recession reduced export demand and real interest rates grew . Moreover , because debt is typically denominated in dollars , while exports are based on a range of currencies , the appreciation of the dollar increased debt levels relative to export earnings . ' These broad structural problems created crisis conditions in Mexico , Argentina , and Brazil , and the International Monetary Fund was forced to intervene to ensure that interest payments on existing debt could be met @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might end in defalut , but refusing new loans could mean immediate collapse and default on existing debt . There is no lack of culprits in the debt crisis . The developing countries often pursued risky projects and overestimated export  | earnings . International banks confronted with the challenge of recycling OPEC petrodollars lowered credit standards and often encouraged excessive borrowing . Those international banks , in turn , were supported by the perception that the governments of the industrialized countries would bail them out if the loans turned sour . Government promotion of international lending may well have reduced the perception of business risk without actually reducing the risk for society as a whole . In fact , the Western governments , concerned with combating inflation , particularly in the United States , resorted to severe monetary restrictions that lowered growth and reduced Third World export markets . The risks in these developments are obvious . Economic instability in countries with already fragile political systems is fertile ground for social unrest . Repudiation of debt would be a severe blow to Western banks , damage financial markets , and slow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world economic growth . Export markets must be restored immediately to permit debt financing . Steps to promote domestic recovery in the West may well conflict with the long-term objective of controlling inflation , but the debt issue presents a cogent argument for coordinating domestic and international economic objectives . The key here is managing " invisible default " ? extending some credit , stretching out payments , lowering interest rates ? to help the debtor countries through the crisis without visible collapse . At the same time , Western banks must be able to absorb any losses that occur slowly over an extended period of time . This difficult problem of debt management can clearly be handled far more easily in the context of broad economic recovery in the West . The costs of ignoring international feedback in this case could well be a decade of social unrest and military confrontation in the developing countries . Chapter 8 presents a detailed analysis of the problems in developing an alliance consensus on East-West economic relationships , but some of the broad outlines can be sketched here . Economic interaction with , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West on three . points : First , trade with a  | potential adversary raises central national security issues ; second , Western firms must deal with a centralized trading bureaucracy ; and third , the Eastern advantages in raw materials and requirements for industrial goods , coupled with chronic shortages of hard currencies , mean that credit arrangements must be an integral part of trade planning . These factors have worked to increase the role of Western governments in East-West trade far beyond their normal involvement in West-West trade in order to balance trade and security interests , assist firms in dealing with the Communist bureaucracies , and provide a long-term framework for credit arrangements . The latter area is extremely important because of the risks involved in trade with the East in the absence of assurances of stable political and economic relationships . The invocation of detente and defense as twin NATO policies in the 1960s permitted a fundamental reevaluation of trade with the East . The earlier view that any form of trade increased the economic , and hence the military , capability of potential adversaries was replaced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct military applications must be avoided , trade in other areas could foster a framework of interdependence , build mutual confidence , and help to lower tensions that might lead to conflict . Almost immediately , domestic economic interests and different concepts of the long-run role of industrial trade with the Soviet Union produced different assessments of such trade in Europe and the United States . In the United States , industrial trade with the East and the accompanying credits that would be required were seen as concessions that should be made only in response to Soviet policy changes . Moreover , the fear persisted that industrial trade with the closest linkages to potential military applications should only be expanded in exchange for altered international behavior . On the other hand , agricultural trade , with less reliance on long-term credits and less linkage to military production , was viewed as a logical exploitation of high levels of U.S. farm productivity , humbling evidence of the failure of the Soviet system , and a good solution to the perennial problems of sustaining acceptable farm income levels . In contrast to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exports , and willingness to pursue agricultural trade , the countries of Western Europe saw great advantages in developing a balance of raw material imports and long-term industrial  | markets with the East , and they were quick to grant long-term export credits to finance that trade . Trade was seen as a useful extension of Ostpolitik , a lever for political concessions on Berlin and emigration , and a natural return to prewar economic relationships with Eastern Europe . The pattern of FRG interaction with the East has been sensitive to the overall political climate , and the share of such trade as a percentage of overall FRG trade ( excluding trade with the Republic of Germany ) has actually declined since a peak of 5.9 percent in 1975 . The pattern of U.S. trade with the East has been far more erratic , following fluctuations in the agricultural sector , and reached a peak as a share of total trade in 1979 with a level of 1.9 percent . The asymmetry in the relative importance of trade in general to the economies of Western Europe and the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in particular , and , perhaps most importantly , in the composition of trade with the East has major implications for the interaction of East-West economic and security relationships . A brief examination of trade figures for the United States and the Federal Republic of Germany quickly illustrates the point . In 1979 , before the **25;2158;TOOLONG trade restrictions , total U.S. exports to all destinations were virtually equal to those of the FRG , despite the much smaller German GNP . Exports to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union constituted 3 percent of the U.S. total and roughly 6.5 percent for the Federal Republic . Differences in the composition of that trade are even more striking . Grain constituted fully 60 percent of U.S. exports to the Soviet Union , while food exports from the Federal Republic to the Soviet Union were insignificant . The top three FRG exports to the Soviet Union were iron and steel , nonelectric machinery , and electric machinery , while the top U.S. three were corn , wheat , and soybeans . ' Estimates of high-technology exports to the East further illustrate the sharp @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Total high-technology exports from the industrial West to the Soviet Union in 1979 amounted to some $2.37 billion . FRG exports accounted for by far the highest proportion , some 28 percent , with Japan second at 17 percent , France third at 16 percent , Italy fourth at 11 percent , and the United States a distant fifth with 7 percent . Such disparities provided the foundation for continuing disputes over the utility and form of economic sanctions against the Soviet  | Union , in the wake of the invasion of Afghanistan and the imposition of martial law in Poland , because of the long-term nature of hightechnology trade arrangements . While the Federal Republic has sought to develop complementary trade with the East by linking industrial exports with the development of raw materials for potential import , the United States has had no comparable interest in developing those raw materials . Indeed , the view in the United States is that Soviet export earnings permit the purchase of additional high-technology goods from Western Europe , thereby helping to solve fundamental economic problems and limiting the burden of defense outlays @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grain imports and that grain imports also help sustain the Soviet economy . Despite these competing views on East-West trade relationships , mounting debt levels in the East have acted to provide a strong constraint on any substantial increases in trade , and they may ultimately force a shift toward a higher percentage of barter trade , with its inherent inefficiencies . Throughout the 1970s East European governments took advantage of Western credits to finance frequently ill-advised capital-investment programs . Debt to the West for all of Eastern Europe reached some $83 billion in 1980 . By 1981 Poland was virtually bankrupt , with a debt of more than $27 billion , Romania 's prospects for meeting debt-service requirements were doubtful , and even in Hungary , per capita debt reached unprecedented levels . These debt levels posed fundamental problems for Western banks and governments . In one sense , they provided the possibility of using the debt as leverage in obtaining economic reforms , but at the same time default would have significant consequences for the international financial system in general and several deeply committed banks in particular . Moreover @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mirrored the more general problem of accommodating the overall structure of international trade to the unique problems of trade with the East . The debt position of Eastern Europe and the growing dependence of the COMECON states on low-cost Soviet energy raise  | fundamental questions concerning long-term economic relationships between the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe . In the 1960s many observers argued that the highly favorable terms of trade within COMECON were a significant advantage for the Soviet Union , permitting the acquisition of low-priced manufactured goods from Eastern Europe in exchange for high-priced Soviet raw materials . If that argument was ever correct , it certainly is not true in the 1980s . Eastern Europe obtains Soviet energy exports at prices far below world market levels , a benefit that is an increasingly important subsidy in the face of other serious economic problems . Similarly , as the Western banking establishment places more and more restrictions on additional loans , the states of Eastern Europe must turn to the Soviet Union for help . These trends impose a potential economic drag on the Soviet Union , but they also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nature of economic reform within COMECON . The costs of economic inefficiency may be crucial . Although initially exaggerated , declines in Soviet crude-oil production expected at the end of the 1980s will mean that continuing subsidization of Eastern European energy requirements will be possible only at increasing costs . Problems in the energy sector , particularly domestic-technology limitations and a strained transportation network , mirror broader weaknesses in the Soviet economy . The constraints limiting potential growth in the Soviet Union in the coming decades are considerable . The major problem is the difficulty of shifting a cumbersome and inefficient central planning system from the task of simply increasing production of a fixed set of basic outputs , at which it was quite successful , to the task of meeting the needs of an increasingly complex modern economy . The fundamental dilemma of Soviet agriculture with its low level of productivity also ranks high on the list of difficulties , but no solution short of a politically unacceptable , fundamental overhaul of the entire collective system holds much promise of success . Continuing reliance on grain imports and constraints on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for more meat will be the inevitable results . Add to these dilemmas critical shortages of capital goods , particularly in the transportation sector , a declining overall rate of population growth , relatively higher population growth among ethnic minorities , a pressing need for high technology to improve productivity , and a substantial economic  | burden from the high-priority defense sector , and there is a clear prescription for declining overall rates of growth . The consensus projection puts the expected rate of growth in the 1980s at some 1.5 to 2.0 percent per year , still respectable but not impressive when the economy is producing only half the U.S. gross national product with a slightly greater population . Moreover , the sectoral impacts of this lower rate of growth can be substantial , particularly if regional priorities favor growth in the former Russian empire over other areas and if the defense sector continues to grow at current rates . " Economic strains in the East may create openings for greater economic leverage from the West , but there may be no major gains in the short run . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the evolving structure of world trade and for the international banking system . Perhaps more importantly , there is little evidence that the Soviet Union is apt to change its internal political policies or its emphasis on military strength in the face of economic adversity . Indeed , there is at least some risk that the cornered bear , which has been denied superpower status in all but the military spheres , will exercise that military power in search of its other objectives . This brief survey of economic trends is sufficient to highlight the critical relationships between economic and security issues . The West-West trends point up the dangers of an eroding economic base for defense spending , internal alliance bickering on trade policy that could threaten the security consensus , and a need to realign responsibilities based on changes in relative economic strength . Relations with Japan are at the very center of this controversy , hut it spills over through the European Economic Community to formal NATO relationships as well . The North-South trends highlight the need for coherent policies toward OPEC and the Middle East and emphasize @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The collapse of crude-oil prices threatens internal stability in some oil-producing countries and increases the urgency of coining to grips with the  | appropriate structure and deterrent roles of a rapid deployment force . Meanwhile , the price cuts will make it more difficult to focus public attention on the long-term problem of continuing to reduce dependence on crude-oil imports . Relations with non-oil developing countries will also pass through a difficult period until global economic recovery reduces debt pressures . East-West economic interdependence is still low , although several aspects of those relationships have important implications for the alliance . The obvious weakness of the Soviet economy and the economies of Eastern Europe suggests that pressures can be placed on the economic base of Warsaw Pact defense spending . At the same time , fundamental differences within the alliance concerning the role of economic interaction with the East indicate that it will not be easy to gain consensus on any new approaches to economic relations . Moreover , growing economic dependence of Eastern Europe on the Soviet Union may actually work to reduce some of the centrifugal pressures within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there has been no apparent cut in the Soviet allocation of increasingly scarce resources to military spending . The linkages of economic growth in the West with national security and perceptions of burden sharing are enormous . Despite all of the debate over equity , the central problem for the alliance remains restoring an acceptable military balance . Changes in the structure of contributions are important primarily in their impact on perceptions of effort and , hence , on the common willingness to expand the defense commitment . That commitment is measured most directly in real increases in defense outlays , and those increases , in turn , are determined primarily by real rates of overall economic growth . Expansion of the Western economies would simultaneously reduce divisive burden-sharing arguments , help to improve the military balance , ease destablizing debt problems in the Third World , and reduce the pressures for difficult adjustments in East-West trade relationships . But the case that this can be accomplished by simply shifting economic policies in the direction of expansion ? cutting taxes , increasing government spending , and expanding money supplies is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economic actors are highly sensitized to expectations of future inflation , based on the dramatic lessons of the 1970s , could  | well cause mostly inflation and little real growth . As a result of rational expectations ? rapid adjustments to the perceived long-term consequences of policy changes ? capital markets could react adversely to government programs that aim to actively stimulate growth via aggregate demand , producing rapid increases in interest rates that could cut off any recovery . Thus we face the expanded difficulties of managing adverse economic trends in the context of slower-than-normal economic growth in the 1980s as the foundation is set for longer-term economic expansion . There will be a clear need for coordinated leadership in the interrelated spheres of economic and defense cooperation . Both are important dimensions of sharing the burdens of the alliance , and contributions in both areas must be considered in any overall assessment of alliance contributions 