@@774215

txt  | little " political favors " has been sharply curtailed ; better administrative controls and procedures make it difficult if not impossible in most jurisdictions for party activists to fix traffic tickets , get potholes filled , or modify zoning regulations . A few party leaders may be able to use their posts as a springboard for successful bids for elective office , but this is not a very realistic goal for most . So what incentives are there fora person to engage in party activity ( almost always unpaid ) on the scale necessary for effectiveness ? The answer , given the general absence of material benefits , is that party activists must be satisfied with a limited number of intangible rewards ? plus of course the satisfaction , for those who are most issue conscious , of pursuing public policy objectives by passing resolutions , lobbying other political activists , working for or against particular candidates.12 Such a system of incentives can not possibly sustain continuing , systematic efforts to build electoral support at the grass-roots level . Typically , the party precinct leaders ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electorate ? have hundreds and sometimes thousands of potential voters in their respective precincts . To become acquainted with a sizable number of their constituents , to understand their concerns , to hear their complaints , to influence their thinking , and to weld them into the semblance of an organized force , takes considerable skill and a great deal of time and effort . The imbalance between the exertions required for party building and the rewards offered by it is simply too great . And so the most fundamental tasks of electoral mobilization go mostly undone . There are , of course , good and sound reasons why certain incentives for political activity have been eliminated or curtailed , and I am not arguing for a return to policies and practices that yield rigged bids for governmental contracts or incompetent building inspectors and padded payrolls . What I do contend is that we must find ways to motivate more political workers to spend more time interacting with rank-and-file voters . That can be done only if we abandon the hostility to political parties that has guided our thinking and policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who man them  | must be seen as legitimate wielders of power , entitled to tangible and intangible rewards for their services . But , in order to do that , it will be necessary to reestablish party activists in their historical role as middlemen between the citizenry and its government . That role was rooted in the interdependence of public officials and party activists . Even in their heyday , party organizations were always dependent upon public officials and agencies for their rewards ? jobs , preferments , political careers , status , influence , and the rest . More than anything else , the decline of parties about which we hear so much today has been brought about by a change in the relationship between public officials and party activists . The former no longer need ? and no longer heed ? the latter . But is there any basis upon which interdependence can be restored ? Though it is clear enough what activists need from public officials , what do the officials need from party workers ? In the past , elected officials and their appointees recognized that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in support of their candidacies . Today , many candidates feel little or no dependence on party activists for help in winning public offices ; they believe that campaign money , mass media exposure , group endorsement , and name recognition enable them to ignore or downplay the role of party activists . I believe such views are profoundly mistaken , but nevertheless they are widely held . But even if many candidates today believe that they do not need the party activist 's help , they almost always need one crucial thing from the party : its label . The vast majority of national , state , and county officials , and many municipal ones , are elected to office as nominees either of the Democratic or Republican parties ( plus a tiny number who are nominees of a minor party ) . The one thing that elected officials must have from political parties is their nomination . The process by which parties nominate candidates is thus the key to reestablishing the activists in their rightful place as the middlemen of American politics . Once that has been done , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ just as they now find ways to reward their personal ( i.e. , nonparty ) workers and supporters .  | THE NOMINATION OF PARTY CANDIDATES How party organizations lost the power to nominate candidates for public office , and the means by which it might be restored , can be most clearly seen by considering first how our choices on the general election ballot are determined . Getting on the Ballot Like most of our electoral arrangements , a place on the ballot is determined by state law ( subject to some limitations in the federal constitution and statutes ) . As a general rule , state policies provide for two alternative routes for a ballot listing . One is to meet requirements applicable to independent candidates , that is , candidates not offered by a recognized political party . Any person who meets the very loose legal qualifications for the office sought ( age , residence in the jurisdiction , and citizenship being the most common ) may be listed on the ballot as a candidate provided that he or she ( I ) pays the required filing fee , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of voters , and ( 3 ) meets the applicable deadline for doing these things . In the not-too-distant past , the fees , number of required petitioners , and deadlines were fixed in ways that discouraged independent candidates , but a series of judicial decisions invalidated the more restrictive measures . As a result , the independent route to a place on the ballot is quite open today . Nevertheless , though independent candidacies are apparently permitted in all elections , they are the exception rather than the rule in most contests for state and national offices and in many local ones . Even when independent candidates achieve a place on the ballot , they seldom win the office . A second way for the names of candidates to be placed on the ballot , and the one most commonly used , is through nomination by a recognized political party . The party must comply with state regulations regarding its organization and conduct of affairs , especially its nominating procedures . Many of these state regulations are quite detailed and leave very little discretion to the political parties regulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meet on specified days at specified times , party leaders must be chosen in designated ways ,  | and candidates for nomination must file before the announced deadline . While these state regulations are undesirable because they leave the parties little latitude for the conduct of their own affairs , they are not significant barriers to the ballot . Any existing party , any new party that has begun to develop support , or any party that lacks electoral support but has financial resources can get its candidates on the ballot without undue difficulty , provided it nominates them in accordance with state laws specifying the procedure . " Evolution of Party Nominations The system of party nominations in this country today results from a long evolution in which governmental regulation came rather late . In the early stages of their development ( i.e. , in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries ) political parties in the United States nominated candidates in a caucus composed of legislators aligned with the party at the level of the office to be filled . Thus state legislators affiliated with a given party would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the U.S. be modified by the inclusion of nonlegislators in the caucus . The resulting " mixed caucus " in turn gave way in the states to a convention system in which delegates from lower levels of the party organization gathered to make nominations . Legislators were not excluded from such conventions , but neither were they automatically included . By the 1820s , this convention system was well established at the state level . The system for nominating presidential candidates evolved more slowly . Despite mounting criticism , the congressional caucus continued to choose presidential nominees until 1824 , when it finally collapsed . Beginning in 1832 , the convention system was adopted for presidential and vice presidential nominations.14 From the 1830s to the turn of the century , party candidates at the national , state , and local levels were chosen in nominating conventions . Delegates to these conventions were selected in accordance with each party 's own rules and procedures , as  | interpreted by those in party leadership positions . Dissatisfaction with the choices made , and with the unfair and heavyhanded tactics sometimes resorted to , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of splinter groups . Eventually the dissatisfaction with the convention system led to the development of an altogether new approach to nominations . The direct primary This new approach ? the direct primary ? began to spread in the first years of the twentieth century.15 Influenced by the Progressive movement and , sometimes , by short-range political calculation , leaders and activists began to " reform " politics by pressing for state laws to require nominations by direct primary . It was a long , drawn out process , and the two most conspicuous holdouts ? New York and Indiana ? did not finally replace the convention system of nominations with direct primaries until 1970 and 1976 . Today , almost all states require the use of the direct primary for almost all party nominations . Under that system , nominations are made by holding an election ( the primary ) to choose the party 's nominee for the general election ( usually held two to four months later ) . Though held for the purpose of choosing party candidates , the primary election is now regarded as a public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state and local governments . State law also determines whether primaries will be limited to those who are party members ( a closed primary ) or open to any qualified voter . Open primaries are explicitly required only in a few states , but in many of the remaining states what purports to be a closed primary is in fact an open one because party membership is defined so loosely . " Thus the Texas statute requires party primaries to be closed to all except party members , but defines party member as one who has not that day already voted in another party 's primary ! Open primaries have made the phrase " party primary " a contradiction in terms , for the nominations made are not those of a party but of an amorphous group of voters who happen to go to the polls on the same day . And , in fact , this reality is reflected in the recently adopted state law in Louisiana requiring  | all candidates for a public office , regardless of their political affiliation , to compete in a single " primary . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this " primary " then become the only candidates on the general election ballot . The candidates thus can not be considered party nominees , though a party or other political organization might endorse or work for one or another of them . Still another variation produces much the same result . The blanket primary used in the states of Washington and Alaska allows one to vote in the primary of more than one party when different public offices are involved . For example , a voter might in a single trip to the polls vote in the Republican primary for governor , the Democratic primary for attorney general , and a third party 's primary for U.S. senator , thus blurring hopelessly any party lines . Scholars and commentators have given considerable attention to the consequences of the widespread use of the direct primary to nominate party candidates . Some benefits can be freely acknowledged . Primaries present an opportunity for more public discussion of policy issues and alternatives , and help to stimulate popular interest and to motive involvement . They certainly are a training ground for candidates and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences that outweigh their benefits . They add substantially to the financial costs of candidacy for public office . They help to perpetuate division and factionalism within a party and may harm the chances for a chosen candidate in the general election . Direct primaries have an even more important drawback : They reduce the incentive for continuing participation in a party organization . This consequence is most severe where " open " and " blanket " primaries are in use , but is felt in connection even with closed primaries . The single most important asset that a party organization has ? its principal source of power over activists and officials ? is the right to name candidates for the general election . If the party organization can not determine who its own candidates will be , why should anyone put substantial time and effort into serving the party cadre , and why should candidates and public officials pay any atten-  | tion to it ? The direct primary has mostly done what its early proponents wanted it to do , namely , destroy the influence of the party organization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the power thus taken by the primary from party leaders and their supporters would be shifted to " the people . " But political power must always be institutionally based , and what the primary really did ( besides exhausting candidates physically and fiscally ) was to shift power from the party organization to other institutions ? to interest groups , to corporations and labor unions , to newspapers and television stations , to issue networks , to civic clubs and professional associations . The direct primary has not added to the power of rank-and-file citizens either individually or collectively , but it has contributed immensely to the fragmentation of political power . More exactly , the spread of the direct primary has made it a major impediment to the aggregation of interests by political parties . Fortunately , a handful of states have developed workable modifications or alternatives to the direct primary , so that we at least know what could be done to avoid its worst tendencies . The best known of these alternatives , among scholars at least , is the Connecticut " challenge primary . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time-honored fashion , but any losing candidate who has gained 10 percent or more of the convention vote has the right to insist that the party hold a direct primary , thus ensuring that rank-andfile party members can reject truly unpopular convention choices . Significantly , losing candidates at Connecticut conventions do not often force a " challenge primary , " and those who do seldom win it . Another alternative , less well known but more commendable , is the system in Virginia whereby the choice of nominating methods ? direct primary , convention , or mass meeting ? is left to the party 's governing body at the level of the public office involved . Thus for statewide offices such as governor and attorney general , the party 's state executive committee decides on the mode of nomination , while for local offices such as county supervisor , the county executive committee makes the choice . As in Connecticut , the political parties in Virginia mostly shy away from direct primaries ( neither of the major  | parties has used the direct primary to nominate candidates for statewide office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Colorado , Utah , and New Mexico , variations on the direct primary do much to minimize its harmful consequences.18 ELECTORAL MOBILIZATION : THE ARGUMENT RECAPITULATED The argument made in this chapter is a simple one . This country now satisfies reasonably well three of the four conditions necessary for elections to be the means of popular control of government . Generally speaking , ( 1 ) political discourse is unrestricted , ( 2 ) the freedom to mobilize for political purposes is protected , and ( 3 ) universal adult suffrage has been achieved . However , serious shortcomings exist with respect to the fourth condition , for we have not adequately institutionalized the process for mass mobilization of the electorate . For such mobilization , the institution of choice in democratic systems the world over is the political party . The function of parties is to aggregate countless individual and group interests , that is , to shape and to sum up preferences , making them comprehensible and effective . In doing so , parties help to develop ties among citizens that give both stability and meaning to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance of these aggregative and integrative functions , none has the potential of political parties for doing so . However , in the United States today that potential is less and less realized . The effective mobilization of an electoral army requires cadres who through their personal relationships with individual citizens , as well as through their commitment to principles and policies , can align large numbers of voters behind the agreed-upon candidates . But too-close state regulation of parties , and the tendency of candidates for public office to rely primarily on the mass media of communications and secondarily on ad hoc , personal organizations , have more and more deprived party cadres of the resources and incentives necessary for effective electoral mobilization . No single remedy can be prescribed for our failure to institutionalize properly the means by which political power is generated , but one immensely helpful step would be to restore  | to party organizations the control of their nominating processes . Curbing the worst tendencies of the direct primary , as Connecticut , Virginia , and a few other states have done , would do much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party activists . Forcing public officials to recognize that they really do need party cadres would in turn facilitate strengthening the incentives for organizational activity , though these need not be the incentives relied upon in the past . My colleague Larry Sabato , in examining the need for party renewal , makes a persuasive case for a sizable number of additional steps ( twenty in all ) . Some would require changes in state or national law , such as requiring voters in every state to be registered by party or as independents , or channeling public money used to fund campaigns through the parties rather than through the candidates . Other of Sabato 's proposals , such as party sponsorship of ombudsmen , would require only party action . Equally important , Sabato demonstrates that the path to party renewal is impeded not by hostility and antagonism on the part of the general public but by neutrality and apathy ? obviously , a less formidable obstacle.19 Let me conclude this discussion of electoral mobilization by noting that it is far from being a mere abstract question , of interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Poor electoral mobilization means that not only are many persons and groups underrepresented in the existing system , but also those who are elected to public office typically have insufficient power to govern . Among other things , elected officials need the power resources that flow from strong , stable , and well-organized popular support . We would do well to remember that political leadership requires organized followers . NOTES CHAPTER III 1 . Chilton Williamson , American Suffrage from Property to Democracy , 1760 ? 1860 ( Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1960 ) . 2 . For an overview of the various means used to deny blacks the right to vote , see Hanes Walton , Jr. , Black Politics ( Philadelphia : Lippincott , 1972 ) , pp. 33 ? 55 . Details on Southern obstades to voting can be found in the various reports of the United States Commission on Civil Rights ,  | for example , its 1961 report entitled Voting ( Washington : Government Printing Office , 1961 ) . 3 . These developments , especially those involving the judiciary , are traced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Southern Federal Judges and Black Voters ( New York : Oxford University Press , 1973 ) . 4 . Eleanor Flexner , Century of Struggle ( New York : Atheneum , 1970 ) . 5 . Dunn v. Blumstein , 405 U.S. 330 ( 1972 ) , and Burns v. Fortson , 410 U.S. 686 ( 1973 ) , established judicial policy with respect to residence requirements . Harper v. Virginia State Board of Elections , 383 U.S. 633 ( 1966 ) , gave the final blow to the poll tax as a prerequisite to voting . Kramer v. Union Free School District , 395 U.S. 621 ( 1969 ) , and Cipriano v. Houma , 395 U.S. 701 ( 1969 ) , invalidated the practice of limiting suffrage to property owners in certain types of elections to set tax rates and to issue bonds . 6 . But one can expect continuing litigation under the Voting Rights Act to force changes in systems of representation ( such as the replacement of at-large municipal elections with single-member districts ) and in the boundaries of districts for choosing representatives . The Act @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislative arenas to shift the conflict to the judicial arena , with a good chance of success . 7 . The turnout figures mentioned in this paragraph , and those used in Figure 3 ? 1 , are calculated by dividing the number of votes counted in presidential elections by the estimated number of potential voters ( those who meet suffrage requirements whether or not registered to vote ) . This method tends to understate slightly the actual rate of turnout because of difficulty in determining the number of potential voters and , to a lesser extent , the number of persons who go to the polls . The turnout figures used in Table 3 ? 1 , and discussed in the following paragraph , are calculated on the basis of responses to questions asked in surveys of the population . They typically overstate the actual turnout , due to respondent forgetfulness or misrepresentation. 8 . On the origins of political parties in the United States , see William Nisbet Chambers , Political Parties in a New Nation : The American Experience , 1776 ? 1809 ( New York : Oxford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first party system and the development of the second , see Shaw Livermore , Jr. , The Twilight of Federalism : The Disintegration of the Federalist Party , 1815 ? 1830 ( Princeton : Princeton University Press , 1962 ) , and Richard McCormick , The Second American Party System : Party Formation in the Jacksonian Era ( Chapel Hill : University of North Carolina Press , 1966 ) . 9 . The belief that our political parties have been in a period of decline and  | disintegration is widespread among students of American politics . See , for example , Walter Dean Burnham , " American Politics in the 1970s : Beyond Party ? " in Jeff Fishel , ed. , Parties and Elections in an Anti-Party Age : American Politics and the Crisis of Confidence ( Bloomington : Indiana University Press , 1978 ) , pp. 333 ? 341 ; Frank Sorauf , Party Politics in America , 4th ed . ( Boston : Little , Brown , 1980 ) , Chapter 17 ; Martin P. Wattenberg , The Decline of American Political Parties , 1952 ? 1984 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and David Broder , The Party 's Over ( New York : Harper &; Row , 1972 ) . The thesis is treated skeptically in James L. Sundquist , " Whither the American Party System ? " , in Fishel , Parties and Elections , pp. 342 ? 350 , and in Samuel J. Eldersveld , Political Parties in American Society ( New York : Basic Books , 1982 ) , pp. 131 ? 133. 10 . Most analyses of voter turnout over the past quarter century have focused on the legal impediments to voting , such as literacy tests ( now barred ) , personal registration , and the like . See , for example , Raymond E. Wolfinger and Steven J. Rosenstone , Who Votes ? ( New Haven : Yale University Press , 1980 ) . While there are very good reasons to seek liberalization of registration and suffrage requirements , such will not change the level of voter participation very significantly . The principal cause of falling turnout , as Walter Dean Burnham recognized a decade ago , is the degeneration of our political parties . See @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1978 , " in his The Current Crisis in American Politics ( New York : Oxford University Press , 1982 ) , especially pp. 121 ? 122 and pp. 152 ? 158 . Unfortunately , Burnham did not devote much attention to explaining exactly how party decline has affected voter turnout ; his passing explanation stressed the parties ' increased ( over the nineteenth century ) reflection of elite goals and values and their lack of relevance to the needs of the lower classes . My own judgment is that the explanation has little to do with the substance of partisan activities and much to do with the breakdown in the processes by which parties engage and mobilize voters . 11 . Further details on party organization can be found in any of several excellent textbooks on political parties . See , for example , the books by Frank Sorauf and Samuel Eldersveld , cited in note 9 above . See also the excellent report on scholarly concerns and findings regarding political parties prepared by the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations and issued under the title The Transformation of American Politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1986 ) , especially Chapters 3 and 4.  | 13 . The incentives for activity in political organizations , and the consequences of those incentives , are carefully and insightfully explored in James Q. Wilson , Political Organizations ( New York : Basic Books , 1973 ) , especially Chapters 3 and 6. 14 . In an interesting and authoritative chapter entitled " Parties as Public Utilities , " Leon Epstein traces the evolution of state regulation of political parties and its relationship to the nominating process . Political Parties in the American Mold ( Madison : University of Wisconsin Press , 1986 ) , Chapter 6 . Party nominees are not always so designated on the ballot because elections in a great many municipalities and school districts , and in some other local jurisdictions , are by law " nonpartisan . " Nonpartisan elections are also required in some states for particular offices , such as judgeships and ? in Nebraska ? state legislative posts . But the absence of party designations on the ballot ? the legal essence of nonpartisan elections ? is in no way indicative of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates . Thus , in Virginia , where no party designations are permitted on the ballot except in presidential elections , the parties are deeply involved in the nomination of candidates for state and county offices , and for some municipal ones . 15 . On the early history of nominating procedures , see Charles J. Sydnor , Gentlemen Freeholders : Political Practices in Washington 's Virginia ( Chapel Hill : University of North Carolina Press , 1952 ) , and M. Ostrogorski , Democracy and the Organization of Political Parties , Vol . If ( Garden City , New York : Anchor Books , Doubleday , 1964 ) , Part N. 16 . See Charles E. Merriam and Louise Overaker , Primary Elections ( Chicago : University of Chicago Press , 1928 ) . 17 . The number of states with dosed primaries may well decline as the result of a Supreme Court decision that the Republican party of Connecticut is constitutionally entitled to admit " independent " voters to its primaries in defiance of state law limiting participation in party primaries to persons registered as members of the party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to affiliate with the party ( it could be done as late as the day before the primary ) , the Court upheld lower court decisions that the statute violated the party 's " freedom of association " derived form the First Amendment . Tashjian v. Republican Party of Connecticut , 107 S. Ct . 544 ( 1986 ) . 18 . Clifton McCleskey , " Party Nominations in Virginia , " University of Virginia News Letter , June 1978. 19 . For a very interesting proposal to adapt the Colorado system of nomi-  | nations to the selection of presidential candidates , see Thomas Cronin and Robert Loevy , " The Case for a National Pre-Primary Convention Plan , " Public Opinion , December/January , 1983 , pp. 50-53. 19 . Larry J. Sabato , The Party 's Just Begun : Shaping Political Parties for America 's Future ( Glenview , Illinois : Scott , Foresman and Company , 1988 ) , Chapters Six and Seven ( on party renewal ) ; Chapter Four ( on public attitudes toward parties ) .  | INTEREST GROUPS AND THE MASS MEDIA OF @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arguing , can only be generated institutionally , through organized efforts to develop and to maintain popular support and to bring that support to the assistance of public officials . But to say that democratic political power can only be built and exercised through institutions leaves open the question : Which institutions ? We saw in the preceding chapter that the institutions known as political parties seek to generate political power by mobilizing electoral support for affiliated candidates and officials who , if successful , in turn exercise power as parts of governmental institutions . We also saw , however , that parties in the United States today are rather ineffective in building electoral support and putting it to use . As a result , they face formidable competition from two quite different types of institutions : interest groups and the mass media of communications . This chapter will describe and analyze the roles of these two competitors in American politics , and show the consequences of these roles for the exercise of power .  | INTEREST GROUPS Though the concept of an " interest group " is broad enough to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constituted groups ? those with defined members and duly chosen leaders , such as the American Bar Association and the League of United Latin-American Citizens . The existence of a relatively large number of organized groups has long been a distinguishing characteristic of American political life , one that , caught the attention of de Tocqueville in his classic description of America in the early 1830s and that has almost continuously intrigued scholars and journalists . ' We have seen even more proliferation of groups in recent decades . One source provides ? the names and addresses of over 20,000 nonprofit associations ) operating at the national level in 1986 , but no one supposes ( that to be a complete tally and the number of state and locals , groups is undoubtedly far greater . ' The formation of so many groups can be traced to a variety of causes . One widely , accepted perspective stresses the. , .. pxocesses of differentiation . As our society grows and becomes more complex , spedalized'concerns multiply and find reasons to organize . A second line of explanation , not incompatible with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation of new groups to the disruption of some existing equilibrium in the society due to war , technological developments , major demographic changes , and so on . To restore an acceptable balance , those disadvantaged by this disequilibrium will attempt , among other things , to form new organizations to pursue their interests . And , as Salisbury has shown , the formation of groups also owes something to entrepreneurial skill and incentives . ' The multiplicity of groups in existence today spans the entire spectrum of life , from cradle to grave ( physicians specializing in pediatrics have their organizations , as have undertakers ) , from saints to sinners ( religious organizations and the association of pornographers ) , from vocation to recreation ( labor unions , stamp collectors ) . While some have little concern or involvement with the political process , at least until some governmental action or inaction is perceived to affect the group  | adversely , a great many are explicitly and continuously committed to political activity . It should not come as any surprise that economically related groups are often the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences for auto manufacturers , chemical processors , public school teachers , workers in military supply industries , attorneys and accountants , farmers and ranchers ? and virtually every other economic group . Nor should it be surprising that as the role of government in our economic and social life expands , more and more groups think in terms of institutionalizing some sort of political role . What is a bit surprising , however , is the growing number of persons whose personal welfare and interests are not directly affected by their group activity , but who find in it a means of trying to influence public policy on a wide range of issues . For example , few members of the Sierra Club find their livelihoods affected by governmental policies for national parks and forests or for the conservation of natural resources ; most are motivated to engage in political activities not by economic self-interest but by ideas about the long-range welfare of society . Just what sort of political activity do groups engage in ? By well-established analytical tradition , that activity is divided into those involving lobbying , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the practice of directly attempting to influence the actions of public officials , whether they be legislators , executives , administrators and civil servants , or judges , and whether they be elected or appointed . Many rank-and-file citizens and some journalists and commentators ? operate on mistaken assumptions about the nature of lobbying , believing that public officials are often " bought " by lobbyists using cash and " sweetheart " business deals , or providing them with food , drink , and sexual satisfaction . While it is undeniably true that an occasional public official is corruptly influenced , most lobbying involves less sensational and reprehensible activity. ? Rather , the skillful lobbyist relies on a blend of substantive arguments , personal relationships , and political considerations to  | win over public officials . To be able to achieve an effective blend of these elements , lobbyists need to know a great deal about the targeted officials , including their character , personal habits , political orientations , their strengths and weaknesses as persons and as politicians . Obviously , lobbyists need to be shrewd judges of human beings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of their effort , therefore , is devoted to building the network of personal relationships that will provide information about and access to the public officials whom they seek to influence . Lobbyists must also be knowledgeable about the problem or issue with which they are dealing , able to make a plausible case for whatever they want done or undone , and capable of refuting counterarguments . Their analyses of the substance of policy are not unbiased , naturally , and knowledgeable public officials understand that and discount them accordingly . But lobbyists can provide data and analyses that help the public official to understand more fully the dimensions and consequences of the policy being considered . Finally , the skillful lobbyist is usually well versed in the institutional norms and procedures appropriate to the category of official being lobbied . Thus if the target group is the House of Representatives , the most effective lobbyists are those who know the House and its rules and traditions well . Likewise , if administrative agencies or courts are the institutional context , the lobbyist has to be well informed about their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substantive arguments are not enough to enable lobbyists to succeed ; they need some other way to convince officials that the course of action sought is politically sound and wise . To make it seem so , lobbyists ? or the groups they represent ? may attempt to influence public opinion by propagandizing those segments of the population whose opinion is thought to be relevant . This at times may involve trying to influence those who are thought to be molders of public opinion , such as journalists , teachers , clergymen , and the like ; spokesmen for groups will also seek to address civic clubs , student gatherings , and other public forums .  | Propagandizing efforts may take the form of " informational " campaigns waged via the mass media of communications . The easiest and most accessible example of the latter is found in the major national news magazines and newspapers ( Time , Newsweek , the New York Times , The Wall Street Journal , and the Washington Post ) ; almost any issue of such publications will contain one or more large advertisements designed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The sponsors may be wellestablished groups such as business corporations , professional associations , labor unions , and civic organizations , or they may be ad hoc combinations of prestigious persons willing to allow their names to be used to promote the stated point of view . Whatever the source and medium , the objective is to influence public officials by creating a favorable climate of opinion ( or its appearance ) among those in the relevant sectors of the citizenry . And whatever form they take , campaigns to shape public opinion are necessarily expensive , and uncertain of results . Electioneering Interest groups and their representatives in Washington often conclude that lobbying and propagandizing are not enough ; they must also resort to electioneering ( i.e. , attempting to influence the outcome of elections ) . The objective is elected officials and appointees who to some extent owe their positions to the group , who see it as part of their constituency , entitled to considerations . To achieve that end , groups pursue a variety of electoral strategies , depending upon the office to be filled , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( groups classified as " nonprofit , voluntary associations , " such as the American Political Science Association , the Environmental Defense Fund , and the American Medical Association , might lose important tax advantages if too large a part of total group effort goes into political activity ) . Generally speaking , these group strategies to elect candidates can be divided into three categories : ( 1 ) promotion of candidates ; ( 2 ) efforts to turn out voters ; and ( 3 ) assistance with campaign finance . Group efforts to promote candidates may begin with the nominating process ( or even before ) or may be delayed until the general election campaign . Such ef-  | forts may be very open and visible , with ringing endorsements and expressions of support , or they may be subtle and ambiguous , designed to provide cues without alienating nonsympathizers . Examples of open support are the endorsements frequently made by civil rights groups and by the political action committees of labor unions . More oblique support for candidates is sometimes preferred by business and professional groups concerned to avoid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest group publications hinting at the virtues of the favored candidates or the vices of their opponents , positive mention of themes sounded by the preferred candidates , and provisions of a forum for candidates to address group members . When groups seek to turn out voters , they are predictably selective . Management-oriented organizations do not try to get blue-collar workers to the polls , and Mexican-American groups do not spend much time encouraging Anglos to vote . In general , smaller and more widely dispersed groups mostly depend on exhortations channeled to members through the group 's own communications system ( such as newsletters and grouppublished journals ) . However , groups with a mass membership quite naturally see their numerous members as a political resource to be capitalized upon , and they devote substantial time and effort to ensuring that they vote . Furthermore , massbased groups are an important source of manpower for the electoral mobilization of sympathetic nonmembers . Thus labor unions and black civic organizations often devote considerable resources to " get out the vote " drives among their own members and among nonmembers thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in addition to impersonal appeals , the canvassing of voters at home and in the workplace , the provision of transportation to the polls , and payment of cash to electoral " drovers " who round up voters and transport them to the polls . ' It is in providing financial support to candidates that interest groups often generate the most controversy . Because almost all presidential candidates now accept public funds for their campaign expenditures ( see below , pp. 131 , 136 ) , the amount of money that they can accept from private sources is legally limited . Thus interest groups no longer are major con-  | tributors to the campaign treasuries of presidential candidates . However , as a result of judicial interpretation of the First Amendment to the Constitution , interest groups ( and individuals ) may themselves spend unlimited amounts of their own funds to promote or hinder someone 's presidential candidacy . ' In essence , this judicial protection of " direct expenditures " allows groups to campaign on behalf of presidential candidates . In House and Senate elections , and in those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contribute to the candidates ' own campaigns and can make direct expenditures as well . Whether in the form of contributions to candidates ' campaign treasuries or direct expenditures to support or oppose candidates , the funds provided by interest groups are a major component of campaign expenditures . In some state and local elections , groups are allowed to contribute funds from their own treasuries , whether obtained from members ' dues or from business profits . However , federal law prohibits such expenditures from the treasuries of banks , corporations , and labor unions in connection with either presidential or congressional elections , and some states impose similar restrictions . Furthermore , nonprofit groups may lose their tax-exempt status if they become too much involved in trying to influence campaigns . Partially as a result of such limiting factors , the campaign activity of interest groups sometimes involves the formation of political action committees ( PACs ) .8 PACs obtain their funds from individual contributors with ties of one sort or another to L the group . For example , most contributions to the American Medical Association 's " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ R-PAC " from persons in the real estate industry , to " SIXPAC " from brewers and their distributors . Some PACs seek to appeal to contributors by focusing on a single issue ( abortion rights , or prayer in schools ) , and others rely on a broadly ideological appeal ( e.g. , the National Conservative PAC , more familiar as NCPAC ; or the liberally oriented National Committee for an Effective Congress , or NCECPAC ) . Even political parties , public officials , and candidates find it convenient to organize their , own PACs . PAC contributions to campaigns for federal office are subject to considerable statutory and administrative regulation . Each PAC is allowed to contribute no more than $5,000 annu-  | ally to each candidate for each election . The candidate 's campaign for nomination is one election and the general election another , and hence a PAC could contribute as much as $10,000 ( or $15,000 in the small number of states where a second or run-off primary is used in the nominating process ) . Multicandidate PACs ( defined as those with fifty or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for federal office ) may also contribute $15,000 annually to each political party or its campaign committees . Though most PACs are small and dispense quite limited sums of money , a few raise very large amounts and make contributions ( subject to the limitations sketched above ) to a sizable number of candidates , particularly for the U.S. House and Senate . For example , each of sixteen PACs reportedly contributed $1 million or more to candidates for national office in the 1985 ? 86 election cycle , most of it to candidates for House and Senate seats . The five PACs with the highest contributions were sponsored by the National Association of Realtors ? , the American Medical Association , the National Education Association ( each contributed over $2 million ) , the United Auto Workers , and the National Association of Retired Federal Employees . Altogether , some 3,152 PACs reported contributing to candidates for national office in 1985 ? 86 ; they accounted for 34 percent of all campaign funds raised by House and 21 percent of all funds raised by Senate candidates . ' Whether through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups seek increasingly to influence elections by campaign contributions and by direct expenditures . Their objective , clearly , is to influence the policy decisions of elected officials and their appointees . But do these groups get a fair return on such investments ? I doubt that they do , for two reasons . First , despite widespread assumptions to the contrary among journalists and commentators , campaign expenditures are not necessarily the determining factor in elections for public office . Money is only one of a great many relevant political resources , such as physical appearance , personality , political experience , health , intelligence , race and ethnicity , name familiarity , education , party identification , military service record , and family and group connections , to mention only a few . True , money can substitute for , or overcome the lack of , some  | of these resources , but it is equally true that a plentitude of other resources can overcome a shortage of campaign funds . Second , public officials do not generally make policy decisions on the basis of who gives the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any given issue one can find plenty of examples of , say , members of Congress voting in the direction suggested by campaign contributions from certain groups . However , one can also find plenty of examples of members not voting in the direction indicated by the contributions to their campaigns.10 Thus it appears that the impact of campaign contributions by interest groups is basically akin to the impact of other group efforts : They gain access to officials and attention to concerns . That is , in exchange for their campaign efforts , groups expect to get ? and usually do ? an opportunity to take their cases directly to the elected official , to have a personal hearing on their concerns , and sympathetic consideration of the merits of their case . In most cases , that is probably all that they get . Unfortunately , an occasional instance of demonstrated corruption helps to fuel suspicion about almost all campaign contributions and electoral assistance . The Problem with Interest Groups This sketch of the lobbying , propagandizing , and electioneering activities of interest groups ( in functional terms , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and valuable elements in American politics . Without groups and their activities , our political life would be more sterile and public policy less well founded . And yet , thoughtful and responsible observers have long been troubled by the role of interest groups in our politics . Much of this concern grows out of the belief that group political activity substantially distorts public policy and its administration . Because some interests are better organized and more effective in dealing with public officials than others , they acquire influence over judges , legislators , and administrators disproportionate to the number of their members . The result is said to be skewed public policy , unfair to the weaker , poorly organized interests , and inimical to the public good . " That some persons have better group representation than  | others is quite obvious to anyone who is familiar with our politics . Although it has been shown that group membership and participation are more broadly distributed in the United States than once thought , it nevertheless remains true that the system of representation has a class bias ? persons with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have more and better organized groups to express their interests and to work in .. their behalf.12 To remedy that situation by statutorily restricting group activity would be constitutionally difficult and philosophically troubling . So far as the constitution is concerned , the First Amendment is construed by the courts to give everyone ? interest groups , corporations , and labor unions , as well as individuals ? the right to freedom of speech and press , and thus propagandizing efforts can not be limited . " The same amendment gives everyone ? again , groups , labor unions , and corporations , as well as individuals ? the right to petition the government for redress of grievances ; hence , lobbying can not be so closely regulated as to interfere with that right . The same amendment also gives all artificial and natural persons the right to spend money in support of or opposition to candidates . " But even without those constitutional considerations , a good case can be made on philosophical grounds for not trying to prevent or to restrict too sharply the three sorts of organized activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is surely one of the most fundamental human rights , and one that is essential to the democratic process.15 in short , a regulatory approach to correcting the inequities now existent in group representation seems unworkable . Recognition of this often leads to an alternative remedy for unequal group representation : more effective mobilization into groups of those not well represented . More comprehensive interest group representation is indeed highly desirable . A great many legitimate interests are now being articulated poorly , or not at all , a condition that ultimately is damaging to the political system . And so , to ensure that the concerns and goals of the poor and dependent , of the various racial and ethnic minorities , of the aged , the alienated , and other poorly represented elements are better voiced , it is necessary that they be organized into effective interest groups .  | But in the absence of certain institutional arrangements to be discussed shortly , to try to correct present inequities by more comprehensive interest group mobilization would amount to Pyrrhic victory . More groups , more balanced in strength , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? namely , the tendency to stasis . The concept of stasis , defined as " " the state of equilibrium or inactivity caused by opposing equal forces , " is most often encountered in the fields of science and medicine , but it has applicability in political analysis as well . In the context of the present discussion , the probability of stasis in American politics increases as more and more organized groups enter into the fray , seeking to obtain or to prevent governmental action . Among groups , as among individuals , " equal power " turns out to be no power at all . With no preponderant forces to provide energy and direction , the governing process becomes increasingly a matter of deadlock , drift , and indecision . Governmental action typically involves endless rounds of negotiations and compromises among ad hoc combinations of groups , officials , and activists . In most cases the support thus created is barely sufficient to get the machinery of government temporarily off dead center . What is even now badly needed , and what will be even more necessary if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these numerous , highly varied interests into a smaller number of more comprehensive points of view . Such a consolidation ? " interest aggregation " ? would resolve , or at least ease , group conflict of a lesser sort without involving governmental officials in Washington ; only the more serious conflicts involving broader points of view would be pushed up for them to attempt to handle . The objective , I repeat , is to channel the multiplicity of group interests into broad streams of general support that is capable both of overriding particularistic demands and of giving purpose and momentum to the government . ' The kind of aggregation required is possible only if broadbased institutions for mobilizing popular support are available . The only institutions with the potential for doing that are political parties . But parties can force the aggregation of group interests and their subordination to broader goals only if they  | ? the parties ? have the capacity to say , in effect , to interest groups : Join in our common effort to elect officials and to determine the course of public policy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you will receive in return a commensurate measure of influence upon the general direction of our proposed policies and upon the officials elected with our ? and your ? help . If you decline to join and to abide by these conditions , we can not keep you from pressing your claims directly upon the government , but it will not be very responsive to you because the officials whom we elect are going to respond to us rather than to you . In that way , political parties have the potential for aggregating interests and for contributing to the resolution of group conflicts . But that potential can be realized only if the political parties are institutionally strong enough to force their associated groups to compromise their differences and to temper their demands . They must also be strong enough to discipline those who break ranks , whether individual members , organizations and groups , or public officials elected by the party . As we have already seen ( Chapter III ) , our political parties are today incapable of functioning in that way . Still , it seems clearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ toward stasis by strengthening the parties . What other choices do we have ? THE MASS MEDIA OF COMMUNICATIONS In politics , as in other realms of human endeavor , those who man the channels of communications inevitably will have a measure of influence . Political communications , it must be recognized , take many and varied forms , including family discussions , exchanges among workers or students , demonstrations and parades , the content of poetry and fiction , and so on . Almost all forms of human interaction are actual or potential means of political communication . " We have long had a special concern , however , with those channels known as the mass media of communications ? particularly newspapers and magazines , movies , radio and television . The influence of the mass media is often overestimated ( they are , after all , only part of the total system of political  | communications , which is in turn only part of the total set of influence on public opinion and behavior ) . However , it would be equally a mistake to treat the mass media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consequences of the mass media 's influence on politics will enable us to chart a course between those two extremes . Legal and Institutional Context The legal and institutional context for the print and electronic media requires careful attention . The first important aspect is that with some exceptions ( such as the Public Broadcasting Service and an occasional radio or television station operated by a university or other nonprofit organization ) , the organs of mass communication in this country are privately owned , profitseeking operations . They often have other objectives as well , some commendable and some not so commendable . But in the long run they seek to return a profit ( a quest that is usually successful ; the mass media are among the most profitable of enterprises ) . That motivation affects both the mass media 's attitude toward public opinion and the balance struck between advertising and nonadvertising revenues . Generally speaking , managers of mass communications can not afford to be consistently out of line either with public opinion or with advertisers ' opinions on a significant range of salient issues . They @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ face of audience or advertiser views to the contrary on particular subjects . A second important contextual factor is that radio and television stations have a different legal status from that of the print media . Publishers of newspapers , magazines , and books may enter or depart the industry with no necessity for governmental approval if no antitrust or monopoly considerations are involved . Radio and television stations , by contrast , are licensed and regulated by the Federal Communications Commission , an agency of the national government . Due to the limited number of suitable frequencies for radio and video transmissions , and due also to the expectations of great profit , applications usually exceed the available licenses . The statutory and administrative criteria used by the FCC in awarding and renewing the three-year licenses are quite  | vague . Decisions generally take into account the prospects for , or record of , fairness in the treatment of people and subjects , the extent of public service and local interest programming , and the access provided to a wide variety of groups and points of view . Other , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including some that might very loosely be termed " political . " Only rarely will programming be so unfair and insensitive as to lead the FCC to deny renewal of a license , but the insipidness of much radio and television programming undoubtedly owes something to management 's concern about the FCC and its licensing requirements . ' $ A third important contextual factor is the constitutionally protected status of speech and publication . The language of the First Amendment ( " Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of speech or of the press . . . " ) does not give special status to the mass media ; ordinary citizens are equally entitled to its benefits . But as a practical matter , ordinary citizens do not control printing presses and television transmitters , and hence the mass media benefit disproportionately from the First Amendment guarantees . Two especially noteworthy benefits are : ( 1 ) Freedom from prior restraints on publication , that is , no governmental ? federal , state , or local ? can force a newspaper or a television station @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The controlling principle is that abuses of the freedom of speech and press can not be prevented by censorship but can be dealt with only by sanctions imposed afterwards . ( 2 ) The threat of any sanctions after the fact of publication or transmission is today a sharply reduced one . Five categories of " speech and press " have always been excluded from constitutional protection , and hence state and federal laws to punish such usage can be validly enacted . These five categories of unprotected speech are obscenity , libel and slander , incitement to crime and violence , conspiracy to commit a crime , and seditious utterances . For most of the mass media , most of the time , the threat of punishment after the fact of publication is not very real . This is in part because the owners ' and managers ' own values , cou-AA  | pled with the subtle influence of consumers and advertisers , keep publications and broadcasts within acceptable limits , and in part because judges now define the unprotected categories of speech and press quite narrowly , particularly those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is left in the notion of " obscenity , " as can be readily ascertained by a visit to the " adult " bookstores whose wares are now found not to be legally obscene , and hence are constitutionally protected . Similarly , libel and slander ( respectively , written and spoken defamation of character ) have been judicially narrowed , especially where public officials and public figures are concerned.19 And while the act of sedition ( an attempt to overthrow the government by unlawful means ) is still prohibited , discussion of its necessity or desirability is now constitutionally protected unless a rather clear connection can be established between that discussion and seditious action.20 The fourth significant contextual aspect involves the patterns of ownership and circulation for the mass media . The existence of a considerable concentration in ownership is beyond dispute . While in 1986 some 1,657 daily newspapers published some 62.5 million copies each day , about one third of that circulation came from newspapers owned by only ten firms ( the Gannett , Knight-Ridder , and Newhouse chains were the three largest ) .21 Moreover , only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ International , provide much of the content both of daily newspapers and of radio and television broadcasts , and three weekly newsmagazines ? Time , Newsweek , and U.S. News and World Report ? dominate their market . Even more concentration of ownership and content is found in television broadcasting . The vast majority of the more than 900 commercial television stations is affiliated with either CBS , NBC , or ABC , and the three networks themselves own fifteen stations in the most populous markets , leading Graber to the conclusion that most of the televised information coming into the nation 's households originates with one of the three networks.22 The networks also supply material to many of the 8,500 radio stations , some of which they also own . As with newspapers , so in television and radio the same person or corporation may own several stations , though regulations of the  | Federal Communications Commission limit licensees to a maximum of twelve stations of each type ( AM radio , FM radio , and television ) . The resulting picture is further darkened by the tendency toward cross-media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1982 owned two radio and three television stations in addition to its thirty newspapers . In an effort to preserve competition between media , FCC regulations now prohibit cross-media acquisitions in the same market , but do not require divestiture of cross-media holdings in effect prior to the adoption of the regulation in the early 1970s . In 1986 , newspaper and magazine publishers owned almost 30 percent of all commercial TV stations , and 5 to 6 percent of the radio stations.23 While the facts on ownership just presented are certainly cause for concern , their implications are softened somewhat if we take into account two important considerations . First of all , daily newspapers , weekly newsmagazines , and radio and television are not the sole means of transmitting political information to large numbers of people . Consider , for example , the making of books ( of which there is no end , said the writer in Ecclesiastes ) . Over the past two decades , the number of book publishers has almost doubled , to about 2,100 . Similarly , the number of new titles and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from about 29,000 in 1965 to about 41,000 in 1985.24 The total number of copies sold varies from year to year , but some idea of their magnitudes can be had by noting that in 1985 some 109 million copies of college textbooks were sold , along with 132 million technical , scientific , and professional books , and about 681 million trade books , of which about two-thirds were for adults.25 As with other media that reach audiences , many of the books have no substantial political content and we have no way of knowing how many are actually read by what proportion of the public . Even so , one can not doubt that today books constitute a major form of mass communication and that their contents span the political spectrum . A second consideration affecting our conclusions about mass media ownership has to do with the growth of " segmental " as distinct from " mass " forms of political communication .  | This can be most clearly seen in the efforts of some interest groups to provide their members relevant political information and interpretation . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in its weekly Science magazine not only reports on scientific studies but also editorial and interpretive articles dealing with the ever-widening intersection of science and governmental affairs . A similar approach is followed by many other groups , including labor unions , professional and trade associations , farm organizations , and public interest groups . Using newsletters , periodicals , film strips , and audio and video cassettes , they attempt to educate members ( and in some cases nonmembers ) on political issues and problems . In addition , there exists a significant number of " for profit " publications partially or wholly devoted to political communication . These range from the highly respected Congressional Quarterly and National Journal to the " journals of opinion " such as the New Republic , the National Review , and Commentary on down to the " insider " newsletters offered to subscribers . Though these " segmental " sources reach narrower audiences than newspapers and television , they constitute important alternatives to the mass media for selected kinds of political data and interpretation.26 The Issue of Media Political Bias A great deal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grows out of a belief that " they " ? those of the opposite political persuasion ? have effective control of the mass media and use that vantage point to indoctrinate readers and viewers in undesirable and unfair ways . As was noted in Chapter I , leftists/Marxists see the mass media as one of the principal institutions through which the ruling class or capitalistic class imposes its will and values on the American people . This view from the left has its counterpart on the right , for many staunch conservatives are convinced that the mass media are dominated by liberals and leftists who are leading the nation to ruin if not to socialism.27 What is one to make of such charges ? Each contains an element of truth . We know from documented and well-publicized instances that corporate managers of the mass media do on oc-  | casion affect their organization 's reporting of particular events . We know from studies of the political inclinations of the journalism profession that executives and journalists in the most prominent organizations are very disproportionately " left-leaning " and oriented to the Democratic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more centrist in ideology and more evenly divided in their partisan preferences.28 Proponents of the left and right viewpoints ( and , for that matter , more neutral observers ) can easily offer examples of programs , editorials , and news articles that are biased with respect to ideological or partisan considerations . But difficulties arise when one tries to generalize from the specific examples to the left 's proposition that the contents of the mass media are controlled by owners and managers for conservative purposes , or to the right 's proposition that " leftleaning " journalists are indoctrinating their readers and viewers along liberal or socialistic lines . Being contradictory , such assertions can not both be true , but is either one ? The answer , almost certainly , is " no . " Owners and managers of the mass media do not think alike on all issues , and their objectives are usually mixed ? those who might wish to engage in political indoctrination also may have such incompatible goals as making a profit , winning professional awards , and staying on friendly terms with political leaders @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mass media also make it difficult for those at the top to control the content of what is printed or aired . They can not personally interview all prospective employees to test their political coloration , nor can they rewrite articles to give them the desired " slant . " Too , frequent interference with subordinates in their handling of media content can be quite costly in terms of morale and performance . Thus for the most part their influence must be exercised in such subtle and indirect ways that it is greatly diminished as it filters downward through successive layers of management to the working journalists and editors.29 One must take into account as well a widely shared norm in the journalism profession in favor of fair and evenhanded reporting . Though weakened in recent times by the rise of " advocacy " journalism , the distaste for deliberate slanting of reporting is still strong enough to affect many reporters ' and edi-  | tors ' own work as well as their response to pressure from others . In short , whatever the shortcomings and biases of particular journalists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a whole provides a rather mixed bill of fare with respect to their indications of partisan and ideological preferences . In some localities and states , their thrust may be more Republican , or more conservative ; in others , their thrust may be more Democratic , or more liberal . Whether the net result is a slight tilt one way or another is less important than this point : On balance , the mass media are neither the tools of corporate management nor vehicles for journalistic propagandizing . That does not mean , however , that the mass media are unimportant to American politics , or that their influence is wholly benign . It only means that we should worry less about partisan and ideological bias in the mass media and more about impact of an altogether different sort . The Impact of the Mass Media In spite of a vast amount of research over the past several decades , we are far from definitive answers to many important questions about the influences of the mass media on American politics.30 Generally speaking , we know a fair amount about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ election campaigns , much less about the media 's influence on the social construction of reality , and even less about their consequences for other institutions in our society . Media impact on individuals ' electoral decisions . With respect to the media 's direct , short-term impact on individuals , many of the generalities developed in the 1940s and 1950s seem to stand up reasonably well . For example , it appears that in election campaigns the mass media have relatively little capacity to convert persons from one candidate , party , or point of view to another . Whether one is considering paid media ( political advertising ) or free media ( news and public affairs reporting ) , the main effect is to reinforce existing preferences . This tendency of media toward reinforcement rather than conversion is accounted for by social and psychological processes .  | The social limitations on effects are due to the fact that mass media messages are seldom received in a vacuum ; family , union shop stewards , professional colleagues , friends , and neighbors may provide other interpretations and perspectives . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also limited by psychological processes , including selective exposure and perception . Thus , neither conservatives nor liberals regularly expose themselves to material opposed to their own points of view , and when they do encounter it , they impose a perceptual screen causing them to receive rather different messages from those intended . Similarly , Democratic partisans watching a Republican president 's televised news conference may see mostly his apparent inconsistencies and factual errors , while Republican viewers are more likely to be impressed by his sincerity and concern for the public good . This view that the direct , short-term impact of the mass media on individuals is primarily reinforcing does not deny any capacity at all to influence voter decisions . It appears to be well established that the mass media 's influence is somewhat greater when people have little or no prior information or few preconceived notions about the issues or persons involved . These conditions are most likely to exist when new candidates or leaders emerge , when new issues arise , or when persons previously unconcerned become politically interested . Such considerations have led some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest influence may lie in helping to establish who are the candidates worthy of discussion . While the mass media 's ability to " legitimize " candidates and influence agendas does exist , it is important to understand that it too is limited . The mass media could never have influenced enough Democrats in 1968 to make George Wallace their party 's nominee for president , nor could the media in 1980 have convinced the American people that inflation did not belong on the agenda . In short , the available evidence , though sometimes inconsistent and contradictory , suggests that on balance the influence of the mass media on particular voting decisions is often greatly overestimated . In spite of all the campaign expenditures for media advertising ( in presidential and congressional elections , as much as two thirds to three fourths of all cam-  | paign expenditures ) , and in spite of all the strategies devised to get free media coverage for candidates in news reports , the mass media continue to be only one of a great many influences bearing on voter choice . In a really @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? but so might a great many other forces ( such as group influences and party identification ) . Hence the media could not be said to be the determining factor.31 Media influence on the social construction of reality . But if the mass media do not have a great deal of short-term , direct influence on voter decisions , is it not possible that on a longterm basis they are exerting significant influence by gradually shaping popular perceptions of the political world ? In the 1950s , researchers concluded that other agencies of political socialization such as family and peer group were more influential than the mass media in shaping individuals ' perceptions of their political world . More recently , some analysts have concluded that the media 's long-range impact is greater than at first thought . Given the amount of time devoted by the typical citizen each week to the mass media , first as a child and then as an adult , it would be most surprising if there were no cumulative impact . The difficulty comes in trying to isolate the influence of the mass media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shape our behavior . As with short-term influence , the mass media 's capacity to shape perceptions of the political world seems to hinge on several factors , including the number and type of media to which exposed , the preexisting mind-set , and the level of trust given to particular media . The only safe conclusion seems to be that the mass media have some significant long-term effect on political perspectives and values , but they are not the only such forces at work , nor the most important ones . Impact of the mass media on other institutions . In any case , for my present purposes the most important question is the impact of the mass media on other institutions such as political parties , interest groups , and governmental bodies . As McQuail has emphasized , the mass media affect other institutions in two principal ways : ( 1 ) they compete with them for the citizen 's time and attention , and ( 2 ) they provide an alternative  | system to other institutions for communicating political information and evaluations.32 The combination makes the mass media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ media present attractive alternatives for the use of time should be apparent to anyone who has ever chosen to watch television or read a magazine in preference to attending a meeting of the local Young Democrats or Young Republicans . Political activity can be and often is interesting and enjoyable , but for a great many people it is an acquired taste , one requiring some initiation and " consciousness-building " ( like , say , watching baseball , modern dance , or stock-car racing ) . On the other hand , the mass media ? and here I include all aspects , paid as well as free , movies and books as well as newspapers and television ? present no such initiation problems , for they offer a wide range of fare suitable for a great variety of tastes . The difference in attractiveness is readily discernible if one compares a daily newspaper with , say , the publication of an interest group such as the Farm Bureau Federation or the AFL ? CIO , or the dramatic action on television 's " Miami Vice " with a congressman 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to compete with other recreational and educational activities , whether cockfighting , lecture tours , or theaters and taverns . What gives today 's mass media added importance vis-a-vis political institutions is that the mass media increasingly constitute an independent system for communicating and evaluating political information . It is natural and inevitable , therefore , that those who specialize in mass political communications ? journalists , editors , producers , and owners ? become rivals with other political actors for influence over public opinion . That is to say , the mass media constitute a system of political power competing with political parties , interest groups , and governmental bodies . In some modest part , that power of the media is derived from their limited capacity to influence voter choices and to change perceptions of political reality . In larger part , the media 's power comes from a reputation for having power ( many political leaders and activists mistakenly credit the media with great power to influence public opinion , and accordingly act in ways that make the belief a reality ) . In still larger part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | the institutional vacuum in which they operate . Of the latter , more in a moment . To say that the mass media constitute a system of political power requires us to note two relevant characteristics of that system . To begin with , it is an extraordinarily fragmented and decentralized one . As already indicated , owners and managers , editors and journalists are not formed into some hierarchy of control , but embody ? and offer to readers and viewers ? a rich diversity of political opinion and values . Second , the mass media advance their quest for political power by the way they treat other political actors , organizations , and processes . Because this treatment contributes substantially to the media 's impact , I want to elaborate on that point . Stated in rather oversimplified terms , the mass media promote their political influence by " tearing down " their competitors for power in the political realm ( i.e. , the political parties , interest groups , public officials , and administrators ) . That is less a matter of conscious strategy than a product @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many journalists are poorly trained in public affairs reporting ; they simply do not understand the public policies and political processes being covered . A lack of understanding makes it difficult to portray the complexities of many issues and events , and encourages journalistic interpretations emphasizing corrupt conduct or selfish motivation . Too , the mass media have to sell their wares , and charges of official misbehavior , incompetence , or political manipulation help to do that , as does also the frequent " hyping " of stories ( the use of exaggeration and misleading emphasis to attract attention ) . And the profession 's understanding of what is newsworthy leads it to concentrate on governmental problems , mistakes , and failures , rather than accomplishments . For those and other reasons , the mass media all too often present an unflattering and distorted picture of our political institutions , processes , and officials , thus feeding and reinforcing popular suspicion and distrust . ' The very substantial rise over the past two decades in public disaffection toward , and distrust of , government is now well documented . Consider @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1964 , about 76 percent of a cross section of the electorate thought that one could  | trust the government to do what is right " always " or " most of the time " ; in 1980 , that level of trust had dropped to 25 percent . Four years later ( 1984 ) , the level of trust showed a partial rebound to 44 percent , still well below the 1964 level . In 1964 , " only " 29 percent thought that the government is run by a few big interests looking out for themselves ; by 1980 that had increased to 70 percent . Again , by 1984 some partial improvement had taken place , with " only " 55 percent asserting the dominance of a few big interests . The public 's perceptions of honesty in government and of individual efficacy also have a downward trend , albeit a less pronounced one . One should not suppose that the mass media are entirely , or even primarily , responsible for the shift of opinion reported in Table 4-1 . Still , they probably have contributed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " subversion " of other political institutions would not have its present importance if those institutions were themselves functioning properly . ' In that respect , the two major political parties , Congress , and the executive branch are particularly vulnerable . The weaknesses of the parties have already been discussed in Chapter III , particularly their inability to build the necessary personal and political ties with rankand-file citizens . The parties ' shortcomings as agents of popular mobilization and support , in turn , seriously limit the effective power available to Congress and the presidency . The dysfunctional internal processes of the legislative and executive branches and the complexities of their relationship also leave them at a disadvantage . Significantly , interest groups and the judiciary are less affected by the mass media , the former because they ? at least the successful ones ? have developed incentives and structures to ensure rank-and-file support , the latter because judges need less popular support than the other two branches of government . CONCLUSIONS I have examined in this chapter the role of interest groups and of the mass media in American @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ democratic system , and yet both pose immense problems for us today . The lobbying , electioneering , and propagandizing activities of interest groups are ? for the  | most part ? commendable indications of a vigorously free politics . Some cause for concern arises from the distortions of public needs and preferences caused by the poor representation of some interests in the group struggle . Even more worrisome , however , is the tendency toward stasis that results from the inability of our governmental institutions to process and to weed out or reconcile conflicting group demands . The great need , I argue , is for the aggregation of some of these competing group demands before they are brought to governmental policymakers . However , the institutions most suitable for that aggregating role ? political parties ? are themselves incapable of functioning properly . Similarly , the mass media in this country , though sometimes lacking in depth and sophistication , give us an incredible variety of political information and interpretations ; their contribution to the democratic process is real and indisputable . The principal problem with the mass media @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ biases , for they seem to be within tolerable limits and in any case hard to remedy . Neither is the problem the media 's impact on voter decisions or their shaping of long-term political values and perspectives ; too many other influences are at work to warrant assigning primacy in such matters to the mass media . Rather , the major problem with the mass media is the damage done by the prevalence of an " antipolitics " orientation that too often leads to the cynical , derisive , or unsympathetic treatment of political institutions and processes . The portrayal of public officials and administrators as incompetent , uncaring , corrupt , or untrustworthy is for the most part unfair and unfounded , and helps to feed public alienation from and distrust of political and governmental processes . For the mass media , as for interest groups , the solution to the problems they create lies in strengthening the political institutions most adversely affected . What that means for political parties has already been discussed in Chapter III ; what that means for Congress and the presidency is the focus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Better use has been made of association for civic and political purposes and this powerful instrument of action has been applied to more varied aims in America than anywhere else in the world . " Thus Alexis de Tocqueville opened his discussion of political associations in Democracy in America , Vol. 1 , Chapter 4 ( Garden City , N.Y. : Anchor Books , Doubleday , 1969 ) , pp. 189 ? 195 . Some notion of the scholarly fascination with interest groups can be obtained from David Truman , The Governmental Process , rev. ed . ( New York : Knopf , 1971 ) ; G. David Garson , Group Theories of Politics ( Beverly Hills , Calif. : Sage , 1978 ) ; Robert H. Salisbury , ed. , Interest Group Politics in America ( New York : Harper &; Row , 1970 ) ; and Allan J. Ogler and Burdett A. Loomis , eds. , Interest Group Politics ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1983 ) . 2 . Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1988 ( Washington : Government Printing Office ) , p. 55 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Research Corporation , Encyclopedia of Associations ) . The 1986 total represents an increase of about 100 percent over that for 1970 , with most of the increase involving associations concerned with educational and cultural public affairs , health and medical issues , social welfare , scientific and technical , and avocational activities . On the other hand , such traditional areas of group activity as fraternal and ethnic associations , labor unions , business organizations , and religion showed little or no increase in numbers . 3 . Robert H. Salisbury , " An Exchange Theory of Interest Groups , " in Salisbury , ed. , Interest Group Politics in America ( New York : Harper &; Row , 1970 ) , pp. 32 ? 68. 4 . For useful and generally accurate pictures of lobbyists at work , see Jeffrey M. Berry , The Interest Group Society ( Boston : Little , Brown , 1984 ) , pp. 114 ? 135 ; and Lester Milbrath , The Washington Lobbyists ( Chicago : Rand McNally , 1963 ) . 5 . For example , in the June 19 , 1985 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ads for airlines , liquor stores , and men 's clothing , there appeared ( p . A4 ) a full-page advertisement from the American Council of Life Insurance proclaiming : " The Administration 's Proposal to Tax People Who Buy Life Insurance Would Seriously Damage the Financial Security of Millions of Americans . " The text of the ad argued against proposed legislation from the Reagan administration to collect income taxes on the annual increases in the cash value of life insurance .  | 6 . For interesting details of the latter as practiced in black wards of Richmond , Virginia , seethe Washington Post , October 30 , 1982 , p . Al . 7 . Buckley v. Valeo , 424 U.S. 1 ( 1976 ) . 8 . The creation of PACs has also been stimulated by the federal law limiting an individual 's contribution to the campaign of a candidate for federal office to a maximum of $1,000 per election and imposing a ceiling of $25,000 per year for all contributions to federal candidates . 9 . Congressional Quarterly Weekly Report , May 16 , 1987 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point is provided by the successful effort by the banking industry in 1983 to persuade Congress to repeal a recently enacted law requiring personal income taxes to be withheld from interest earnings paid to depositors . Many of the members who voted for repeal had received substantial campaign contributions from bankers , but so had some of those in opposition to repeal , including Senator Robert Dole of Kansas , who went to extraordinary lengths to try to block repeal . On the influence of campaign contributions on officials ' actions , see Larry Sabato , PAC Power : Inside the World of Political Action Committees ( New York : Norton , 1984 ) , Ch. 4. 11 . There is concern as well that group leaders do not always properly represent the views of rank-and-file members . That is a real problem , but for present purposes it need not be examined ? my principal concern with interest groups is not affected by the representativeness or unrepresentativeness of group leaders . 12 . Sidney Verba and Normal H. Nie , Participation in America : Political Democracy and Social Equality ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 13 . See , for example , First National Bank of Boston v. Bellotti , 435 U.S. 765 ( 1978 ) . 14 . Buckley v. Valeo 424 U.S. 1 ( 1976 ) . That case dealt only with direct expenditures in presidential elections , but the principle will almost certainly be extended to Congressional elections as well . 15 . For an early and especially cogent analysis of the importance for democracies of the right to organize for political purposes , see de Tocqueville , Democracy in America , Vol. 1 , Chapter 4. 16 . It might appear that the suggested aggregation is already taking place , inasmuch as like-minded groups in Washington sometimes consult with each other and combine to achieve certain limited objectives . But such temporary coalitions for highly specific purposes are not really examples of aggregation , for the danger always exists that some who ought to be involved will refuse to join  | and others will participate in the coalition only so long as they can have their way . 17 . The nature of political communication is considered more fully in Dan Nimmo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monica , California : Goodyear Publishing Company , 1978 ) , Chapter 1 . 18 . For a succinct review of FCC licensing , see Doris Graber , Mass Media and American Politics , 2nd ed . ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1984 , pp. 47-53 ) . 19 . New York Times v. Sullivan , 477 U.S. 254 ( 1964 ) . 20 . Brandenburg v. Ohio , 395 U.S. 444 ( 1969 ) . 21 . Data on the number of daily newspapers and their circulation are from Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1988 , pp. 529 . Ownership patterns are from Graber , Mass Media , pp. 42-43. 22 . Graber , Mass Media , pp. 43-44. 23 . Ibid. , p. 40 . Data on newspapers and magazine ownership are from Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1988 , p. 527. 24 . Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1987 , p. 214. 25 . Statistical Abstract of the United States , 1987 , p. 213. 26 . Morris Janowitz contrasts the highly standardized content of certain media with the " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available to the various social segments of modern industrial society . See his " Mass Media : Institutional Trends and Their Consequences , " in Morris Janowitz and Paul M. Hirsch , eds. , Reader in Public Opinion and Mass Communication , 3rd ed . ( New York : The Free Press , 1981 ) , p. 306 , reprinted in abridged form from Morris Janowitz , The Last Half-Century ( Chicago : University of Chicago Press , 1978 ) . 27 . The following is a typical assessment from the Left : Actually the media are so thoroughly tied to the business class as to make their claim to being the guardians of the public trust a subject of some mockery . The major newspaper chains , magazines , wire services , radio and television networks , and their many subsidiaries are controlled by a few powerful financial interests centering on the Morgan and Rockefeller empires . Michael Parenti , Power and the Powerless ( New York : St. Martin 's Press , 1978 ) , p. 148 . For an opposite , and equally wide-of-the-mark assessment , see Joseph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( New Rochelle , N.Y. : Arlington House , 1971 ) .  | Sources offering these criticisms from the left or from the right are conveniently assembled in several of the articles in William Adams and Fay Schreibman , eds. , Television Network News : Issues in Content Research ( Washington : School of Public and International Affairs , George Washington University , 1978 ) . See , for example , pp. 19 ? 25 and pp. 111 ? 114. 28 . John Johnstone , Edward Slawski , and William Bowman , The News people ( Urbana , Ill. : University of Illinois Press , 1976 ) , pp. 92 ? 94 . A decade later another examination of the " elite " journalists , both print and electronic , documented the same disproportionately liberal and Democratic orientation among them . Robert Lichter , Stanley Rothman , and Linda S. Lichter , The Media Elite ( Bethesda , Md : Adler and Adler , 1986 ) , Chapter 2 . For a study of the work of journalists in Washington , including some consideration of their orientation on issues and parties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Brookings Institution , 1981 ) . 29 . On the inability of media executives to shape journalists ' reporting , see Lichter , Rothman , and Lichter , Media Elite , pp. 43 ? 44 , and sources cited therein . 30 . The discussion that follows draws heavily upon the excellent summary by Denis McQuail , " The Influence and Effects of Mass Media , " in Janowitz and Hirsch , Reader in Public Opinion , pp. 261 ? 285 . Other valuable overviews are provided by Graber , Mass Media , pp. 135 ? 176 ; Austin Ranney , Channels of Power : The Impact of Television on American Politics ( New York : Basic Books , 1983 ) ; Sidney Kraus and Dennis Davis , The Effects of Mass Communication on Political Behavior ( University Park , Pa. : Pennsylvania State University Press , 1976 ) ; Elie Abel , ed. , What 's News : The Media in American Society ( San Francisco : Institute for Contemporary Study , 1981 ) ; Dan Nimmo , particularly Chapters 9 and 11 ; Adams and Schreibman ; and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Media in American Politics ( Vol. 247 of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science ) . 31 . And if an election is not at all close , no particular factor can be said to have been determinative , media included . 32 . McQuail , " The Influence , " pp. 278 ? 279. 33 . For an early and influential study of that tendency , see Michael J. Robinson , " Public Affairs Television and the Growth of Political Malaise : The Case of ' The Selling of the Pentagon , ' " 70 American Political Science Review 409 ( June 1976 ) . Aaron Wildaysky accounts for the media 's antipathy to political leaders and institutions in a very interesting way . Recognizing the lack of a consistent partisan  | or ideological ( i.e. , liberal or conservative ) bias on the part of the mass media , Wildaysky suggests that they have a very different kind of bias toward " greater equality of condition so as to reduce disparities in power . " Those imbued with that point of view " .. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ black and white , women and men , children and parents , Third and First Worlds , and so on . Because authority is a prima facie case of inequality , they reject it . " Aaron Wildaysky , " The Media 's ' American Egalitarians , " 88 Public Interest 94 ( Summer 1987 ) . 34 . My analysis is supported by two of Michael Robinson 's three explanations for lessened media influence in the 1980 presidential election as compared to 1976 . The greater cohesion and consensus of the out party ( Republicans ) , plus the stabilizing effects of incumbency on the Democrats , reduced opportunities for media influence , as did the clear and significant differences between the candidates : " . . . Media , the ephemeral factor , matter least when other more tangible criteria for voting decisions are in sharp relief . Blunders matter less , style matters less , almost everything matters less when basic differences on policy between candidates come through clearly . " ( Robinson 's third explanation for the reduced role of the media in 1980 is that they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own undesirable practices and tendencies . ) Michael J. Robinson , " The Media in 1980 : Was the Message the Message ? " in Austin Ranney , ed. , The American Elections of 1980 ( Washington : American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research , 1981 ) , pp. 202 ? 210 ( quoted words at p. 206 ) .  | POLITICAL POWER AND THE AMERICAN CONGRESS The two preceding chapters have sketched the significance of our electoral processes , and of political parties , interest groups , and the mass media , for the way in which political power is generated in the American system . It is time now to examine each of three branches of the national government from the standpoint of the political power actually available and the effectiveness with which it is used . As we saw in Chapter II , the interrelationship of the legislative , executive , and judicial branches is customarily defined in terms of the principle of separation of powers , as modified by the system of checks and balances . The system can be better described , following Neustadt @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , administration , and adjudication ) , jointly performed . Though each branch has primacy in its assigned domain , a substantial exercise of power usually requires the assent of one or both of the other branches . Thus Congress is given all power to legislate , but a president may veto its enactments . All executive power is given to the president , but his major appointments require Senate confirmation . All judicial  | power is vested in the Supreme Court and such lower courts as are established , but their jurisdiction is largely fixed by Congress ( with the president 's approval ) . The president is commander in chief of the armed forces , but the funds for their maintenance and operation ( as for any other governmental activity ) must ultimately be provided by Congress . Judges are appointed by presidents after Senate confirmation , but they may be removed after indictment ( impeachment ) by the House of Representatives and conviction by the Senate . And so on . That these constitutional arrangements complicate the functioning of the national government is readily apparent . Such a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are satisfied : ( 1 ) each branch must be able and willing to play its assigned role , and ( 2 ) each branch must have strong incentives to cooperate with the other two branches . Both conditions involve basic considerations of power . That is , within each branch , is political power generated and organized in ways that facilitate its operation ? And is the system of power within each branch conducive to an effective working relationship with the other two branches ? The discussion in this chapter and the following two focuses on the extent to which these two conditions are met . CONGRESS IN THE CONSTITUTIONAL ORDER It is appropriate to begin , as the constitution does , with Congress . It is in many respects an admirable and honorable body , rich in tradition , blessed with great talent , entitled to credit for many substantial accomplishments . And yet there is widespread agreement that Congress is failing , that it is not meeting its responsibilities . The complaints and criticisms come from its own members and leaders as well as from scholars and commentators @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are adopted , but they either do not help much or they make conditions worse . So what then is the problem with Congress ? It may be easier to answer that question by considering first what is not wrong with Congress . To begin , Congress is not at any constitutional disadvantage vis-a-vis the judicial and executive branches . The delegates at the Convention in 1787  | were on familiar institutional ground when they designed the legislative branch . In each of the former colonies a representative assembly had been provided almost from the beginning , and these colonial legislatures had gradually grown in power and stature ; eventually they led the way to the American Revolution . Not surprisingly , these legislatures took dominant positions in the new state constitutions adopted after the revolution began . Many of the delegates at Philadelphia in 1787 had come to look with disfavor upon the contemporary state legislatures , believing them to be too parochial on issues of national importance and too sensitive to constituency pressure on such matters as debt relief . Nevertheless , the need for a national representative assembly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ made to subordinate it to the presidency and to the judiciary . Instead , the three branches were designed to be constitutionally coequal . Thus if Congress has been eclipsed by an imperial presidency , as a great many observers concluded in the late 1960s and early 1970s,2 or by an imperial judiciary , as some have more recently concluded , ' it is not the result of constitutional design . Nor can it be said that the failures of Congress today stem from a lack of legal authority to do what needs to be done . As I stressed in Chapter II , the push for a new constitution in the postrevolutionary period was fed by the belief that a strong national government was needed , one capable of dealing with major problems that existed or were anticipated . The powers granted to Congress were not unlimited , but they included several of a broad and fundamental nature , such as the power to tax the populace directly and to spend " for the common defence and general welfare of the United States " ; to declare war and peace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and interstate commerce ; to promote social and economic intercourse through a postal system , standard weights and measures ; and so on . The list of powers conferred on Congress in Article I , Sec. 8 is capped by an extraordinary grant of authority to pass such laws as are " necessary and proper " to carry out the enumerated powers . Almost 200 years of constitutional interpretation result today in a Congress with more than ample authority for the problems to be dealt with . ' Even when a particular exercise of Congressional authority is barred , as in the  | 1983 Supreme Court decision invalidating the legislative veto of executive actions , ' Congress still has efficacious alternatives . If the budget is out of control , or if the problems associated with acid rain go unsolved , it is not because Congress has no legal authority to act . Representation in Congress Finally , it must be recognized that the difficulties of Congress today are not rooted in the system of representation . The distinguishing characteristics of that system are ( 1 ) direct popular election of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate , ( 2 ) the use of single-member districts , and ( 3 ) the determination of the winner usually , but not invariably , on the basis of a plurality of votes . The direct election of members of the House for a two-year term of office was agreed upon at the constitutional convention in 1787 with little difficulty , though the delegates had trouble fixing suffrage requirements until they sidestepped the problem by deciding that any person qualified under state law to vote in elections for the lower house of the state legislature would also be qualified to vote for candidates for the U.S. House . However , popular election of the two senators from each state was not provided until the Seventeenth Amendment was adopted in 1913 ; prior to that , state legislatures chose members of the Senate . The present practice of using only single-member districts for House members is not specified in the constitution , and multimember districts were used with some frequency in the first part of the nineteenth century , and thereafter on an occasional basis until the 1960s . Senators are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each state serving as a fixed district . The six-year staggered terms for them mean that the two senators from a given state are not normally chosen at the same election . Neither does the constitution specify the widespread but not quite universal use of plurality elections ' ( also known as " first past the post " elections , since the winner is the one who polls more voters than anyone else , regardless of whether or not a majority is obtained ) ; they are provided by state law . The world offers a variety of electoral systems for selecting  | members of representative assemblies , each with some desirable and some undesirable consequences . For present purposes , I want to stress one great advantage offered by the single-member , plurality system just described : It has a multiplier effect that helps to develop the power to govern by manufacturing extraordinary legislative majorities . As Douglas Rae has skillfully shown , a single-member , plurality system regularly gives the strongest political party substantially more legislative seats than its share of the popular vote would indicate , while weaker @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . ' For example , candidates of the Democratic Party in the 1986 House of Representatives elections received 54.6 percent of all votes , but won 59.3 percent of all seats in the House . Such a system thus helps to produce a legislative majority large enough to govern effectively if other conditions are satisfied . The failures of Congress today can not be attributed to its system of representation . That could not have been said twenty or more years ago , before major changes began to take place in the apportionment and districting of seats in representative assemblies at all levels of American government . So far as Congress is concerned , reapportionment and redistricting affect only the House of Representatives , for the constitution itself guarantees population inequality in Senate representation by allocating two seats to each state . In the House , reapportionment refers to the allocation of seats to the various states after each decennial census of population . Congress is responsible for carrying out the constitutional stipulation that representation in the House is to be based on population , subject to the guarantee that each @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might appear to be a simple arithmetical computation developed into a long-running issue when mathematically inclined persons developed different formulas for reapportioning seats , each producing slightly different results in the share allocated to particular states . As long as Congress was willing to increase the number of seats in the House , as it did throughout the nineteenth century , the decennial conflict could be eased by adding , , a few more seats to take care of the losers . That solution was no longer available after 1910 when the membership of the House was fixed by law  | at 435 . It proved to be impossible to agree on a formula in connection with the 1920 census and hence no reapportionment took place ? the only time that has happened . Recognizing the need for a permanent solution , Congress enacted legislation just before the 1930 census that laid the foundation for what later developed into an automatic process . Now , as soon as the population count is completed , the Bureau of the Census uses a formula written into law to calculate the distribution of seats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ results , which become binding unless Congress amends the statute , which it has not done since the automatic reapportionment system was agreed upon . Although Congress eventually disposed of the House reapportionment issue , it could not solve the problem of redistricting , the periodic redrawing of boundary lines within each state for the respective House districts . Traditionally , the drawing of congressional district lines has been the responsibility of state legislatures , though Congress could take charge if it wished . However , as a practical matter , much of that power is now in the hands of federal judges . It is worth pausing to see how this came about . Prior to 1962 , the prevailing view was that courts would not attempt to remedy the failure of state legislatures to draw boundary lines for congressional districts ( or for state and local legislatures ) in fair and just ways . ' Since Congress no longer set any standards for congressional districting , the state legislatures were free to do as they pleased . In many instances the result was districts very unequal in population , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as blacks or Irish ) or the minority political party in the state . In a line of decisions beginning with Baker v. Carr in 1962,9 and continuing to the present , the United States Supreme Court has held that legislative districts ? whether for the House , or for state or local legislatures ? must be equal in population and free of any discriminatory intent or effect . ' 0 Judges have found it impossible to enunciate clear and meaningful criteria to guide state legislators in districting efforts , and have at times faced legislative unwillingness to cooperate . As a result , the judges have increasingly taken over the jobs themselves , invalidating state legislation and substituting their own  | decrees , often based on plaintiffs ' proposals . Courts today insist that congressional districts must be quite literally equal in population . " Whether judicially designed districts yield better representation than legislatively designed ones is a question worth asking , even if it can not be answered here . Congress is failing , then , but not because it is constitutionally disadvantaged vis-a-vis the executive and judicial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and not because its system of representation is defective . The problem is within Congress , in the relationship of members to their leaders and to one another . Power is so fragmented , so dispersed into countless nooks and crannies , that it can be cumulated into a force capable of effective action only by Herculean efforts . Stated another way , the amount of time , energy , and political capital required to produce action in Congress is grossly out of proportion to the legislative results . The problem lies also in the way members go about winning nomination and election , in their freedom from party control and , therefore , their lack of a stable , continuing base of support . Members of Congress have made a Faustian bargain , giving up the possibility of wielding collective and individual power in exchange for autonomy and security in office . To see why this is so , we must look at the way Congress is organized . THE ORGANIZATION OF CONGRESS For most of its history , Congress has operated with dual structures of power , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Senate committee systems . The constitution is properly silent on the leadership of Congress , specifying only that in the House the speaker ( the presiding officer ) and other offices are to be chosen by the members . The Senate must use the vice president of the United States as presiding officer , though its members may choose their other officers , as well as a president pro tempore to preside in the absence of the vice president . All else is a matter of each chamber 's own rules and traditions .  | Party Leadership in the House Considering first the structure of power built around party leadership in the House , we must start with the caucuses of Democratic and Republican members held in December of even-numbered years , shortly after the biennial elections and just before a new Congress convenes . Each party caucus elects a chairman and other officers of the caucus ; nominates a candidate for speaker ; chooses a party floor leader and a " whip " ; and establishes a procedure for the selection of party members to serve on ( and for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . While each party caucus may meet occasionally over the ensuing two years to discuss strategy and pending legislation , this organizational meeting is clearly the most important one . When the whole House convenes a few weeks later in January of odd-numbered years , the election of the speaker is a mere formality , for members faithfully cast their ballots for the nominees of their respective parties . Like his counterpart in most state legislatures , the speaker of the House is not only the presiding officer of the House but also a party leader , using the power and prerogatives of one position to reinforce the other . The influence derived from the office of speaker is of modest proportions . The speaker is the chief administrative officer of the House , but much of that responsibility is exercised by others , including the House Administration Committee . The speaker is also the chief ceremonial officer of the House , a role buttressed by the statute moving the speaker to the presidency in case that office and the vice presidency are both vacant . More important are the opportunities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the House . First , the speaker has the right to refer bills and resolutions to the various committees of the House . The rules defining committee jurisdiction are so general that a speaker often has some discretion ; it sometimes happens that referring a bill to one committee rather than another , or to more than one committee ( multiple referral ) , will affect its fate . Second , the speaker applies and enforces the rules of the  | House , subject of course to the possibility of an appeal to the whole House if his rulings are much out of line . Other noteworthy aspects include the right to decide results of House votes and the power of recognition , meaning that no one may address the House or raise parliamentary questions without the speaker 's consent . Such recognition is often prearranged in consultation with the majority and minority party floor leaders , committee chairmen , and bill managers . Third , the speaker chooses the House members of conference committees appointed jointly with the Senate to reconcile differences in the two chambers ' versions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sitting as a committee of the whole ; and chooses as well members of special and select House committees ( but not of the standing committees ) , though in making such appointments the speaker must take into account the preferences of other leaders and groups . Alone , the powers just mentioned would not carry the speaker very far . His main strength comes from his role as party leader . Among Democrats ? and that party has elected the speaker of the House in every Congress except two since 1931 ? a tradition of sorts has developed of promoting their majority floor leader to the speakership when it becomes vacant . Typically , a speaker will have long service in the House , be quite knowledgeable about the House and its procedures , be skilled in interpersonal relationships , and have a reputation both for partisanship and fairness . In addition to his general leadership position , a speaker may derive a measure of power from certain rules adopted by the Democratic caucus in the 1970s . The speaker is now allowed to designate the Democratic members and chairman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ p. 105 ) . The rules of the Democratic caucus now also give the speaker more influence over the selection of Democratic members and chairmen of House standing committees by allowing him to chair the caucus 's Steering and Policy Committee , to appoint outright four of its twenty-four members , and to combine with the Democratic floor leader to appoint another five . Only occasionally are the Steering and Policy Committee 's selections of Democratic committee members and chairmen overturned by the whole caucus .  | Though the speaker is clearly the most visible and , usually , the most influential figure in the House , he is by no means the sole party leader . The Democratic and Republican party caucuses also elect , respectively , a majority and a minority floor leader . Each is assisted by a " whip " elected by the party caucus . Broadly speaking , the floor leaders attempt to mobilize support for their respective parties ' programs , as defined sometimes by the caucus but more often by the desire to support or oppose the president , depending upon whether he is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ floor leader carries much of the responsibility for weekly scheduling of House business , in consultation with the speaker , committee chairmen , other leaders of both parties , and sponsors of legislation . The party whips , each of whom has a number of deputy and assistant whips , head a vital communications and liaison operation , channeling information to party rank-and-file about what the leadership proposes to do and why , and reporting back to the leadership what rank-and-file members want and are willing to do . Finally , as part of the leadership structure , one must include the Democratic caucus 's Steering and Policy Committee , the Republican caucus 's Policy Committee , the Congressional Campaign Committee in each caucus , and other lesser committees . On the face of it , the structure of party leadership just described seems rational and appropriate . But for there to be leaders , there must be followers . What incentives do rank-andfile members have to follow their elected leaders ? What power do those leaders have to carry out their responsibility ? The answer to both questions is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not do much to deny members renomination and reelection , nor can they do much to discipline those who vote against the party in committee and on the floor , or to reward those who are faithful followers . The reason why will become clearer when we examine the second traditional structure of influence in the House : the standing committees . The Committee System in the House The committee system is one of the most distinctive features of the legislative process in Congress . Its complexities and politics  | have long been of interest to scholars , and a vast body of knowledge is available . For present purposes , we need to draw from that body the answers to four key questions : 1 . What do standing committees do in the House ( and Senate ) ? 2 . How are their members and chairmen selected ? 3 . What is the structure of power within the committees ? 4 . What is the relationship between the committees and the majority and minority party leadership ? Committee functions . The short answer to the first question is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ House ( and of the Senate ) . Normally , every bill upon introduction is referred to one or more committees of the House for evaluation and possible modification . The committee may decide to let some measures die quietly , declining to report them out or to give them any further attention . For measures deemed worthy of consideration , the committee will usually schedule public hearings and invite interested persons and groups to testify before the committee . The committee may then decide not to report out the measure , or to report it unfavorably or even , occasionally , with no recommendation at all . Bills reported favorably by the committee will often first be amended by it , sometimes to the point where the original sponsors disown their handiwork . A favorable report from committee does not guarantee that a measure will be scheduled for floor action , or , if scheduled , that it will be passed . However , disapproval by a committee is almost always fatal to a measure , though extraordinary procedures exist by which it occasionally can be resurrected . Standing committees @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them . They may also conduct studies and hold hearings to determine whether legislation is needed to deal with certain issues , or as part of their responsibility for oversight of the executive and judicial branches . Under certain conditions , committees have the power to compel witnesses to testify or to produce documents and other evidence . Each committee now has a sizable professional and clerical staff to assist the members in carrying out their duties .  | Thus the fate of legislation , the examination of substantive policy issues , and the oversight of administration all hinge on the committee system . That standing committees take so much of the time and energy of members is quite understandable , for they are centers of power , providing means of winning influence and recognition with respect to fellow members , group representatives , administrators , and constituents . Naturally , the standing committees of the House vary considerably in the power and prestige conferred . Three have long been recognized as preeminent : Rules , Appropriations , and Ways and Means . The Rules Committee plays primarily a procedural role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action . Most measures favorably reported by other standing committees come before the Rules Committee for a decision as to whether they should be scheduled for floor debate ? and if so , when , for what length of time , and whether open or closed to amendment on the floor . A " rule " from the Rules Committee incorporating such decisions must be adopted by a House majority before the measure is brought to the floor for debate . The Appropriations Committee has jurisdiction over the bills actually fixing the level of expenditure for each governmental agency and program . Even after other committees have recommended and the House has passed legislation " authorizing " money to be spent , a separate , subsequent act is necessary actually to release the money . That " appropriation " act is the responsibility of the committee bearing that name ( subject , of course , to approval by the whole House ) . The Ways and Means Committee handles the other side of the fiscal ledger , reviewing and evaluating proposals to raise the money to fund governmental operations . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Budget Committee will come to be as influential as Appropriations and Ways and Means . Its function is to encourage the House and other Committees to make particular spending and taxing decisions within the context of an overall budgetary strategy developed by the committee and approved by the House . The remaining eighteen standing committees of the House have jurisdictions that roughly parallel major organizational components of the government , or major policy areas . For example , the responsibility of such committees as Judiciary ,  | International Relations , Education and Labor , and Foreign and Interstate Commerce can be surmised from their names . Unfortunately , most problems and the legislative proposals to deal with them do not neatly coincide with governmental structures ; a measure , say , to regulate certain international operations of American banks might fall into the defined jurisdiction of either the International Relations , the Interstate and Foreign Commerce , or the Banking , Currency , and Treasury Committee . The speaker is now empowered by House rules to send a measure in part or in whole to more than one committee , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) for what is perhaps an even larger one ( who will finally put together the pieces ? ) Committee member selection . In addressing the second major question about the committee system ? how members are chosen ? one must distinguish between the formality and the reality . The formality , as defined by House rules , is that committee members are elected by the whole House . Such a vote is indeed taken by the House , but only to confirm the committee assignments already worked out by the majority and minority parties , both of which have highly developed procedures and traditions governing the choices made . In assigning newly elected members to standing committees , those responsible ( the Steering and Policy Committee for the Democratic caucus , the Committee on Committees for the Republican caucus ) have considerable discretion . An effort is made to take into account the member 's preferences and expertise , and the nature of his or her district ; consideration is also given to geographical , partisan , and ideological factors , as well as to the member 's potential for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assignment of returning members , except for those who seek to shift to more desirable committees . Returning members will normally be able to reclaim their seats on the committees on which they had previously served unless the party ratio on the committee has shifted so unfavorably that no seat is open , 12 or unless they have sinned egregiously against the party . A rare instance of action based on the latter came in the Democratic caucus prior to the opening of the 98th Congress in  | 1983 . Representative Phil Gramm , just reelected to a second term as a Democrat from Texas , lost his previous assignment to the powerful Ways and Means Committee because he allegedly had worked closely on that committee with Republicans to advance the Reagan administration 's tax programs . Gramm 's unrepentant attitude probably contributed to the action against him ; significantly , other Democrats who had voted for Republican-sponsored measures in committee and on the floor were not punished . ( Gramm immediately resigned his House seat , ran and won reelection as a Republican to fill the vacancy , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Means Committee . In 1984 , he was elected to the Senate , again as a Republican . ) Committee chairmanships , which are always filled by the majority party , traditionally go to the party member with longest service on that committee . No written rule in either party supports that tradition , and the Democratic caucus over the past decade has been willing on several occasions to elect someone to the chairmanship other than the senior Democrat on the committee , on the grounds that the person with greatest seniority had performed in an unsatisfactory or unresponsive manner . Still , most chairmen , most of the time , get their position on the basis of committee seniority , and a person must be very unpopular with members of his party before the seniority tradition will be overridden . Committee power structure . Turning to the third key question about the committee system ? the structure of power within each committee ? we find a significant alteration by the Democratic caucus during the 1970s . Prior to those changes , a chairman was clearly in charge of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ majority staff , controlling the committee 's agenda , and creating subcommittees and appointing their members . A chairman might not always get his or her favored bills endorsed in committee , but could usually block the measures to which he or she was strongly opposed . The chairmanship of the pre-reform era had a great potential for power , and most who held such posts knew how to use it ? and sometimes to abuse it . The problem , most observers agreed , was the complete  | reliance on committee seniority ( in the majority party ) to determine the chairmanship . Ability to win reelection over a long period of time is not a very useful measure of ability to chair a House committee , and the independence from the party and its leadership engendered by their automatic selection tempted some chairmen to defy or disregard the very group ? the party ? that gave them their powerful office . The solution to an intolerable problem was clear ; Make the chairmen exercise their power in ways responsible to their party . The Democratic reforms that began in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we have seen , by permitting a secret caucus vote on nominees for committee chairmanships and , to date , four chairmen have been displaced in that fashion , the last one in 1984 . But the reform effort did not stop with trying to make the exercise of chairmen 's power more responsible ; it went on to make it much more difficult to exercise any power at all . The principal vehicle for this was the so-called subcommittee bill of rights which stripped chairmen of much of their power . As long as Democrats are the majority party in the House , the Democratic members of a committee may determine which subcommittees will be created , what their jurisdiction will be , and who from the majority will serve on and chair each subcommittee . Similarly , the Democratic members of a committee may determine the budget and staff for each subcommittee . The committee chairman must send all bills referred to the committee to a subcommittee within two weeks unless the full committee decides otherwise . A committee chairman may no longer refuse to call committee meetings @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ committee . And chairmen no longer are the principal spokesmen for their committees ; increasingly , bills reported out by them are managed on the floor by the subcommittee chairmen . The result is a very substantial fragmentation of power . A sizable increase in the number of subcommittees , coupled with another Democratic rule limiting persons to one major committee or subcommittee chairmanship , has greatly expanded the number of individuals whose support must be obtained if broad-gauged legislative action is desired . And , as Dodd and Oppenheimer have pointed out , the rise of subcommittee gov-  | ernment reinforces other tendencies toward disaggregation of interest . ' 3 As subcommittees proliferate , their jurisdiction shrinks and their handful of members ( usually nine to thirteen persons ) represent less and less a political cross section . Interest groups quickly identify and concentrate on the subcommittees of most importance to them , giving less attention to building the larger coalitions that would be necessary if the more diverse full committee were the focal point . Relation to party leaders . The answer to our fourth question concerning the House @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the committees ( and subcommittees ) and the party leadership is one of nominal subordination but practical independence . True , the Democratic caucus now formally asserts authority over committee chairmen by requiring their election by secret ballot in the caucus . However , that is a hollow victory for party responsibility because of continued reluctance to abandon the seniority system and because the chairmen of committees , while certainly not devoid of all power , are no longer dominant figures . Thus the party leadership , instead of having to deal with twenty-two powerful and independent committee chairmen , must now contend with one hundred and forty or so much less powerful but still rather independent committee and subcommittee chairmen . Under the old committee system , the great power of a committee chairman could be a formidable obstacle , but it could also be a great resource if the chairman were won over to the leadership 's goals . By greatly reducing the chairman 's power to obstruct , the reforms of the 1970s all but eliminated their power to assist the leadership . The House leadership today @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political activities : trying to put together bits and pieces of support to create a temporary winning coalition , without much in the way either of carrots or sticks . Small wonder that the House today seems unmanageable and unpredictable . The failures of Congress today are rooted in the way members of Congress relate to their leaders and to each other , and in the way they win nomination and election to office . I have tried to show the truth of the first part of that argument with respect to the House by examining its leadership and  | committee structures . It is necessary now to consider the Senate in the same way . Party Leadership in the Senate The organization of the Senate , like that of the House , is controlled by the Democratic and Republican party caucuses . Meeting biennially before the new Congress convenes , each of the caucuses elects a floor leader and other officers of the caucus , and creates committees of the caucus to handle assignments to Senate standing committees , campaign assistance , and so on . The determining vote on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a president pro tempore , but the winner ? though traditionally the senior member of the majority party ? is not its principal figure . That role belongs to the majority leader . Assisted by the party whip and deputy whips and by the caucus steering committee , the majority floor leader has a hand in almost everything that happens in the Senate . As in the House , the majority leadership is expected to protect the party 's interest , to mobilize support , to solve problems of strategy and timing , to assign responsibility , and to share credit and take blame . However , much more than in the House , the minority party leadership is also involved in the daily routines of the Senate , with the minority floor leader regularly consulted on most matters , particularly the scheduling of Senate business . In fact , it is with respect to scheduling that one sees most clearly the sharp limitations on the leaders ' power in the Senate . What goes on in the Senate is comprehensible only if one understands the great power to obstruct and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of Senate norms and procedures contribute to this tremendous negative power , but its single most important component is the principle of ( almost ) unlimited debate . In the House , and in most democratic legislative assemblies , a majority of the members , having reached agreement on what they want to do , can close debate ( " move the previous question " ) and bring matters to a decisive vote . However , the Senate rules do not include the usual " previous question " procedure for closing debate , and the rules  | further specify that an individual senator ordinarily may not be compelled to yield the floor . Thus one person acting alone can stop all decision making for at least a day or so ( and sometimes longer ) , and a handful acting in concert can prevent action for much longer periods of time . A Senate filibuster , as these delaying tactics are called , can be overcome only by an extraordinary procedure ( " cloture , " or closure of debate ) that requires a three-fifths majority of all senators , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not bring a disputed measure to an immediate vote . The responsible , democratic way to deal with such a situation would be to amend the Senate rules to allow debate to be closed in a timely fashion and votes to be taken by a simple majority . The Senate , however , has repeatedly refused to do that , preferring instead to accommodate its procedures and behavior to this extreme fragmentation of power . To borrow from Samuel Johnson , what is remarkable is not that the Senate functions poorly , but that it functions at all . The explanation lies in the informal constraints operating to limit somewhat the abuse of this great power to obstruct . A member who is obstructive too often , or for reasons thought to be insufficient , may experience subtle reminders ranging from unwillingness of fellow senators to return phone calls to difficulty in getting his or her own legislative measures approved . Unfortunately , for some members these informal constraints often are not important enough to deter disruptive behavior . The wide dispersal of power in the Senate means that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negotiating not the resolution of issues but their scheduling for debate . A good bit of routine business is brought to the Senate floor by a simple motion , usually from the majority leader , to proceed to its consideration , an apparently flexible procedure that masks wide preliminary consultation to minimize the likelihood of objection . Many major measures , and some lesser ones , are scheduled through written " unanimous consent agreements " in which every member agrees ( or declines to object ) to the specified date , time , and conditions for consideration of the measure in question . Obviously , in negotiating such agreements , the majority leader needs help not only from others in his party but from the minority leadership as well .  | Once a measure is under consideration , whether by a routine motion to take up or by a unanimous agreement , the leaders of both parties must track the proceedings closely , keeping alert to the progress of the debate , judging how best to protect ? or perhaps even to define ? their party 's interests , negotiating amendments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But the party floor leaders do more than provide overall direction on the Senate floor ; they also play significant roles in setting the stage . They have a measure of influence on the selection of their party 's members for Senate standing committees , and on the operation of the party caucus and its committees ( in the Democratic caucus , the floor leader chairs the caucus and its Steering Committee and Policy Committee ) . Any candid assessment of Senate floor leaders must recognize that most of their power is personal rather than institutional ; they make the office important , rather than the other way around . " The smaller size of the Senate facilitates that form of power ? the majority leader typically has 51 ? 60 fellowpartisans , the minority leader 40-49 . The net result of the reliance on personal influence is that party leaders in the Senate spend most of their time cajoling , bargaining , and otherwise politicking for a vote here , an acquiescence there . Only really gifted and dedicated leaders can make such a system work at all , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ System in the Senate The Senate 's sixteen standing committees , like their House counterparts , constitute a structure of power alternative to the party leadership . Since the function of standing committees in both chambers is much the same , I need not repeat here the role of Senate committees in evaluating and revising legislation , except to note the more limited power of its committees to kill legislation by refusing to report it out . The reason is that Senate rules permit nongermane amendments to pending legislation on the floor , so that proposals not reported from a committee can nevertheless get consideration in the form of an amendment to other unrelated legislation . For example , in early 1985 a proposal for a governmental program to provide easier credit to hard-pressed farmers was offered as a non-  | germane amendment to a pending measure dealing with African famine relief . The Republican leadership tried vainly to block consideration , but was able to do so only after several days had been lost and a compromise agreement was reached to bring the farm credit measure up later . Membership @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is controlled by the majority and minority party caucuses , despite the formality of election by the whole membership of the Senate . Democrats entrust the standing committee assignments to the caucus Steering Committee , appointed by the Democratic floor leader and chaired by him ; Republicans rely on their Committee on Committees , elected by the whole caucus . In both parties , the full caucus retains but almost never exercises the ultimate authority to decide the assignments . The committee assignments for freshmen members in both parties reflect a mixture of considerations , such as the member 's preferences and expertise , the geographical distribution of seats on the committee , factional politics , and so on . Both parties now follow the policy initiated by Lyndon Johnson when he was the Democratic majority leader in the late 1950s of ensuring that junior members have an opportunity to serve on the most prestigious committees . Once assigned to a standing committee , a senator who wishes to continue on it may expect to do so indefinitely , unless an unfavorable change in the party ratio on the committee eliminates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most recent additions . ( Party ratios on standing committees correspond roughly to the party ratio in the whole Senate , though the floor leaders may negotiate deviations . ) Requests from members who wish to transfer from one standing committee to another also go through the Democratic Steering Committee or the Republican Committee on Committees , but normally the controlling criterion is length of service in the Senate . When two incumbent members of the same party apply for an opening on a standing committee , the more senior one will be chosen . Seniority is also the operative principle in the choice of committee chairmen and ranking minority members , but the seniority involved is service on the committee . For example , Republican Senator Pete Domenici of New Mexico became chairman of the Budget Committee in 1981 because he had longer  | service on that committee than any other member of his party . When he was also added to the Appropriations Committee in 1983 , he became the lowest-ranking Republican on that committee , despite being one of the more influential and senior members ( in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the chairman of a standing committee in the Senate is always a member of the majority party . ' The Senate committee system , like that of the House , illustrates quite well the congressional tendency to fragment power . True , Senate committee chairmen retain more of their traditional powers than do their counterparts in the House , including more control over meeting schedules and the designation of subcommittee members , but other forces show pronounced centrifugal tendencies . For example , the rule forbidding a senator to chair more than one standing committee guarantees at least sixteen different centers of power in the majority party alone . More important has been the growing use of subcommittees . My count for 1987 indicates that thirteen of the sixteen Senate standing committees utilized subcommittees . The number is so great , in fact , that on some Senate committees almost every member of the majority party chairs a subcommittee . Since normally no one chairs more than one subcommittee of the same committee , the result is several more different centers of influence . Often these subcommittee chairmen are members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the loosening of the old " apprenticeship " norm that once limited opportunities for newcomers to the Senate ? and that channeled power to the more senior members . It should be apparent from this quick sketch that power in the Senate is even more fragmented than in the House . The Senate party caucuses are even less willing than those in the House to discipline uncooperative members or to provide their chosen leaders with much more than a license to politick . Committees and subcommittees in the Senate gives incredible obstructive power to individual members . The dispersed nature of power in the House and Senate , I have been arguing , owes much to the members ' willingness to sacrifice the effectiveness of Congress as an institution to their desires for individual independence , a sacrifice now built into  | the rules and traditions of both chambers . But the difficulty of getting members of Congress to accept the discipline of team effort owes something as well to the electoral process , and to the independence that it now allows members of Congress . To that consideration I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of Congress are elected to office after having been nominated by a political party . However , as we saw in Chapter III , most party nominations are made in some form of a direct primary . Whether " open " or " closed , " a direct primary minimizes the role of activists organized into political parties , and heightens the role of the candidate in the electoral process . In effect , candidates win primaries largely on the basis of their own support-building efforts . Once nominated , congressional candidates may receive some modest aid in the general election from state and local party organizations , from the national party headquarters , and from the party caucus of the chamber to which they seek election . The latter has been slowly growing in significance as a source of both financial aid and technical assistance , such as the preparation of mass media advertising , the conduct of surveys , and so on . Each caucus 's campaign committee is independent of other party units ( e.g. , the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee for House members operates independently of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Democratic National Committee ) . However , some cooperative activity does go on , especially among the Republicans . Nevertheless , it seems fair to say that members of Congress feel that their election reflects primarily their own efforts and qualities . The limited support provided by various party organizations , like that offered by labor unions or business or professional organizations , is no doubt welcome , but many members of Congress feel little more responsibility to their party than to any other segment of their constituency . The electoral independence thus obtained by members of Congress serves them well , insofar as continuation in office is  | concerned . Over the past decade or so , only about 6 percent of House members and 20 percent of senators have been defeated in their quest for reelection , either in primaries or general elections . The formula for retaining congressional office is now well understood : keep the campaign personal , minimize issues , emphasize the service to constituents and " goodies " won for the district or state , and capitalize on the advantages of incumbency , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ like . Above all , the goal is to protect one 's own interests even when they conflict with the goals of the congressional leadership , and to learn how to live with relevant organized interest groups . The heightened prospects for reelection produced by this formula would seem to encourage members to make a career of service in Congress , and many do just that . However , in recent years a substantially greater number of members have been voluntarily retiring , including some who had achieved considerable standing in Congress . Cooper and West found that in the decade 1970 ? 79 , almost 10 percent of House members voluntarily retired , as did about 20 percent of the senators with expiring terms . Both figures are significantly higher than for the preceding decade . While some retirements clearly reflect advanced age , or political vulnerability , or ambition for higher office , Cooper and West concluded that another factor is of growing importance : a more unfavorable cost ? benefit ratio for service in Congress.16 The advantages of serving in Congress are more and more offset by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be no doubt . Congress is in session almost continuously , issues are more numerous and more complex , the number of constituents grows steadily while the membership of Congress is constant , the demands on members ' time and energy multiply exponentially . Any kind of " normal " social and family life becomes difficult , and members find themselves subject to a steady barrage of criticism and complaint . Service in Congress is not without its rewards . The present annual salary ( $89,500 ) is certainly not commensurate with congressional responsibilities , particularly in view of the extraordinary cost of living for members ( including , often , the maintenance of one residence in Washington and another in  | the district or state represented ) . But congressional salary has always been on the low side , and probably will continue to be as long as it is fixed by Congress . More attractive are the very generous retirement benefits and a variety of perquisites ( " perks " ) ranging from reserved parking at the Capitol and airport to club-like amenities in the form of dining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also have the possibility of supplemental income from speeches , law firm partnerships , business investments , and the like . Efforts have been made to offset the added workload by providing more and better staff both for members ' offices and for committees and subcommittees , by developing stronger support facilities such as the Congressional Research Service and the Congressional Budget Office , and by increasing allowances for office operating expenses . Although continuing efforts are necessary to improve the tangible benefits of Congressional service , they are unlikely to yield the necessary improvement in the ratio of benefits to costs of service , simply because the greatest deficiency today is the realm of intangible benefits . That deficiency , according to Cooper and West , involves power and policy : Committee and sub-committee chairmanships do not carry with them the same amounts of prestige and power .... The satisfactions members receive from realizing policy goals have declined as the difficulties of building majorities behind coherent and meaningful programs have increased . More and more members doubt that they can play a vital and significant role in shaping national policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the distinction between lack of power and inability to achieve policy goals ; the latter is merely a manifestation of the former . The important point is that individually and collectively , members of Congress can not accomplish very much . So to summarize the main arguments of this chapter : Congress is failing today , but not because it is at a constitutional disadvantage with respect to the executive and judicial branches , not because it lacks constitutional authority to act , and not because the system of representation is defective . The failure of Congress today has two main roots . One is the  | fragmentation of power within . Over the past decade-plus , Congress has exacerbated a long-standing problem by various reforms tending to equalize power among members of the House and Senate . But , as we saw in Chapter I , equal power is by definition no power at all . The independence from congressional leaders and from fellow members allowed by House and Senate rules is reinforced by the electoral system , the second source of difficulty . The nomination and election of members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties ) and individualizes each House and Senate campaign . The result is a representative assembly in which each member is only responsible to ? and hence responsive to ? a temporary , highly unstable coalition of voters that expresses itself on one day every two years and then dissolves and disappears . The considerable autonomy enjoyed by members means that they can neither be subjected to an exercise of power by their leaders nor exercise much themselves . Stated another way , because members of Congress will not allow themselves to be governed , they can not govern . NOTES CHAPTER V 1 . For some of the more restrained criticism , see James Sundquist , The Decline and Resurgence of Congress ( Washington : Brookings Institution , 1981 ) , especially Chapters 14 and 15 ; Larry C. Dodd , " Congress , the Constitution , and the Crisis of Legitimation , " in Dodd and Bruce I. Oppenheimer , eds. , Congress Reconsidered , 2nd ed . ( Congressional Quarterly Press , 1981 ) , pp. 390 ? 420 ; and Lloyd Cutler , " To Form a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , 421 ( Winter 1981 ) . 2 . Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , The Imperial Presidency ( Boston : Houghton Mifflin , 1973 ) . 3 . Raoul Berger , Government by Judiciary : The Transformation of the Fourteenth Amendment ( Cambridge : Harvard University Press , 1977 ) . 4 . The terms in which authority is allocated to Congress necessitate at times a somewhat oblique approach . For example , the crucially important Civil Rights Act of 1964 is constitutionally based on the grant of power to Congress to regulate commerce among the states , since Congress has no direct grant of authority to legislate on those aspects of race relations covered by the Act .  | 5 . U.S. Immigration Service v. Chadha , 462 U.S. 919 ( 1983 ) . For a discussion of the legislative veto and its significance for congressional oversight of the administration , see below , p. 175. 6 . Louisiana provides one exception to the general rule of plurality elections . In that state , all House and Senate elections require majorities . In Texas , special elections to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do not . 7 . Douglas Rae , The Political Consequences of Electoral Laws , rev. ed . ( New Haven : Yale University Press , 1971 ) . For a very useful and wideranging examination of issues related to electoral arrangements , see Bernard Grofman and Arend Lijphart , eds. , Electoral Laws and Their Political Consequences ( New York : Agathon Press , 1986 ) . 8 . For a useful review of the situation prior to 1962 , see Robert G. Dixon , Democratic Representation : Reapportionment in Law and Politics ( New York : Oxford University Press , 1968 ) , especially Chapters 4 and 5. 9. 369 U.S. 186 ( 1962 ) . Other landmark cases include Reynolds v. Sims , 377 U.S. 533 ( 1964 ) ; Lucas v. Forty-Fourth General Assembly of Colorado , 377 U.S. 713 ( 1964 ) ; and Avery v. Midland County , 390 U.S. 474 ( 1968 ) . 10 . It is well established that legislative districting can not discriminate against racial , ethnic , or religious groups . In 1986 the Supreme Court held for the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups ( e.g. , Republicans or Democrats ) in the redistricting process . Davis v. Bandemer , 478 U.S. 109 ( 1986 ) . However , in that case the Court upheld the Indiana law in question ( a Republican gerrymander of state legislative districts ) in language leaving very unclear the criteria to be applied . 11 . In Karcher v. Daggett , 462 U.S. 725 ( 1983 ) , the Supreme Court by a 5 ? 4 vote invalidated the New jersey statute for congressional districting on the grounds that there was no good reason why the largest House district in New Jersey should have 0.69 percent more residents than the smallest . At the same time , the Court upheld by another 5 ? 4 vote a Wyoming state law allowing an 89 percent deviation between the most and least populous districts of the state legislature . Brown v. Thomson , 462 U.S. 835 ( 1983 ) . 12 . The majority party could refuse to give any committee assignments to minority party members or could relegate them to the less important committees . Traditionally , however , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? and allowed it to assign them ? in rough proportion to the party ratio in the whole House , except on such key committees as Appropriations , Ways and Means , and Rules ? where disproportionate majorities are installed . A Democratic caucus rule re-  | quiring a minimum allocation of 60 percent of the seats on a committee to Democratic members can be and sometimes is waived by party leaders . 13 . Larry C. Dodd and Bruce I. Oppenheimer , ' The Hot se in Transition : Change and Consolidation , " in Dodd and Oppenheimer , eds. , Congress Reconsidered , 2nd ed . ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1981 ) , pp. 31-61. 14 . But the majority floor leader whose party also has the White House gains some added influence from the presidential connection . 15 . Sometimes the member of the majority party with the longest service on a committee will decline its chairmanship in order to take or to retain another ( no senator is allowed to serve as chairman of more than one standing committee ) . For example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ declined the chairmanship of the Foreign Relations Committee to which seniority entitled him , presumably to honor his campaign pledge to serve as chairman of the Agriculture Committee , an important post for the protection of tobacco subsidies so dear to many of his constituents . However , the Republicans ' loss of control of the Senate in the 1986 elections forced Helms to yield the chairmanship of the Agriculture Committee to a Democrat ; Helms then resumed his post as ranking minority member on the Foreign Relations Committee . 16 . Joseph Cooper and William West , ' The Congressional Career in the 1970s , " in Dodd and Oppenheimer , eds. , Congress Reconsidered , 2nd ed . ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1981 ) , pp. 89-91. 17 . Ibid. , p. 89.  | THE POWER OF THE PRESIDENCY The president has often been regarded ? and has sometimes functioned ? as the " Mr. Fixit " of American politics , the principal source of energy , direction , and lubrication for the creaky machinery of our governmental system . Franklin Roosevelt 's twelve-plus years in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ view that the president should properly be seen as the prime instrument of American democracy . Several presidents and a good many years after Roosevelt , a variety of factors , including the war in Vietnam and the abuses of power that drove Richard Nixon from office , eventually promoted a reversal of such thinking in many quarters . That reorientation of the late 1960s and early 1970s was accompanied by legal , political , and attitudinal changes effectively circumscribing presidential power . Probably that power had never been as great as some believed , but in any case by the end of President Carter 's term in January 1981 , it appeared that ( 1 ) the capacity of the president for political leadership had been severely crippled , and ( 2 ) leadership would not be forthcoming from any other quarter . ' Ronald Reagan 's presidency  | suggests that while he has perhaps made more effective use of the resources available to him , the presidency is still an underpowered institution . What then is one to make of the assertions frequently offered by commentators and presidential candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most powerful office in the world ? Measured in terms of presidential capacity to control the nation 's large and small political decisions , that proposition can not be sustained . American presidents have less power to act independently and unilaterally than the chief executives of many other nations of the world , democratic as well as authoritarian or totalitarian . In fact , the president has less real power in his domain than some governors of American states have in theirs . Accordingly , it is much more accurate to think of the presidency as the single most powerful office in what is arguably the most powerful nation in the world . That is to say , presidential power looms large only in relationship to other officials of the national government ; in absolute terms , it is normally in short supply . To a degree , that is the design of the office . True , the men who wrote the constitution wanted an energetic , effective national government , and they expected the president to be the main source of that energy . At first glance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vests all executive power in the president ; makes him the commander-in-chief of all the nation 's armed forces ; and , by giving him the authority to negotiate treaties and to send and receive ambassadors , ensures that he will be the principal figure in the conduct of the nation 's foreign affairs . The president also appoints , subject to Senate confirmation , justices of the Supreme Court , heads of departments , and all other officials whose appointments are not otherwise provided for by Congress . And Article II clearly charges the president to be a leader of Congress by authorizing him to give Congress information and recommendations and ? far more important ? to nullify congressional enactments unless repassed over his veto by a two-thirds vote of each chamber . But with the presidency , as elsewhere , the Founding Fathers hedged their bets . The grants of authority to the president are made in the context of checks and balances among the  | three branches that create a system of shared powers and limit sharply his capacity to act unilaterally . In our governmental system , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if presidents can bring to bear extraconstitutional power , of which the principal legitimate source is the electoral system . Therein lies the problem . Contemporary presidents are faltering as leaders because not enough political power is being generated in the electoral system , and because the scanty resources thus made available to them are too quickly dissipated in the complex internal and external relationships of the executive branch . One must consider , therefore , both the relationship of presidents to the electorate and the way the presidency and the executive branch are organized and managed . To the first of these I now turn . THE PRESIDENT AND THE ELECTORATE How to select the president proved to be one of the most difficult issues of the 1787 constitutional convention . Election of the chief executive by the legislative branch was supported by some delegates but opposed by others troubled by results in the several states then using that mode of choosing governors . The obvious alternative ? direct popular election of the president ? was opposed by a majority of the delegates , some out of distrust of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in conducting a national election in thirteen separate principalities with poor communications and travel facilities . The Electoral College The decision at the Philadelphia convention put presidential selection where it formally still remains : in the hands of a small group known as the electoral college . Each state is allocated as many presidential electors as it has members of the House and Senate , thus yielding a total of 538 electors ( one for each of the 435 House and 100 Senate members , plus three for the District of Columbia allowed by the Twenty-Third Amendment ) . These electors assemble in their respective states soon after the general election ; each casts one ballot for president and another for  | vice president . If no candidate has a majority of all electoral votes , then the House of Representatives chooses the president from among the top three presidential contenders , and the Senate chooses the vice president from among the two top contenders for that office . These constitutional provisions , however , are merely the tip of the iceberg ; the most important nine tenths of the presidential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Though state legislatures could specify other modes of selecting presidential electors , all fifty states and the District of Columbia require them to be chosen by direct popular vote . It is by casting ballots for these electors , nominated by political parties or by independent presidential candidates , that the American electorate registers its preferences for president ; it can never vote directly for the nation 's chief executive , though the ballot often leaves that impression . ' All states except Maine choose electors in a statewide election , and those who poll a plurality of the popular vote ( i.e. , more votes than anyone else , even if not a majority ) will win all of the state 's electoral votes . For example , in 1984 , the slate of electors chosen by the Republican Party in Pennsylvania won 54 percent of the popular vote , but 100 percent of the 25 electoral votes . This legally and politically complicated selection process has been the subject of controversy almost from the beginning . ' Most of the criticism focuses on ( 1 ) the possibility that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electoral college , and ( 2 ) the inequities in the selection process in the House of Representatives when the electoral college fails to produce a majority . The most obvious but least serious basis for the first concern is that electors apparently can not be required to vote for the presidential and vice-presidential nominees of their party , and indeed it occasionally happens that an elector will cast his or her ballot for someone else . " However , no presidential election has ever been determined by a " faithless elector , " largely because the political parties seek to nominate presidential electors who , if elected , can be counted on to vote for the party 's presidential and vice-presidential candidates . The real danger that the popular choice for president will not win in electoral college is rooted in two other features . One  | is the lack of population proportionality in the distribution of electoral votes . Each state has two senators ( and hence two electoral votes ) and at least one member of the House ( and hence at least one additional electoral vote ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ source of possible disjunction stems from the plurality , winner-take-all system for choosing electors used in all states except Maine . Candidates who win popular vote pluralities by narrow margins in some states while losing others by wide margins could conceivably amass a majority of electoral votes while trailing in popular votes . Such a discrepancy has occurred in one quite clear case . In 1888 , the incumbent president , Democrat Grover Cleveland , lost in the electoral college to Republican Benjamin Harrison , though Cleveland led in the popular vote by about 100,000 votes . It is likely but less certain that the popular vote winner was denied the presidency by the electoral college in 1876 , and perhaps also in 1824 . The second major concern with the system has to do with the procedure should the electoral college fail to produce a majority for anyone . In such cases , the constitution requires the House of Representatives to elect the president from among the top three contenders . But , in doing so , the votes are cast by states rather than by individual House members . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus control its single vote ; if the delegation were evenly divided , its vote could not be cast at all . Also , the wide variation in the size of House delegations ( Alaska has one member , while California has 47 ) , makes it quite possible that a minority of House members could control a majority of state delegations . These problems ? or potential problems ? with the electoral college need to be addressed , but no consensus has developed on the proper remedy . The reform proposal most in keeping with the American electoral system , and the most straightforward one , calls for a constitutional amendment to elect the president by direct popular vote , with a provision that if no candidate gets as much as 40 percent of the vote a second ( run-off ) election will be held between the two top votegetters . Direct popular election ( usually without a run-off provision ) is the method now used to elect members of the House and Senate , state governors , and most other public officials  | ind would undoubtedly work satisfactorily for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in building support for such a change , due to opposition from those who , elieve themselves advantaged by the present arrangement ind from those who are simply reluctant to change the status luo.5 But while the potential for mischief in the electoral college varrants a major effort to reform it , the inability of presidents o govern successfully is rooted in other consequences of the ; election process , to which we now turn . THE PROCESS AND DYNAMICS DF PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS Although in any election a dozen or more minor parties and inlependent candidates seek the presidency , the real contest is between the candidates of the Democratic and Republican parties , and hence this discussion will focus on them . The Nominating Conventions Both major parties formally designate presidential and vicepresidential candidates at nominating conventions held every Four years in the summer preceding the presidential election in November . The number of delegates to those conventions varies from one to another , but in 1988 the Republican convention consisted of 2,277 delegates plus the same number of alternates , and the Democratic convention involved 4,162 delegates plus 1,170 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to each state and territory is based on party rules allocating some delegates on the basis of a state 's electoral college votes and the remainder in accordance with formulas designed to reward a state for general election support of the party . The delegates allowed each state are chosen in accordance with applicable state law and party rules . Party rules apparently prevail in case of conflict , at least with respect to certain issues . Three basic methods of delegate selection are utilized , sometimes in combination : ( 1 ) by a series of party caucuses , usually beginning at the local precinct or ward level and provressing through county , district , and state conventions ; ( 2 ) by  | party executive committees ; and ( 3 ) by popular vote cast in direct primaries . The first method was dominant in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries , but delegate selection by direct primary came into use in some states before World War I and since 1972 has been the dominant mode of selection . The selection of delegates to the party 's presidential nominating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the actual campaigns for nomination will have begun months or even years earlier . In 1988 , Iowa and New Hampshire opened the show in early and mid-February , followed at intervals of a few days or a few weeks by other states , until the final round of selection took place in California and four other states in early June . Many delegates are selected on the basis of their declared commitment to one or another candidate for their party 's nomination , and the remainder will often announce their preferences . Thus the probable nominee can usually be determined well in advance of the nominating convention simply by counting . The nominating conventions normally meet not to choose among alternative candidates but rather to ratify the choices already made.6 Participants in the nominating process . The process just sketched implies that presidential nominations are a party affair , but that is true only in the limited sense that they take place under umbrellas labeled " Democratic " and " Republican . " Broadly speaking , the presidential nominations ? including the choice of delegates and the identification @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the interplay of four distinct though overlapping sets of participants . These four sets , each affecting and affected by the others , are : 1 . Party leaders . 2 . Rank-and-file citizens . 3 . Mass media of communications . 4 . Organized interest groups . The set consisting of party leaders includes elected public officials as well as the holders of party office , such as the chairmen and members of local , state , and national party committees . For a variety of reasons discussed in Chapter III , the role of party leaders has been slowly declining throughout most of the  | twentieth century , and their influence has dropped even more precipitously over the past fifteen to twenty years as a result of demands for " opening up " presidential nominating politics . Those pressures have been most acute in the Democratic party , but sometimes resulted in changes affecting the Republican party as well . Consequently , even when party leaders succeed in being chosen as delegates to the national convention , they often have little impact on the selection of other delegates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state of affairs owes something to changes in the delegate selection process , particularly the sharp increase in the number of states where delegates are chosen in or bound by presidential primaries . By Ceaser 's calculations , in 1968 about 38 percent of the Democratic and 34 percent of the Republican delegate votes were determined by primaries in sixteen states ( seventeen for Republicans ) . By 1980 , presidential primaries were in use in about double the number of states , accounting for 71 percent of the Democratic and 76 percent of the Republican delegate votes . ' The data for 1984 indicate a decline , but even so about half of all delegates were chosen in or bound by primaries in that year . In 1988 , almost 77 percent of all Republican delegates and 67 percent of all Democratic delegates were chosen in primaries . The greatly expanded use of presidential primaries has enhanced the already important role of a second set of participants in the nominating process , namely , rank-and-file citizens . As respondents in public opinion surveys , as voters in presidential primaries , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly and indirectly help to define the field of contenders and to choose the finalists from among them . The more direct involvement of the general public in presidential nominations has in turn contributed to a still larger role for a third set of participants , namely , the editors , journalists , and commentators who constitute the mass media . As we saw in Chapter IV , the media 's influence is often overestimated , but nevertheless they play a significant part in identifying and defining presidential contenders . By their portrayals and evaluations of the aspirants , the mass media contribute to the public 's image and awareness of would-be presidents .  | Finally , one must recognize the sizable and growing influence of organized interest groups in the nominating process . Many participants in that struggle are familiar to us ? labor unions , business and industrial associations , professional organizations , farmers ' groups , religious associations , and so on . Recent years have as well brought rapid expansion in the number and activity of more specialized groups , such as those opposing nuclear power plants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or trying to shape public policy on abortions . One finds also a number of groups pursuing broadly ideological objectives , some liberal , some conservative . To members and sympathizers , these politically involved groups of whatever stripe provide assessments of candidates , primarily from the standpoint of their alignment on issues central to the group . To their chosen candidates , groups provide financial and nonfinancial support in the effort to win delegates . The interplay of these four forces produces delegates to presidential nominating conventions who are as a set more issue-oriented ( more ideological , in a loose sense ) than the electorate as a whole or even that part of it identified with the party in question . First conclusively demonstrated in a landmark study of presidential politics in 1956 , that pattern has been found in every subsequent election . ' From the work on the 1972 , 1976 , and 1980 elections done by Farah , Jennings , and Miller , it is clear that the politics of the nominating process pulls candidates toward the ideological extremes.10 Their analysis locates national convention delegates and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideological scale ranging from - 100 ( extremely liberal ) through the political center at 0.0 to the other pole of + 100 ( extremely conservative ) . Voters who identify themselves as Democrats cluster near the middle ( ? 0.55 in 1972 ; - 2.2 in 1976 ; ? 0.45 in 1980 ) . Republican identifiers in the electorate tend to the center also , but not so closely ( +19.5 in 1972 ; +20.1 in 1976 ; +26.0 in 1980 ) . In contrast , the positions of delegates to the party national conventions of 1972 , 1976 , and 1980 showed much greater ideological polarization . In each of those three conventions Democratic delegates chosen in presidential primaries were reported at - 64.0 , - 35.9 , and - 43.4 respectively . Republican delegates  | iosen in primaries were +32.1 , +55.3 , and +60.0 . " For the emocrats , the largest ideological gap between delegates and arty identifiers opened in 1972 , the smallest in 1976 . For Reablicans , the largest gap came in 1980 , the smallest in 1972 . The results of this analysis are even more striking @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delegates ipporting the winning candidate for nomination . For exame , in 1972 the Democratic delegates supporting McGovern : aled at - 64.0 , far away from the center where Democratic ) ters clustered . Faced with an incumbent Republican ( Nixon ) ho succeeded in conveying a centrist image , McGovern could ) t overcome the extremist tag and suffered the worst defeat any Democratic candidate since 1924 . A substantial ideologal gap appeared in 1980 between Reagan 's delegates ( + 71.4 ) Id Republican party identifiers ( +26.0 ) , but widespread popar dissatisfaction with Democratic President Carter , plus ? ep division within the Democratic party , minimized the con ! consequences of Reagan 's ideological extremism . In any case , hat is important for present purposes is to see that the poli:s of the nominating process pulls candidates toward the ideogical extremes , with would-be Democratic nominees forced the left on issues and their counterparts in the GOP pulled the right . As I shall show later , significant consequences ) w from that tendency . None of these four forces shaping presidential nominations in safely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) n is to build strong support among them all . In practice , ) wever , most candidates find it necessary to pursue strategies ? signed to capitalize on their strength in one or two catego ? s . Thus in 1976 Jimmy Carter , who was then largely un-town to Democratic Party leaders and to interest groups and sue activists , concentrated on building support among rankid-file voters , particularly in those states where delegate section began the earliest . In 1980 , Ronald Reagan emphasized ) peals to conservative Republican party cadres and to issue : tivists in winning that party 's nomination . Although Walter ondale in 1984 did not neglect any of the four categories , he ade such early headway with party leaders and with orgazed groups that his several opponents for the Democratic  | nomination were forced to concentrate ( unsuccessfully , it turned out ) variously on building support among voters , issue activists , and the mass media . In 1988 , Vice President Bush won the GOP nomination by garnering support from party cadres and from rank-and-file Republicans ; he had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ groups identified with the Republican party . In winning the Democratic nomination in 1988 , Massachusetts Governor Dukakis was more successful than any of his competitors in turning all four forces in his direction , though he did not command particularly strong support from any one of them . Defining the Field of Candidates Regardless of the strategy employed , a quest for presidential nomination is a major undertaking . The long-standing problem of financing such efforts has been eased since 1976 by partial funding from the public treasury , 12 though just arranging and accounting for its expenditures takes more attention than most of us would suppose . Campaign organizations must be created , nationally and in most if not all of the fifty states . Workers must be recruited ( increasingly , on a paid rather than volunteer basis ) , and office space and materials provided . The candidate 's stand on a wide variety of complex issues must be developed , and opponents ' approaches criticized . The most likely constituencies for the candidate must be identified and somehow motivated to provide support . Advertising copy must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planned , travel arranged for the candidate and staff , legal and accounting responsibilities discharged . Not much time is left for the candidate 's family and friends , or for the pursuit of a vocation . This implies what is indeed the case : presidential nominating campaigns are personal rather than institutional undertakings . Status as a candidate , the definition of issues and the stance on them , the choice of advisers and staff , the strategies to be pursued ? all such matters are decided by the candidates , on the basis of such advice as they see fit to heed . It is a process that gives free play to ambition and to entrepreneurial  | talent , and provides ample opportunity for individuals to prove their mettle . It is also a process that engenders confusion and guarantees discontinuity in the political process . Because of the high costs ? tangible and intangible ? of seeking presidential nomination , and because of the unfavorable odds ( only one can win in each party , though sometimes a consolation prize in the form of a vice-presidential nomination goes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ qualified for the presidency decline to pursue the nomination . Other well-qualified prospects often fail to meet the various political criteria that come into play , some of them defensible , others not . One of the most important is the right type of prior political experience . Most successful presidential candidates have served as vice president , senator , or governor ; it is hard , say , for members of the House of Representatives or of presidential cabinets to be taken seriously as candidates for nomination . Another long-standing criterion is geographical region . From the Civil War until Carter 's success in 1976 , no Southerner won presidential nomination in his own right ( Virginiaborn Woodrow Wilson practiced politics in New Jersey , and Lyndon Johnson 's nomination in 1964 came only after he had acceded to the presidency following Kennedy 's assassination ) . Such a record will continue to discourage candidates from the South , despite George Bush 's nomination in 1988 ( though born in New England , Bush had practiced politics in Texas ) . Oncecrucial considerations such as religion , ethnicity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race and gender still operate to define candidacy ( no black and no woman has ever won nomination for the presidency ) . The issue orientation of prospective candidates can also be important in defining the field . Liberal Republicans or conservative Democrats today have little chance of winning their respective party 's nomination . The net result of these and other considerations is that most nominating contests involve at most six or eight contenders in the party out of power , and two or three in the party already holding the White House . Whether this handful represents the best of the dozens of persons in the nation who might be judged well qualified for the presidency can not be objectively determined , but certainly a large number of commenThe //  | tators as well as interested citizens regularly complain about the mediocre quality of the alternatives . Assessing the Nominating System Whatever the quality of the nominees produced by the system just described , it has certain well-understood strengths and weaknesses . On the positive side , the system stimulates political interest and activity and the recruitment of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ guarantee , the airing of a wide range of interests . The system gives free play to individual ambition for elective office and to entrepreneurial skills , and provides ample opportunity for individual candidates to establish their popular appeal . Though considerable , these strengths of the presidential nomination system are in my judgment more than offset by certain widely recognized weaknesses . Presidential nominating campaigns are very expensive undertakings , a drawback unrelieved by the fact that financing them now involves public as well as private money . They are as well a heavy drain on the candidates ' time and energy for at least most of the preceding year , and sometimes even longer , thus forcing incumbent officials such as governors and senators either to neglect their public offices or to be seriously disadvantaged in their presidential quests . The system exacerbates conflict within the same party as candidates for its nominations seek to differentiate themselves from the other contenders and to undercut support for them . It rewards campaigning ability while deemphasizing consideration of the candidates ' ability to govern successfully if nominated and elected . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instability in approach to issues and public problems ( e.g. , the Democratic party 's nomination of George McGovern , Jimmy Carter , and Walter Mondale in 1972 , 1976 , and 1984 spelled abrupt and significant shifts in approach to a wide range of issues ) . From the perspective of this book , the most serious drawback of all is that the present system of nominations further undermines party organizations , and hence the capacity of parties to mobilize popular support on a broad and continuing basis . In short , the present system adds mightily to the fragmented and cen-  | rifugal tendencies of American politics . Unfortunately , the ; eneral election does little to offset those tendencies . CHE GENERAL ELECTION FOR PRESIDENT ' itting as it does the presidential nominee of one party against hat of the other , the general election might reasonably be ex ) ected to make a substantial contribution to the aggregation of ) olitical interests into a governing majority . Why it does not : an best be understood by recalling the general shortcomings ) f the party system discussed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to provide sufficient incentives and resources or its cadres to build the necessary political connections with . ank and file voters . Further complications arise from three as ) ects of special importance : ( 1 ) the inevitable political tension ) etween those who nominate and those who finally elect presilential candidates ; ( 2 ) the candidate-centered nature of the ; eneral election campaign ; and ( 3 ) the heavy reliance of cam ) aigns on the mass media of communications to gain voter support . Let me discuss each of them briefly . Che Political Tension between Those Who Nominate and Chose Who Elect Presidents Ns I noted above , the politics of presidential nominations tolay pulls the aspirants toward the poles of their party , that is , : andidates for the Democratic nomination are forced to the left side of the issue spectrum , Republicans to the right . The result s something of a dilemma . Because of the centrist position of : he general electorate , with Democratic voters slightly to the eft of center , and Republican voters slightly to the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the road Before the general election , or risk the kind of massive defeat suffered by Goldwater in 1964 , McGovern in 1972 , and Monlale in 1984 . But shifting back to the middle of the road can also be costly for nominees , for it tends to disenchant the issue Ictivists who figure so importantly in nominations . Their disenchantment may or may not affect the general election out:ome , but it almost certainly will reduce the winner 's capacity to govern once in office . A clear example is provided by the  | unwillingness of liberal activists to support President Carter during his administration , and by the efforts of some to defeat him for renomination in 1980 . The Candidate-Centered Campaign The frequent failure of the general election to produce an effective governing majority can also be attributed to the everincreasing tendency of campaigns to center on the presidential candidates rather than on the respective parties . That is not to deny that many voters still make choices reflecting their party identification . In the absence of overriding issues ( an unpopular war or the treatment of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ candidates ' personal qualities , party identification can be an important guide to voting . However , the strength of such identifications , and the propensity of voters to follow them , have been gradually weakening in recent decades . This tendency is reflected in the gradual increase in the proportion of persons who identify themselves as " independents , " and the shrinkage in the number who identify themselves as strong partisans . More important is the growing willingness of persons ? including some strong partisans ? to " split their tickets , " voting , say , for Democratic candidates for Congress and for a Republican presidential candidate . Undoubtedly many forces are at work to lead voters to think of themselves as independents and to incline them to " vote for the man ( or woman ) and not the party , " but one of the most likely forces is probably the least noticed . Voters ' attachments to parties are weakening , I suggest , in good part because not enough face-to-face interaction is taking place to build those attachments . Stated another way , voters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that will command their loyalties at the polls because not enough party activists are working at the precinct and ward levels to establish personal ties and to educate the voters there on the party 's approaches to the issues important to those voters . The tendency , already noted , of presidential campaigns to focus on the candidates rather than on the parties has been accompanied by a less obvious but no less real shift in the  | management and control of campaigns from the party organizations to the candidates themselves . Neither the Republican and Democratic national committees nor their chairmen are in charge of their party 's presidential campaign ; " the candidates put together their own ad hoc organization for that purpose . The direction of those campaign organizations is now heavily influenced by hired political consultants who may or may not have an affinity for a particular political party but who in any case are concerned with winning the election for their candidate and not with the welfare of the party.14 The consultants oversee strategic planning , arrange for advertising campaigns , seek to shape their candidates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much earlier , candidate control of presidential campaigns has been advanced by the system of public funding of general election campaigns developed prior to the 1976 election . Presidential nominees who opt to do so ? and through 1988 all had exercised that option ? may forego fund raising from private contributors and instead have their general election campaigns funded out of the national treasury . A major party nominee can receive a base amount plus an adjustment for inflation . In 1984 this totaled over $40 million . These funds are given directly to the presidential nominee 's campaign organization , not to the party that nominated him . ' S The eclipse of the party resulting from such arrangements is not total , for the law allows a national party to raise from private contributors roughly 15 percent of that amount , to be spent promoting its entire slate of candidates . It also allows state and local party organizations to spend as much as they can raise from private sources to fund voter registration and turnout drives plus certain voluntary campaign efforts . Despite these provisions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to strengthen the grip of candidates on the management and direction of campaigns . Heavy Reliance on the Mass Media Candidate rather than party centrality is closely linked to the third important dimension of presidential campaigns : heavy reliance on the mass media of communications , particularly the use of paid advertising . Data for 1980 tell the story only too  | clearly . The Carter general election campaign controlled about $29 million in federal funds and another $4 million through the national Democratic party . About 60 percent ( some $20.5 million ) was spent on mass media advertising , the bulk of it for television ads . Ronald Reagan 's campaign , with roughly the same amount of money available , spent " only " about half of it ( $16.8 million ) on the mass media , the greater part of it for television . In 1984 , with roughly one third more money than in 1980 , the Reagan re-election campaign spent about 63 percent of its funds on the mass media , compared to about 46 percent for the Democratic nominee , Walter Monda1e.16 While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information from mass media campaigns , particularly from paid advertising on behalf of candidates , the negative consequences of that approach outweigh its benefits . They include high costs , a lack of feedback from voters , erratic impact due to voters ' selective perceptions , and ultimately a degradation of politics into just another form of huckstering . In the final analysis , today 's candidate-centered , mass media campaigns are but manifestations of a general failure to institutionalize effectively the processes of electoral mobilization . As we saw in Chapter III , that requires political workers who have the capacity and the motivation patiently to build long-term relationships with voters , to educate them on issues and on the parties ' orientation to them , to socialize citizens into the roles associated with democratic politics . Lacking the necessary number of such workers , presidential campaigns desperately seek shortcuts to electoral support . A focus on candidates and a reliance on the mass media are inevitably the most readily available , if ultimately least efficacious . One of the great problems , therefore , is the chronic failure of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to govern effectively . Lacking the popular support that can come only from well-institutionalized methods of electoral mobilization , presidents once in office must try to exercise power through the creation of a " governing majority , " that is , by winning the support of political figures and forces within and about the government itself . But here , too , presidents have encountered serious difficulty , for reasons that involve far more than variations in presidential ability . Such variations are  | to doubt important ( Ronald Reagan appears to have made nore effective use of his resources than did Jimmy Carter ) , but he fact that no president since Lyndon Johnson in the mid960s has attained his major goals indicates that the problem is nuch deeper . HE CREATION OF GOVERNING MAJORITIES t is helpful to consider what Washington insiders have in mind when they discuss a president 's need to put together a ; overning coalition . The notion obviously includes the devel ) pment of relationships with members of Congress such that a ) resident can obtain the votes necessary to attain his most seeded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the concept of a governing majority includes as well raining support for presidential objectives from the leaders of nterest groups , from issue activists and influential opinion eaders in the mass media and elsewhere , and from officials tnd civil servants within the executive branch . It is however , somewhat misleading to speak of a singular ' governing majority " ; to do so implies more stability and continuity in the supporting coalition than usually exists . In pracice , a president must seek to create not one but dozens of gov ! rning majorities , each an ad hoc affair , varying in composition rom day to day and issue to issue . These ad hoc coalitions within and about the government are difficult and time-consuming to put together and equally hard to hold together . Each ends to be unstable ? participants change their minds , deals ! ome unstuck , misunderstandings arise , personalities clash , end so on . Worst of all , the necessity of negotiating sufficient , upport to deal with a pressing problem has deleterious effects -n the substance of policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Often in attempting to change policies , so nuch has to be bargained away in order to obtain enough sup'oft to act that the end result is far from satisfactory . Thus it is not easy for presidents to create the many gov , rning majorities needed if they are to lead the nation . Each egment involved ? members of Congress , interest groups and activists , influentials and opinion leaders , civil servants and Ldministrators ? is in a surprisingly independent position vis-  | a-vis the president . We examined in Chapters III and IV the conditions that enhance the independent roles of interest groups , issue activists , and opinion leaders in the mass media . Similarly , we saw in Chapter V the conditions that enable rank-and-file members of Congress to do pretty much as they please in dealing with policy issues , if necessary defying their own chosen leaders . Present conditions make it inevitable that the president will have great difficulty in bringing members of Congress , group leaders , and influentials into a stable governing coalition . But can he not at least @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work his will on the officials and administrators who are nominally subordinate to him ? Unfortunately , he often can not . To appreciate why presidents are not . always masters of their own house , and why presidential power is so easily dissipated , it is necessary to consider how the executive branch is organized and manned . THE ORGANIZATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH It is not easy to grasp the sheer size of the executive branch . Employed within it are about 3.0 million civilians , plus 2.2 million persons on active duty in the armed forces . To carry on civilian and military programs of the executive branch took about $1,012 billion in 1987 , or approximately 99.7 percent of the entire expenditures of the national government . Clearly , to maintain effective control of 5 million subordinates and expenditure of more than $1 trillion would be a Herculean task for any president . To understand better how it is approached , one can begin by distinguishing between executive departments , executive agencies , and independent agencies . The Executive Departments The most prestigious , though not always @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ branch are the executive branch departments . Three were formed under George Washington ( State , War , and Treasury ) , and others were gradually added over the years , with the creation of the Veterans  | Department in 1988 bringing the total to 14 . The departments range in size from Labor , created in 1913 and functioning today with about 18,000 employees and an annual budget of $24.5 billion , to Defense , created in 1947 from the formerly separate War and Navy Departments , and having today over 1 million civilian employees , 2.2 million military personnel , and an annual budget of $295 billion . Each department is headed by a single person ( Secretary ) , appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate . Virtually all departmental employees are part of the merit system to be discussed below , but each secretary has the assistance of a small number of political appointees serving as undersecretaries , deputy and assistant secretaries , special assistants , and the like . Like the secretaries who head the departments , these subordinate political appointees do not have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the president . Many but not all of them must be nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate . However , the extent to which the president or his staff is actually involved in filling subcabinet posts depends heavily on the understandings reached with the head of each department . Generally speaking , a secretary prefers to have a free hand in choosing subordinates , while the White House prefers to be involved in those choices . At the beginning of his administration , President Carter gave unusual latitude to departmental heads in filling their subcabinet positions , only to find later such appointees sometimes showed more loyalty and attachment to the secretary who chose them than to the goals of the president . It was a mistake not repeated by his successor when he took office in 1981 ; the Reagan White House actively participated in a wide range of subordinate political appointments . Despite the wide variations in importance and size among departments , each head is by tradition a member of the president 's cabinet ( along with a dozen or more other officials of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vice president , the director of the Central Intelligence Agency , the president 's national security advisor , and the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations ) . In the parliamentary systems found in such nations as japan , Canada , and West Germany , the cabinet functions as a center for collective decision making ,  | with the prime minister 's status basically that of first among equals . By contrast , the president 's cabinet seldom has any decision-making responsibilities . Instead , it is " advisory " to the president in a fashion best summed up by the familiar anecdote concerning a meeting of President Lincoln 's Civil War cabinet . After a discussion pitting Lincoln against all his cabinet members , the president announced its results : " Seven nays and one aye ? the ayes have it . " Many presidents have come to office vowing to use the cabinet more effectively ; invariably they have failed . Regardless of whether cabinet meetings are held weekly , monthly , or less frequently , and regardless of how well staffed , they tend to be primarily @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ department heads , with little vigorous debate or voiced disagreement , and even less decision-making responsibility . Executive departments are created by Congress ( or by presidential action under the authority of and with the subsequent approval of Congress ) . Legally speaking , each is fully subject to the broad presidential authority conferred by Article II . Thus any discretion in policy or administration allowed the department by the constitution or by statutes ? and often a very great deal is allowed ? is formally subject to presidential control . It must be stressed , however , that a president can not lawfully order departments to act so as to violate either the constitution or valid enactments of Congress . But formal authority is not the same as actual power , and I will point out later why presidents can in practice exercise only limited control over the executive departments . The Executive Agencies Another sizable part of the second branch is composed of executive agencies , examples of which are the Environmental Protection Agency , the National Aeronautics and Space Administration , the General Services Administration , the Small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their formal ( legal ) relationship to the president is very much like that of executive departments . They , too , are fully subject to presidential authority in their discretionary actions ,  | and each is usually but not invariably headed by a single person ( Director ) appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate . As is true of executive departments , most employees of executive agencies are part of the merit system , but a very small number of political appointments are allowed , serving , like the agency director , at the pleasure of the president . The executive agencies also present a wide range of sizes and expenditures , in certain cases greater than executive departments ( e.g. , before the Veterans ' Administration was converted from an executive agency to a department in 1988 , it had more civilian employees than any executive department except Defense ; the Environmental Protection Agency spends more each year than do several of the smaller departments ) . What then distinguishes agencies from departments ? Apart from statutory nomenclature , the answer seems to lie in lower @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and ordinarily do not have the political or personal ties to presidents that are associated with department heads . Also , agencies normally are much less in the political spotlight , though exceptions do occur due to the mission of the agency ( e.g. , the spectacular space explorations of NASA ) or to heightened political sensitivity ( e.g. , the Environmental Protection Agency in Reagan 's first term which drew unusual attention due to charges of administrative misconduct and mismanagement ) . The Independent Agencies Not all administrative components of the national government are squarely within the executive branch and thus fully subject to the chief executive 's authority , in the way that executive departments and agencies are . Congress has created a third category known as independent agencies , consisting of regulatory commissions ( e.g. , the Securities and Exchange Commission , which regulates securities markets ) , government corporations ( such as the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Postal Service ) , and a miscellany of hard-to-classify agencies such as the Civil Rights Commission , formerly an executive agency but made independent when reorganized by Congress in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @  | boards or commissions , appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate . Their independence is promoted in several ways . Members are given fixed terms of office and , unless guilty of official misconduct or malfeasance in office , they can not be removed by the president ( or anyone else ) before the expiration of their terms . They , rather than the president , appoint their subordinates , and they are not subject to presidential control in the exercise of discretionary powers ; that is , a president can not order the Securities and Exchange Commission to alter its regulations covering sale of stocks and bonds , nor can a president tell the National Labor Relations Board how to dispose of secondary boycott cases . Presidential control is further constrained by statutory provisions covering the preparation of independent agencies ' budgets . Although the establishment of independent agencies is sometimes rationalized on the grounds that they may be able to carry out their missions more effectively if freed from some of the fiscal and personnel policies applicable to the executive departments and agencies , the chief @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The underlying motivation for that may sometimes be narrowly partisan or ideological , but more often it is rooted in a belief that the decision-making responsibilities assigned to independent agencies should be handled " on their merits " rather than on the basis of political considerations . Thus the belief is widely held in Congress and elsewhere that it would be unwise to allow the president to direct decisions of the Federal Reserve System affecting the supply of money ( and hence interest rates and economic growth ) , or of the Federal Communications Commission regarding corporate ownership of mass media facilities . Occasionally , the desire to eliminate political considerations in policymaking leads Congress to limit its own role . Thus the establishment of the Postal Service as an independent agency in 1970 ( previously , it was an executive department ) included an arrangement by which Congress surrendered its control over postal rates to a second independent body known as the Postal Rate Commission . Despite efforts to distinguish independent agencies on the grounds that they are performing " quasi-judicial , quasilegislative " functions , it is clear that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many executive departments and  | encies . It is also increasingly clear that eliminating formal residential ( or congressional ) authority over agencies does not iminate political considerations from their decision making , it merely changes the relative importance of the various polital forces bearing on the agency . In effect , formal freedom om presidential direction also means being denied overt ' hite House political support in dealing with organized groups id with congressional committees . In this respect , however , Le differences between independent agencies and their counrparts in the executive branch are differences in degree and yt in kind . That is , formal independence from executive auLority does not eliminate all vestiges of presidential influence , . st as the formal subordination of executive departments and ; encies does not ensure effective presidential control . In both tses , presidential power tends to be oblique and limited . I tall return to this point after consideration of the assistance ven presidents to carry out their duties . he Executive Office of the President t its institutional form , the presidency today is a product of -e @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a series E steps were taken to implement the recommendations of the rownlow Commitee in 1937 , summed up in the best known mntence of its report : " The president needs help . " While presiants can and do draw advice and assistance from many differIt quarters inside and outside the government , the most initutionalized aid comes from the units loosely grouped under to rubric , " Executive Office of the President . " Of these , the ( lest is the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) a lineal ascendant of the Bureau of the Budget created in 1921 in the reasury Department , and made a part of the Executive Office E the President in 1939 . The OMB plays a critically important role for the president . n the basis of general presidential instructions , it issues sidelines to governmental agencies for the preparation of the Znual budget requests , and then reviews and revises those renests to bring them into line with presidential objectives . The MB also has important responsibilities with respect to legislaDn . Proposals for congressional action from the executive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by OMB before they can go to Congress , and all measures in Congress , regardless of origin , are evaluated in the executive branch in a process overseen by OMB . Likewise , OMB is responsible for coordinating the review of all measures finally enacted by Congress , in order to advise the president on whether to approve or to veto the legislation . Despite the scope and importance of its responsibilities , OMB is a relatively small unit , averaging in recent years a total clerical and professional staff of about 600 ? 700 . It is headed by a director appointed by the president and serving at his pleasure ; since 1973 , the appointment requires Senate confirmation . Because OMB is so directly responsible for translating general presidential objectives into specific budgetary and legislative proposals , the position calls for extensive knowledge of governmental programs and finances and political sagacity . Directors rarely combine both qualities . For example , David Stockman , who became President Reagan 's director of OMB after several terms in the House of Representatives , clearly had mastery of the intricacies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occasional public scolding of Stockman for impolitic statements also reminds us that the effectiveness of OMB ultimately depends not only on the talents of its leaders but also on their ability to win the trust of the president . The importance of a close working relationship with the president is well illustrated by Bert Lance , President Carter 's first director of OMB . Lance did not claim and did not seek to attain expertise in budgetary matters , but he was invaluable to Carter ( until forced to resign for reasons related to his previous career as a banker in Georgia ) because his broad political skills and judgment were understood and appreciated by the president . A second important component of the Executive Office of the President is the National Security Council , created by Congress in 1947 to avoid the pre ? World War II shortcomings in the direction of foreign and military affairs . The National Security Council by law includes the president , the vice president , secretary of state , and secretary of defense . Presidents usually add to that list other officials such as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the military 's Joint Chiefs of Staff . The president presides over meetings of the  | ational Security Council , aided by his assistant for national ) curity affairs and a small staff assigned to the Council . The ouncil is advisory to the president , and hence has no power bind him or to limit his discretion ; rather it is intended to be means for airing issues and policy alternatives . Originally , -e small NSC staff functioned as a coordinator of the work of : hers , but it has developed its own analytical capacity and Dlicy goals to the point that operating departments , especially bate , sometimes see the special assistant for national security =fairs and the NSC staff as a rival foreign policy agency . The amage done by certain NSC staff members in 1985 ? 86 in ar-nging the sale of arms to Iran and the diversion of funds to -e contras in Nicaragua ( see Chapter VIII ) illustrates only ) o clearly the dangers of operational responsibilities for the SC staff . However , when limited to the advisory role origially contemplated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff can be extremely helpful to a president . lost presidents have encouraged the competition for attention ad influence which they provide with State , Defense , and the IA ; only one ( Richard Nixon ) resolved the issue by appoint-g the same person as secretary of state and as national secuty assistant . A third vitally important part of the Executive Office of the resident consists of the staff members grouped into the White Louse Office ( WHO ) . Although its 400 or so employees inude some technical and clerical workers , the heart of the IHO is the professionals who serve as the president 's advisrs on policy , administrative , and political affairs . The internal organization of the WHO varies from one president to another . ichard Nixon , like Dwight D. Eisenhower , preferred a hierrchical structure headed by a chief of staff who was the main antact with , and the main transmitter to , the president . Presient Carter , on the other hand , initially utilized a " spokes of ae wheel " system in which the assistants with particular areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the president , though later in his term Carter ppointed a chief of staff to coordinate the business brought to im . Ronald Reagan , in his first term , adopted his own varint ? a hierarchical system headed not by a single chief of  | staff but by three more or less equal assistants . In his second term , however , Reagan reverted to a single chief of staff . Each president is free to use the funds provided by Congress to organize the WHO as he sees fit , but over the years the functions assigned to its staff have been rather consistent . One will find in the WHO of every administration sets of persons primarily concerned with advising the president on the substance of public policy issues , promoting the president 's interests in Congress , dealing with the press , writing presidential speeches , and providing legal counsel . One also finds White House staff members advising the president on his appointments to office , building or maintaining ties to interest groups and political organizations , communicating with state and local officials , and staffing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is headed by an " assistant to the president , " who in turn will have one or more " deputy assistants to the president , " and several " special assistants to the president . " The division of responsibilities within the WHO is flexible enough that staff members often are pressed into service outside their defined areas and without regard to rank . Taken as a whole , the staff of the WHO tends to be disproportionately young , white , and male . ' Many come to the WHO by way of service in the president 's nomination and general election campaigns ; some will have had experience in Washington on Capitol Hill or in previous presidential administrations , and still others will have had experience in state and local government ( especially likely when the president has previously served as a state governor , as was true of Reagan and Carter ) .19 As a set , the White House staff members tend to be very talented , politically precocious , and desirous of making their marks . While their pay and " perks " are good @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long , the work demanding and often thankless , the strain and competition great , and the frustrations many , particularly for the junior staff members who seldom see the president and often are not even located in the White House . Despite their individual talents , the White House staff can never escape the shadow of the man for whom they work . An assistant who is a genius at stroking members of Congress will nevertheless fail if the president is unwilling  | to do the things that cement relationships . The most gifted press secretary will be unable to satisfy journalists who dislike the chief executive . A fourth component of the Executive Office of the President is the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative . Though it has roots going back to 1963 , it began to take on its present significance in 1974 when statutes and executive orders brought directly under the president 's aegis the development of foreign trade policy and the negotiation of a variety of bilateral and multilateral trade agreements . The skills required for the job , and its potential for larger contributions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidents Carter and Reagan ; each chose for his trade representative a former chairman of his party 's national committee . The remaining three units of the Executive Office of the President are much smaller , and usually less important than the four just reviewed . The Council of Economic Advisors , which consists of three persons appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate , was created by the Full Employment Act of 1946 to provide the president with expert advice on economic policy . Today the council and its small staff ( 30 ? 35 persons ) are only one of many sources of economic advice , and are probably not among the most important ones . An individual chairman of the Council may sometimes become influential by virtue of his political and economic sagacity ( witness Charles Schultz in the Carter administration ) ; or he may become a pariah by virtue of not sharing the president 's ideas about proper economic policy ( witness Martin Feldstein in the first Reagan administration ) . The Council on Environmental Quality , created by statute in 1969 , has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was functioning with a staff of only ten or eleven persons , about one third of its previous allotment . The fortunes of still another unit , the Office of the Science and Technology Advisor , have also ebbed over the past ten to fifteen years . In all three cases , the change in status reflects not only differences in presidential priorities but also the greater capacity of other administrative units to advise with respect to economic , environmental , and scientific issues.20 The great value to presidents of the various components of  | the Executive Office of the President is beyond doubt . Used properly , his staff can enable a president to do well those things he is constitutionally and legally required to do , such as signing or vetoing legislation , presenting an annual budget , seeking injunctions in labor disputes , and so on . Used properly , his staff can also free a president to do those things that only he can do ? dealing with other political leaders at home and abroad , setting policy priorities , attempting to lead public opinion . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presidency , it can only go a limited distance toward ensuring effective presidential control of the executive branch . Stated another way , presidential staff can help a president to use more effectively such real political power as he has , but it can not do much to increase that power vis-a-vis the bureaucracy ( or Congress , or other interest groups , or the mass media of communications , or the general public ) . PRESIDENTIAL INABILITY TO CONTROL THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH I have several times in this chapter suggested that presidents can not effectively control the executive branch , in the sense of making it fully responsive and cooperative . The root problem , I have tried to show , is that not much real political power is generated on the input side of the governing process ? that is , by the electoral system , by interest groups , by the workings of public opinion . Such power as is thereby made available to a president is insufficient to overcome the " resistance " ? to continue the analogy with electrodynamics ? set up within the circuits that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the fragmentation of structure and authority in the branch , due not only to the existence of independent agencies and government corporations not legally subject to presidential authority , but also to the congressional inclination at times to assign responsibilities within the executive branch to administrators rather than to the president . Legal and administrative fragmentation is only part of the explanation for presidential inability to control the executive branch . Effective direction of the executive branch presupposes  | the existence of clear objectives that it is to help pursue . But what are they ? The system of presidential nomination and election described above encourages campaign declarations that are general , ambiguous , and highly personal . At the time the winner takes office , it is exceedingly difficult for the bureaucracy or anyone else to know either what the voters ' mandate is or what the new administration will undertake . Over the next four years a president 's program emerges , but always in bits and pieces , subject to a wide variety of interpretations and qualifications . Furthermore , because that program reflects choices made within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rather than reflecting a broad base of support . And because the administration 's program as it eventually unfolds is necessarily quite different from the vague generalities of the campaign , a great many persons who voted for the president as candidate are certain to be disappointed by the president as leader . Presidential control of the executive branch is limited too by certain of its unavoidable features . One is the sheer size of the bureaucracy . Anyone who has ever tried to organize and supervise the work of , say , half a dozen persons , will readily understand that under the best of conditions presidential capacity to direct the activities of five million civilian and military personnel is certain to be limited . An even more important impediment to presidential control of the executive branch is the limited effectiveness of his political appointees in their relationship to the permanent civil servants ( i.e. , persons protected by a merit system which bars partisan or other political considerations in hiring and firing ) . The count of political appointees varies according to the way certain positions are classified , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make ( subject to Senate confirmation in many cases ) no more than about 3,000 political appointments to aid him in managing almost 5 million civil and military personnel . Such a ratio might suffice if most political appointees were technically well qualified , politically skilled , and unified by commitment to the president 's goals . But , as Heclo has demonstrated convincingly , those conditions are not often satisfied . Political appointees are recruited in a hurried and haphazard  | fashion that often fails to identify talent or to match it to the position . Appointments are often made on the basis of considerations other than effective presidential management of the executive branch ( e.g. , the need to quiet a powerful interest group or to placate an influential member of Congress ) . Most political appointees do not stay in their offices long enough to master them and , like the rest of us , they have trouble figuring out what the administration 's goals are , or just what sort of mandate the voters conferred . The result , in Heclo 's apt phrasing , is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relationships of political appointees to the White House and to each other are weak and ill-defined , and the power resources scarce . ' For presidents and their political appointees , the task of directing the executive branch would be greatly eased if all employees under the merit system were neutral civil servants , committed to accepting and carrying out the president 's objectives , regardless of their own views . Many do fit that description , but some do not . Motivated sometimes by partisan or ideological conviction , and at other times by the belief that on particular policies the administration 's position is wrong and theirs is right , unsympathetic administrators can frustrate a president 's program by dragging their feet , leaking information to the opposition , deliberately misinterpreting instructions , or even refusing to comply . Moreover , bureaucratic resisters of presidential direction often get reinforcement through the mutual relationships known as " iron triangles . " " The bureaucratic leg of the triangle rests on administrators responsible for specific programs , such as those of the Army Corps of Engineers , the Bureau of Public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leg rests on the congressional committee and subcommittee members and staff with lawmaking and appropriations responsibilities for the same programs . The third leg of the triangle rests on the interest groups with a stake in the programs and services provided by the administrators and Congress . Because each leg of the triangle is usually willing to use its resources to support and protect the other two , a president who wishes to downgrade or redirect any agency or program must overcome the resistance not only of the affected administrators but also of certain members of Congress and powerful interest groups .  | Not surprisingly , presidents often conclude that the political costs of having their way would be too high . ' It is important to see the consequences as well as the causes of presidential inability to control the executive branch . It leaves him vulnerable to " divide and conquer " tactics on the part of organized groups and congressional opponents . It damages his standing in the eyes of constituents , who hear him espouse policies and goals but see " his " administrators pursuing different ones @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , for they perceive only too readily that he is not master - in his own house . It results too often in inconsistent and contradictory policies , such as simultaneously feeding and attempting to control inflation , or seeking to cut production of certain farm commodities while paying farmers to grow more . Much is at stake here . Whether we like it or not , presidential leadership ? of Congress , of political elites and activists , of rank-and-file voters ? is absolutely essential if the national government is to meet its responsibilities at home and abroad . The president 's inability to manage the executive branch is merely one symptom of a much larger political weakness , one rooted in the way he is nominated and elected . Lacking the firm support ? and the restraints ? that could be provided by a well-organized political party , presidents must engage in the political equivalent of " catch as catch can " wrestling ? building temporary coalitions , cajoling and wheedling , bartering and bargaining . A president 's political capital is quickly spent , his time and energy inevitably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , much less the government of a great nation . NOTES CHAPTER VI 1 . For unusually clear and penetrating analyses of the problems of the national government , though not from the perspective offered here , see James L. Sundquist , " The Crisis of Competence in our National Government , " 95 Political Science Quarterly 183 ( Summer 1980 ) ; and Hugh Heclo , " The Changing Presidential Office , " in Arnold L. Meltsner , ed. , Politics and the Oval Office ( San Francisco : Institute for Contemporary Studies , 1981 ) . Discussing what he labeled the " hemorrhage of presidential power , " Heclo noted that " Presidential power has increased by becoming more extended , scattered , and shattered , and shared ; it has  | decreased by becoming less of a prerogative , less unilateral , and less dosely held by the man himself . The right word for what has happened to the power of the office is diffusion , not dissipation " ( pp. 172 ? 173 ) . I must add that my general understanding of the presidency and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by James Sterling Young 's masterful The Puzzle of the Presidency : An Inquiry on Political Leadership in America ( forthcoming ) . 2 . A few states still put the names of candidates for presidential electors on the ballot , but in most states the names of presidential and vicepresidential candidates are placed on the ballot and voters signify their choices by marking the ballot accordingly . Election officials are required by state law to count such ballots as if they had been cast for the slate of electors associated with each candidate . 3 . For useful discussions of the issue , see Lucius Wilmerding , The Electoral College ( Boston : Beacon Press , 1964 , by arrangement with Rutgers University Press ) ; Neal R. Pierce , The People 's President ( New York : Simon &; Schuster , 1968 ) ; and Lawrence D. Longley and Alan G. Braun , The Politics of Electoral College Reform ( New Haven : Yale University Press , 1972 ) . 4 . For example , in 1976 a Republican elector in the state of Washington chose to cast his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gerald Ford . Four years earlier , a Republican elector in Virginia declined to vote for his party 's nominee ( Nixon ) and cast his ballot instead for an otherwise obscure figure . 5 . A proposal for a constitutional amendment providing for direct election of presidents passed the House of Representatives by the necessary two-thirds vote in 1969 , but failed in the Senate . With support from President Carter , the proposal was revived in 1979 , but the 51 ? 48 vote by which it carried the Senate fell short of the two-thirds required ( no vote was taken in the House in 1979 ; its leaders saw no point in acting unless the Senate first approved the proposal ) . 6 . If the incumbent president is not barred from seeking reelection by the two-term limitation , delegates of his party seldom have a choice to make , for in all but the rarest cases the incumbent can win renomination if he is willing to fight for it ( and to disregard the implications for the general election ) . If the incumbent does not seek @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party . 7 . Concern that party leaders were being left out of presidential nominating conventions led the Democratic Party to adopt rules for 1984 that automatically induded as delegates a number of state party officials and three-fifths of the Democratic members of the House and  | Senate . To do so was a sound decision , but was sharply criticized by the losing contenders for the Democratic nomination , for it turned out that these ex officio delegates strongly favored Walter Mondale , the eventual nominee . A similar policy was followed in 1988. 8 . James W. Ceaser , " Rules of Delegate Selection , " in James A. Lengle and Byron Shafer , eds. , Presidential Politics : Readings on Nominations and Elections , 2nd ed . ( New York : St. Martin 's Press , 1983 ) , p. 7. 9 . Herbert F. McClosky , Paul J. Hoffmann , and Rosemary O'Hara , " Issue Conflict and Consensus among Party Leaders and Followers , " 54 American Political Science Review 406 ( 1960 ) . 10 . Barbara G. Farah , M. Kent Jennings , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Representation of Party Elites , 1972 ? 1980 , " a paper presented at the Conference on Presidential Activities , College of William and Mary , Williamsburg , Virginia , October 1 ? 3 , 1981 ; pp. 21 ? 27. 11 . Though these scale positions are only for Democratic and Republican delegates chosen in primaries , the authors elsewhere in their paper ( pp. 17 ? 21 ) demonstrate that there is little ideological difference between the delegates chosen in primaries and the minority chosen in party caucuses . One can , therefore , safely interpret these results as generally applicable to all delegates . 12 . Public funds from the national treasury are available ( up to a specified ceiling ) on a fifty ? fifty matching basis to persons seeking presidential nomination , provided they can raise at least $5,000 from private contributions of no more than $250 each in twenty different states . Most persons seeking presidential nomination opt for this mixture of federal and private funding , the only notable exception being John Connally in his 1980 quest for the Republican nomination . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a Republican after serving as secretary of treasury under Richard Nixon , raised and spent $12.6 million in private contributions before withdrawing from the race with exactly one delegate pledged to support him . 13 . The law providing public funds for presidential general election campaigns bars them from any such role , but they had been effectively bypassed by candidates before the law was enacted . 14 . For an illuminating examination of this matter , see Larry Sabato , The Rise of Political Consultants : New Ways of Winning Elections ( New York Basic Books , 1981 ) . 15 . For a convenient summary of the major provisions of the law providing public funds for presidential nominations and elections , see Congressional Quarterly , Dollar Politics , 3rd ed . ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1982 ) . For fuller analysis and interpretation of cam-  | paign finance laws , see Herbert E. Alexander , Financing Politics , 3rd ed . ( Washington : Congressional Quarterly Press , 1984 ) , and Michael Malbin , ed. , Money and Politics in the United States ( Chatham @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The 1980 data are from Herbert Alexander , " Making Sense about Dollars in the 1980 Presidential Campaigns , " in Malbin , Money and Politics , pp. 11 ? 37 . The figures for 1984 are from Herbert Alexander and Bryan A. Haggerty , " Misinformation on Media Money , " Public Opinion , Vol. 11 , May/June , 1988 , pp. 6 ? 7. 17 . The distinction made here between departments and agencies subordinate to the chief executive and those units independent of him is legally , politically , and administratively important , but curiously enough the official Government Organization Manual blurs it so badly that even authors of textbooks on the presidency are misled . The manual groups the executive departments under one heading , and lumps every other unit , induding such executive agencies as NASA and GSA , under the heading " Independent Establishments and Government Corporations . " In the Manual " independent " means only that the agency is not part of an executive department . 18 . True even under Democratic presidents , though the racial and gender disproportions are smaller @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recruitment details of the White House Office under President Carter , see Women Appointed to the Carter Administration : A Comparison with Men ( New Brunswick , N.J. : Center for the American Woman and Politics , Rutgers University , 1983 ) . 20 . Still another , even ' less visible component is the Office of Administration , whose responsibility it is to provide the 1,600 ? 1,800 staff members of the Executive Office of the President with the necessary equipment and supplies , library materials , accounting services , and other administrative support . 21 . Hugh Heclo , A Government of Strangers : Executive Politics in Washington ( Washington : The Brookings Institution , 1977 ) , Chapters 1 ? 3. 22 . " Iron triangles " are discussed more fully in Leiper J. Freeman , The Political Process ( New York : Random House , 1965 ) . 23 . Accepting the " iron triangle " analysis but judging it to be incomplete , Hugh Heclo finds presidential control further limited by the existence of a variety of " issue networks " that shape elite thinking within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both substantive thought and political strategies . Hugh Hedo , " Issue Networks and the Executive Establishment , " in Anthony King , ed. , The New American Political System ( Washington : American Enterprise Institute , 1978 ) , pp. 87 ? 124.  | JUDICIAL POWER In the two preceding chapters I have tried to show that members of Congress , the president , and administrative officials lack the political power to govern effectively because too little political support is generated among citizens and because the scant power thus created has to be shared among so many officials in such complex ways . The judges who make up the third branch of government are a significant exception to that pattern of relative powerlessness among public officials . In terms of their capacity to act unilaterally to shape public policy and to control the behavior of others , federal judges have very real and very substantial power . No one doubts , of course , that in the event of all-out war between the branches , Congress and the president together could overwhelm the judges . But in the absence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the will , the internal organization , and the external support necessary to exercise the authority constitutionally granted them to limit the power of judges , or , for that matter , to govern more generally . The political vacuum thus created by legislative and executive  | impotence increasingly is filled by federal judges . In filling that vacuum , judges not only exercise real power to shape public policy , but also complicate significantly the work of the legislative and executive branches . Stated broadly , the role of federal judges increases the power needed by those in the other two branches if they are to function effectively ? power which the political system does not provide them . How and why judges are able to function in this way is my principal concern in this chapter . The first step is to review the organization and jurisdiction of the federal courts . ORGANIZATION AND JURISDICTION OF FEDERAL COURTS The structure of the judicial branch was not a major issue at the Philadelphia convention in 1787 and the simple provisions drafted there for that purpose stand unchanged today in Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in one supreme court , and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish . " Pursuant to that grant of authority , Congress has enacted laws to provide a three-tiered system of courts . ' At the trial level where cases are first heard ( original jurisdiction ) there are ninety federal district courts , distributed so that there is at least one in each state and several in the most populous ones . Some district courts have more than one judge , resulting in 1987 in a grand total of 556 federal district judges . The number and type of cases , and the speed with which disposed of , vary greatly from one district court to another , but their total volume has increased astronomically over the past twenty years or so , for reasons to be considered later . Appeals from the decisions of federal district courts mostly go to one of the twelve circuit courts of appeals to which the various states , territories and the District of Columbia are assigned ( a thirteenth court of appeals has nationwide @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of appeals has from four to twenty-eight judges ( the total in 1987 was 168 judges ) . Cases coming to the courts of appeals are normally handled by a three-judge panel , but sometimes all of the judges in a circuit will sit as a group ( " en banc " ) to hear cases .  | At the highest level of the federal judiciary one finds the Supreme Court , the only one specifically established by the constitution . The number of justices , fixed by statute , once varied with the political situation , but since 1870 has remained fixed at nine . Article III is specific about the jurisdiction of federal courts , conferring authority on them to hear nine types of cases . These may be grouped under three headings , beginning with cases of a national character : 1 . Cases arising under the constitution , laws enacted under it , or treaties adopted pursuant to it . 2 . Cases in which the national government is itself a party . A second group of jurisdictional grants involves federal types of cases : 3 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between a state and citizens of a different one . 5 . Those between citizens of different states . 6 . Those between citizens of the same state claiming land under grants of different states . The third group of cases which may be heard by federal courts are of an international nature : 7 . Cases affecting ambassadors , other public ministers , and consuls. 8 . Cases involving admiralty and maritime issues . 9 . Cases involving a state or its citizens and a foreign government or its subjects . Unless one of these nine jurisdictional criteria is satisfied , a case can not be heard at all in federal court but must instead be pursued in one of the appropriate state court systems completely separated from federal courts . Furthermore , by act of Congress , some cases that fit within the constitutional definition of federal court jurisdiction must nevertheless be tried in state courts ; they can come into the federal court system only in the form of an appeal to the United States Supreme Court  | from the highest state court of competent jurisdiction . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of two different states ( No. 5 , above ) must be tried in state courts if the sum involved is less than $10,000 . In addition to such grants of exclusive trial jurisdiction to state courts , Congress allows state courts to exercise jurisdiction over some types of cases concurrently with lower federal courts ? that is , parties may choose in which set of courts they will proceed . In still other areas of federal jurisdiction , Congress assigns exclusive jurisdiction to lower federal courts to try cases . Finally , some of the original ( trial ) jurisdiction conferred by the constitution upon the Supreme Court has been assigned by Congress to lower federal courts on a concurrent basis . To summarize : Congress by law specifies that cases coming within the federal judicial power initially may be tried exclusively in state courts , or exclusively in federal district courts , or in either . Federal district courts also share ? rarely ? concurrent trial jurisdiction with the Supreme Court . Federal Courts of Appeals hear cases on appeal from lower federal courts only ; they may also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Securities and Exchange Commission . The Supreme Court hears appeals from federal courts and , when a federal issue is posed , from state courts ; it also occasionally sits as a trial court . The volume of litigation touching these nine areas of federal jurisdiction is sufficiently great that the Supreme Court would have been overwhelmed long ago had it not been allowed to exercise a great deal of discretion as to which cases it would review . While a few types of cases must be heard and decided by the Supreme Court ( e.g. , cases in which a lower federal court has held an act of Congress unconstitutional ) , most cases come before the Court today by writ of certiorari . That procedure , in essence , allows a party dissatisfied with a lower court decision to ask the Supreme Court to review it . If at least four of the nine justices agree to do so , the case is subsequently brought before the Court . In that way , the justices are able to decide which issues will be considered , and when .  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the courts created under Article III ? that is the Supreme Court , the courts of appeals , and the district courts ? are given lifetime appointments . They may be induced to retire by generous pension benefits , but they can be removed from the bench only by the undertaker or upon impeachment ( indictment ) by the House of Representatives and conviction by a two-thirds vote of the Senate . The impeachment procedure is of little practical consequence , for in almost 200 years the House has completed impeachment proceedings against only eleven federal judges , and only five of them have been convicted by the Senate , the last one occurring in 1986 , fifty years after the next to last one . The life-term appointment of federal judges obviously makes it easier for them to decide matters independently of the political considerations and pressures that often figure in the decision making of elected legislators . The other , less obvious side of that same coin is that life tenure also permits judges to act without regard to popular goals and concerns ? a point to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The constitutional provisions are simple enough : They are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate . The reality of judicial selection is a good bit more complicated and more political than that language suggests . In the appointment of district judges ? the most numerous category ? the controlling influences are usually outside the presidency and the executive branch . If one of the two senators from the state in which the vacancy occurs is of the president 's party , that senator will normally have a decisive voice in the appointment . If both senators are of the president 's party , then the more senior one controls judicial appointments . If neither senator is of the president 's party , then the leaders of that party in the state in which the judicial district is located control the appointment . The process poses , in most cases , a rather stringent political test : the prospective appointee must meet partisan and factional criteria , and usually must have been politically aligned with , or at least not opposed to , the senator or party leaders responsible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are necessary , of course . The appointee must be a member of the bar in good  | standing , and be judged qualified by his peers in the legal profession . Prospective appointees must as well be able to satisfy tests of character and integrity , so that those who have been careless or worse in handling their income taxes , marital relationships , and professional ethics are likely to be passed over . Though there are exceptions and qualifications , the process generally works as described , resulting in a curious reversal of constitutional prescription ? in effect , the appropriate senators or state party leaders nominate the district judges , and the president " confirms " them . ' When one looks at the courts of appeals , the reality of the appointment process is somewhat different . Courts of appeals cover more than one state , so no one senator or state party leader can claim priority . Though particular senators and party leaders are involved , the White House and the justice Department ( which processes the nomination ) play a larger role in the initial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for confirmation , broader political criteria are apt to be applied . With appointments to the Supreme Court , the effective choice is likely to be made personally by the president , though the alternatives will have been filtered by the White House staff and the Justice Department . Only rarely will Supreme Court nominations be rejected by the Senate , in part because such choices are usually carefully made . Thus the Senate 's rejection of President Reagan 's nomination of Robert Bork to the Supreme Court in 1987 was as unusual as it was acrimonious . ' To understand why Bork was nominated and why he was rejected , one needs to keep in mind that with Supreme Court appointments ? as with those of district and appellate judges ? party and faction are important considerations , along with ideology and orientation on leading issues . Such political tests are seldom openly acknowledged . Consider Reagan 's choice of Bork to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court brought about by Justice Lewis Powell 's retirement . A major factor in Bork 's selection was undoubtedly his conservative approach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , in defending the nomination Reagan emphasized Bork 's other qualities , such as his legal scholarship as a professor of law at Harvard , and his experience on the Court of Appeals bench ( to which Reagan had appointed him also ) . In turn , liberal critics  | of Bork 's appointment , though clearly hostile for ideological reasons , preferred to oppose his confirmation by the Senate on other grounds , such as his alleged lack of a " judicial temperament , " the " imbalance " that would result on the Supreme Court , or Bork 's role as solicitor general in then-President Nixon 's " Saturday night massacre " in the Justice Department . Given the selection process just outlined , it is not surprising that appointees to the federal judiciary bear close resemblance to those who choose them . This can be most clearly seen with respect to such easily ascertainable characteristics as race , sex , and party identification . Though the ratios are slowly changing , federal judges ? like members of Congress and high-level administrators ? are still overwhelmingly white @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1981 appointed the first woman to the Supreme Court , Democratic presidents generally have been more willing to appoint black and female judges . President Carter in particular pressed hard in that direction . By the end of his one term he had appointed 202 district judges , of which 29 ( 14.4 percent ) were female , 28 ( 13.9 percent ) were black , and 14 ( 6.9 percent ) were Hispanic . Of his 56 appellate court appointments , women numbered 11 ( 19.6 percent ) , blacks 9 ( 16.1 percent ) , and Hispanics 2 ( 3.6 percent ) . By contrast , President Reagan at the end of his first term had appointed 129 district judges , of which 12 ( 9.3 percent ) were female , one ( 0.8 percent ) was black , and 7 ( 5.4 percent ) were Hispanic . At the appellate level , Reagan had made 31 appointments , with one each ( 3.2 percent ) of females , blacks , and Hispanics . ' The mix of Democrats and Republicans on the federal bench is more balanced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Though those involved in appointing judges would insist that they are concerned only with the qualifications of prospective judges , it almost always turns out that the " most qualified " persons are of the president 's party . For example , former President Nixon chose 93 percent of his judges from the Republican party ; Carter took 87 percent of his from the Democratic party . At the end of his first four years , President Reagan had appointed 160 judges , of which 98 percent were Republicans . Thus rotation in the presidency  | rather than nonpartisan or bipartisan selections produces a measure of partisan proportionality among federal judges . The selection process brings to the federal bench persons likely to be well versed in American politics . Some have held public office , and others have campaigned for office for themselves or for others . Many have held appointive public office , and a number have served as party officials . Such a background ensures that most federal judges are at home in the real world of American politics . It also poses a danger that , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ties will influence their judicial performances . That danger is greatly increased by the policymaking role permitted judges by judicial review . THE POWER OF JUDICIAL REVIEW A substantial part of the work of federal judges parallels that engaged in by judges all over the world , namely , bringing the applicable law to bear on the factual situation involved in the case at hand . That necessarily gives them a certain amount of latitude , since they must determine which law to apply and how to interpret it . They must also ( unless a jury is involved ) weigh the relevant evidence and make determinations of fact . But , though important , such exercises of discretion are not the principal foundation for the substantial political power wielded by federal judges in the American system . Instead , their power is rooted in a much broader discretion to determine which laws and regulations are valid ( and hence enforceable ) and which are invalid ( and thus unenforceable ) . Known as judicial review , that power enables judges to declare null and void the actions of Congress , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and lower courts on grounds of incompatibility with the constitution . It is a truly extraordinary power , and the American system is virtually unique among nations of the world in entrusting it to judges . How judicial review came to its present state is a fascinating story . Because constitutions must be written in quite general language , they always require interpretation . But who is to be the final interpreter ? Nothing in the original constitution or any of  | the subsequent amendments answers that question . Some evidence exists that the delegates at the Philadelphia convention in 1787 expected the courts to have some role in constitutional interpretation , and one finds a handful of earlier examples in state courts and lower federal courts . But the first authoritative assertion of the power of judges to invalidate acts of Congress came from the Supreme Court in 1803 in the famous case of Marbury v. Madison . ' Defeated in the elections of 1800 , President John Adams and his fellow Federalists in Congress used their remaining months in office to expand the federal judiciary and to appoint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several of the appointees had not actually received their official certificates of appointment from the secretary of state when the Federalists yielded the presidency to the Democratic-Republicans in 1801 . The new secretary of state , James Madison , with President Jefferson 's support , refused to deliver the certificates ; without them , the Adams " midnight " appointees could not take office . They asked the Supreme Court to order the certificates delivered , suing under an act passed by the first Congress in 1789 that apparently authorized it to do so . The Supreme Court , though manned by Federalists , refused to issue the order sought , but did so in a way that won the war while losing the battle . The Marbury opinion , written by Chief Justice Marshall , declared the section of the 1789 act relied on by the plaintiffs null and void on the grounds that the constitution did not empower Congress to assign such responsibility to the Supreme Court . How did the Court justify its invalidation of an act of Congress ? The constitution , said Marshall , is our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ judges to interpret the law , they must have the authority to interpret the constitution . Should they find an act of Congress , or other " lower " law , to be in conflict with the constitution , the higher law must be made to prevail by invalidation of the inferior law . It is plausible but by no means irrefutable reasoning , as countless leaders and scholars have shown ! ' Jefferson , Madison , and other leaders of the DemocraticRepublican Party were chagrined by the Court 's assertion in Marbury of the far-reaching power of judges to override Congress and the president , but the genius of Marshall 's opinion  | was that they could do nothing about it except fume . They soon resolved , however , to curb the perceived abuses of judicial power through the impeachment process . A district judge ( Pickering ) was impeached , convicted , and removed from office . Supreme Court Justice Chase , an ardent Federalist , was the next target . After an investigation of his conduct on the bench , the House of Representatives voted to impeach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when tried by the Senate , Chase won acquittal by a narrow vote . Even so , his impeachment may have had a salutary effect , for the Supreme Court did not strike down another act of Congress for more than fifty years , though it continued to assert the power of judicial review , and occasionally used it to invalidate state legislation . When the Court next invalidated an act of Congress , the results were disastrous . I refer to the Supreme Court 's decision in Dred Scott v. Sandford in 1857 , when the Court went out of its way to involve itself in the controversy over slavery . ' The case was so tangled factually , legally , and politically that it can not be intelligently discussed in the space available here . Suffice it to say that the Supreme Court exacerbated the growing conflict over slavery by apparently holding that Congress could not bar the spread of slavery into previously " free " territories . Since the invalidated act ? the famous " Missouri Compromise " of 1820 ? had already been superseded by the Compromise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and dangerously meddling . In the Dred Scott case the Supreme Court made its own contribution to the bloody Civil War that began four years later . Although judicial review was occasionally used to invalidate legislation in the era immediately following the Civil War , its great expansion did not come until the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries . Then , unhappy with the tendency at both state and national levels to enact public policies regulating economic and social activities , the judges increasingly functioned as " super-legislators , " passing on the wisdom of policy under the guise of testing its constitutionality . They did so by construing very narrowly the constitutional grants of authority for governmental action , and construing quite broadly the constitutional limitations on governmental action . In this , the judges found the due process clauses of the Fifth and  | Fourteenth Amendments especially useful whenever more concrete prohibitions could not be invoked to nullify legislation . It is instructive to consider how these identical clauses ? one restricting the national government , the other restricting state and local governments ? came to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy decisions of legislators and executives . Certainly no such potential is evident from the simple language prohibiting any governmental taking of life , liberty , and property without due process of law . What is due process of law ? That guarantee can be traced in Anglo-American jurisprudence at least as far back as Article 39 of the Magna Carta , the series of concessionary promises made by King John to the rebellious English barons in 1215 : No free man shall be taken or imprisoned or disposed , or outlawed , or banished , or in any way destroyed , nor will we go upon him , nor send upon him , except by the legal judgement of his peers or by the law of the land . " Over the centuries , semantic change converted the phrase " by the law of the land " into " due process of law . " By the time of the American Revolution , the guarantee of due process was considered to be a fundamental liberty . Revolutionary state constitutions generally included it , as did the national Bill of Rights @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ usually included the guarantee in their constitutions . But until the 1850s , due process meant a procedural guarantee , an assurance that one 's life , liberty , or property could only be taken by government on the basis of established law and procedures . It was clearly understood that an individual 's life , liberty , and property might be taken , if done properly . A new perspective on due process that began to emerge in the 1850s asserted that some types of " taking " of life , liberty , and property by government could never be constitutional , regardless of how carefully law and procedures were followed . This notion that due process requires an examination of the substance of governmental action as well as its procedures first surfaced at the national level in Chief Justice Taney 's unfortunate and unwise opinion in the Dred Scott case . However , it was not until the late nineteenth century that judges began to  | rely on the due process clause to declare unconstitutional legislation which they disliked but for which they could not find a more direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be explained by considering the way in which judges invalidated legislative efforts to improve labor ? management relations ? undoubtedly one of the country 's most serious problems at the time . The best-known example is Lochner v. New York , 10 a 1905 decision holding unconstitutional a New York state law prohibiting the employment of bakers for more than ten hours a day and sixty hours a week ( ! ) . The state legislature justified its action on the grounds that exposure to the dusty working conditions in bakeries was unhealthy , and that the public interest would be advanced if bakery products came from healthy rather than unhealthy employees . The Supreme Court majority reasoned otherwise . Among the " liberties " protected by the Fourteenth Amendment due process clause , said the Court , is the liberty of contract , which includes the right to sell one 's labor on whatever terms one finds acceptable . Thus the law limiting bakers to a ten-hour day and sixty-hour week violated their constitutional right to work longer hours if employers wished them to do so . The same sort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the grant of power in Article I , Sec. 8 " to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several states , " Congress in 1898 passed a labor-management relations act applicable to common carriers ( including railroads ) engaged in transporting passengers or property from one state to another . The act prohibited such carriers from hiring on the basis of " yellow dog " contracts ( under which the employee agreed not to join a labor union ) or from dismissing employees because of their union membership . The Supreme Court held that the law was not a proper exercise of the commerce power ; it unconstitutionally violated the clause of the Fifth Amendment barring the national government from taking any person 's life , liberty , or property without due process . " Note that the law did not fail for procedural reasons ? it had been properly passed by Congress , signed by the president , and the enforcement procedures were in order . The real problem with the law was that the judges disliked governmental " interference "  | with the right of employers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invalidated on the basis of the Fourteenth Amendment due process clause , " creating for a time a situation in which neither the national government nor the states were allowed to deal with one of the nation 's most difficult problems , at least if the legislative solution interfered with judicial notions of property rights . It is by now well understood that in the period from the late 1890s until the 1930s , federal judges ? and a great many state judges as well ? read their economic philosophy into the constitution . No doubt some of the legislation invalidated was unwise ; just as surely , some of it was worthwhile and desirable . What is certain is that particularly with respect to public policies involving economic affairs the judges often substituted their judgment for the judgment of elected legislators and executives . Conservatives generally applauded this process , while liberals generally condemned it . The issue came to a head in the 1930s , when judges began invalidating " New Deal " legislation intended to promote recovery from the devastation of the Great Depression . The political reaction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to retreat ? the famous " switch in time that saved nine . " That shift was followed by several new appointments , and by disavowal of the old activist ( policymaking ) role of the Court . Most of the judicial doctrines restricting national and state regulation of economic affairs began to melt away . For the next two decades or so , the judicial " self-restraint " advocated earlier in the now-famous dissents of Justice Holmes and Brandeis generally prevailed . However , by the 1960s judicial activism was again on the rise , a trend that has continued to the present . But instead of a concern to protect property rights , modern judicial activism has featured efforts to expand individual rights against government action . To appreciate what has been done , it is necessary to consider in some detail the major constitutional arrangements for protecting individual liberty . CIVIL RIGHTS As I noted in Chapter II , the men who wrote the constitution were torn between two basic objectives : They wanted a central  | government strong enough to govern effectively , but they also wanted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the constitution attempted to protect liberty mostly by structuring and interrelating the three branches of government in ways designed to prevent abuse of power , though the original constitution did prohibit ex post facto laws and bills of attainder , provide for jury trial in criminal cases prosecuted by the federal government , and limit the power of Congress to suspend the writ of habeas corpus . In the political struggle for ratification of the constitution , the lack of sufficient guarantees of individual liberty became such a sore point that supporters of the proposed constitution committed themselves to the addition of a Bill of Rights if and when the constitution was adopted . They honored that commitment by proposing twelve amendments in the first Congress , ten of which were ratified by the necessary states in 1793 . They are usually referred to as the Bill of Rights , though strictly speaking only the first eight are guarantees of individual liberty . The ninth is a philosophical statement and the tenth restates the federal principle that the powers not delegated to the national government ( and those not prohibited to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the people . It is important to understand that from their adoption in 1793 until 1925 , the first eight amendments protected individuals only from actions of the federal government , and not from those of states . That intent is clear from the amendments ' legislative history , from their language ( the First Amendment opens with the words " Congress shall make no law . . . " ) , and from the judgments of the first generation to govern under the constitution.13 Thus originally , the protection of individual liberty from state and local governments depended entirely on the guarantees contained in state constitutions . That arrangement ? the federal constitution guaranteeing individual rights against the federal government ; state constitutions guaranteeing individual rights against state and local governments ? was substantially modified by the Civil War amendments . The Thirteenth Amendment limits both national and state governments ( and private action as well ) in declaring that slavery shall not be permitted . The Fourteenth Amendment defines citizenship , guarantees that no state can deprive  | a person of life , liberty , or property without due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ any person within their respective jurisdictions the equal protection of the laws . The Fifteenth Amendment forbids states to deny suffrage on the basis of race , color , or previous conditions of servitude . During much of the next century , both the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments were construed quite narrowly where blacks were concerned . But , while blacks did not benefit much from the Civil War amendments until the mid-twentieth century , others did . Though judges sometimes used the Fourteenth Amendment 's equal protection clause to invalidate legislation , they found its due process clause especially useful as a vehicle for substituting their judgment on desirable public policy for the judgment of state and local elected officials . Although the control over public policy claimed by judges under the due process clause was mostly used in the first decades of the 20th century to invalidate economic policy which they disliked , the ambiguity of the concept lends itself to use in other categories of policy as well . In 1925 the Supreme Court opened the door to such an extension into the realm of civil liberties in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ punishing attempts to overthrow the government by force and violence , or conspiracies to advocate such an overthrow . Benjamin Gitlow , a leader in the Communist Party , was tried and convicted in New York state courts for violation of that law , on the basis of his written and oral statements . His attorneys argued that the law violated the First Amendment guarantee that " Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom of speech and press . " But of course Congress had not made the law ; New York state had , and the long-standing interpretation was that the First Amendment and other parts of the Bill of Rights did not apply to the states . In a most off-handed manner , the Supreme Court chose to reverse that interpretation , with the observation that : We may and do assume that freedom of speech and of the press ? which are protected by the First Amendment from abridgment by Congress ? are among the fundamental personal rights and " liberties " protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment from impairment by the states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that Gitlow 's freedom of speech and press had not been abridged in fact ; he served his term in prison . Having opened the door , the Court proceeded quite slowly to decide which provisions of the Bill of Rights were part of the " liberty " protected against state action by the Fourteenth Amendment due process clause . Its guiding principle for doing so was stated in Palko v. Connecticut , 15 decided in 1937 . The word " liberty " in the Fourteenth Amendment due process clause , said the Court , included only those guarantees of the Bill of Rights " of the very essence of a scheme of ordered liberty . " The Court did not , however , state in Palko which provisions of the Bill of Rights were essential and which were not , though it gave several examples ( freedom of speech and press were essential ; trial by jury and the guarantee against double jeopardy were not ) . Gradually , the Supreme Court developed its notions about essential liberties . " By the end of the 1940s , the First Amendment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and of peaceful assembly had been incorporated into the Fourteenth Amendment due process clause . So had the Fourth Amendment ban on unreasonable searches and seizures and the guarantees of the Sixth Amendment pertaining to a fair , public trial and to the right of indigent defendants to counsel in criminal cases , at least those involving the death penalty . Little change took place in the following decade , but in the early 1960s , the Supreme Court began incorporating other provisions at a rate such that by 1972 almost all of the Bill of Rights had been declared part of Fourteenth Amendment liberty . Today , the only provisions of the first eight amendments not yet made applicable to state and local governments are the : Second Amendment ? the right to keep and bear arms . Third Amendment ? no quartering of troops without householders ' consent or , in time of war , by law . Fifth Amendment ? requirement of a grand jury indictment in criminal cases . Seventh Amendment ? guarantee of a right to trial by jury in civil cases .  | By @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rights to state and local governments , two generations of judges have radically altered the constitution . Along the way , they have also made major changes in the meaning of the constitutional guarantees . The handling of freedom of speech and press offers a good example . The long-established interpretation is that government may not prevent speech or publication from taking place ( " no prior restraint " is the customary language ) , but that government can afterwards penalize abuses of such freedom if they involve any of five unprotected categories of speech or publication ; ( 1 ) libel and slander ; ( 2 ) sedition ; ( 3 ) obscenity ; ( 4 ) incitement to crime or violence ; and ( 5 ) conspiracy to commit a crime . Without denying the principle that these forms of speech and publication are not protected by the First Amendment , modern judges have so narrowly defined them that governments can penalize only the most extreme abuses . As a consequence , movie and television stars , elected officials , and other public figures today get little help from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obscenity now protects all except hard-core pornography from statutory and administrative regulation designed to prevent the dissemination of obscene materials . A second example of judicial expansion of meaning involves the guarantee of the Sixth Amendment that " in all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right . . . to have the assistance of counsel for his defense . " Granted that the provision entitles defendants to retain their own attorneys , must government provide counsel for defendants too poor to hire their own ? When this " right to counsel " provision first began to be applied to state and local governments ? where most criminal prosecutions take place ? that question was answered in the affirmative only in cases involving the death penalty . Subsequently , it was broadened to mean that indigents had to be provided counsel in all felony cases , and finally to include all misdemeanor cases involving possible jail sentences . At about the same time , the judges determined that the guarantee covered not only the right to counsel in the actual conduct of the trial but also at all stages in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision to view the defendant as a suspect .  | Judicial definition of individual rights has not been confined to the Bill of Rights and the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment ; the judges have also made good uses of the clause of the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding denial of the equal protection of the laws . Strictly speaking , this clause is applicable only to state and local governments , but the Supreme Court in 1954 concluded that the liberty protected against the federal government by the Fifth Amendment due process clause includes the right to equal protection of the laws . The equal protection clause did not become a major instrument for the protection of blacks ( for whom it was particularly intended ) until the mid-1950s , largely because of the late 19th century judicial interpretation upholding state and local racial segregation laws if the facilities and services were " separate but equal . " ' Though the requirement of equality was almost never satisfied , not until 1954 did the Supreme Court finally reverse its previous holdings and declare racial segregation incompatible with the equal protection @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clause has been used often and effectively to reaffirm the nation 's commitment to equal treatment for racial , ethnic , and religious minorities . But , though of great importance to those minorities , the equal protection clause does not afford protection solely to them . A claim that equal protection is being denied can be raised with respect to almost all statutes and administrative rules , since they almost always involve classifying persons and treating them differently . For example , progressive income tax laws classify persons by income levels , and require those with higher earnings to pay more than those with lower incomes . Similarly , the class known as " out of state " students at state colleges and universities is usually required to pay more tuition than the class known as " in state " students . Today , neither of those examples is said to involve a denial of equal protection , but on what basis are such matters decided ? Judges have developed two rather different tests . The " compelling state interest " test is applied to those classifications involving one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race , ethnicity , or religion ) . Laws that classify on one of those bases are considered a violation of the equal protection clause unless it can be shown that some compelling state interest is  | served by the use of such classifications . It is an extremely difficult test to satisfy , and seldom are such statutes or administrative actions found to be constitutional . In cases not involving a " suspect " category , the judges use the " rational basis " test . It is easier to satisfy , for it asks only ( 1 ) whether a legitimate governmental objective is being sought ; and ( 2 ) whether the law or administrative action is a rational means to that legitimate end . A clear application of that test is found in the 1976 decision of the Supreme Court upholding a Massachusetts law requiring police officers to retire at age 50.19 The majority held that the state had a legitimate objective , namely , to ensure that police officers were physically fit , and that this policy ( along with periodic physicals for younger officers ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ purposes , the important point is that both the " compelling state interests " and " rational basis " tests leave judges with considerable discretion in deciding upon the constitutionality of legislative and administrative actions . In concluding this review of judicial handling of civil rights , I note that judges have not always tied their pronouncement to specific provisions of the constitution . Just as their predecessors , in trying to shape economic policy , created a " liberty of contract " where none had existed before ( or after ) , so judges more recently have created new liberties of a social nature . The " right to privacy " rulings are a good illustration of this form of judicial creativity , though by no means the only one . Nowhere in the constitution is there any language establishing such a right . When first enunciated in Griswold v. Connecticut in 1965,2 " the " right of privacy " was found in the " penumbras formed by emanations " from such guarantees as the freedom of assembly provided in the First Amendment , the freedom from unreasonable search and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Fifth , and three other provisions even less specifically relevant to privacy . The plain truth seems to be that the majority in Griswold wanted to create a " right to privacy " but could not find a single satisfactory peg in the constitution upon which to hang it . In later decisions , such as those sharply limiting governmental authority to regulate abortions , 21 the majority abandoned the " penumbras " foundation , saying instead that the " right to privacy "  | was inherent in the " liberty " protected by the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments due process clauses . POLICING THE LEGISLATIVE AND EXECUTIVE BRANCHES In the discussion to this point , I have concentrated on the use of judicial review to define the fundamental relationships between individuals and their governments . However , it is also used to define relationships between the three branches of government , and between the federal government and the various states . Sometimes these definitions of intra- and intergovernmental relationships come in cases involving assertion of individual rights . A good example is the Supreme Court 's 1983 decision in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real significance of which lies in the Court 's limitation of Congressional oversight of the executive branch . The immigration statute involved in Chadha allowed decisions of the INS in deportation cases to be overturned by a disapproving resolution in either the House or the Senate ( the so-called one-house legislative veto ) . Chadha , an East Indian born in Kenya who had a British passport , had overstayed his student visa and was due to be deported , but the INS decided to allow him to remain in the United States . After the House of Representatives passed a resolution disapproving of the action , Chadha sued to prevent the deportation . Eventually the Supreme Court decided that the INS decision to allow him to stay could not be overturned by the House alone . The Court declared that the " legislative veto " was unconstitutional unless the resolution of disapproval was passed by both houses and , like ordinary legislation , submitted to the president for approval or disapproval . Thus , an important and widely used tool of Congressional oversight of the bureaucracy was effectively dismantled by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual had to be deported . Judicial definitions of relationships may directly involve other branches or levels of government . For example , in U.S. v. Nixon , ' the chief executive was one of the parties to the suit . In it the Supreme Court decided that the need for evidence in criminal cases warranted a lower court 's subpoena to                     