@@774011

txt // struggle taken on the proportions it has ? Why has the division between evangelical and liberal Christians ruptured into a dispute that we all read about and see enacted on the evening news ? Why is each faction making such aggressive claims on the public character of our society ? The complexities involved in trying to answer these questions can be illustrated by an op-ed article that appeared in the New York Times . The author argued that political liberals should imitate political conservatives in making better use of religious groups and religious appeals in promoting their agenda . She urged that churches and synagogues should be used more effectively to " instill a commitment to social goals , focus on local issues and mobilize a nationwide move-ment . " Religious traditions should be examined to find " models for strength and compassion . " If liberals remained unwilling to explore the religious heritage in American culture , she warned , then " the religious traditions of an entire nation " would have been surrendered to their opponents , and the nation might well be led @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the human rights and dignity of each individual . " I To this writer ? a Boston lawyer ? the religion clauses of the First Amendment served as implicit guidelines for framing arguments about the role of religion in contemporary political affairs . In her view , religious groups should remain strictly separated from the state : influ-encing the public sphere only by reinforcing individual concerns , dis-seminating information , and letting political action committees take the lead in organizing direct-mail efforts and campaign activities . At the same time , she argued , the freedom of all religious groups to state their views on public issues should be respected , even encouraged , as a way of bringing pluralism into the public arena . Within these broad , implicit guidelines , the specific ways in which religious faith should be related to the public sphere neverthe-less remained , for this writer , dependent on the unique social and cul-tural conditions of the period . Uppermost in her mind was an apparent division between liberals and conservatives ? a division that had religious as well as political dimensions . Issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , excessive disparities of wealth , degradation of women , and human rights provided the operative definitions of a liberal politico-religious orientation . Images of freedom , tolerance , virtue , the poor and the meek , weapons and plowshares // provided substance to the author 's call to recapture the biblical tradition . Movements , political action committees , direct-mail campaigns , and lobbying provided the framework in which participation in the public sphere was described . All of these features of this writer 's discourse reflected the broader conditions shaping her understanding of how faith should be related to public affairs . In broad outline , I shall in this chapter examine several of the social developments in American society that have been regarded as significant features of the cultural context in which recent debates about the public role of religion have been framed . I shall try to suggest , by examining briefly some of the relevant evidence , that a few of these arguments have been overstated ( or are simply wrong ) , while other arguments of potential importance have not been emphasized enough . Having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of religion 's role in public affairs , we shall then be in a position to consider some of the implications of the ways in which these understandings are presently structured . Beyond the specific issues that are debated most contentiously , there are , I believe , significant implications for American religion itself and for the ways in which we define civic responsibility . Before these issues can be considered , however , we must attempt to say more clearly what the contemporary debates are and to identify the major contestants in these debates . CONTESTED ISSUES At first glance , the issues that have drawn religious groups into the public sphere in recent years are bewilderingly diverse . Nuclear arms negotiations , the sale of infant formula to mothers in the Third World , aid to Contra rebels in Nicaragua , an Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution , military and economic policy in the Middle East , prayer in public schools , Internal Revenue Service policies toward religious broadcasters , abortion , nominations to the Supreme Court , and a host of other issues have all been the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well , by religious groups of all kinds . Much of this activism has precedent : in the role of religious groups in the abolitionist movement , the movement to ratify ( and later to repeal ) Prohibition , and the civil rights movement . Unlike these earlier episodes , however , the issues currently evoking religious participation appear to be greater in number , and ( perhaps for this reason ) // draw responses from a wider range of denominations and faiths . In-deed , our public philosophy has been enriched greatly by the dizzy ing array of religious perspectives that have been brought to bear on contemporary issues . Closer inspection indicates that the pattern of responses is not as bewildering as it might at first appear . Some issues are consistent ly supported by certain segments of the religious community and are consistently opposed by other segments of this community . In fact , empirical studies , based on analyses of public opinion surveys , sug gest a kind of polarization among the American people around a num ber of issues . For instance , a study published @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ruling against prayer in public schools tended to coincide with opponents of abortion , with opponents of homosexuality , and with opponents of greater equality for women . Supporters on each of these issues tended to cluster into a separate category ? Data collected by the Gallup Organization in 1984 also sug gested that religious liberals tend to be polarized from religious con servatives on many of these issues . For instance , three times as many religious conservatives as religious liberals said they were strongly op-posed to abortion on demand . Twice as many religious conservatives as religious liberals said they strongly favored voluntary prayer in schools . On the other side , more government spending on social programs and unilateral nuclear disarmament received support from about twice as many religious liberals as religious conservatives.3 These kinds of evidence give some support for the idea ? made popular by media reports ? that religious fundamentalists are lined up on one side of most issues , and that they are opposed by secular humanists . The actual situation is much more complex . For instance , on the fundamentalist side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dragged into political controversies . There are divisions between old-line fundamentalists , who still make white supremacy and McCarthyite anticommunism their main social appeals , and newer fundamentalist groups that stake their reputations on proCONTESTED // life advocacy . Fundamentalists and evangelicals are also sharply divided : not only on the degree of literalness with which they interpret the Bible , but also on questions of civil liberties and social programs . Some evangelical groups have even championed so-called liberal causes such as nuclear disarmament , gender equality , and government programs for the poor . At the opposite extreme , those whom fundamentalist activists sometimes label secular humanists also defy easy categorization . Militant humanists appear to constitute an extremely small segment of the population , while many others who may distance themselves from fundamentalism still retain some identification with mainstream Protestant churches ( or with Catholicism or Judaism ) , or have adopted a more personalized variety of faith . If one took into account the full variety of denominations , religious interest groups , and quasi-religious groups that have expressed views on public issues of one kind or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be immense . Virtually every point of view ? from ones arguing explicitly for the establishment of Christianity as a national religion to ones favoring the complete eradication of religion from all public affairs , with nearly every conceivable position in between ? has been articulated . Yet the same polarization that seems evident on specific issues runs through the more general debate over the proper relation of faith to the public spher .. , The labels that the media have taught the public itself to use ? " religious liberals " and " religious conservatives " ? have become symbolic of different understandings of how best to relate religion and public affairs . Liberalism in religion has come to be associated with taking a strong stand on the establishment clause in our Constitution ; conservatism , with placing greater emphasis on the right to free expression of religion . The former view , as it has been worked out operationally in recent decades , has tended to worry most about religious groups ( usually ones sympathizing with conservative political and economic causes ) using the several branches of the government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ latter view ? emphasizing free expression ? has been more concerned about an apparent tendency within government and among other ruling elites to squeeze religion out of the public sphere entirely . Underlying the debate between these two positions is a great deal of common conceptual ground , and indeed much diversity of interpretation on specific issues ? diversity and agreement that is often 44 overshadowed by the intensity of conflict between liberals and con-servatives . For instance , when pressed , liberal religious leaders give strong support to the idea of free expression and even recognize that their own efforts ( e.g. , to promote nuclear disarmament ) constitute col-lective intervention by religious groups in the public sphere . When conservative religious leaders are questioned , they generally shy away ' from anything resembling an actual establishment of religion , speak out strongly in favor of religious pluralism , and draw subtle distinc-tions between their religious beliefs and the politics of public morality . It is for this reason that the charges and countercharges that religious factions hurl back and forth at each other often sound hypocritical . For example @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public arena by calling for legisla-tion against abortion . Yet they themselves stand behind court decisions that are very much efforts by the government to say what is , and what is not , personal morality . For their part , conservatives accuse liberals of selling out the country to secular humanism , but fail to recognize the deeply religious convictions from which liberals may take their stands on peace , social justice , or strict separation of church and state . What has perplexed many observers of this conflict in recent years is that neither side seems to be able to speak persuasively to the other . That is , despite many shared assumptions ? and despite cross-cutting loyalties embedded within the historic diversity of American religion ? neither side seems to be able to communicate effectively with the other . In his widely read book After Virtue , Alasdair Maclntyre has shown that on issues such as abortion and nuclear weapons different sides seem to be able to articulate perfectly rational and logical argu-ments that can be traced consistently to certain basic premises . But then neither side @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other . Stalemate is the result.4 In practice , different religio-political fac-tions organize around these differing premises , draw in constituents who somehow feel intuitively comfortable with their basic premises , take different sides on controversial issues , but seldom find any way of resolving these issues . In her book Abortion and the Politics of Motherhood , sociologist Kristin Luker has shown that pro-life and pro-choice activists do not differ from one another simply on the question of abortion . They dif-45 fer fundamentally , she argues , on such basic premises about family and religious values , careers , gender , one 's body , personal rights , and social responsibilities that little basis is left for communication.5 Luker 's study seems to apply to many other issues as well . In debating the proper role of religion ? or of absolute values in general  --  in public affairs , we seem to run into such fundamental disagreements that com-munication itself comes to an impasse . Why ? Maclntyre suggests that the problem is philosophical . We have , he believes , lost sight of so many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructed philosophical arguments that we can no longer create a coherent picture . Thus , we arrive in our deliberations at different sections of the puzzle and somehow convince ourselves that we have seen the whole puzzle . But in reality , Maclntyre claims , we have only seen part of the puzzle . We must rediscover some important transcendent beliefs about the nature of God and the world if we are to communicate effectively about the dilemmas confronting us in public life . But this argument is itself incomplete . At least to the socio-logically minded , it rings of talk about disembodied ideas and fails to recognize the institutional realities in which ideas are embedded . Luker , as a sociologist , comes closer to emphasizing some of these in-stitutional realities when she considers the effects of childhood training , marriage , and careers on pro-life and pro-choice activists . Her analysis is of limited value , however , because of its focus on the dis-tinctive contexts in which these activists function . In order to grasp the larger contexts in which contemporary debates about religion 's relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different set of arguments . THE CONTEXTS OF CONTROVERSY Social scientists , journalists , and religious leaders have all sought to provide explanations ? many of which have in fact focused on institu-tional realities  --  for the contemporary controversies concerning the role of religion in public life . It has been difficult to formulate argu-ments that fully accord with the evidence at our disposal , however , because the very nature of this evidence is highly unstable . Year by // year the issues themselves have changed , the fortunes of the various protagonists have been affected by changing circumstances ( and sometimes by personalities as well ) , and new studies continually alter our perceptions of dominant trends . What we can say , therefore , must always be contingent on the period in which it is said . Religious Revival The argument that has perhaps been touted most frequently in popular accounts of current controversies over the role of religion in American public life is the idea that these controversies have been reinforced by a revival of religious sentiment . According to this argument , religion has begun flexing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to move the boundaries between church and state . Like the problems in Iran and Northern Ireland , the controversies in the United States are attributed to a resurgence of militant religion , especially fundamentalism . According to some interpreters , this religious revival is a kind of temporary throwback . Modernity has generated its discontents . A return to religion has been the answer . Over the long haul , secularization will melt away this reservoir of discontent . But in the meantime , religious people can be expected to cause trouble . Others view the contemporary revival more as a rediscovery of something important in the American tradition . During much of the twentieth century , they argue , people were preoccupied with the pursuit of material comfort . Once that had been achieved , at least for the vast majority , the inability of prosperity alone to provide meaning in life became apparent . The complacent 1950s were thus succeeded by the turbulent 1960s  --  a time when people explored everything from drugs to political activism in a desperate effort to discover meaning . Those explorations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increasing number of counterculture activists turned to religion . As the 1970s brought a more politically settled milieu , larger segments of the population in general also began turning back to the churches and synagogues . The result was the increased concern about the public role of religion that became evident in the 1980s . These are admittedly caricatures of more complex arguments . Whatever the specific views of religious revival that are cited , though , they rest ultimately on the assumption that a religious revival has indeed taken place . But that assumption itself needs to be scrutinized . Thanks to the efforts of pollsters , the pulse of American reCONTESTED // ligion has been taken repeatedly in recent years to see if it is beating more rapidly than in the past . These measures often lack sophistica tion and depth , but they do provide general benchmarks , and enough analyses of these benchmarks have been done to verify their relation to more sophisticated indicators of religious commitment . The standard measures of religious commitment give very lit tle support to the idea of a religious revival having @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of attendance at religious services con-ducted in 1987 showed that the percentage of adults in the United States who said they had attended church or synagogue in the last seven days was no greater than it had been in other years ; indeed , the level of churchgoing had not changed significantly since 1969.6 Studies of membership in churches and synagogues also reveal no evidence of a religious revival : the proportion indicating membership has varied between 67 percent and 71 percent for more than a decade. ? These indicators may be limited because they focus on par ticipation in organized religion . Indeed , many observers have specu lated that religion may be turning in a less organized , more private ( but still influential ) direction . But even a relatively subjective ques tion such as " How important would you say religion is in your life ? " shows little change in recent years : the proportion responding " very important " has remained constant ( at about 55 percent ) for the past decade.8 Other kinds of indicators suggest that religious commitment may be declining rather than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the public expressing confidence in the church or or ganized religion dropped from 66 percent in 1973 to 62 percent in 1982 , and then to 54 percent in 1987.9 Sorne evidence of declining commitment to religion is also present in responses to the question " Can religion answer all or most of today 's problems ? " In 1957 , 81 percent of the American public said yes . By 1974 this figure had dropped to 62 percent , and by 1986 it had eroded further to 57 percent.10 Even in an area in which religion has // generally been thought to exercise an especially powerful influence ? strengthening the family ? fewer of the public now say religion has been effective than did only a short time ago.11 Thus , on the whole , many people seem to feel the society is becoming more secular rather than more religious . For instance , in 1988 , 49 percent of the public felt religion was losing influence in America , while only 36 percent thought it was gaining influence.12 But a fair reading of the arguments about religious revival does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the upswing ? only that fundamentalists and evangelicals are for some reason becoming more numerous.13 Here too public opinion surveys provide some useful statistics , though again , these surveys do not seem to support the idea of a religious revival . For example , membership statistics reported by some evan gelical and fundamentalist denominations suggest spectacular growth . Denominations such as the Assemblies of God , Evangelical Free , and Independent Baptists have grown at rates exceeding that of the general population , while older denominations ( Episcopalian , Pres byterian , Methodist ) have generally experienced membership de clines.14 Most of these denominations remain small , however , both in absolute terms and relative to the larger number of people in the United States who consider themselves fundamentalists or evan gelicals . Survey studies that ask about religious self-definitions and about the kinds of beliefs that are generally associated with evangel icalism or fundamentalism suggest no increases in numeric strength overall . For example , measures used by the Gallup Organization and by the University of Michigan 's National Election Surveys find consis tently that about 12 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or evangelical in terms of their religious views , and these 49 figures have remained constant since the mid-1970s when they were first used.ts Less direct measures indicate much the same conclusion . For instance , one might consider daily Bible reading a sign of strong tradi-tional religious commitment , even if Bible readers did not apply the label fundamentalist to themselves . But polls that have examined Bible read-ing give no sign of an upsurge in this activity : in 1978 , 12 percent of the public said they read the Bible daily ; in 1986 , the figure was 11 percent.16 If the percentage of the population that in some way associates itself with fundamentalism or fundamentalist beliefs has neither in-creased nor decreased , polls asking representative samples of the en-tire public what they think of evangelicals and fundamentalists suggest an actual decrease in tolerance of these groups . For example , studies of voter preferences showed that voters in 1980 were more likely to vote for a candidate who was a born-again evangelical Christian ; but by 1987 , voters were less likely to vote for a self-proclaimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ highly publicized sex scandals involving television evangelists Jim Bakker and Jimmy Swaggart ? attitudes toward evangelical leaders also turned in-creasingly unfavorable . For instance , 63 percent of the public said television evangelists were untrustworthy with money , compared with only 36 percent who had given the same response in 1980 . Favorable ratings of major evangelical television personalities ? Oral Roberts , Jimmy Swaggart , Pat Robertson , Robert Schuller , Rex Humbard-declined significantly . ' $ Outright intolerance of the fundamentalist rank and file itself is limited to relatively small segments of the population . But again , some evidence of increasing intolerance has been found . In com-parison with intolerance toward more traditional targets of religious hostility , such as Catholics or Jews , the percentages expressing nega-tive attitudes toward fundamentalists are relatively high . ' 9 // If polls and surveys fail to turn up evidence of a religious revival , they do nevertheless tell us one thing that we must always remember in considering the public role of American religion : in com parison with other countries , religious commitment in the United States remains at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sur vey in 1981 asked respondents in a number of countries to rate the importance of God in their lives on a ten-point scale . Respondents in the United States averaged 8.21 in their ratings . In comparison , respon dents in Great Britain averaged 5.72 ; in West Germany , 5.67 ; in japan , 4.83 ; in France , 4.72 ; and in Sweden , 3.99 . Another question in the same study asked respondents to say whether they considered them-selves " a religious person . " In the United States , 83 percent did , com pared with an average of only 66 percent in 14 other countries.20 Whether a question like this one has meaning is open to de-bate . But other studies ? and indeed other kinds of evidence ? also point to the exceptional levels of religiosity in the United States com pared with other advanced industrial societies . For instance , three times as many young people in the United States say they include religious activities in their typical weekend events than in Great Britain , West Germany , or France . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capita is more than double that in Great Britain , nearly five times as high as in West Germany , and eleven times the number in France . In the United States , one church exists for ap proximately every 500 people , whereas in each of the other three countries one church exists for only every 1,000 members of the population . Clergy per capita in the United States exceeds that in Great Britain and West Germany by a ratio of two to one ( and is marginal ly higher than in France ) .21 // Bearing in mind the importance of religious commitment to large segments of the American population helps , at least in a general way , to make sense of the intensity with which questions about religion 's role in public affairs are debated . Simply put , religion is extremely salient . There is a threshold of interest that makes it more of a factor in our public debates than in many other advanced industrial societies . The fact that this interest has remained at such high levels does not account for the more specific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , however , serve as one of the preconditions of the broader context in which these controversies have emerged . Religious Mobilization If a revival in the sheer level of religious commitment can not be adduced convincingly to explain changes in the public role of American religion , a somewhat more nuanced argument can be developed by paying attention to the ways in which religious sentiments are mobilized . There are many indications that religious people have become organized to participate in public affairs more effectively . Until fairly recently , the dominant ways in which religious people participated in public affairs consisted of activities sponsored at the national or regional levels by denominations , activities sponsored at the local level by local churches and synagogues , and activities organized by secular groups in which persons with religious convictions took part as private individuals . In the 1980s , all these modes of public participation could still be seen among religious people . But an important new form of organization also arose : the special purpose group . Organized to accomplish explicitly focused objectives , the special purpose group differs dramatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public affairs . Unlike denominations , special purpose groups are able to devote their energies to a more limited array of activities . They do not have to concern themselves with building and staffing churches , with running seminaries , or with rendering 52 doctrinal interpretations . Freed from the historical and theological legacies that have separated denominations , special purpose groups have also been able to draw supporters from a wide range of religious traditions . Some have even managed to garner support from Catholics and Jews in addition to members of various Protestant denominations . Unlike the local church or synagogue , special purpose groups have the advantage of operating on a national scale . They can draw contributions from all parts of the country , and then channel these resources toward lobbying efforts in the nation 's capital , or toward selected regional issues . In contrast to local churches and synagogues , they also enjoy greater flexibility . As issues change , their appeals can change accordingly , whereas local congregations are generally committed to a wider range of services for their parishioners . Unlike the activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individuals , these special purpose groups give explicit identity to religious and religio-moral issues . They provide a way in which individuals can reinforce one another , not simply as members of some political party or secular action group , but as persons with common religious convictions . In so doing , they also make religious convictions more visible in the public arena . No longer is it merely private conscience that influences our public philosophy , but the organized activities of a religious collectivity . Over the past decade , the most widely discussed religious special purpose group has probably been televangelist Jerry Falwell 's organization , popularly known as Moral Majority , or following a 1985 reorganization , the Liberty Federation . All of the distinctive organizational features of special purpose groups just mentioned can be seen in this organization . It has been able to draw support from a wide spectrum of religious conservatives . It has focused on a limited set of public issues , such as abortion and the Equal Rights Amendment , giving priority to different issues as political expediency dictated , rather than offering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it has circumvented restrictions on religious groups ' participation in political affairs by specifically denying that it is a religious organization . It has also greatly extended the political reach of Falwell 's local church in Lynchburg , Virginia . With national broadcasting facilities it has been able to raise money from donors throughout the United States and to address national issues . It has provided a conduit for channeling excess funds from Falwell 's church into political activities , and at other times has channeled money raised for political purposes ( though a complex lending arrangement ) into Falwell 's many religious organizations . It has // also been a very significant factor in the visibility that religious conser vatives have gained as a collective entity in American politics . Because many special purpose groups lead ephemeral lives , it has been difficult for social observers to determine how extensive their activities may have become . These problems are compounded in the case of religious special purpose groups because of relatively lax legal and financial reporting requirements . Nevertheless , the available evi dence points clearly to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and in political significance . For instance , one estimate suggests that by the mid-1980s more than 800 religious spe cial purpose groups had been organized as national nonprofit organiza tions ? with more than half of these organizations coming into exis tence since the early 1960s ? and that as many as one adult in five claimed to hold membership in one or more of these organizations.22 A number of factors have contributed to the growth of these special purpose groups . Religious television has played an important role in some of them . It has provided the critical link between leaders interested in exercising greater influence in the public arena and a na tional grass-roots constituency . Cable television hookups and com puterized direct-mail technologies have also played this role . Another contributing factor has been the growth of secular special purpose groups . Religious organizers have often imitated more established or ganizations , such as the American Civil Liberties Union , Common Cause , and the League of Women Voters . During the 1960s and early 1970s , the number of these organizations grew rapidly , especially those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ equality and direct social action , and religious groups increasingly began initiating counterpart organizations for their own constituencies . Within the religious community itself , ecumenical tendencies and greater interaction across denominational boundaries have been conducive to the growth of special purpose groups . For example , both the National Council of Churches and the National Association of Evangelicals have benefited from these tendencies and have facilitated other , more focused special purpose groups . As denominations have merged , forming larger and more diverse units , special purpose groups have also emerged as ways in which more homogeneous constit uencies could express their interests at the denominational level . More generally , the growth of special purpose groups has been // facilitated by the relatively high levels of economic prosperity and political freedom that have characterized the American environment . Their numbers have also grown as a product of the pluralism charac-teristic of American religion . Issues such as the Equal Rights Amend-ment , gay activism , and racial equality have generated special purpose groups not simply from religion in general but from Presbyterians , Mormons , Baptists , Catholics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of special purpose groups has been espe-cially significant among evangelicals and fundamentalists . Studies of grass-roots participation in electoral campaign activities prior to the mid-1970s generally showed that churchgoers of all kinds tended to be more actively involved than those who did not attend church , but that members of evangelical churches did not participate in political activities as often as members of more liberal Protestant and Catholic churches . In more recent presidential elections , though , only church-goers who have conservative political interests have been more likely than nonattenders to participate in campaign activities , and on the whole , evangelicals and fundamentalists tend to be more politically ac-tive than religious liberals 23 The fact that religious communities have become better mo-bilized to participate in public affairs ? through special purpose groups and other organizations ? helps to account for the disparity ( noted ear-lier ) between the public 's perception of religious influence in the United States and indicators of actual trends in religious sentiments . The sentiments have not changed ? or at least do not suggest an across-the-board religious revival . Nor has the American public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ But those with strong religious convictions do appear to be better mobilized than ever before . In a sense , then , religion 's influence may have been increas-ing . At least religious groups are making more collective efforts now to influence the public sphere than they did only a few decades ago . Many of these efforts have been spearheaded by special purpose groups organized specifically for lobbying , registering voters , support-ing candidates , and other political activities . Though the effectiveness of these efforts has often been questioned , the efforts themselves have received sufficient publicity to give an impression of renewed vitality within the religious community . // A Liberal Court If , on balance , religious groups have more organizational muscle than they did twenty or thirty years ago , the question still remains as to why this muscle has been flexed in certain directions and not others , as does the broader question of how this muscle flexing has influenced understandings of the relations between faith and public affairs . Religious groups have generally not operated in a political vacuum . As I have suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ felt compelled to organize because these objectives were perceived to be in danger . An enemy had arisen with whom it was necessary to engage in combat . That enemy was the Supreme Court . Its actions were increasingly interpreted as being antagonistic to the values that religious groups held dear . If the nation 's moral strength was to be preserved , quick and effective action had to be taken to bring pressure on the Supreme Court to reverse some of its decisions , to subject the justices to such an outcry from the heartland that they could no longer ignore the wishes of the population , and if necessary to accomplish through legislation and executive mandate what could not be gained by challenging the judiciary . The Court 's significance had been driven home to many religious constituents in the late 1960s by its ruling against prayer in public schools and by its decision on abortion in 1973 . Some members of conservative Protestant and Catholic churches began to mobilize opposition to the Court soon after these decisions were announced . Over the following fifteen years the Court 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Decisions came down concerning the role of religious convictions in the workplace , the use of state funds for chaplains , church schools ' and colleges ' conformity to standards of racial equality , the use of government money for students attending parochial schools , and even such seemingly trivial matters as the posting of the Ten Commandments in public places and the printing of a " motorist 's prayer " on state maps . In many of these decisions the Court took a hard line against religious practices of any kind receiving support from the state or even being allowed to enter into the political or economic realms . By the 1980s many religious leaders had come to view the Supreme Court both as a determined foe of the specific positions on issues that religious conservatives championed and as a threat to long-cherished understandings of the First Amendment religion clauses // themselves . Jerry Falwell asserted flatly that the Court 's liberal views had established unconstitutional rights " to kill the unborn , commit homosexual acts , repress religious freedoms , and exploit women and children through pornographic publications . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ urged his supporters to " return the law of our land to godly foundations while we have a chance . " 25 Expressing similar dismay at the orientation of the Court , Mar tha Rountree , head of the Leadership Foundation , wrote of her anger and disgust that " America 's children can legally get birth control , sex books , and indecent literature in our schools , but ca n't legally pray , read the Bible , or have religious meetings there . " She argued that the underlying problem was a " Supreme Court disaster " brought about by " liberal Federal judges . " The only remaining solution to this problem was to " take away the power of the Supreme Court and other Federal judges to rule on issues involving school prayer , Bible read ing and religious meetings . " 26 Whether the Court had in fact created a new understanding of the relations between church and state has been widely discussed , of course . The view that significant modifications in these relations have been implied by the Court has not been limited only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the situation from an unbiased perspective have also arrived at this conclusion . For example , political scientist Kenneth Wald observes that the Supreme Court has departed from previous interpretations of the First Amendment religious clauses in three important respects . It has applied the same standards governing federal policies toward religion to the state and local levels , thereby altering the practices of many com munities . It has broadened the list of government actions that are con strued as constituting an impermissible establishment of religion . And it has struck down an increasing number of practices that seemed to force individuals to endorse religious beliefs that might be contrary to their own.27 Viewing these changes in interpretation more generally , other scholars have also concluded that the Court has significantly modified the original intent of the framers of the Constitution and have departed from the way in which the religious clauses were interpreted until reCONTESTED // cently . Definitions of religion itself have become sufficiently ambiguous to render difficult any legally binding distinctions between church and nonchurch . Claims of conscience , rather than of formally recognized faith , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Particularly at issue has been the widening wall of separation between religion and politics ? a wall that some feel genuinely threat-ens the freedom of people with religious convictions to express those convictions in public arenas . As one writer has noted , the recent changes in interpretation by the Supreme Court have left many believers feeling that " the lifeblood of our religious freedom is slowly being sucked from our constitutionally protected veins. " 29 It may be , therefore , that some of the present debate over the proper role of religion in the public sphere has been generated by the Supreme Court itself . As the wall of separation between church and state has been restructured , religious groups have found themselves in op-position to the Court 's interpretations and have mobilized accordingly , only to discover that this very mobilization evoked further responses from the Court . In the process , uncertainties about the underlying prin ciples concerning church-state relations have also been allowed to sur face . In view of the high levels of religious conviction present in the United States , it has not been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trying to resolve these uncertainties . To attribute the recent controversies primarily to a liberal Su preme Court , though , clearly does not address some of the broader aspects of these controversies that must also be understood . For example , it does not take into account the ways in which other activities of the government have contributed to these controversies . Nor does it give adequate recognition to the fact that in nearly every major case involv ing church-state issues some religious groups have supported the Court 's interpretations while other religious groups have opposed the Court . State Expansion Over the past century ? and especially since World War II ? the ac tivities of the federal government have expanded enormously . We have only to remind ourselves that standard time zones , uniform criminal // codes , Social Security numbers , centralized bank deposit insurance , federal regulation of the communications industry , a national system of food and drug regulations , and government supervision of fairness in employment and housing are all inventions of the twentieth century . Add to this expansion a 250 percent increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes ( after inflation ) , and a fourfold rise in the number of federal court cases since World War II , and it becomes obvious that the Supreme Court 's apparent shift to the left is but a small part of the ways in which the government 's place in civil society has shifted . With the tremendous increase in responsibilities that the government has shouldered in recent decades , its influence can now be felt in virtually every corner of society . A farmer in Kansas who wishes to plant wheat finds himself subject to acreage restrictions and probably winds up selling some of his crop to the government under a federal price-support program . A community center in Colorado has to install wheelchair ramps and post exit signs in order to qualify for state funds under a federal grant-in-aid program . A small church in Connecticut votes to hire an accountant because IRS and Social Security regulations demand clearer , more accurate , audited financial reports . Little wonder , then , that churches have become more conscious of the state . Those who have decried the Supreme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and regulations unheard of in the past . The newsletters and magazines of conservative religious organizations are filled with horror stories detailing the state 's encroachment on their religious freedom . A teenager in New Jersey reported being reprimanded by school authorities for wearing a T-shirt bearing the name of a Christian rock group . A preacher in Florida warned followers that Federal Communications Commission ( FCC ) rulings were threatening to close his ministry . Three couples in North Dakota were said to have been convicted for not sending their children to public schools because of religious commitments . In view of incursions such as these , religious leaders have urged their parishioners to become more politically minded : awareness is the watchword , freedom the slogan , and action the mandate . The irony of the situation is that the very Supreme Court cases church leaders have found vexing have often been initiated as protests against other kinds of government intrusion . Finding themselves at odds with local school boards , religious organizations have brought suits to gain equal time for the teaching of creation alongside evoluCONTESTED // tion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ courts for including more explicit lessons about religion in history courses and in social science courses . They have even supplied amici curiae briefs in cases involving Mormons , Jehovah 's Witnesses , Moonies , and others with whom they are in fundamental theological disagreement . In all these ways , agencies of the state have been invited to play an ever more active role in determining the bounds of religion 's involvement in the public sphere . A word of caution is in order , though . The expanded role of government has not come about through the scheming of Washington bureaucrats who have hoodwinked an unwitting electorate into footing the bill . Such rhetoric has been the stuff of which successful presidential campaigns have been made . But it is rhetoric rather than reality . Government has grown because of the public 's interest in economic prosperity , its fear of economic and military insecurity , and its commitment to standards of fairness and equality . Particular regulations are always debated , but even the owner who thinks his ox is gored prefers a system of laws to a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for example , when the government steps in to find out why money contributed to a television preacher is being used as hush money for the preacher 's mistress . Few object when government officials investigate the death of school children in an improperly maintained church-owned bus . And few object when criminal charges are brought against a true believer who firebombed birth control clinics because of religious convictions . All of these are worthy causes ? at least in most people 's minds . Nevertheless , they increasingly draw government into areas in which the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of religion is potentially endangered . Thus , religious groups of all kinds have found themselves having to keep a more watchful eye on the public domain , and the mere fact of having to do so seems to color religious discourse with political hues . Gone is the village church protected by the benign consensus of a homogeneous town elite , the geographic isolation of the frontier , and the distance and ineffectiveness of a weak , decentralized government . The present reality is more like that of Europe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overtones as well . Or at least this is the specter that some fear is haunting the United States . But this comparison is only partially accurate . It is accurate to the extent that government is now implicated in many of the regulah0 ' fl ili STRUGGLE R ) R AMERICA 'S SOU1. tions to which religious groups are subject and in many of the social issues about which religious groups are concerned . It is not accurate in that government in the United States is still prohibited from recog nizing any one faith as an established religion , does not contribute directly to the financial support of religious institutions , and does not involve itself in the training and selection of clergy . For all its growth , the impact of government on American re ligion in recent decades has been more indirect than direct . In those areas in which the hand of government has been nakedly active ? such as the Supreme Court rulings on abortion and school prayer ? religious groups have mobilized to let their wishes be known . Sometimes they have failed ? and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ focusing on more important matters . But they were able to voice their opinions , and if political action proved ineffective , to mount media cam paigns aimed at modifying public opinion , or to sponsor private initi atives ( such as pregnancy clinics and Christian schools ) as end runs around government policies . In many areas , though , the hand of govern ment has remained hidden ; that is , policies and programs with seem ingly little relevance to religion have been advanced , and yet the social impact of these policies and programs on religion has turned out to be extremely significant . These are the areas in which greater under-standing has been especially needed because both the state and re ligious groups themselves have not been as cognizant of their effects . A New Class This brings me to a final argument that bears directly on the recent controversies over the role of religion in public affairs . It has been sug gested that these controversies have deepened because of a change in the class structure of American society . For example , sociologist Peter Berger @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class of people " who make their living from the production and distribution of sym bolic knowledge . " It is this class , he argues , that has enlivened the strength of liberals , radicals , and secular humanists , on the one hand , and prompted the conservative Protestant upsurge as a reaction , on the other hand . Berger links a number of issues concerning the rela tions between church and state to this basic klassenkamp , as he calls it : abortion , feminism , military policy , even environmental questions.30 // This argument is useful , as far as it goes , particularly because it highlights the conflict that has emerged within American religion . Conservative groups are not the only ones that have been paying increasing attention to the role of religion in public affairs . Liberal groups have also been active , often taking positions directly opposed to those advocated by conservatives . But the idea of a new class needs to be amended in at least three important respects . First , we need to see it in connection with what I have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new class is not the product of some inevitable cultural force promoting the expansion of symbol production : the media , schools , higher education , and so on . It may be associated with the economic development that some have described as a transition from industrial to postindustrial capitalism . But it is also the product of specific initiatives by the state . It has come about because of government initiatives such as the G.I. Bill after World War II to promote higher education , the decision in the late 1950s to explore outer space after the Russians ' launching of Sputnik , and the federal government 's commitment to enormous expenditures for higher education during the 1960s . If a new class has arisen that has fundamentally altered the religious views of those within it and prompted a conservative reaction from those outside it , then the government 's hand in this development must be recognized . This has been one of the significant ways in which government policy has had indirect consequences for American religion . Second , we need to recognize that the argument about a new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class distinctions . Those who constitute the new class may be privileged with respect to educational levels and jobs in professional occupations . But the new class also represents a new way of measuring class position . It reflects distinctions in the capacity to use knowledge , whereas older-measures of class reflected differences in material wealth . Thus , members of the new class may not be as privileged as some members of other classes in terms of income , possessions , inherited wealth , and so on . This means that members of the new class do not always simply get their way because they have more resources than everyone else . Members of other classes still command resources , too . So when // it comes to religious disputes , both sides may be able to call on influential elites to give them backing . Finally , the idea of a new class needs to be amended to clarify the role that cultural capital ( or cultural resources , if one prefers a less Marxist-sounding phrase ) plays in religious disputes . The cultural capital of the new class @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cosmopolitanism , verbal communication skills . Those opposed to the new class , though , have their own forms of cultural capital . They are likely to have command of their religious heritage ? hence the value they attach to biblical inerrancy . They participate in the wider fruits of a technological society ? witness the use of cable television hookups by television preachers . They have successfully participated in the general growth of higher education by sponsoring their own colleges . And , while underrepresented in many social scientific and humanistic disciplines , they are likely to have gained leaders with training in technical subjects such as business administration , engineering , and computer science . If the conservative upsurge is indeed a backlash against the rise of a new class , as Peter Berger suggests , it is a rebellion with significant resources at its disposal . Consequently , it is difficult to picture the present controversies over the proper role of faith in public affairs simply as a transition to a more enlightened , secular , or postmodern situation . It seems more accurate to say that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition . To the extent that each has different views on a wide range of issues , including theological and moral orientations , then it appears likely that the role of religion in public affairs will continue to be hotly contested . PROSPECTS AND IMPLICATIONS What are the implications ? For specific issues , the tug-of-war currently evident between religious conservatives and religious liberals is likely to be determined more by events within the political arena than by efforts on the part of religious groups alone . This is not to say that those efforts are unimportant : in view of the relative balance that seems to exist between conservatives and liberals on many issues , active and well-organized efforts are always consequential . This same balance , however , means that other factors ? factors over which religious groups have only partial control ? may be even more consequential . For example , the fallout from the sex scandals involving television // preachers Jim Bakker and Jimmy Swaggart in 1987 could prove sig-nificant enough that political candidates in the future will downplay their affinities with evangelicalism entirely . If so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ making claims on these candidates . Or , to take another example , the eruption of a major war in Central America in which troops from the United States were in-volved could radically shift public opinion , one way or the other , no matter how vigorously various religious factions supported or opposed strong defensive postures . The most that can be predicted on specific issues is that these issues will continue to be subjects of intense debate by religious groups . Having mobilized to achieve a ban on abortions , religious conserva-tives seem unlikely to demobilize again should their goal be attained . Nor do religious liberals seem likely to abandon the field should a Supreme Court decision on abortion turn against them . Each side is too well organized , has too many programs that are dependent on arousing concern about contemporary issues , and has become too aware of the importance of public affairs to retreat entirely into iso-lated self-contemplation . A second area in which the implications of the present con-troversies need to be recognized concerns the broader tensions that have been produced within American religion itself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faithful from one another consisted of hostilities between Protestants and Catholics and between Christians and Jews . At the present juncture , these tensions pale beside the ones that have arisen between religious conservatives and religious liberals . Not content to differ merely on specific issues , such as abor-tion or school prayer , religious activists have turned to denouncing the very premises of their opponents ' religious convictions . On the con-servative side , fundamentalists and evangelicals express doubts that their liberal brethren can still be counted as Christians at all . For ex-ample , in a direct-mail solicitation from the conservative Christian Ac-tion Council , executive director Curtis J. Young observed that abor-tions were being performed in a number of hospitals that had been founded by mainline Protestant denominations . Shocked at this out-rage , he went on to castigate these institutions for rejecting Christ and keeping only the name of a faith that had " long since been abandoned . " In his view it was an " outrage against God " for these hospitals to retain any identity at all with Christianity.31 // Some hospital administrators might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hyperbole of which direct-mail solicitations are necessarily composed . But the same kind of invective creeps into the pew as well . To wit : two parishioners were overheard discussing a recent study suggesting that students at evangelical colleges were no longer being indoctrinated effectively into orthodox statements of belief . Said one : " Perhaps it is good they are learning to think for themselves . " Replied the other : " Well , I should n't have even raised it with you ; I can see you 're moving away from Christianity entirely . " Nor is this merely the closed-mindedness of fundamentalists . Religious liberals have been equally closed-minded in denouncing fundamentalists . " Not Buddhism , not Hinduism , not Islam , but fundamentalism ? it is the one thing that is anathema to the gospel , " one clergyman declared from the pulpit . Judging from the increasingly negative attitudes toward evangelicals and fundamentalists expressed in public opinion polls , pronouncements such as these are probably not uncommon . There is , of course , a long history of ill will in the United States @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appear to have deepened these sentiments . Each side has become more visible to the other . The rhetoric of direct-mail solicitations has become more strident and the editorial commentary of the media more shrill . To the highly nuanced theological discussions that have been familiar in the past ? and that have often been confined within denominational boundaries ? have been added the politicized " I win ? you lose " stakes of public confrontation . The end result has been a travesty of the profession of love , forgiveness , and mutual forbearance . Mention also needs to be made of the significance of the present controversies for our broader conceptions of ourselves as citizens and as morally responsible individuals . From one perspective , controversies over the appropriate relations between church and state may be regarded as troublesome issues to be gotten through as quickly as possible . Not the process but the final result is all that matters . Nevertheless , from another perspective it behooves us to recognize that the process is also important . Uncertainties in the relations between church and state provide occasions for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discuss our basic values ? our conceptions of what it means to be virtuous , upright , responsible citizens . If we pay close attention to the flood of words that flows from any church-state debate , we discover that these words go well beyond the practical , the technical , the legal // They remind us of the moral timber of which a strong nation is constructed . They tell us again that the free expression of faith is indeed a sacred right . They speak of the cherished past and an endangered future . They picture the state in its role as guardian of decency and democracy . They commend citizenship and enhance awareness of the public sphere . This moral pedagogy , even more so than the specific issues under consideration , is perhaps the greatest function performed by the ongoing debate over faith and public affairs . What , then , must we conclude about the role of faith in shaping America 's democratic public philosophy , given the social and cultural contexts in which public debate now takes place ? Do we stand on a precipice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a future fraught more and more with totalitarian threats and narrowly utilitarian struggles ? Or does our tradition remain strong , perhaps even in a way that promises greater creative energy for American democracy in the future ? Now , as always in the past , the answer lies somewhere between these extremes . Both the realities of the present world and the eschatological images embedded deep within the Judeo-Christian tradition call us to be mindful of the dangers that lie along each side of our path and the opportunities that call us to move forward . The dangers are clear , even if they need to be pointed out again and again in order to keep us vigilant . They arise both from the scourge of totalitarian regimes to which religious conservatives have given so much attention and from the mindless greed of a global economic system that values nothing so highly as profits and market expansion ? the greed that generates many of the social injustices to which religious liberals have called our attention . They also arise from our own manner of dealing with the social and economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expands its bureaucratic functions in order to promote economic growth ? especially one that legitimates its own growth in antibureaucratic , laissez faire rhetoric ? is most to be feared as a travesty of democracy itself . Sadly , thus far we have paid far too little attention to the implications of such growth for the shaping of our public philosophy . At minimum , discussions of public philosophy must pay heed to the increasing role of government to shape religion directly ? and , indeed , to shape the society directly ? through tax policies , the funding of research , entitlement programs , fiscal transfer policies , the location and maintenance of a vast military , and so on . Public philosophy // may take form most explicitly in debates generated by the courts . But our lives may be shaped even more decidedly by policies and practices that never become matters of conscious public debate . When this happens , the danger is one of having our national destiny decided for us tout court , rather than having stumbled into an improper mix of religious and secular values @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent in the bifurcation that has taken place in American religion between religious liberals and religious conservatives . As long as this division remains uppermost , we can perhaps take comfort that at least two sides to every issue will be presented . But we must ask whether two sides are sufficient , or whether five or six ? or a hundred ? would not be more in the interest of maintaining a creative public philosophy . We also must ask whether the task of presenting arguments and counterarguments in the public sphere ? at congressional hearings , in court , on television talk shows , and even at academic conferences ? is always beneficial to the primary work for which religious bodies exist . The danger in promoting public philosophy through a hearty application of religious principles may be that we gain the world but lose the soul on which those very principles have always rested . The positive side ? the opportunities that lie before us ? can perhaps be summarized more succinctly . Our religious debates still inform the public arena in important ways . They lead us @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negative example at times ) . They continue to undergird many of our specific concerns about public morality , compassion , and social justice . Perhaps more indirectly , they infuse public philosophy with broad conceptions of equality , virtue , and civic responsibility , and they clothe these conceptions with the rich biblical narratives that render them intelligible and give them rhetorical power . Therefore , a time of ferment in public religion is likely to draw larger segments of the population into the cause of democracy and to instruct them in the practical principles on which democracy is founded . Beset on the one hand with the grave dangers to which many social analysts have alerted us , and faced on the other hand with great opportunities to revitalize and enrich our public philosophy , we must proceed with both caution and diligence . Careful scrutiny of the new conditions that characterize our society and our world must be added to the chorus of recollections about our past that continuously seek to find new meanings and insights in the constitutional heritage and cultural wisdom of years gone by . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we must be reminded of the value of the broader questions that these problems raise . Perhaps above all , we must sensitize ourselves increasingly to the ways in which our implicit assumptions govern even the ways in which we pose the enduring questions about our public philosophy . Struggle in Four One Denomination PRESBYTERIANS AS A TYPICAL CASE THE TITLE OF THIS CHAPTER  --  " Struggle in One Denomination " ? is , I am afraid , somewhat reminiscent of the title of one of Stalin 's best-known articles : " Socialism in One Country . " l I do not wish to conjure up any impertinent comparisons between the Soviet Union and American Presbyterianism . But the similarity in phrasing is not entire ly coincidental . In 1924 Stalin 's Russia was beleaguered on every side . It was not the only country in which socialism was being advanced . It had , however , risen to the forefront of the international socialist movement , at least for a brief time , only to find itself caught up in a world far more complex than its theoreticians had predicted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been one of our flagship denominational traditions . It is now faced with a world far different and more complex than any world it has faced before . The turmoil it has experienced within its ranks during the past several decades is by no means unique . Indeed , this turmoil can be found in nearly all the major American denominations and faiths . And yet , it is hard to find another denomination in which the 68 // turmoil has been as notable in its magnitude or as profound in its con-sequences . In the previous chapters I attempted to outline some of the broad contours of this turmoil in the nation at large.2 Starting with the years immediately after World War II , I discussed the institutional and cultural climate of American religion in the 1940s and 1950s , showing some of the preconditions that were to reinforce later conflicts , and then traced the trajectory of these conflicts into the 1980s and sug gested some of their cultural and political implications . Here , I would like to consider the ways in which Presbyterianism reflects these broader patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the turmoil it presently faces may suggest for its clergy and members in the im mediate future . As I shall suggest shortly , the Presbyterian case has much to teach all of us about the dilemmas of faith in American society at the end of the twentieth century . In one sense , of course , Presbyterians are not a typical case . To a greater extent than many other denominations , they have suf fered a long history of conflict between theologically liberal and theo logically conservative factions , and for this reason the current cleavage between liberals and conservatives that we shall be considering may represent less of a restructuring for them than it does for American religion more generally . The conflicts and schisms that have characterized Presbyterian history have been documented by students of American religion . No sooner had the first General Presbytery been founded in Philadelphia in 1706 than tensions began to erupt . Conservatives , largely consisting of recent Scottish and Scotch-Irish immigrants to Pennsylvania , argued that membership and church discipline be contingent on strict adherence to the Westminster Confession ; liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ York and New England presbyteries , argued that the Bible alone was a sufficient rule of faith and practice . After several attempts at compromise and reconciliation in the 1720s , the conflict grew more intense with the advent of revivalism and an emphasis on personal conversion that developed during the Great Awakening . The more liberal " New Side , " as it was called , preached revivalism and an experiential knowledge of Christ , while the " Old Side " stood for a more corporatist form of church discipline rooted in the Westminster tradition . Each side claimed authority in // matters of doctrine and clergy training , and both sides institutional ized their claims in concrete organizations , most notable of which was the New Side 's founding of the College of New Jersey at Princeton in 1746 . Conflict between " Old School " and " New School " Pres byterians erupted again with considerable intensity during the first decades of the nineteenth century . Revivalism and the Reformed tradi tion in doctrine and church government , control of mission boards , and cooperation with other denominations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1836 served as foci of con tention . The two factions officially split from one another in 1837 and remained divided until 1869 . Meanwhile , other schisms were also dividing Presbyterians into a more diverse range of denominations , including the Cumberland Presbyterian Church ( founded in 1810 ) , the 1833 split between the Reformed Presbyterian Church General Synod and the Reformed Presbyterian Church of North America , and the for mation of the Presbyterian Church U.S. in the South in 1861 at the outset of the Civil War.3 In the twentieth century , Presbyterians ' involvement in the conflict between fundamentalists and modernists again sets their his tory apart from that of many other denominations . The conflict was particularly intense among Presbyterians because it revolved around a number of hotly contested issues : what missionaries had to do to receive denominational support , views of the Bible , doctrines about the Virgin Birth and the Second Coming of Christ , different perspec tives on the historic role of Calvinism , and conflict between premil lennialists and postmillennialists . Official splits resulting from the con troversy between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Church in 1936 and the Bible Presby terian Church in 1937 . Only among Northern Baptists were the bat tles waged by the fundamentalists as intense . The Presbyterians ' legacy of conflict , however , needs to be un derstood in perspective . Despite the denomination 's early cleavages in the nineteenth century and its involvement in the fundamentalist-modernist controversy , it has not been any more prone to schisms in the twentieth century than the other large denominational families . At least this is the tentative conclusion that has emerged thus far from reSTRUGGLE // search on schisms that I have done with several of my colleagues . We have analyzed data on 175 denominations , including 55 Baptist denominations , 50 Lutheran denominations , 34 Methodist denomina tions , and 36 Presbyterian and Reformed denominations , between 1890 and 1980 . Among these denominations , there were 55 schisms . Presbyterians actually had somewhat higher probabilities of survival ( i.e. , lower probabilities of schism ) than did Methodists , Bap tists , or Lutherans , though the differences were not statistically sig nificant . We also performed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterians have been more prone to schisms over the past century than other denominational families . We took account of other factors to see if denominational family still made any difference in the likelihood of schisms occurring . When we did so , denomina tional family produced no significant effects . We also examined the ef fects of church polity type , a variable we coded separately to be able to compare the rate of schisms among denominations with congrega tional , presbyterian , or episcopal forms of church government . Again , we found no significant differences .4 In one sense , however , the Presbyterian family provides an unusually good opportunity for examining the growing cleavage be tween religious liberals and religious conservatives and other tensions that have surfaced in American religion in recent years . For some years , the denomination has been in the forefront of efforts by denomina tional agencies themselves to collect systematic data on the beliefs and attitudes of its laity and clergy . Large numbers of questions have been asked over the past decade and a half to random samples of laity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ books and nu merous articles have been published from these data . In addition , it is possible to flesh out the nature of changes among Presbyterians through their many denominational reports , annual minutes , and monthly publications . // THE DECLINING SIGNIFICANCE OF PRESBYTERIANISM The first conclusion that emerges clearly from all this evidence is that Presbyterianism has experienced a serious decline during the past three decades . Of course , denominational officials have commented extensively on the decline in membership . Since 1966 , the Presbyterian Church , U.S.A. , has declined by more than 1.2 million members ? a decrease of approximately 30 percent . Church school membership and infant baptisms ? the most reliable predictors of vitality in the future ? have declined even more precipitously : by 52 percent and 35 percent , respectively . Over the past two decades , the typical Presbyterian con gregation has seen its members slip from an average of 326 to an average of 256 . Despite many new churches , the denomination has suffered a net loss of more than 1,400 congregations.5 These losses suggest a serious decline @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decline has become truly wide-spread among Presbyterians . Not only has it become a recurrent theme in deliberations at the General Assembly , but it has also become a widely recognized phenomenon in local congregations . Thus , accord ing to one study , only one member in eight thought his or her con gregation was growing faster than its surrounding community , while one member in two thought his or her congregation was either grow ing more slowly or declining faster than the community.6 But another kind of decline may be even more indicative of the changes facing established religious bodies in our society ? the decline of denominationalism . By all indications , Presbyterians have not only been diminishing in numbers but have also experienced an erosion in the social and cultural boundaries that have historically set them off from other denominations as a distinctive religious entity . This erosion will come as no surprise to many within the denomina tion ( or in other mainline Protestant denominations ) , but it may still be instructive to understand more specifically the ways in which it has happened . First @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Pres byterians off from the rest of the American population have dimin ished at least marginally in importance . For example , in 1960 PresSTRUGGLE // byterians were 1.8 times more likely than average to be employed in professional or managerial occupations , but by 1976 they were only 1.4 times more likely to be employed in these occupations. ? Similarly , in 1956 Presbyterians had been 1.9 times as likely to have attained some college education than was true in the nation as a whole . By 1980 , this factor had been reduced to 1.6 times the national average.8 Over the same period , even more dramatic changes took place in the social characteristics of other denominations . Consequently , Roman Catholics , Baptists , Lutherans , and even members of fundamentalist sects in the 1980s all resembled Presbyterians more closely on basic social characteristics than they did in the 1950s or 1960s . Perhaps because of these convergences , Presbyterians as a group also do not differ markedly from the members of other denominations on some of the most salient social and political issues of our time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ divisive in the political arena since the Supreme Court 's ruling in Roe v. Wade in 1973 ; . and yet , on a standard survey question during this period that asked persons whether they approved of abortion for someone who simply did not want more children , the percentages answering yes ranged only between 44 percent among Lutherans , Catholics , and members of Protestant sects , and 50 percent among Episcopalians . Baptists , Methodists , Presbyterians , and Jews all scored about midway between these two figures.9 Second , much evidence suggests that more Presbyterians mingle with , marry the members of , and switch to other denomina tions now than ever before . For example , data collected in the 1970s and early 1980s showed that 45 percent of all Americans who had been raised as Presbyterians now belonged to some other denomina74 ' 1 ' 11E STRUGGLE FOR AMERIC'A 'S SOU1. tion or to no denomination at all.l0 Interdenominational marriages also point to a weakening of denominational boundaries . Specifically , a comparison of data from the mid-1970s and the mid-1950s shows that the percentage of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves declined by 25 percentage points among Pres byterians over this period.11 Third , all of this takes place within a more general climate of theological and cultural tolerance . In the 1940s and 1950s , deep mis givings still separated the members of many Protestant denominations and , particularly , Protestants from Roman Catholics . For example , in an article warning Protestant youth against marrying Catholics , a Pres byterian pastor wrote : " It is Protestant theology , not Roman Catholic , which has provoked men to demand free government and the over-throw of tyrants . . . . It is Protestant church polity , and not Roman Catholic , which schools men in the actual practice of democracy . " 12 A few years later the Presbyterian Church , U.S.A. , adopted a statement at its annual convention that condemned the " cultic worship of Mary " among Catholics . Since the Second Vatican Council , such expressions of anti-Catholicism by Presbyterian leaders have , to say the least , be-come unfashionable and for the most part unspeakable . In the years immediately after World War II @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was often hard to promote . A 1946 effort by Episcopalians and Presbyteri ans to encourage merger negotiations ran aground from stubborn re sistance rooted in historical and liturgical differences . Even among Presbyterians themselves , little headway toward greater cooperation was made in these years . At the same time the Episcopal-Presbyterian negotiations were foundering ; for example , an effort by the northern and southern wings of Presbyterianism to achieve doctrinal unity was firmly defeated . Clear evidence on grass-roots tolerance of other denomina tions is more difficult to find , but some evidence suggests that laity may have been more willing to transcend denominational boundaries // for a longer period of time than these actions by clergy and denomina tional officials would imply . For instance , a representative survey of more than seven thousand respondents from seventeen denomina tions in 1932 found majority support , despite some personal misgiv ings about the beliefs and practices of other denominations , for some kind of church union or cooperation in all but three denominations . Methodists and Presbyterians were opposed to maintaining present denominational divisions by a ratio of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against maintaining the present order , while Lutherans , Southern Presbyterians , and Southern Baptists leaned moderately toward continuing the current divisions . Moreover , those who favored greater interdenominational cooperation were about as likely to favor uniting the various bodies into a single church as they were to support the idea of merely creating a federation of denominations.13 With social differences among denominations eroding , inter-marriage across denominational lines increasing , and tolerance levels in the culture more generally rising , any particularistic tendencies separating the members of mainline Protestant denominations appear to have become limited to the marginal few . Thus when sociologists Charles Clock and Rodney Stark surveyed church members in Califor nia in the early 1960s , fewer than one Presbyterian in ten thought membership in a particular faith was necessary for salvation.14 In the late 1970s , a national study of Lutherans showed that four in five were interested in having cooperative worship services with Presbyterians and that three in four favored common services with Baptists and Catholics.ls Finally , the erosion of denominational barriers has been legit imated by theological and ecclesiastical pronouncements by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important role in fostering greater cooperation between Presbyterians and other de-nominations . One of the most auspicious features of this movement was the founding of the Consultation on Church Union , brought into being 76 in 1962 by the United Presbyterian Church , U.S.A. , the Episcopal Church , the Methodist Church , and the United Church of Christ to explore possibilities for greater cooperation and eventual union among these denominations . And the northern and southern branches of Presbyterianism finally came together again in 1983 . The denomination has also enacted legislation specifically aimed at lowering denominational barriers and making it easier for clergy and laity alike to cross these boundaries . The 1967 Confession denied that belief in any particular confession could be held as a standard of membership or a criteria of belief . It has also become easier for clergy trained in seminaries outside the denomination to be ordained . For example , an estimated half of all Presbyterian clergy no longer receive training in the denomination 's seminaries . SOCIAL FORCES AND THE DENOMINATION 'S RESPONSE Like other denominational families , Presbyterianism has been exposed on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society since World War II . In the 1950s , its members grew as the population itself grew . Young families moved to the suburbs , earned good salaries , and took their children to church . Much of the fundamentalism that had dogged the denomination 's flanks in the 1930s was now isolated in the smaller Presbyterian sects , and neo-orthodoxy was heard loudly in the denomination 's major seminaries . Church leaders called for a moderate blend of personal salvation , evangelism , missionary effort , and social outreach . In the 1960s , Presbyterians soon became caught up in the larger turmoil of the society . Formal resolutions against racial discrimination gradually gave way to more activist involvement in the civil rights movement . Crises in the cities became the subject of commission reports . By the end of the decade , campus protests , black militance , and the Vietnam War were all matters to which church leaders were giving serious attention . Studies of Presbyterians and other mainstream Protestant denominations in the 1960s and early 1970s suggested that the clergy had moved to the left , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more rapidly than the typical parishioner . However , a substantial shift was taking place among laity during this period as well ? a shift that gave left-leaning clergy more grass-roots support as time went on . This was the shift associated with the rapid upgradSTRUGGLE // ing in educational levels that the federal government began to sponsor in the 1960s . Unless one was an Episcopalian , attending college had been rare among the members of all denominations in the 1950s . Fewer than one Baptist , Lutheran , or Catholic in seven had ever been to college ; and even among Presbyterians the proportion was only one in three . By the early 1980s , six Presbyterians in ten had been to college . This change had a number of important consequences . As young people went through the nation 's colleges in the 1960s and 1970s , many swelled the ranks of Presbyterian campus ministries , often providing foot soldiers for the social and political activities of these ministries . Other young people left the church , finding it too staid and traditional , especially in comparison with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious imports from East Asia . The geographic and social mobility and greater levels of tolerance associated with higher education increased the likelihood that young Presbyterians would marry outside their own faith , move away from parent congregations , and leave the denomination entirely . The quest for higher education forced young people to postpone marriage and childrearing , resulting in some of the numeric decline the denomination has experienced . And the division . between those with better educations and those with lower levels of formal training began to reinforce differences between Presbyterians with liberal theological inclinations and Presbyterians with more conservative and evangelical orientations . Other social changes influenced the organizational structure of American Presbyterianism directly . As I mentioned earlier , our studies of schisms and mergers show no differences between Presbyterians and other denominational families in their propensity to have undergone these organizational changes , at least in the twentieth century . Our research does , however , reveal the extent to which Presbyterians and the other denominational families alike have been subject to the effects of broader strains in their environment . We found that an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1950s , was an important predictor of subsequent schisms . This is not to say that strife develops more easily in good times than in bad . But it does suggest that larger memberships become increasingly difficult to control , other things being equal . Instability in the broader economic environment , especially business failures ? a phenomenon that became increasingly evident in the 1960s and 1970s ? proved to be associated with higher rates of // denominational schisms . We also found that prior mergers , of the kind that many major denominations entered into during the 1960s and 1970s , increase the likelihood of schisms occurring . And we found a kind of contagion effect among schisms themselves : a few schisms in the broader environment seem to diminish the likelihood of other schisms occurring , but large numbers of schisms greatly increase the likelihood of other schisms . This pattern was especially prominent in the 1960s and early 1970s . We also know from examining the accounts of these schisms that theological cleavages were generally an important factor . THE STRUGGLE BETWEEN LIBERALS AND CONSERVATIVES As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ division has risen in importance . At the national level , much evidence suggests that this division , as we have seen in previous chapters , can best be characterized simply as a division between self-styled religious liberals and religious conservatives . According to national studies , the population divides itself almost evenly between these two categories , with various gradations of extremity and moderation in each . Each of the major religious groupings for which large enough numbers can be obtained also seems to reflect this division . Lutherans , Baptists , Methodists , and Roman Catholics all have about equal numbers of religious liberals and religious conservatives among their members . Evidence also suggests considerable animosity and misgiving on the part of each faction toward the other . Perhaps correctly , religious liberals view their evangelical counterparts as narrow-minded dogmatists , and evangelicals suspect religious liberals of having become doctrinally and morally permissive , if not outrightly secular . Some time ago , a book by sociologist of religion Dean Hoge , fittingly titled Division in the Protestant House , pointed to the presence of a cleavage of much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterian clergy and laity in the early 1970s , Hoge 's research showed that those who emphasized personal evangelism were deeply divided from those who emphasized social action . Not only did the two factions have widely differing views of what the church should be doing , but they differed fundamentally from one another on theological issues and in social backgrounds as well . Although there was among clergy at least a neo-orthodox group who occupied middle // ground , theological liberals constituted a clearly identified group at one end of the spectrum , and theological conservatives constituted another self-identified group at the other end of the spectrum , and the two groups assigned very different priorities to the various activities and ministries of the church.16 In more recent years , harsh words of the kind one might ex pect to hear Democrats and Republicans leveling at one another have fanned the flames of tension between Presbyterian liberals and Presby terian conservatives . At the 1988 meeting of the General Assembly , for example , an elder from the Pittsburgh Presbytery succeeded in getting disciplinary action taken against the conservative Presbyterian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of her congregation 's members . The Committee , she alleged , was led by " unscrupulous people , " whose access to church membership lists could " enable them to defraud , harass or even terrorize the people in a congregation . " 17 Equally harsh words about Presbyterian liberals can be found routinely in conservative publications like The Presbyterian Layman . Studies conducted by the denomination itself show the extent to which Presbyterians are currently divided over a number of issues that have become salient as matters of church policy . One study showed that about four members in ten believe the denomination should work to pressure the government of South Africa to end apartheid , while about three in ten were opposed to this kind of activity.18 Gender , fem inism , and the ordination of women is another topic that has produced much division of opinion . Ordination has apparently begun to evoke fairly widespread consensus , although half of all members still fear that appointing a woman in their own congregation would create strife.19 But the roles of women more generally remain matters over which Pres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in ten thought " women should worry less about their rights and more about becoming good wives and mothers , " while four in ten disagreed.20 As in most other denominations and faith traditions , abortion has been a particularly divisive issue . According to national surveys , Presbyterians divide almost evenly between opponents of abortion and those who feel abortion should be a matter of individual choice . While // results depend on how the question is asked , the proportions who ex-press tolerant views toward abortion range from 47 percent to 56 per-cent 21 Not only are Presbyterians divided in their views , but each side has also mobilized itself to press its views at governing meetings of the denomination and to the membership at large . For example , Pres byterians Pro-Life has pressed its ideas actively at both the congrega tional and national levels , most recently drawing a large crowd at the 1988 General Assembly to hear an impassioned plea for the unborn by its invited speaker , Mother Teresa of Calcutta . From national surveys , one can also piece together evidence that shows the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . For example , the ratio of self-identified political liberals to self-identified political conservatives is almost at parity : about one-third of all Presbyterians polled between the mid-1970s and early 1980s iden tified themselves as conservatives , about one-third identified themselves as liberals , and the remaining third took a middle-of-the-road position.22 These divisions in attitudes and theological identification have been reinforced by a new kind of organization within the denomina tion : the special purpose group . Although some of these groups ? mis sionary societies , youth organizations , women 's groups ? have a long history among Presbyterians , their overall numbers have increased noticeably since the 1960s , and their character has changed as well . In fact , their impetus appears to have been closely linked with the more general turmoil in American society during the 1960s . In anticipation of the confessional revision in 1967 , leaders opposed to this revision formed two special purpose groups , and these movements soon gained national followings . One was the Presbyterian Lay Committee , which also played a prominent role in opposing the denomination 's protest activities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United for Biblical Concerns . Both disseminated literature , organized petition campaigns , and lobbied at meetings of the denomination 's General Assembly to uphold conservative views of the Bible , as well as to defend doctrines rooted in the Reformation tradition and strict concepts of moral and spiritual discipline . Other special purpose groups include Presbyterians for Democracy and Religious Freedom , Presbyterians Pro-Life , Presbyterians // for Lesbian and Gay Concerns , the Witherspoon Society , the Black Presbyterian Caucus , Presbyterians for Biblical Sexuality , and the Religious Coalition on Abortion Rights . Like political action commit-tees and lobbyist organizations in Washington , these special purpose groups have arisen within the denomination to mobilize grass-roots support for particular issues and make this support heard in the denomination 's policy-making circles . They function within guidelines established by the denomination . But they clearly add a new layer of organization to the more established hierarchy of authority that has traditionally risen from the ranks of local elders and pastors through regional presbyteries and synods to the General Assembly . Moreover , special purpose groups are not simply the work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intimate fellowship or a stronger sense of community . They vary in purpose , and some do have community as their chief objective . But the majority re semble what sociologists have called " struggle groups " : special interests organized specifically to engage in combat with other special interests , to champion their cause , and to see their cause win over the hearts and minds of denominational officials . In the words of a recent editorial in the newspaper of one such pressure group , " the church will be changed by a proliferation of sharply focused , single-issue groups , each of which is willing to get down in the trenches and fight . " 23 Despite the fact that these pressure groups are devoted to single issues , there has also been a notable tendency for them to stack up into two opposing camps , one championing conservative issues of all kinds , the other adopting liberal positions across the board . Thus , a group like the Presbyterian Lay Committee not only struggles to " put greater emphasis on the teaching of the Bible as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states , but also provides a sympathetic forum for everything from anti-gay activists , to opponents of a nuclear freeze , to apologists for big companies engaged in lucrative business with South Africa . DIVISIONS AT THE CONGREGATIONAL LEVEL What impact have these conflicts between liberals and conservatives had at the congregational level ? Here , our evidence is sparse , but we do have some clues from both aggregate studies and case histories of // particular congregations . At the aggregate level , we know from Gallup data that religious liberals and religious conservatives report having contact with members of the opposing faction in their local churches and even in Bible study groups and prayer fellowships . Although the numbers are small , this was true among Presbyterians just as it was in the sample as a whole . The Gallup data also show that individuals who had made contact with the opposing faction in these local settings were almost as likely to hold negative views of their opponents as were those whose contact had come in less personal settings . Among those who iden tified themselves as religious liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their current church held negative opinions of conservatives . Roughly the same proportions harbored negative sen timents when their contact had been in a Bibly study group or prayer fellowship . The only type of contacts that were associated with sig nificantly higher levels of negative sentiment were contact in a former church and exposure to conservatives from reading or television . Similar patterns were evident among persons who identified themselves as conservatives . Although differences in question word ing made it impossible to compare the scope of negative sentiment toward liberals with that held by liberals toward conservatives , the evidence again pointed to the local church as one source of conflict . One-third of all conservatives who said they had come into contact with liberals in their current church held negative views of liberals ; one-half of those whose contact had been in a previous church held negative views.24 A more detailed view of the dynamics of conflict in local con gregations is available in R. Stephen Warner 's valuable study of a Pres byterian church in Mendocino , California . Warner observed a con gregation caught in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different at the end of the 1970s than it had been in the late 1960s . By happenstance , I had made a pilgrimage to this church myself in 1970 . My impression , which Warner 's retrospective research con-firmed , was that the church sheltered a kind of bland Milquetoast liberalism that seemed to be all too common among small Presbyterian congregations in California in those days . A decade later it had be-come a vibrant home of evangelical fervor . The change was relatively abrupt and involved some unusual // circumstances in the surrounding community . Evangelicalism tri umphed , but not without difficulty . It triumphed by converting some , by bringing in new members , and above all by capturing the seat of power within the congregation and using it to bring in new leadership favorable to its cause . The new spirit was scarcely an evangelicalism of the radical right , but the liberal constituency found its worldview so much at odds with the new leadership that many found it impos sible to stay in the congregation at all.25 In somewhat less dramatic fashion , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Warner observed were also evident in a church in New jersey that I watched as both participant and observer between the mid-1970s and the mid-1980s . This was an independent community church , a grandchild , as it were , of Presbyterianism , whose own history provided an interesting commentary on the denomina tion . It was pastored by a minister whose training and sympathies lay in the Presbyterian tradition , in matters of both theology and church government . His grandfather had been the pastor of a leading Pres byterian church in New York City . His father had also been a Pres byterian minister , but had left the denomination in the 1950s , dis traught by the liberal tendencies he saw developing , and started an independent church with the help of others sharing his concerns . The son 's church was also independent , not so much in protest against Presbyterianism , but because its founders simply saw pragmatic ad-vantages in remaining independent . When I first came into contact with the congregation in the mid-1970s , shortly after its founding as a branch church in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having found a happy way of accommodating parishioners from both the right and left . The theo logical center of gravity was perhaps slightly to the right of Presbyterian churches in the area . But it was administered by a Presbyterian-style board of elders , accommodated people with differing views of the sacra ments , and combined solid preaching with a strong commitment to fel lowship , outreach , and service to the community . Leaders in the con gregation varied in their personal views from strong supporters of the ACLU and the freeze movement to militant anticommunists . Over the next decade , I witnessed this unity-amidst-diversity unravel . The congregation experienced in microcosm what was hap pening to the structure of American religion at large . Indeed , the pres84 Tl lE STRUGGLE POR AMERICA 'S SOUL sures from without ? the impact of the nation 's public religion ? often contributed to the growing strife within . At first , during the Carter years , the increasing national popularity of the evangelical movement began to shape the congregation 's policies : pressures for the pastor to align himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ church growth , speakers and tapes who reflected the subculture of American evangelicalism . Then , for a time , the left , without consciously thinking of themselves as an alternative force , pushed the congregation to adopt its causes and orientations : upgrading the church 's preaching and educational programs to better appeal to the surrounding intellectual and professional substratum of the community , publicly supporting the nuclear freeze , finding ways to bring racial diversity to the church , becoming involved in the Nestle boycott and starting a food cooperative , and eventually rethinking the church 's position on gender and the role of women in leadership positions . At about the same time , a countertendency began to appear on the right . With the intellectual and professional strata of the community remaining for the most part unchurched , the congregation grew primarily from the ranks of working-class tracts , older people , migrants from the Midwest and South , and professionals with little exposure to the liberal arts , especially business managers and engineers . Demands for basic Bible study rose from their ranks . Discussions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A local pregnancy clinic the church had supported began pressuring members to become politically active in the pro-life movement . Those who had pressed for gender equality were labeled " liberals " and " feminists . " Increasingly , the congregation moved to the right , even to the point of refusing to participate in community services with churches whose denominations belonged to the National Council of Churches . Today , this church remains the victim of the struggles it experienced in the early 1980s . Three ministers have come and gone . Many of the active members have gravitated either to churches more clearly to the right or to mainline churches more tolerant of diversity . Plans for a new building to accommodate an expected membership of a thousand have been postponed indefinitely . While new housing developments spring up all around it , the remaining congregation of two hundred members struggles to pay its debts and keep its parking lot free of weeds . I do not mean to suggest that the tensions between religious liberals and religious conservatives are felt mainly at the congregationSTI ( LI ( ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primarily from struggles within local churches . On the contrary , the survey evidence suggests , not surprisingly , that the tensions between religious liberals and religious conservatives are felt far more acutely at the national level than at the congregational level . National religious agencies , government , and the media seem to be the main foci of grievances . For instance , among those in the national survey who held negative views of religious liberals , nearly half thought religious liberals had too much power in the media and in government , and four in ten thought liberals had too much power in national religious agencies ; but fewer than one in ten thought religious liberals had too much power in local churches . The patterns among persons who held negative views of religious conservatives were similar , although less pronounced . Thus , approximately one-third of the respondents with anticonservative views thought conservatives had too much power in national religious agencies , government , and the media , while fewer than one-fourth thought conservatives had too much power in local churches.26 Some , I should note , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious conservatives is now largely a thing of the past at the congregational level . Conflict is receding , they suggest , because conservatism is on the verge of triumph . Both the cases just cited suggest that this may be true , and anecdotal evidence provides ample support for this conclusion . In many congregations , Bible study groups can be found that did not exist a decade ago . More emphasis is evident on Christian education for children and adults alike . Prayer fellowships have sprung up . Aggressively experimental forms of worship have been replaced by more conventional formats . And conservative laity have curbed the ambitions of their more liberally minded pastors and fellow laity , often resulting in retreats from such activities as gay rights , pro-choice move ments , and the nuclear freeze . How representative such anecdotal accounts may be is difficult to gauge : certainly the newspapers and rumor mills feed more on ex amples of new trends than on examples of old patterns simply repeat ing themselves . Some evidence from research studies points to the same conclusion , however . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1987 among 1,000 randomly selected Presbyterian congregations , from which 610 eventually returned questionnaires . When asked about the theological composition of their congregations , a majority of the elders surveyed said their congregations were moderately conservative.27 If we assume for the moment that the dominant tendency at the congregational level is in fact to the right , we then need to decipher some of the reasons why this trend may be taking place , and on that basis , come to a better understanding of how it may connect to the more pub lic contours of religion in American society more broadly . One possi bility that seems to have some empirical support is that elders them-selves constitute a conservative force in local congregations . This is not to say that elders are any more conservative than pastors or other mem bers in their social , political , or theological attitudes . If they are , their conservatism is at least selective . Thus , in recent studies , elders have given conservative responses in higher proportions than pastors and other lay members on issues such as supporting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the United States and the Soviet Union , and yet have shown no tendency toward greater conservatism on issues such as pornography and gender.28 Elders do , however , seem to worry more about how other parishioners will respond to change , and are somewhat less likely to want to risk initiating change . For example , a Presbyterian Panel survey found that elders were significantly more likely than pastors to predict a decline in church participation in their congregations if a woman were called as pastor . The study also showed that elders were less like ly than pastors to say they would try to convince the congregation that a woman should be called , and more likely than pastors to say they would either take a neutral position or withdraw the woman 's name and recommend a man.29 Some evidence also suggests that elders may be relatively less supportive of the work of the regional and national offices of the denomination , which have often come under attack as being too liberal . For instance , in a recent survey of attitudes toward stewardship , elders were less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the misS'T'RUGGLE. // sion activities of the presbytery , synod , and General Assembly should be a very important reason for financial giving , and were even less likely to give this response than the average member.30 Whether it reflects their own disposition or simply their views of what is best for the congregation , then , elders may actually be one of the active factors moving local congregations toward a more conservative posture . Other tendencies ? ones that we can infer at least from broader studies of religious commitment in American life ? also point toward a strengthening of the conservative orientation . One is that much of the fervor of the 1960s and 1970s , the fervor of social activism and ex perimentation that figured in the liberalism of the period , has been displaced by narrower , more materialistic concerns , and the political climate of the nation has shifted considerably toward a platform of strong defense , nostalgia for the past , individualism , family , and tradi tional morality . Another is that rising levels of education appear to be associated not only with more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with defection from organized religion entirely . Conse quently , the numeric increases in college-educated persons in the United States do not necessarily translate into active , committed leader-ship with liberal orientations in the churches . Furthermore , by its very nature , theological liberalism has championed diversity and the sanc tity of alternative quests for the divine in a way that sometimes under-cuts strong appeals to stay loyal to the local church and become a booster of its programs . There are , however , two tendencies that help replenish and keep active the liberal wing of the Presbyterian Church . One is the role of women . My research suggests that in most denominations women with college educations are only modestly more likely to be active in their churches than women in the same denominations without college educations ; when college-educated women hold feminist views , their church participation is considerably lower . This pattern is not the case among Presbyterian women , though . Presbyterian women with at least some college education are twice as likely to attend church regularly as Presbyterian women with no college training ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) .31 // The data also show that Presbyterian women who gave feminist responses to attitude questions were no less likely to attend church regularly than were Presbyterian women who gave more tradi tional responses.32 If these results are valid , they suggest that women with more education and with sympathy to the feminist movement ? that is , women most likely to share sympathies with liberal views on other social and religious issues ? are likely to remain active in the church . Moreover , the numbers of these women may in fact increase as more and more women attain higher education and adopt gender-egalitarian values . It is also instructive to speculate about why this pattern holds in the Presbyterian Church and not in most other denominations . Two characteristics of Presbyterian women stand out . A relatively high proportion overall do have at least some college training ( in these data , 42 percent did , compared with an average of only 25 percent for all Protestant women ) , and a relatively high proportion hold gender-egalitarian values ( 58 percent compared with 42 percent among Prot estant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ women with these characteristics are likely to feel they have kindred spirits in their con gregations , and for this reason , they may feel more comfortable remain ing active in these congregations . This interpretation is , incidentally , supported by patterns evident in the two other traditions in which bet ter-educated women with feminist orientations constitute a significant share of the population : among Episcopal and Jewish women . In both these traditions , higher levels of education and feminist orientations were positively associated with religious involvement . The other social characteristic that augurs well for the liberal wing of Presbyterianism is the fact that denominational switching fol lows , to some extent , educational distinctions . Several examples will illustrate . If we look at persons in national surveys who were raised in Baptist churches but are no longer members of Baptist churches , about 10 percent of those who have been to college switch to Presbyterian churches , while the figure among those who have not been to college is only 5 percent . Similarly , if we look at former Methodists , 11 per-cent of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the noncollege group have . Among persons who formerly belonged to Protestant sects , 15 percent of those with college // educations have become Presbyterians , while only 5 percent of those without college educations have become Presbyterians . In other words , the Presbyterian church draws better-educated members who leave other denominations more than it does less-educated persons . In general , higher levels of education are strongly associated with more liberal theological , social , and political views . Thus , it seems reasonable to infer that the Presbyterian Church is gaining some members from other denominations who are switching from a more conservative en vironment to one in which they can feel more comfortable.33 PROSPECTS FOR RECONCILIATION Although there may be some possibility that the division between Pres byterian liberals and Presbyterian conservatives will be healed simply by the triumph of the latter , I believe the evidence on the whole points more toward a continuation of this division . It is , of course , rooted to some extent in reactions to policies of the denomination and the secular arena . Major shifts in these policies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Wade , or a major war in Central America , could alter the terms of discussion considerably . But the strife between Pres byterian liberals and conservatives has deeper roots than concerns about these specific issues . It reflects broader currents in the society ; the mass media fan the flames of contention whenever a new scandal erupts among religious broadcasters ; political candidates and right-wing special purpose groups find it is to their advantage to levy direct-mail campaigns at religious audiences ; and within Presbyterianism it-self , too many special purpose groups have become organized to let controversy simply fade from view . The cleavage between liberal and conservative Presbyterians is , in my view , both serious and unfortunate . Although it may , at its best , ensure that different points of view are heard in denomination-al bureaucracies , it has become a means to an end that often over-shadows the end itself . Certainly , the biblical image of love , or more modern ideals of community and reconciliation , are difficult to see amidst the turmoil that divides liberals and conservatives . This division should not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterians have been facing over the past two decades . To the contrary , the mobilization of conservatives has probably checked some of the numeric drift the denomination has experienced . Other factors , including increases in average age , lower birth rates , higher levels of education , more and more women entering the labor market , and geographic sunk costs in the location of local churches , probably account for this drift more effectively than does the conten tion between liberals and conservatives . At the same time , the numeric losses of the denomination should not become an excuse for each side attempting to impute blame to the other side and engaging in activities that damn the enemy within . In a shrinking religious market , acrimony of this kind is all too easy to give vent to . Conservatives can make their voice heard more loudly if they proclaim declining numbers to be the result of gay clergy , the murderous immorality of pro-choice activists , unreasonable criticisms of wealthy contributors to the church , and a wishy-washy stand on biblical authority . Liberals can gain temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a con spiratorial war against the Presbyterian Church to steal its members . But neither kind of allegation has been substantiated with solid em pirical evidence . Even if it were , a war to the bitter end is not only likely to drain the denomination 's resources even more but also runs contrary to the doctrine ? of love and reconciliation that lie at the core of Christianity . Despite the issues over which liberal and conservative Pres byterians currently disagree , on many other issues common ground could easily be found . Love of God , love of neighbor , the reality of sin , and the need for forgiveness and faith still constitute theological cornerstones on which structures of unity can be built . Even more con troversial issues often evoke more consensus than might be expected . For example , more than three-quarters of all members now say it would make no difference to them whether a man or a woman performed such pastoral activities as preaching , administering the Lord 's Supper , or performing a baptism.34 Better than 80 percent favor a total ban on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same propor tion regards portrayals of sexual violence as a violation of a woman 's civil rights ; and yet the overwhelming majority of Presbyterians uphold the right to freedom of speech in other areas.35 // On other issues , broad consensus exists on basic theological principles , even though disagreements are present on specific means of implementing these principles . Peacemaking provides a vivid illustra tion . As already mentioned , Presbyterians remain sorely divided over questions of nuclear disarmament , aid to Nicaraguan rebels , the Star Wars initiative , and so on . Nevertheless , virtually all Presbyterians agree that peacemaking should in one way or another be an important con cern of the church . Eighty percent agree that " Peacemaking is not sim ply ' another political issue ' but is a central declaration of the Gospel " ; and 86 percent agree with the statement , " Because God is at work throughout the world granting peace , Christians join God as peace-makers in families , communities and in the international arena . " 36 In short , there is a basis on which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Presbyterians , though , does not run simply through the sunny meadow of common ground . Consensual issues perhaps need to be emphasized more than they have been in the past . But focusing on areas of agreement will not in itself overcome the areas of serious disagreement . Instead of trying to deny the existence of division , Presbyterians need to explore alternative paths toward genuine reconciliation . One path is what sociologists call insulation . Special purpose groups organize around single issues and simply go their own way . At the congregational level , the gay task force meets on Tuesday evenings and the charismatic fellowship meets on Wednesdays . A semblance of reconciliation is present because the two constituencies neiier really have to meet together . At the denominational level , at least some of the many special purpose groups that have appeared in the past two de cades probably serve this function as well . Their appearance has created a way of containing conflict by giving it organizational expression . To their credit , special purpose groups may well encourage diversity and permit a variety of opinions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The various boards and task forces that have considered the rules regulating special organizations in the Pres byterian Church have always recognized the important role these or ganizations play in maintaining diversity and in voicing dissent . However , the same regulations have always stressed the importance of such groups functioning in a way that genuine dialogue is en couraged , peace and unity of the church is maintained , and the larger mission of the denomination is upheld.37 // On all three counts , special purpose groups have shown signs of moving in directions that leave much to be desired . If exchanges of emotion-laden rhetoric in church periodicals constitute dialogue , then the special purpose groups have indeed met one of these criteria . If dialogue involves efforts to arrive at understanding and agreement , however , little has been accomplished . At minimum , more attention needs to be devoted to examining the assumptions behind alternative positions , and to striving for greater clarity about the issues , rather than pressing simply for the superiority of one 's position . Moreover , peace and unity within the church @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nuclear disarmament or outlawing abortion may in-deed appear to be far more serious to the survival of our nation than peace and unity within the church . But if the latter is not pursued seriously , it is doubtful that the church will have any special authority with which to voice its claims on more specific issues of national con cern . There is also much room for redirecting the balance between special organizations and the mission of the church itself . Too often , the strident voices of special purpose groups have become the church 's primary witness to the wider world . This is not surprising in an era when the mass media increasingly set the agenda for national politics and constantly seek out controversy to fill their headlines . But the mis sion of the church may need to be pursued in quieter ways as well : through the ministry of local congregations in local neighborhoods , through personal interaction and caring , and through the leavening in fluence of the gospel itself manifested in word and deed . A second path toward reconciliation is the legislative model @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genuine differences of opinion appear , task forces are set in motion to study the matter , and then reports are filed , the General Assembly evokes the collective will , and on serious issues decisions are sent down to local presbyteries again for final ratification . This model is likely to continue , but it needs to be monitored carefully to prevent it from simply exacerbating the problem . Legislative politics , like special purpose groups , has been wide ly hailed as an effective means to include everyone in the governing process . When people have a chance to make their voice heard , if only indirectly through their elected representatives , the decisions their government ? or denomination ? makes are supposed to be legitimate . // One may disagree with the outcome , but still the procedure by which the outcome is decided ensures that person 's compliance . This at least is the theory behind the form of representative government that Presbyterians and many other American denomina tions have adopted . It has often served these denominations well . In a period when more and more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national level , though , the limitations of this model in the religious sphere need to be recognized clearly . In the religious sphere , more than in the political sphere , it is limited by the balance that must always be maintained between two forms of legiti mation : what social theorists refer to as " procedural rationality , " on the one hand , and " ethical rationality , " on the other hand . Procedural rationality has developed gradually in modern secular societies such as our own in which no authority higher than the people itself is rec ognized . Thus , we say a law is legitimate if the proper procedures have been followed in initiating and passing it . In contrast , ethical ra tionality recognizes absolute standards , moral principles , or truths that may or may not be served by proper procedures . Thus , a resolution can be passed by the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church , having met all the denomination 's procedural rules , and still be re garded by many Presbyterians as illegitimate because it violates their sense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merely a hypothetical ex-ample ; it attests to the limitations of the legislative model , especially at a time when the church is deeply divided over many basic theolog ical orientations . The legislative model also confronts special limitations when policy deliberations become objects of acrimony among special inter est groups . Testimony to this effect has been amply provided by the widely read book Habits of the Heart.38 When Robert Bellah and his col-leagues asked people to talk about American politics , they found many respondents expressing feelings of distance , alienation , and disengage ment . This reaction was no surprise , but the reasons behind these feel ings were especially revealing . People felt alienated , not simply be-cause politics was removed from their personal lives and conducted in distant legislative halls , but also because it was seen as a nasty busi ness involving incessant conflict . People withdrew from it because they wanted harmony in their lives . Perhaps the same tendency applies to the church . When church politics become acrimonious and conflictual , // there is surely a tendency for some to say simply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will simply believe in my own quiet , private way . " The legislative model is also limited in religious settings because of the presence of denominational pluralism in American society . Should one happen to disagree on ethical grounds with the procedures that the government uses to implement legislation , one can of course exit the system and move to another country . But this prospect is unlikely . It involves serious uprooting : selling the house , finding a different job , going through immigration , and perhaps learning a new language . Such barriers do not exist in the world of competing denominations . Leaving one religious tradition for another is , as we have seen , altogether common . Furthermore , it has become virtually impossible in the modern world to live without citizenship in some country , but increasing numbers of people live without membership in any of our nation 's major denominations . To this extent , therefore , the legislative model can be used to reconcile some of the divisions that arise in religious settings , but it seems an unlikely candidate for advancing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconciliation is the way of compassion . To a greater extent than either of the other two , the way of compassion requires efforts not only to understand one 's opponents ' views but to identify with the suffering of one 's opponent . It demands that the Good Samaritan 's example of love be applied not only to the man beaten and lying by the road but also to the opponent one faces over the conference table or to the antagonist one reads about in the newspaper . Although the way of compassion may have the strongest links with biblical tradition , I would be the last one to argue that it , rather than the way of insulation or legislation , is the only true method of achieving reconciliation . All three have their place . They represent , in a broad sense , the paths of passion , reason , and caring . Passion is needed because the issues about which Presbyterians and members of other denominations are concerned are indeed matters of high importance to our lives as individuals and as a society . Reason , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an established method of arriving at the best means of accomplishing the objectives that passion sets before us . And compassion takes the edge off the issues we are passionate about , adds feeling to the dictates of reason , and upholds the importance of community among those with whom we disagree as well as among those with whom we agree . Each has its place in the practical task of pursuing the elusive ideal of reconciliation . DYNAMICS Part II THE SECULAR Civil Privatism Five and the State THE EXPANDING SOCIAL ROLE of the modern welfare state has become a topic of increasing importance , not only to policymakers in the secular sphere , but also to those who seek a better understanding of American religion . As discussed in chapter 1 , our churches are a central com ponent of the voluntary sector in American society , but this voluntary sector exists largely at the mercy of the political and economic sectors . As the other sectors change , religion is forced to adapt . One of the major changes that has taken place in the political sector has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government is in volved in nearly every dimension of our lives . Social scientists have investigated many important aspects of state expansion : national variations in welfare expenditures , state-level variations in governmental redistribution programs , the timing of early adoption of national pension programs , and the growth of various forms of state bureaucracy , to name a few.l In addition to these rela-97 // tively straightforward aspects of the welfare state itself , another ramification of state expansion that has been discussed extensively in the theoretical literature is the role of state expansion in eroding voluntary participation in secondary groups , including participation in churches ? the process that Jurgen Habermas has described as " " civil privatism. ' " 2 This alleged effect of state expansion has been given special attention in the theoretical literature because participation in voluntary associations has typically been regarded as an essential component of the strength of democratic societies . In capsule , Habermas argues that contradictions inherent in the role of the state in advanced capitalist societies lead to an observable retreat from membership in organizations that link individuals to the public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formation . " Habermas is concerned with the full range of independent sector organizations that perform these functions directly or that contribute to their fulfillment indirectly : not only political action groups but also churches , schools , community agencies , and fraternal organizations that provide spheres of " communicative action " about public values . As the state expands , citizens presumably become less involved in these kinds of voluntary organizations . Although this is but one of several manifestations of civil privatism ( subjective narcissism often being mentioned as another ) , it presumably constitutes one of the more significant societal effects of the growth of the bureaucratic welfare state . In the absence of such voluntary organizational involvements , individuals are said to become increasingly removed from the public sphere and turn to other interests , chiefly the personal gratifications of mass consumption , atomized leisure activities , and an attenuated version of family intimacy . Moreover , the consequences of civil privatism are said to be largely negative for the maintenance of democracy . An atomized citizenry is likely to be subjected more easily to political repression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ weak . Also likely , it is claimed , is a narrowing of the // state 's interests and an eventual weakening of its capacity to govern . Lacking effective means of organizing and of articulating larger ques tions about values and societal goals , the public loses interest in the state and potentially perceives it with a lack of confidence or fails to accord it legitimacy . In response , the state may resort increasingly to programs that appeal to the **25;490;TOOLONG values re maining among individuals oriented toward mass consumption and private leisure ? that is , the promotion of economic growth . Ironically , social observers also suggest , the very social welfare programs that were taken over from the private sector by the state may thereby be-come jeopardized as the state seeks to reduce its costs sufficiently to stimulate economic expansion.3 For all of these reasons , then , the relation between state ex pansion and civil privatism has been of considerable theoretical inter-est . Yet equally plausible arguments can also be marshalled against the thesis that state expansion generates civil privatism . In this chapter I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I also present counterarguments that cast doubt on the inevitability of state expansion resulting in civil privatism . Set in opposition to one another , these arguments reveal the importance of adducing testable empirical assertions . Next , I further specify the ar guments by considering them in relation to the current situation in American religion . I then develop some indicators of the relevant aspects of these arguments and demonstrate their relations for the United States in 1952 and 1981 . DOES STATE EXPANSION LEAD TO CIVIL PRIVATISM ? A century and a half ago , Tocqueville established the basic frame-work for the present debate over civil privatism by suggesting a close relationship between democratic government in the United States and voluntary civic associations . Americans ' penchant for engaging in voluntary associations was , in Tocqueville 's view , a decisive fac tor inhibiting tendencies toward repressive government . Churches , charitable organizations , civic groups , and community associations , he argued , all provided a way of articulating private interests and values and of mobilizing the populace to bring pressure on elected      @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @      