@@773755

txt // sciences ) , but in his more recent work this theory of knowledge has receded into the background , and greater weight seems now to be given to empirical-analytical knowledge and to substantive issues arising from Marxist social theory ( Haberman , 1973 , 1976 ) . The third philosophical foundation ' of modern sociology distinguished by Benton ( 1977 ) is Marxist thought , but his exposition presents Marxism as a realist philosophy of science , and as I have shown earlier it has also been interpreted in many other ways , in terms of other philosophical standpoints . Marxism is not , in my view , a distinctive method , but a body of distinctive theoretical ideas and knowledge which , like other sociological paradigms , should be assessed in two ways : as an accumulated and developing sum of empirical statements , explanations and interpretations ; and as embodying a particular conception of the nature of social knowledge ( a theory of knowledge ) which is properly the object of philosophical analysis . It may be that the Marxist theory is best comprehended @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms of a realist philosophy of science , but the latter is not itself Marxist in provenance . In the light of this review of methodological positions and disputes what are we to conclude about the nature of sociology as a science ' ? My own conception , sustained by a realist philosophy of science and by the body of sociological knowledge that has actually been produced ( which forms the substance of the following chapters ) , is that the discipline is scientific in its method and intention . The important features of method are : ( 1 ) that it is concerned with facts , not with value judgements upon them ( while recognizing that facts may be , in very complex ways , valueimpregnated ' or theory-dependent ' ) ; 31 ( 2 ) that it brings empirical evidence in support of the statements made ; ( 3 ) that it is objective ( in the sense that no one is prevented from basing his statements upon consideration of the evidence ) . In its scientific intention , sociology aims at ( 1 ) exact description , by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and ( 2 ) explanation , by the formulation of general statements about causal factors or powers ' .32It may be readily admitted that sociology as a scientific pursuit encounters great difficulties in all these respects ; but the wide-ranging discussions of the difficulties only confirm that the discipline exists because it strives to be a science ? factual , empirical , objective , descriptive and explanatory . We may conclude here by considering briefly what the sociological methods of inquiry can accomplish and what are their limitations . First , the sociologist can assemble empirical data // which make possible more rational judgement upon practical issues than can be derived from traditional ideas . Secondly , he can sometimes make reasonable predictions even when he is not able to give an explanation of the phenomena . Thirdly , he can explain some social phenomena , that is , subsume statements about them under more general statements . It is in the last case that sociological methods have their most serious limitations , because of the complexity of social happenings and the effects of human creativity . It follows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientific generali-zations they are corrigible by the discovery of new instances , but they are also corrigible by the creation of new instances which results , as Marx maintained , from human beings making their own history ' , even though they do not make it ' just as they please ' . Hence when such generalizations are used to account for specific instances they need to be supplemented by detailed historical inquiry which may reveal unique features in the situation . The ultimate test of the various methodological approaches considered in this chapter is whether they help to generate an adequate general scheme of ideas and procedures which makes possible a more realistic investigation and a fuller understanding of particular social events or processes at different levels of complexity . At the same time the controversies between adher-ents of different methods may be valuable in their own right in so far as they oblige us to look more closely at the difficulties inherent in our subject matter and induce us to adopt a more critical approach in our own investigations . 4 The Social Sciences , History and Philosophy Sociology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science of society which might eventually absorb the more specialized sciences ; but it is synoptic , taking as its field of study all social relations and structures irrespective of their particular content , as Simmel suggested . Nothing social ? and more broadly , nothing human ? is alien to it . We need , therefore , to consider in somewhat more detail than in the first chapter how it is or should be related to the other social sciences , and to some other disciplines that concern themselves with the human condition . In the following pages I shall discuss its relations first with two other general sciences , social anthropology and psychology , then with two of the special social sciences , economics and political science , and finally with history and philosophy . Social Anthropology It is often said that although sociology and social anthropology had quite different origins ( one in the philosophy of history , political thought and the social survey , the other in physical anthropology and ultimately in biology ) they are now practically indistinguishable . But if one examines the concepts , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the two disciplines , it soon becomes apparent that they are still widely separated . Nevertheless , looking at the history of their relations , it can be seen that after an early period of close connection , where individual work could not easily be assigned to one or the other ( e.g. Tylor , Spencer , Westermarck ) , there was a period of extreme divergence when the functionalist approach was generally adopted in anthropology while much sociology ( at least in the European countries ) continued to be historically oriented and concerned with problems of social development ; and that finally , in recent years , there has been a new convergence of the two disciplines . The broad differences between sociology and social anthropology that emerged during the period of diverSOCIAL // gence can be related to differences in the object of study . Social anthropologists , once field work had become a fundamental requirement , were involved in studying small societies , of a very different character from their own , relatively unchanging , and for the most part lacking historical records . Such societies could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ described and analysed in ethically neutral terms since the anthropologist as an outsider was not involved in their values and strivings , 1 and since they changed little and had few records of past changes a historical approach seemed unnecessary and more or less impossible . This situation has now radically altered ; many if not most tribal societies have been changing under the influence of Western ideas and technology , larger groupings now predominate over tribal societies , and social and political movements are developing which involve the social anthropologist in the same kind of value problems which the sociologist has had to face in studying his own society , or societies of the same civilization.2 In brief , we can see that the object of study now is societies in the process of economic growth and social change , and that sociologists and social anthropologists work increasingly in Africa and Asia upon the same kinds of problems.3 It may be added that as tribal societies , regarded as the preserve of the social anthropologist , have more or less disappeared , so to some extent the special prerogatives of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and there is an increasing number of anthropological studies , of the little community ' , kinship groups , and so on , in industrial societies . One major influence in furthering this rapprochement between sociology and social anthropology has been the recent diffusion of Marxist thought , as a result of which some general concepts , such as mode of production ' , have come to be used in both disciplines ( Bloch , 1975 ; Seddon , 1978 ) , and a Marxist structuralist approach has been widely employed ( Godelier , 1973 ) . This convergence , on the basis of Marxist theory , is particularly evident in the study of developing societies ' ( Taylor , 1979 ) , which will be discussed more fully in Chapter 17 , and in the analyses of post-colonial societies ' ( Alavi , 1983 ) . More broadly it should be noted that many developing countries , of which India is an example , are peasant ' or agrarian ' societies , and as such have long been studied both by sociologists and by social anthropologists ( Wolf , 1966 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impact of industrialization on village communities and traditional forrns of social stratification , and the role of // the peasantry in political movements , have been intensively studied in ways which bring together the work not only of sociologists and social anthropologists , but also of political scientists and economists , and the gap which existed between the various social sciences has often been successfully bridged . Psychology The problem of the relation between psychology and sociology , and of the status of social psychology in relation to both , is difficult and unsettled . There are two extreme views . J. S. Mill ( 1879 , Vol. 2 , p. 469 ) believed that a general social science could not be considered firmly established until its inductively established generalizations could be shown to be also logically deducible from the laws of mind : Human beings in society have no properties but those which are derived from , and may be resolved into , the laws of the nature of individual man . ' Durkheim ( 1895 ) , on the other hand , made a radical distinction between the phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ study social facts , defined as being external to individual minds and exercising a coercive action upon them ; the explanation of social facts could only be in terms of other social facts , not in terms of psychological facts . Society is not a simple aggregate of individuals ; the system formed by their association represents a specific reality possessing its own characteristics . . . In short , there is the same discontinuity between psychology and sociology as there is between biology and the physico-chemical sciences . Consequently , whenever a social phenomenon is directly explained by a psychological phenomenon one can be sure the explanation is invalid . ( pp. 103 ? 4 ) The opposed views of Mill and Durkheim still have their partisans today , but they have also been strongly criticized , 4 and most sociologists seem to have adopted various intermediate positions . Some would hold that many sociological generalizations can be more firmly established by being related to general psychological laws , but that there may also be sociological laws sui generis ( Ginsberg , 1934 , ch. 1 ) . Similarly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems posed by social inquiry might be illuminated by a move to lower levels of analysis ? psychology , physiology and biology ' . Under Dilthey 's influence , many German sociologists , including Max Weber , came to hold the view that even where strictly sociological explanation is possible , // the sociologist gains an additional satisfaction or conviction in being able to understand ' the meaning of individual action , which must also be the starting point of his analysis . Such understanding was conceived in terms of common sense psychology ' , but neither Dilthey nor Weber was hostile to the development of a scientific psychology in a broad sense , and Weber was sympathetic to some of Freud 's ideas . Freud 's psychology , although it emphasized the role of individual and biological factors in social life , nevertheless recognized that the innate impulses were transformed in various ways before they became manifest in social behaviour ; and in the work of the post-Freudian school ? especially Karen Horney and Erich Fromm ? the influence of society in moulding individual behaviour is given still greater prominence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to establish a relation between psychoanalysis and Marxism by locating the family in a historically created class structure , and his later concept of the social character ' was intended precisely to relate individual psychological characteristics to the characteristics of a particular social group or social system ( Fromm , 1942 , Appendix ) . Other thinkers , however ? and notably the Frankfurt School , who had themselves started out from a Marxist position ? have criticized such sociological interpretations of psychoanalysis , and their own studies concentrated upon the psychology of the individual ( Adorno et al. , 1950 ) and the idea of a universal human nature ( Marcuse , 1951 ) . The latter notion has indeed been prominent in diverse forms of recent social theory ; for example , in the theories of action which emphasize the importance of human agency ' , though without much direct recourse to psychological analysis ( Dawe , 1978 ) , and also in the structuralism of Levi-Strauss in so far as this aims to relate universal structural characteristics of human society to universal structures of the human mind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological explanation may complement each other , the two disciplines are not , in practice , closely associated , and the place of social psychology , which ought to be especially close to sociology , is still disputed . It is easy to say that social psychology is that part of general psychology which has a particular relevance to social phenomena , or which deals with the psychological aspects of social life . In fact , all psychology may be considered social ' in some degree , since all psychic phenomena occur in a social context which affects them to some extent ; and it becomes difficult to mark out even roughly the boundaries of social // psychology . This means that social psychologists have usually felt a closer association with general psychology than with sociology , have been bound to a particular method ( emphasizing experiment , quantitative studies , etc. ) and have often ignored the structural features of the social milieu in which their investigations are conducted . This divergence between sociology and social psychology can be illustrated from many fields . In the study of conflict and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Ginsberg , 1947 , ch. 9 ; UNESCO , 1957 ; and see also the discussion in Chapter 12 below ) . In studies of social stratification , the psychological approach seems to have produced a particular account of class and status in subjective terms , which is contrasted with the sociological account in terms of objective factors , rather than systematic investigation of the psychological aspects of a significant element in the social stucture . The psychology of politics ' hardly deserves to be mentioned , so remote does much of the writing appear to be from the most obvious facts of political structure and behaviour . In almost every field of inquiry it could be shown that psychology and sociology constitute for the most part two separate universes of discourse . There have , of course , been many declarations in favour of closer association between the two disciplines , and some attempts to bring them together . One body of ideas which subsequently became influential is that propounded by G. H. Mead ( 1934 ) , who made a distinction between the I ' ( the individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' formed by social experience ) and argued that we are individuals born into a certain nationality , located at a certain spot geographically , with such and such family relations , and such and such political relations . All of these represent a certain situation which constitutes the " me " ' ( p. 182 ) . But Mead concentrated on the analysis of the self ' rather than social structure , so that although his concept of the me ' resembles Fromm 's social character ' , it is not linked in the same way with a distinct theory of society ; and the later influence of Mead 's thought , in one version of interactionism ' ( Fisher and Strauss , 1978 ) , has been more psychological than sociological . Another attempt to relate social psychology to sociology ( Gerth and Mills , 1954 ) , which owes something to Mead 's work , does pay much closer attention to social structure , however . The authors argue that : The social psychologist attempts to describe and explain the conduct and motivations of men and women in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ external conduct and inner life of one individual interplay with those of others . He seeks to describe the types of persons usually found in different types of societies , and then to explain them by tracing their inter-relations with their societies . ( p. 3 ) The field of study of social psychology is thus the interplay between individual character and social structure and , as Gerth and Mills say , it can be approached either from the side of biology or from the side of sociology . In the recent past the trouble has been that those coming from either side remained largely ignorant of what was being done on the other side , and were enclosed in their own world of academically approved terminology and method . Gerth and Mills attempt to bridge the gap by using the concept of role ' as the key term both in their definition of the person and in their definition of institutions . Social role represents the meeting point of the individual organism and the social structure , and it is used as the central concept in a scheme which makes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same terms . This is quite similar to Fromm 's conception of the social character ' , and Gerth and Mills , like Fromm , take up again the fundamental problem of the relation between the individual and society , which was earlier examined by Ginsberg ( 1921 ) in an illuminating study dealing with the respective influence of instinct and reason in social life , with theories of the group mind ' , and with problems of public opinion and organized group behaviour . More recently Hirst and Woolley ( 1982 ) have explored these issues in the light of debates about nature and culture , cultural relativism and rationality , in an attempt to illustrate the influence of social relations on human activities , abilities and attributes in a way which challenges established " common sense " prejudices and which does not reject , but makes use of , biological and psychological knowledge ' , and they define their approach as being equally opposed to concepts of a fixed " human nature " and to extreme sociologistic views of humans as infinitely malleable social products ' . Marxism has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's ( 1960 ) exposition of dialectical reason ' , which aims to clarify the relation between structural conditions and intentional actions and to incorporate in Marxist theory elements of the individualistic and humanist outlook of existentialism ; and Seve 's ( 1974 ) construction of a psychology of personality which is integrated with historical materialism . However , these sociological and Marxist excursions into the psychological field seem as yet to have had little impact on the // mainstream of work in social psychology , which remains largely committed to statistical and experimental inquiries that are chiefly concerned with the individual or with simple aggregates of individuals and have only a distant relationship with sociology . In practice , it must be recognized , sociology and psychology offer alternative accounts of behaviour , and as the recent literature shows there are substantial difficulties in bringing them together in any comprehensive and rigorous theoretical scheme . Economics Alfred Marshall , in an inaugural lecture delivered in Cambridge in 1885 , referring to Comte 's idea of a general social science , observed : No doubt if that existed Economics would gladly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist ; it shows no signs of coming into existence . There is no use in waiting idly for it ; we must do what we can with our present resources ' ( Pigou , 1925 , pp. 163 ? 4 ) . Would this judgement still be true today ? I do not think so . Sociology is now firmly established as a social science , and sociologists have both critically examined the limitations of economic theory and made contributions to the study of economic phenomena . On the other side , economists themselves seem to have become weary of the frequency with which the phrase other things being equal ' recurs in economic analysis , and some of them have attempted to go beyond description ( which forms a large part of most economic textbooks ) or deduction from a small number of simple presuppositions about human behaviour . They have also had to face the difficulty that many major economic phenomena ? transformations of the structure of production or of the whole economic system , economic crises , the incidence of industrial conflict , levels of productivity and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ We may consider first those critical studies which suggest that economics can not be an entirely autonomous science . One early work of this kind is that by Simiand ( 1912 ) , a collaborator of Durkheim in the Annee Sociologique , who persuasively advocated a sociological approach to economic problems , arguing that the first principles ' of economics are hypotheses which need to be tested by sociological research , rather than being taken as the starting point for deductive reasoning that leads to conclusions no more certain than the original hypotheses . A later study ( Lowe , 1935 ) examines the significance and limits of pure economics ' and discovers two sociological principles which // underly ( as logical conditions ) the classical laws of the market ? ' economic man ' , and competition or mobility of the factors of production ? and goes on to suggest fruitful areas of co-operation between economics and sociology . Also to be considered here are those works which treat economic relationships within the framework of general sociology . The classic study in this field is Weber 's Economy and Society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain of the simplest sociological relationships in the economic sphere ' through an examination of the main features of rational economic action ; while a later work ( Parsons and Smelser , 1957 ) set out , on Weberian lines but in a more ambitious way , to present economic theory as a part of general sociological theory . A number of other studies have expounded principles of economic sociology or anthropology ( Goodfellow , 1939 ; Herskovits , 1952 ) , and particularly , in recent years , from the perspective of Marxist theory ( Seddon , 1978 ) . A second contribution of sociology to economic analysis is to be found in the studies devoted to specific problems of economic life . Thus Simiand ( 1932 ) examined empirically the relation between wage and price levels and advanced a sociological theory of wages ; and a later work in the same field ( Wootton , 1955 ) , after analysing the inadequacies of the classical economic theory of wages , went on to present a sociological account of the determinants of wage and salary differentials , based upon the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this kind ( some of which will be referred to in Chapter 8 below ) , perhaps the best known being those concerned with the theory of the firm , such as Veblen 's classical work ( 1904 ) on business enterprise , and many later studies of the modern corporation by sociologists or sociologically minded economists ( Berle and Means , 1934 ; Schumpeter , 1942 ; Galbraith , 1971 ; Scott , 1979 ) . Finally , in their studies of the general characteristics of different economic systems sociologists have investigated aspects of economic behaviour that are either neglected or treated in a cursory fashion by economists . Among the major writings of this nature are , clearly , the works of Marx and later Marxist political economists , of Weber on the origin and development of capitalism ( 1904-5 , 1923 ) , of the German historical school of economics and in particular Sombart ( 1902 ) , and more recently the studies of industrial ' or post-industrial ' society ( Aron , 1962 ; Touraine , 1969 ) . Other writings have dealt with the later @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1975 ) and with socialist economies ( Horvat , 1982 ) , but there is also a considerable literature on earlier types of economic system , // including tribal economies ( Mauss , 1925 ; Firth , 1939 ; Seddon , 1978 ) . It may reasonably be claimed that sociology and economics , which were closely associated at their origins , for example , in the work of Quesnay and Adam Smith , of Saint-Simon and Marx , but then diverged , have begun to come closer together again in recent years . Two factors account for this tendency . One is the change in the character of present-day economic systems : on one side , the greatly enhanced importance of planning in national economies and to some extent in the world economy ; on the other , the emphasis on economic development , and the social factors which affect it , in the countries of the Third World . This has resulted in a shift of interest towards macro-economic questions , and an approach which more closely resembles that of classical political economy , one form of which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy ? which is inherently sociological by virtue of its fundamental concepts of modes of production , forms of society , classes and historical transformations ? is a second factor which has brought about a certain convergence of economics and sociology , as is noted in some recent literature ( Horowitz , 1968 ; Kiihne , 1972 ) . There has also been convergence in a different fashion through the diffusion of economic models of the rational actor ' into other social sciences ( Barry , 1970 ; Farmer , 1982 ; Hindess , 1984 ) . Although economics and sociology remain widely separated in many respects there are now , as I have indicated , important areas of overlapping interest , in problems of economic growth and rival forms of economic organization , and in the debates about method which raise many of the issues ? about structural analysis , methodological individualism and so on ? which I discussed in the previous chapter . It seems likely , therefore , that a more fruitful interaction will develop in the future between economists and sociologists , to the benefit of both @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aspects : descriptive ( accounts of the formal organization of central and local government , and historical studies of the development of such organization ) ; practical ( the study of current problems of organization , procedure , etc. ) ; and philosophical ( the mingling of descriptive and evaluative statements in what is called , in a broad sense , political theory ) . In most political science of this kind there was // little attempt at generalization beyond that which is involved in an elementary classification of the types of political regime , largely in terms of their formal characteristics . The influence of sociology in the field of political studies has been to direct attention towards political behaviour as an element in a social system , rather than the formal aspects of political systems considered in isolation , and to encourage attempts at scientific generalization and explanation . This influence began to be felt at an early stage in the development of sociology , largely through the work of Marxist thinkers , since in Marx 's theory political institutions and behaviour are closely linked with the economic system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in this general social context . It was Marxist thought which provoked , at the end of the nineteenth century , the political sociology of Michels , Max Weber and Pareto , and thus led directly to the modern studies of political parties , elites , voting behaviour , bureaucracy and political ideologies . Another , quite different , sociological influence is to be seen in the development of behaviourism in American political science . This may be dated roughly from Charles Merriam 's Presidential Address to the American Political Science Association in 1925 , in which he said : Some day we may take another angle of approach than the formal ... and begin to look at political behaviour . ' Thereafter , a behaviourist approach developed rapidly at the University of Chicago , and although it was aided in the 1930s by an influx of European scholars who brought their own sociological orientation , derived from Michels and Weber , it took quite a different direction from that in Europe , being largely unaffected by Marxist ideas and having as its principal aim the creation of a strictly scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( Crick , 1959 ) . In recent years the sociological influence upon political science has become even more marked . First , there has been a direct borrowing of explanatory schemes and models ; for example , of functionalism , as in Almond and Coleman ( 1960 ) , or of the idea of a social system ' , as in Easton ( 1965 ) . There has also been a renewal of Marxist sociological ideas , inspired on one side by the revolutions in developing countries ( Gough , 1967 ; Miller and Aya , 1971 ) and on the other side by the new social movements which have emerged in the advanced industrial countries ( Bottomore , 1979 , ch. 2 ) . Studies of the political development of new nations ' , because of the nature of the problems which are raised , have brought together the work of political scientists and sociologists ( and // frequently of anthropologists as well ) . The forces at work , and the changes which take place , in a peasant society , in a society made up of tribal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system belong more to the sphere of knowledge of the sociologist and anthropologist than to that of most political scientists ; and to study political processes in such societies requires extensive borrowing from these other disciplines . Finally , there has been a continuation and extension of work in fields which I have already mentioned : on political parties and pressure groups , on the relation between class and politics , on elites , and on the processes of government and administration . A particular feature of these studies is that they are carried out increasingly on a comparative basis , with the aim of arriving at some general statements about political organizations and political action , at least within the limits of a specific type of society ( e.g. Western industrial society ) . The orientation of theory and research in political science over the past decade has made it increasingly difficult to distinguish the subject from political sociology . The behaviourist approach which was characteristic of American political science has been severely criticized and in part abandoned , but other general schemes of thought have been adopted from sociology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of research are increasingly sociological in kind . Some differences perhaps remain . Political scientists still devote a good deal of attention to the formal structure of government , which sociologists sometimes unwisely neglect . Political theory is still seen by many as being closely associated with philosophical ideas and problems , but here the case of sociology is hardly different , as I shall argue later ; though its philosophical connections have not , perhaps , been so fully recognized . In general , we may say that the trend in political science , unlike that in economics , has been towards a merger with sociology in many of the most significant fields of research . History In an earlier chapter some account was given of that view of the social or cultural sciences which regards them as being of the same general character as history , or even as being a kind of historical study . This seems to me mistaken . Sociology and history may overlap in one area but diverge widely in another . I should like here to examine briefly some aspects of their relationship . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently provides the material which the sociologist uses . The comparative method often requires , and historical sociology always requires , data which only the historian can supply . It is true that the sociologist must sometimes be his own historian , amassing information which had not previously seemed worth collecting , but he can not always be so ? time does not allow . But the historian also uses sociology . Until the present century it was perhaps from philosophy that the historian took his clues to important problems , as well as many of his concepts and general ideas ; these are now drawn increasingly from sociology . Indeed , we can see that modern historiography and modern sociology have both been influenced , and in similar ways , by the philosophy of history . The latter established the conception of historical periods , and thus bequeathed to historiography theoretical ideas and concerns which were entirely absent from the work of the earlier narrative historians , the chroniclers and annalists . It bequeathed to modern sociology the notion of historical types of society , and thus the first elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and sociology it seems to me that the same basic framework of reference , to types of society , is employed . In the historical field , the connection is most evident where economic and social history ( especially the latter ) are concerned . It is worthy of note , for instance , that the editors of one of the leading journals of social history , the International Review of Social History , defined the scope of the review in its first number in the following terms : Social history is taken to mean the history of estates , classes , social groupings regardless of name , seen both as separate and as mutually dependent units ' ( 1956 , vol. 1 , pt 1 , p. 4 ) . In only slightly different terms this could also define an important part of historical sociology . At the present time there is , in several countries , evidence of co-operation and even trespassing into each other 's territory by sociologists and social historians . The Annales school of historians in France , originating in the work of Lucien Febvre and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has established a new kind of structural history ' which is close to sociology and strongly influenced by Marxist conceptions.6 Braudel 's study ( 1979 ) of civilization and capitalism is a massive contribution to the investigation of the origins and development of capitalism ; a field of inquiry which has long been shared by historians and sociologists ( Holton , 1985 ) . Another example of a wide-ranging debate involving both disciplines is to be found in the discussions of the significance of // the frontier in American history ( Hofstadter and Lipset , 1965 ) . There has also been a notable convergence of interests in some more specialized areas : in Britain , for example , in historians ' accounts of the social structure of nineteenth-century towns , or the characteristics of the medieval peasantry or the eighteenthcentury nobility , and in sociologists ' studies of the social history of various professions ( Briggs , 1966 ) . In what ways , then , do historiography and sociology differ ? It used to be said that the historian describes unique events , while the sociologist produces generalizations ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' The work of any serious historian abounds in generalizations , while many sociologists have been concerned with describing and analysing unique events or sequences of events . Perhaps we should say that whereas the historian usually sets out to examine a particular sequence of events , the sociologist usually begins with a generalization , which he proposes to test by the examination of a number of similar sequences of events . In short , the intention is different . But even this qualified distinction is not wholly true . It depends very much upon the kind of historiography ( e.g. it is most true of diplomatic history ) and the kind of sociology ( where it is most true of comparative studies ) . Making a still weaker distinction , we might say with Trevor-Roper ( 1957 , Introduction ) that the historian is concerned with the interplay between personality and massive social forces , and that the sociologist is largely concerned with these social forces themselves . The more the distinction is refined to take account of the actual work of historians and sociologists the clearer it becomes that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deal with the same subject matter ? human beings living in societies which undergo historical changes ? sometimes from different points of view , sometimes from the same point of view . As a recent study ( Burke , 1980 , p. 13 ) has suggested : Each discipline can help to free the other from a kind of parochialism . ' And certainly two of the least parochial of sociologists , Marx and Weber , were themselves historians of no mean stature . Philosophy Sociology originated largely in a philosophical ambition : to account for the course of human history , to explain the social crisis of the European nineteenth century , and to provide a social doctrine which would guide social policy . In its recent developSOCIAL // ment sociology has for the most part abandoned such aims ; and some would say that it has abandoned them too completely . However this may be , there remain connections between sociology and philosophy in at least three respects . First , as I showed in the previous chapter , sociology is closely associated ? and increasingly so ? with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the human sciences in concept formation and theory construction . In the second place , there is a close relationship between sociology and moral and social philosophy . The reality studied by sociology and other social sciences ? human social relations ? embodies meanings and values which are expressed both in conceptions of the world , social doctrines and political ideologies , and in actions governed by choices and decisions . The sociologist , it has generally been claimed , studies values , the courses of action influenced by them , and the structures created , modified or sustained by individual and collective action , as facts ; and makes a sharp distinction between the description or analysis of social facts and any kind of valuation of them . This , at least , is the view taken by Durkheim ( 1895 ) , Weber ( 1904 , 1917 ) , Marx ( in some interpretations , such as that of the Austro-Marxists ) , and in very diverse ways by positivists , structuralists and adherents of the realist philosophy of science ( Keat and Urry , 1982 , ch. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been argued in various forms that the fact/value distinction can not be upheld in the social sciences ; that knowledge , science and truth are themselves human values , that the social scientist as a member of society can not fully detach himself from the reality he studies , that descriptions and theories of social phenomena necessarily involve evaluations ( Strauss , 1953 ; Taylor , 1967 ) , and in some conceptions of social action , that human agency can only be understood as moral action and moral community ( Dawe , 1978 ) , or that knowledge of human social life is constituted not only by empirical-analytic sciences , but by the interpretation of communicative interaction and by self-reflection based upon an emancipatory interest ( Habermas , 1968 ) . The complex and continuing debate about fact and value , closely related to controversies in the philosophy of science , is a principal meeting ground of sociology and philosophy ; and any kind of sophisticated theory construction in sociology is inconceivable without some comprehension of the philosophical issues that have been raised . Finally , it may be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This was , for instance , the view of Durkheim ( 1909 ) , who wrote : I believe that sociology , more // than any other science , has a contribution to make to the renewal of philosophical questions ... sociological reflection is bound to prolong itself by a natural progress in the form of philosophical reflection ' ; and in his own study of religion ( 1912 ) such a prolongation can be seen in the transition which he makes from a discussion of the social influences upon the categories of thought to an epistemological discussion . Mannheim was concerned with a similar question , and considered that his sociology of knowledge had implications for epistemology , which he stated in detail ( Mannheim , 1952 , pt 5 ) . More recently Habermas ( 1981 ) in a considerably revised exposition of critical theory ' which gives greater weight to the construction of an empirical science , has suggested that the social sciences can enter into a cooperative relationship with a philosophy which assumes the task of contributing to a theory of rationality ' ( Vol. 2 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reiterating that much of what is important in sociological thought originates in philosophical reflection as well as being prolonged in it ; and the point I made earlier about the value of connection between political science and political philosophy applies over a much wider field . Sociological research may easily become trivial and useless if it ignores the larger problems of social life which are formulated in philosophical world views and social doctrines . The immense influence of Marxist thought is due in great measure to the fact that it brings together a sociological theory and a social philosophy or philosophical anthropology ' ; and in less obvious ways the work of other major sociological thinkers , especially Max Weber , 9 has been influential for the same reason . The preceding discussion should have given some indication of the ramifications of sociological thought , of its contribution to other disciplines and at the same time its dependence on them . Sociology , as a synoptic social science , provides models of social structure within which particular social relations can be located and analysed ; it depicts and suggests explanations of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in different epochs ; it draws attention to , and elucidates , connections between social phenomena which more specialized inquiries would ignore ( e.g. between religious beliefs and economic behaviour , between social stratification and political events , between law and other forms of social control ) ; it brings out the significance and the problematic character of the relation between the individual as an organism and as a social being which other human sciences tend to ignore ; and more generally it raises a // series of fundamental methodological issues for debate . But sociology , as I have shown , also depends heavily upon the knowledge produced by other disciplines , and sociologists them-selves , for the most part , need to specialize in particular fields of inquiry ( in law , religion , economics , politics ) ; the more they do so , within the framework constituted by conceptions of social structure and social action , the more fruitful and illuminating are their researches likely to be . 5 Population and Society The phenomena of population constitute the domain of a special science , demography , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to emerge . It played an important part in the eighteenth century in stimulating the growth of other social sciences , and it has remained closely associated with sociology . The demographer , as soon as he goes beyond measurement and calculation to study the causes or consequences of population changes , differential fertility and mortality , and similar problems , enters the domain of sociology . The most interesting demographic questions have always involved social factors of the kind with which sociology is concerned . At the same time , it is evident that for the sociologist the size , distribution and qualities of the population are basic data . Durkheim made population size one of the principal elements in that branch of sociology which he called morphology . Societies can be classified according to their volume and density . By volume Durkheim meant the number of social units ' ( i.e. individuals ) in the society . By density he meant the number of social relationships ' in a society ; distinguishing between material density influenced by the concentration of population , the growth of towns and the development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is measured by the number of individuals who effectively have relations ( not merely economic but cultural relations ) with each other . Durkheim thought that increased volume generally brought about increased density , and that the two factors together produced variations in social structure . In The Division of Labour in Society ( 1893 ) he set out to show that increase of population produces , through the division of labour , a change from a type of society based upon mechanical solidarity ' to one based upon organic solidarity ' . Recent sociology has been little concerned with such general relationships between population size and type of social structure , though the problem has been taken up in a different way by Riesman ( 1950 ) . More usually , in sociology and other social sciences , population size and population changes have been related to particular aspects of social structure or to particular social phenomena . Thus , a number of sociologists have been concerned with the relation between demographic changes and war . ' There have also // been many discussions of the relations between demographic change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ up to recent studies of the influence of population movements upon economic growth , as in Lewis ( 1955 , ch. 6 ) .2 It has always been recognized that there is a reciprocal relation between population and social structure ; that is , that the social structure influences population changes as well as being affected by them . Indeed , sociological study in this field has been predominantly concerned with the social influences upon population size . There is now a very large literature on these questions , and it is impossible to do more than summarize the principal results . The actual problems vary , of course , from one type of society to another . In the 1940s and 1950s Western demographers and sociologists were chiefly interested in the social factors influencing the decline in the birth rate , which slowed down the rate of population growth in the interwar years and at one stage seemed likely to produce stationary or even declining populations . The various social factors have been distinguished and analysed in a large and increasing literature , which includes Alva Myrdal ( 1945 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Britain by the Royal Commission on Population ( 1949 ) . The Royal Commission 's report lists and examines some of the influences which promoted family limitation ; the references are to British experience but very similar influences must have been operative elsewhere . It is clear that improved methods of birth control and more general knowledge of such methods were imporant in making family limitation easy . But the desire to limit family size had other causes , among them the resentment felt by women to excessive child bearing and the greater emancipation of women which allowed their protest to become effective , the declining importance of the family as a productive unit and the increasing economic burden of children ( as a result of restrictions upon child labour and the spread of compulsory education ) , the growth of new wants which competed with the desire for children , the raising of standards of parental care and especially the desire of parents to give their children the best possible start in life . The last influence was itself affected by the opportunities for social mobility in an expanding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ limiting births could each child be given the fullest opportunities to rise in the social hierarchy . Many studies have demonstrated the advantages , in this respect , of the child from a small family . One other feature of family limitation is apparent from all studies : it began in the higher strata of society , and only gradually spread to the lower strata . This could be // explained partly in terms of differences in knowledge , but the adoption of birth control in the higher strata still needs some other explanation . One well-known study ( Banks , 1954 ) suggests that , in Britain , family limitation in the middle classes began with the economic recession of the 1870s which threatened their new standards of comfort . Its gradual extension to other strata could then be explained by imitation of a social model , as well as by the perception of the advantages of a small family in the competitive struggle for economic and social advancement . More recently the concern with population size has taken a different direction , with the emphasis now upon the rapid @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world as a whole . In 1950 the world population was 2,500 million , by the early 1980s it had reached 4,500 million , and it is expected to reach 8,000 million by the year 2025 , though there are some indications of a deceleration of the rate of growth . In the industrial countries , during the period of rapid growth , the main concern was with its social consequences , with congestion and environmental damage.3 In the developing countries , on the other hand , the major problem has been seen as the impact of population growth on economic development and social welfare . Gunnar Myrdal ( 1968 ) , in his large-scale study of poverty in the countries of South Asia , observed that there had been much discussion a decade or so earlier about whether these countries were faced with a problem of excessive population growth , and concluded : By now , it is commonly recognized that all the countries in the region have entered a critical phase of sharply accelerated population growth , and that the prospects for successful economic development are crucially related to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Indeed , in all the less developed regions of the world , since the end of the Second World War , there has been a population explosion determined by high fertility and declining mortality as a result of improvements in nutrition and medical care . Thus in India the population increased from 315 million in 1941 to 436 million in 1961 , and 684 million in 1981 . But the most rapid growth is taking place in Africa , where it is expected that the population will more than treble from 470 million in 1980 to 1,544 million in 2025 , increasing the already evident threat of extreme poverty and starvation , and in Latin America , where the population is projected to more than double from 364 million ( in 1980 ) to 865 million in 2025 ( Tabah , 1982 ) . One consequence of these differential rates of population growth is that the distribution of the world 's population will be very different in 2025 ; Europe , // which now accounts for about 10 per cent of the total , will have only 6.4 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from about 11 per cent to nearly 19 per cent . In general , the population of the less developed regions is likely to increase from about 75 per cent to 83 per cent of the world total ( Tabah , 1982 , p. 180 ) .4 Clearly , such rapid population growth has important consequences for economic development , particularly , as Myrdal argued ( 1968 , Vol. 2 , ch. 28 ) , through the skewed age structure which produces a high dependency burden and diverts resources from productive investment to the provision of extensive social services.5 These consequences have to be seen in the context of other influences on the economic development of Third World countries , which will be considered in a later chapter ( Chapter 17 below ) , but their independent significance is now generally recognized , as is shown by the widespread adoption in less developed countries of population policies designed to reduce fertility , and by the international support for such policies . In India there have been several attempts over the past few decades to limit family size , but these have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is still expected to increase to some 1,234 million by the year 2025 . The most drastic policy , as yet , to reduce fertility is that adopted in China , where a combination of financial incentives and a massive publicity campaign aims to establish the single-child family as a norm , but the present population of 1,000 million may still increase to almost 1,500 million by 2025 ( though this is a considerably lower rate of increase than that in most Third World countries ) . In recent years fertility has declined in many countries , and some demographers have anticipated a fairly rapid convergence to replacement level fertility during the next few decades , but Demeny ( 1982 ) concludes his account of population policies on a cautious note : no claim can be made that such convergence is assured or even highly probable ... Sixty years of socialist rule have left the fertility of the Muslim populations of the Soviet Union virtually unchanged . In 1980 , World Bank projections anticipated that Iran 's population would stabilize at 102 million ; in 1981 the figure was changed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new regime towards family planning . In sub-Saharan Africa and in much of South Asia , fertility decline has not yet begun , and no solid theory explains why it should start tomorrow . If the past is a guide to the future , a significant reversal of recent Chinese fertility trends is by no means impossible ... Policy makers ' ability to influence fertility trends remains tenuous within countries ; the proposition applies with double force to the global scene . ( pp. 226-7 ) // Demographers and sociologists have been concerned with the distribution of the population , as well as with its size . The outstanding phenomenon of recent times , in Western Europe and America , but increasingly throughout the world , is the growing concentration of population in urban areas , as one effect of economic development . This has encouraged studies of the conditions favourable to the growth of towns , and attempts to construct a typology of towns by comparative inquiry . It has been recognized that the existence of towns depends in the first place upon the existence of an economic surplus , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industry , trade and administration . The relations between urban centres and the countryside have varied from one type of society to another . At most times towns have been dependent upon the country , they have not been dominant in the society as a whole , and they have been subject to variations in size and importance . Only in modern industrial societies has urbanism become the predominant way of life . In many societies , too , there has been conflict between town and country ; Pirenne ( 1925 ) showed the role played by the European towns , especially in the fourteenth to sixteenth centuries , in dissolving feudal social relationships and challenging the feudal social order . Ibn-Khaldun , in his Muquaddima ( An Introduction to History ) ( 1377-1404 ) , contrasted tribal with city life and outlined a theory of conflict between sedentary city dwellers and nomadic tribes to explain the rise and decay of Arab cities . In another aspect demography has extended into human geography and urban sociology , with the study of social phenomena in relation to the concentration of population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectors in urban areas , distinguished by economic , class , ethnic and other features , differences between urban and rural areas in respect of such phenomena as crime , divorce and suicide , and also more generally in the types of social relationship and in cultural outlook . The notion of zones and sectors in the city was developed largely by Park , Burgess and others belonging to what came to be called the ecological school ' in the USA . Park ( 1926 ) distinguished many different regions within the American city : There are regions . . . in which there are almost no children . . . regions where the number of children is relatively very high : in the slums , in the middle class residential suburbs . . . There are other areas occupied almost wholly by young unmarried people ... There are regions where people almost never vote . . . regions where the divorce rate is higher than it is for any state in the Union , and other regions in the same city where there are almost no divorces . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ excessive ; regions in which there is ... an excessive amount of juvenile delinquency . Another member of this school , H. W. Zorbaugh , in The Goldcoast and the Slum ( 1929 ) studied two extreme regions of Chicago and contrasted their social characteristics . More recent ecological studies of the city have attempted to provide a general classification into regions combining the notion of concentric zones with that of sectors . One example is Chombart de Lauwe 's ( 1952 ) study of Paris , in which concentric zones , elementary units ( districts ) and the distribution of social classes are treated separately and then combined in a general typology . Urbanism as a way of life has attracted many students . It is evident from a number of indices ? divorce rates , suicide rates , and so on ? that there are important differences between town dwellers and those who live in rural areas ; and the greatest divergence is to be found in the great cities . Sociologists have attemped to explain these differences in terms of the social situation and group affiliations of town @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cities . Simmel , in a classical study ( 1903 ) , showed how city life favoured the intellectual development of the individual and produced a distinct type of person . A more pessimistic account is that of Lewis Mumford , in his Culture of Cities ( 1940 ) , where the pathological features of city life are emphasized ; the isolation of the individual , the fragmentation of his social contacts and his personality , the growth of ennui , frustration and a sense of futility . The principal features of urban life were examined in a more general way in Wirth 's frequently cited essay , Urbanism as a way of life ' ( 1938 ) . In recent years the study of urban life and urbanization has taken some new directions . One is the attention given to the rapid growth of very large cities and mega-cities , both in the industrial countries and in the developing countries . A study of India 's urban future ( Turner , 1962 ) gave some startling high estimates ' for the growth of Calcutta , Delhi and Bombay up to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the growth of large cities in the developing world will nevertheless be very rapid . As Tabah ( 1982 , p. 199 ) writes : By the end of the century , the developing world will have huge urban conglomerates of a sort never encountered in the industrialized countries . According to United Nations projections for the year 2000 , the population of Mexico City will be 31 million ; Sao Paulo , 26 million ; Shanghai will hold 24 million ; Beijing , 21 million ; Rio de Janeiro will have 19 million inhabitants and Bombay and Calcutta will have 17 and 16 million respectively . // Africa is as yet less urbanized than other developing regions , but has the highest rate of urban population growth , with some cities doubling in size every six or seven years . Tabah concludes that the situation is rapidly deteriorating in the Third World countries : In the large metropolises , uncontrolled migration concentrates the inequalities in regional development , creates crises in municipal finance and ultimately erects obstacles to the development of the entire country . ' Of course , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The towns are centres of innovation , of economic growth and political change , and the new values and attitudes which develop there may have an important influence upon the rural population . A study by Dube ( 1955 ) shows the influence of Hyderabad upon the political structure , caste relations , and social attitudes in a village within its orbit ; and another study by Bailey ( 1957 ) of a village in the Orissa hills more remote from an urban centre shows how even there the influence of the urban economic system leads to a growth of commerce , while the development of national administration results in a breakdown of political isolation , with important effects upon village organization . At the same time , however , rural attitudes affect the towns , for a large proportion of the town population consists of recent immigrants from the countryside . As Lloyd ( 1967 , p. 110 ) observes of some African towns : Here the individual may escape the restraint of his family and kin , of traditional elders and tribal values . How many men choose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . the African townsman tends to remain in a very close relationship with his kin and community of origin . A study of immigrant workers in Bombay ( Prabhu , 1956 ) revealed a similar attachment to the villages of origin . Nearly half the sample studied visit their village once a year , and almost all would have liked to pay more frequent visits . Those with families send them on visits to the village as often as they can . The immigrant workers live between two cultures , urban and rural , and urban values are not yet completely predominant , though they are gradually tending to prevail : in the city women acquire greater freedom , there are changes in dress and in the value of education , and caste rules are not so strictly observed . On the other hand , the joint family continues to be highly regarded ; it still has a function in the city as a system of mutual aid , and it maintains the link between the immigrant and his village . These are phenomena of a period of transition ? which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Asia and Africa // which are now becoming more industrial and urban . Since 1945 a number of Third World countries , and notably China , have been transformed by peasant-based revolutions , inspired and led largely , it is true , by urban intellectuals , but this is less likely to be the case in the future . There may not be , as yet , a Third World proletariat in a Marxist or Weberian sense ( Lloyd , 1982 ) , although it is much more evident in Latin America than in Africa ; but there is , in the rapidly growing cities , a large mass of the semi-urban poor living in shanty towns ' , who form one important basis for new radical movements , and there is a growing middle class , sections of which may well adopt reformist or radical policies . The class structure and political movements in the developing countries will be examined more fully in later chapters . In the industrial countries , although some attention is given to the growth of mega-cities , the principal focus of recent interest has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the urban/rural contrast has lost much of its significance ; instead , partly under the influence of Marxist theory ( especially in the work of Castells , 1976 ) , attention has come to be concentrated on collective consumption ' ( e.g. housing , transport , land use ) and its determination by the urban social structure ' , that is to say , mainly by the class structure , by urban politics , the local state ' and the various managers ' of urban resources ( Pahl , 1975 ) . Studies of this kind merge into more general analyses of property ownership , class relations , and political conflict , and they will be considered later in that context . The qualitative aspects of population attracted much attention in the nineteenth century , and were studied from two points of view . First , there were the attempts to distinguish between societies in terms of racial or national characteristics , conceived as innate qualities . This approach has generally been abandoned , for little connection has been found between race as defined by physical anthropology and intellectual or temperamental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sociological studies of race are concerned with race prejudice and race relations , 6 while national character , so far as it is studied at all , is conceived as the outcome of the institutional arrangements of a society , or of the culture pattern ' reflected in individual upbringing , or most frequently as the product of both together . Secondly , there were studies of presumed innate differences between individuals or groups within society , which were connected with elite theories ( Pareto ) or arose from concern about the effects of differential fertility on the quality ( physical or // intellectual ) of the population . In England , the latter concern crystallized in the eugenics movement started by Francis Galton , and continued by Karl Pearson from his position as professor of eugenics in the University of London . All this was connected with a wider intellectual movement of social Darwinism ' influ-enced by the unfortunate biological analogies formulated by Herbert Spencer . Eugenics has little connection with modern sociology , but one particular problem continued to arouse dis-cussion : namely , the assumed relation between differential @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ supposed that the declining birth rate in the upper strata of society , resulting in their failure to reproduce themselves , might bring about a gradual decline in the general level of intelligence . The problem was reviewed by Burt ( 1950 ) , and investigated in a comprehen-sive survey conducted by the Scottish Council for Research in Education ( 1949 , 1953 ) which showed a rise in the general level of intelligence between 1932 and 1947 . It seems likely that the improvement in general welfare was an important factor in the result shown by the Scottish survey . Differential fertility may , of course , play a part in determining the cultural characteristics of a society : for example by changing the relative size of various ethnic or religious groups in the population , but its effects on the quality of a population ( in terms of intelligence , or of even more nebulous features such as the honesty , enterprise , public spirit , and so on of the citizens ) appear to be slight or non-existent when compared with the influence of improved standards of nutrition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discussion will have indicated that population questions have a great complexity , which arises from the numer-ous and diverse interrelations between population and social structure . As Marx ( 1857 ? 8 ) observed in his critique of the method of political economy the population is an abstraction .. . a chaotic conception of the whole ' unless we take account of its distribution among classes , town and country , different branches of production , and so on . This is the theme of the following chapter . 6 Types of Social Group The distribution of the population in social groups , and the size , number and characteristics of such groups , are important features of the structure of a society . According to Ginsberg ( 1939 ) , The description and classification of the principal types of social groups and institutions ' make up the study of social structure , and Firth ( 1956 , p. 98 ) writes similarly that The social structure of a community includes the different types of groups which the people form and the institutions in which they take part ' . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigid distinction between the study of groups and the study of institutions , since the latter ( which may be defined as enduring patterns of behaviour ) arise out of the activities of groups and in turn guide and constrain those activities . But for purposes of exposition it is convenient to deal first with the different groupings which may be found either in all societies or in particular types of society . We may begin by distinguishing between social groups proper , and the looser associations which have been termed by some writers quasi-groups ' . A social group may be defined as an aggregate of individuals in which ( 1 ) definite relations exist between the individuals comprising it , and ( 2 ) each individual is conscious of the group itself and its symbols . In other words , a social group has at least a rudimentary structure and organization ( including rules , rituals , etc. ) , and a psychological basis in the consciousness of its members . A family , a village , a nation , a trade union , or a political party is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the other hand , is an aggregate which lacks structure or organization , and whose members may be unaware , or less aware , of the existence of the grouping . Social classes , status groups , age and sex groups , crowds , are examples of quasi-groups . But these examples suggest that the frontier between groups and quasi-groups is fluid and variable . Quasigroups may become more organized themselves or may give rise to organized social groups , as for example , the working class in modern capitalist society has brought into existence the labour movement ' , the feminine sex group has created the women 's movement ' , and generations have sometimes produced youth movements ' ; or they may become fully organized and institu96 POPULATION AND SOCIAL GROUPINGS tionalized , as is the case with age groups which become formal age sets ' in some tribal societies . Social groups can be classified in a variety of ways . We may consider first the character of the relationship between the members . The best-known distinction here is that first proposed by Tonnes ( 1887 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association ) . Community is defined as intimate , private , and exclusive living together ' , and Tonnies gives as examples of groups based on this type of relationship the family or kin group , the neighbourhood ( rural village ) , and the group of friends . Association is defined as public life ' , as something which is consciously and deliberately entered upon ; and Tonnies mentions as examples principally those groups which are concerned with economic interests . Two major criteria are used by Tonnies in defining community and association . First , in communities individuals are involved as complete persons who can satisfy all or most of a wide range of purposes in the group , while in associations individuals are not wholly involved but look to the satisfaction of specific and partial ends . Secondly , a community is united by an accord of feeling or sentiment between individuals whereas an association is united by a rational agreement of interest . In Tonnies 's own work the distinction between community and association was applied both to the social groups within a society , and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affinity with some other distinctions between two broad types of society , which will be discussed in the next chapter . As applied to social groups it resembles the distinction made by Cooley ( 1909 ) between primary groups ' and others ( which have been called secondary groups ' by later sociologists ) : By primary groups I mean those characterized by intimate face-toface association and co-operation . The result of intimate association , psychologically , is a certain fusion of individualities in a common whole , so that one 's very self , for many purposes at least , is the common life and purpose of the group ... it involves the sort of sympathy and mutual identification for which we ' is the natural expression . ( p. 23 ) Cooley 's definition of the primary group , as has been pointed out ( Davis , 1948 , ch. 11 ) , implied three conditions : physical proximity of the members , smallness of the group , and the enduring character of the relation . Tonnies , on the other hand , intended his distinction to apply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that his examples of community ' ( family , village , group of // friends , medieval town ) also imply , in varying degrees , these three conditions . Thus we have a number of criteria which can be applied in the classification of social groups : the end for which the group exists , the emotional or intellectual character of the relations between members of the group , the personal or impersonal nature of their relations , the size of the group , and its duration . Some of these factors have received more attention than others . The size of groups has been studied from different points of view . Simmel ( 1902 ) , in a well-known essay , examined the relationship between the number of members and the structure of a group . In another study ( 1903 ) , he showed how the concentration of population in cities changed the nature of social relationships . Other sociologists have discussed the general problem of changes in the scale of social organization . Durkheim , as we saw earlier , explained the division of labour and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solidarity by the growth of population . Hobhouse took increase in scale as one of his criteria of social development , but at the same time examined the repercussions of this increase upon other factors in development . It is evident that one major problem of social life has been that of establishing and maintaining social solidarity in large groups , where the intimate relationships of primary groups are impossible ( Homans , 1948 , ch. 16 ; Angell , 1941 ) . Recent studies of social groups have taken a number of different directions . There have been several attempts at a more systematic typology of groups . One of the most comprehensive is that of Gurvitch ( 1957 , Vol. 1 , ch. 5 ) who proposed fifteen criteria of classification : content , size , duration , rhythm , proximity of members , basis of formation ( voluntary , etc. ) access ( open , semi-closed , closed ) , degree of organization , function , orientation , relation with the inclusive society , relation with other groups , type of social control , type of authority , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the distinctions which we have already discussed ; it has still to be seen whether the additional criteria make possible a typology in which the significant differences between groups would be revealed . A second approach is best illustrated in the study of primary groups by Homans ( 1948 ) who suggests a number of reasons for studying such groups , among others that perhaps we can not manage a sociological synthesis that will apply to whole communities and nations , but it is just possible we can manage one that will apply to the small group ' . Thus he aims at formulating generalizations which will apply to small groups , on the basis of // re-analysis of data from a number of detailed empirical studies . The emphasis throughout is upon the similarities between groups , and not upon the differences , as it is in the case of attempts at a typology . While the analysis and interpretation of material provided by the original studies are often illuminating , the resulting generalizations are disappointing in respect of their importance or probable validity . It is difficult to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with one another , when no one of them originates interaction with much greater frequency than the others , the greater is their liking for one another ' and their feeling of ease in one another 's presence ' ( p. 243 ) . The example given of relations between brothers is unfortunate , since it is between siblings that some of the most violent antipathies arise , and the portrayal of family life in the novels of Ivy Compton-Burnett seems equally plausible . Homans 's work , however , revived interest in the study of primary groups , and the interest was reinforced by other developments such as Moreno 's ( 1953 ) sociometric studies . One of the attractions of small group studies is the possibility of experiment , and some useful if limited work has been done on these lines ; for example , in the experiments on group leadership ( Argyle , 1957 , pt 2 , ch. 5 ) . Homans makes clear that the study of small groups is only one possible approach to the study of society , but in other cases enthusiasm for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cooley already foreshadowed one error ; he wrote that primary groups are primary in several senses , but chiefly in that they are fundamental in forming the social nature and ideals of the individual ' , and again that they do not change in the same degree as more elaborate relations but form a comparatively permanent source out of which the latter are ever springing .. . they are springs of life , not only for the individual but for social institutions ' ( Cooley , 1909 , pp. 23 , 26-7 ) . Cooley and some recent sociologists seem to imply that it is possible to move directly from the study of small groups to the study of inclusive societies . This is associated with the view that small groups have a determining influence upon social life . Yet all the evidence points to the opposite conclusion . Historically considered , small groups have been shaped by society much more than they have shaped it . The modern Western family , for example , is the product of industrialism , and the transformation of the rural village is likewise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another approach to the study of groups is that suggested by // Redfield ( 1955 ) , who justifies the choice of this area of study in much the same terms as Homans . He writes : The little community has been chosen because it is a kind of human whole with which students of man have a great deal of experience , and because it is easier to develop a chain of thought in relation especially to villages and bands than to try to do so also in relation to personalities and civilizations and literatures. ( p. 2 ) Moreover , the small community has been the very predominant form of human living throughout the history of mankind .. . One estimate is that today three-quarters of the human race still live in villages ' . Redfield defines the little community by four characteristics : ( 1 ) distinctiveness ? where the community begins and where it ends is apparent ' ; ( 2 ) smallness ? either it itself is the unit of personal observation or else , being somewhat larger and yet homogeneous , it provides in some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the whole ' ; ( 3 ) homogeneity ? ' activities and states of mind are much alike for all persons in corresponding sex and age positions ; and the career of one generation repeats that of the preceding ' ; ( 4 ) self-sufficiency ? it provides for all or most of the activities and needs of the people in it . The little community is a cradle-to-the-grave arrangement ' ( p ? 4 ) ? t Having defined the object of his study Redfield goes on to analyse it in terms of the general concepts which have been applied to all types of groups and inclusive societies : ecology , social structure , life cycles , personality , cultural values , social change . His study clarifies , and suggests modifications of , some of these concepts . In the later chapters he examines directly the problem we have raised about the relation between small groups and the larger communities , up to the inclusive society , within which they exist . First , there are different types of relation . The Siriono Indians are a very distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian bands and avoiding contacts with white men . On the other hand , the relations of the Nuer ( described by Evans-Pritchard ) with the larger society can be represented by a diagram of concentric circles . The village of Chan Kom ( studied by Redfield ) has more complex relations with the state of Yucatan and with Mexico as a whole . There is a complex aggregation of settlements to which any one village ... would be related in a number of kinds of relationships and functions ' ( p. 122 ) . Redfield suggests that we need a recognition of a series or range of kinds of communities according to their degree of // independence from city , manor , national state , or other centre of a different or more developed mode of living ' ( p. 124 ) . He goes on finally to propose , with reference to peasant communities or partly urbanized rural communities , a distinction between abstract kinds of living ; between folk society and civilization . Here he encounters the preoccupations of earlier sociologists , Maine , Tonnies and Durkheim , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the relationship between social groups and the inclusive society can be put in another form . We may ask how , and to what extent , types of societies can be distinguished in terms of the social groups which exist within them . There is one very familiar distinction , between primitive ' and civilized ' societies , in terms of the number and diversity of the social groups within them . Spencer , and especially Durkheim , made use of this characteristic in their classifications of societies . Tribal societies are no longer regarded by anthropologists as simple , but they are certainly less differentiated . The contrast which Durkheim draws in The Division of Labour in Society ( 1893 ) is broadly accurate ; and there is much to be said for his association of individualism with increasing social differentiation , ultimately based upon the more extensive division of labour . Another approach would be to classify societies in terms of the predominant types of social groups . This has been attempted in various ways . One of the best-known distinctions is between societies in which primary groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tonnies 's original distinction between community ' and association ' , many sociologists have employed this criterion , with slight variations in meaning . It is a commonplace of modern sociology to refer to the impersonal , rationalized and segmentary relationships between individuals in urban industrial societies , and to contrast these with the relationships existing in tribal and non-industrial societies . Yet all such dichotomies appear much too simple ; for in spite of all the sociological research we still know relatively little , in detail , of the social relations in modern societies and can still be surprised by the importance of kinship and other primary groupings ( see Chapter 10 below ) . Perhaps a more useful classification would result from identifying the specific types of group which are characteristic of different societies . This can be illustrated by a comparison between India , as an example of an agrarian society , and a Western industrial society . It is not difficult to identify the major types of group in traditional Indian society ; they are the village community , the // caste group , and the joint @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are characteristic and important in Western industrial societies seem to be the economic , occupational and political organizations , social classes , and the nuclear family . In addition , the inclusive society itself ( as a nation-state ) has much greater significance . What can be said about Indian society in terms of these characteristic groups ? I shall refer later to the joint family ( Chapter 10 ) and the caste groups ( Chapter 11 ) . Here it will be useful to say something about the village community , which has often been regarded as the most important feature of the social structure , and which raises many issues in connection with the process of urbanization which I discussed earlier . The early studies of the Indian village emphasized its selfsufficiency and its stability . Self-sufficiency meant that the village had its own political , as well as economic , institutions . The village communities are little republics , having nearly everything they want within themselves , and almost independent of any foreign relations . They seem to last where nothing else lasts ' ( Metcalfe , 1855 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Indian village constitution as the least destructible institution of a society which never willingly surrenders any one of its usages to innovation . Conquests and revolutions seem to have swept over it without disturbing or displacing it , and the most beneficent systems of government in India have always been those which have recognized it as the basis of Indian administration .. . Marx ( 1867 , ch. 12 ) , emphasizing the economic self-sufficiency of the village , found in this a clue to the unchanging character of Indian and other Asian societies : The simplicity of the organization for production in these self-sufficing communities that constantly reproduce themselves in the same form , and if destroyed by chance , spring up again on the same spot and with the same name ? this simplicity supplies the key to the secret of the unchangeableness of Asiatic societies , an unchangeableness in such striking contrast with the constant dissolution and refounding of Asiatic states , and the neverceasing changes of dynasty . The structure of the economic elements of society remains untouched by the storm clouds of the political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomous until well into the nineteenth century , when the development of capitalism under British rule began to exert its influence . ' The more rapid industrialization and urbanization // since 1947 have certainly brought about great changes . A number of village studies give some indication of the nature of these changes . Dube ( 1955 ) has shown the increasing influence of Hyderabad town upon the village of Shamirpet ( twenty-five miles away ) through the development of transport , making for greater mobility , and the attraction of urban educational facilities . Other influences are the government welfare agencies , the activities of nationwide political parties , and national development programmes ( Dube , 1958 ) . The outcome of these more intensive contacts with the larger society is a change in the social and political hierarchy of the village ; wealth , education and position in the government service are among the new sources of prestige and influence . Redfield and Singer , in their foreword to a collection of studies on India 's villages ( Marriott , 1955 ) , observed that : In village India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ family , festivals , and religious beliefs . The school , the political party , the movie , the community plan , begin to reach even remote villages . ' At the same time the traditional groups do not disappear , and they reappear , sometimes in a modified form , in urban areas . The joint family survives in Indian towns , and caste associations are formed which provide housing , employment and other welfare services for their members . Similarly , in the new African states , village , kinship and tribal bonds remain strong , and as Lloyd ( 1967 , ch. 12 ) suggests , tribalism ' develops as an urban phenomenon ( in much the same way as caste ) because it is a familiar way of categorizing oneself and receiving support from others in a strange and complex environment . Thus the traditional social groups give way only slowly to those which arise in a modern industrial society ? occupational groups , trade unions , classes , political parties , and a variety of voluntary associations ? except in those countries where , as in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the past . Even at a more advanced stage of industrialization the constellation of groups in some of the countries of the Third World may differ considerably from that in the industrial countries of Europe and North America , for these countries are creating new forms of society on the basis of their own heritage of thought and institutions . In India , Gandhi 's ideas entered into more recent political doctrines , as in the proposal by Jaya Prakash Narayan ( 1959 ) , a former leader of the Praja Socialist Party , that the village community , expressing the two ideals of the voluntary limitation of wants and of unanimity in social and political views , should be preserved and strengthened as a fundamental element in the // Indian political system ; but the Gandhian influence seems to have diminished considerably in the past two decades . In Africa , some exponents of African socialism ' have emphasized the distinctive communitarian ' character of traditional African society , and have urged that this should be preserved in the process of economic growth , by embarking upon gradual industrialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and peasants in the planning and execution of development projects ( Worsley , 1967 , ch. 4 ; Mohiddin , 1981 , Introduction ) . One of the best known forms of socialist develop-ment in Africa , the Ujamaa ' socialism of Tanzania , strongly emphasizes co-operative village agriculture as the basis of economic development ( Mohiddin , 1981 , ch. 3 ; Yeager , 1982 ) . On the other hand , it is evident that new social classes and elites , similar to those in the industrial societies , have acquired increasing importance in the developing countries ( Bottomore , 1964 , ch. 5 ) ; but with some significant differences . For various reasons , the military has been a major force in many developing countries ( Janowitz , 1964 ; Huntington , 1968 , ch. 4 ; Luckham , 1977 ) , while elsewhere unified political elites emerging from national liberation struggles or revolutions have established their dominance in one-party regimes . But other modern social groups ? bureaucrats , entrepreneurs , trade unions , technologists ? still play an important part , alongside the more traditional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of types of social group should not be limited , therefore , simply to the contrast between folk and urban , tradi-tional and modern , agrarian and industrial , societies . These distinctions are important since there correspond to them , as I have shown , differences in the kind of social group which is predomi-nant ; but there are also other distinctions to be made between types of society ( as will be considered in the next chapter ) , the variety of social groups is greater than these simple dichotomies suggest , and in the course of a society 's development new types of social group and social relationship are always being created . 104-108 omitted 7 Social Structure , Societies and Civilizations Social structure ' is one of the central concepts of sociology , but it has not been employed consistently or unambiguously . Herbert Spencer ( 1876-96 , Vol. 1 , pt 2 ) , who was one of the first writers to use the term , was too much fascinated by his biological analogies ( organic structure and evolution ) to make clear what he meant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ch. 6 ; 1895 , ch. 4 ) also left the term vague . Many later sociologists and social anthropologists have tried to give a more precise meaning , but their conceptions of social structure diverge widely . Thus Radcliffe-Brown ( 1952 ) regards as a part of the social structure all social relations of person to person . . . In the study of social structure the concrete reality with which we are concerned is the set of actually existing relations , at a given moment of time , which link together certain human beings ' ( pp. 191-2 ) . But he goes on to say that the object which we attempt to describe and analyse is structural form , that is , the general relationships , disregarding slight variations and the particular individuals involved . It is this structural form which most writers have designated social structure . But Radcliffe-Brown 's definition is very broad , as Firth ( 1951 , ch. 1 , p. 40 ) has pointed out : It makes no distinction between the ephemeral and the more enduring elements in social activity , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the structure of a society from that of the totality of the society itself ' Other writers have restricted the term to the more permanent and organized relationships in society . Thus Ginsberg ( 1939 ) regards social structure as the complex of the principal groups and institutions which constitute societies . This conception is also important for the connection which it emphasizes between the abstract social relationships and the social groups which give rise to or are involved in them . From this point of view , the study of social structure can be undertaken in terms of institutional arrangements , or of the relations between social groups , or of both together , as I noted in the previous chapter . If we thus restrict the term social structure ' to mean those more permanent // and important relationships and groups , we perhaps need another term to refer to the other activities which go on in society , and which frequently represent variations from the structural forms . Firth ( 1951 , ch. 2 ) has proposed the term social organization ' , which he defines as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision ' . In the aspect of social structure is to be found the continuity principle of society ; in the aspect of organization is to be found the variation or change principle ? by allowing evaluation of situations and entry of individual choice ' ( Firth , 1951 , ch. 1 , p.40 ) .1 A third approach , which defines social structure in a still more restricted way is that which makes use of the notion of social role ; it is exemplified by Nadel ( 1957 ) , and by Gerth and Mills ( 1954 ) . Nadel argues that , We arrive at the structure of a society through abstracting from the concrete population and its behaviour the pattern or network ( or " system " ) of relationships obtaining between actors in their capacity of playing roles relative to one another ' ( 1957 , p. 12 ) . Similarly , Gerth and Mills say that the concept of role is the key term in our definition of institution ' , and ' just as role is the unit with which we build our conception of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build the conception of social structure ' ( 1954 , pp. 22 ? 3 ) . This latter account makes clear , as is implied by Nadel , that the analysis ofsocial structure in terms of social roles is not fundamentally different from an analysis in terms of social institutions ; for an institution is a complex or cluster of roles . Nevertheless , there is , I think , some difference of emphasis . There is some advantage in introducing the concept of role since , as Gerth and Mills observe , it forms a major link between character and social structure and thus facilitates the necessary co-operation between psychology and sociology in the study of social behaviour . Yet the emphasis upon individual actors enacting roles also has disadvantages . It tends to produce an excessively individualistic conception of social behaviour , in which society is viewed as an aggregate of individuals related only through the complex role system of the society as a whole , while the social groups within society are neglected . We shall see later how this occurs in some theories of social stratification in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctive social groups ( e.g. social classes ) and the relations of competition or conflict between them receive little attention . It is perhaps worthy of note that the concept of role seems to have been accepted most readily by psychologists interested mainly in individual behaviour , and by social anthropologists who study societies in which there is little diversity of social groups . // Of the different conceptions we have considered the most useful seems to me that which regards social structure as the complex of the major institutions and groups in society . But the analysis in the following chapters of these institutions and groups should be read with two other considerations in mind . First , a distinction has sometimes been made between social structure as the system of ideal ' relations between persons ( as expressed in legal codes and cultural norms ) , and social structure as the system of actual ' relations . This corresponds broadly with Firth 's distinction between structure ' and organization ' , and it is related to those conceptions of social life which emphasize the contrast between system ' and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extent to which structure itself is a product of human agency . Secondly , and in an antithetical sense , modern structuralists and realists ( also discussed in Chapter 3 above ) make a distinction between structure as the apparent ' order of social relationships , and a more significant underlying structure ( to be discovered by scientific investigation ) which explains the visible , directly observable order . It is not difficult to identify , in a preliminary and descriptive way , the major social institutions and groups . The existence of a human society requires certain arrangements and processes ; or , as it has been expressed , there are functional prerequisites of society ' ( Aberle et al. , 1950 ) .2 The minimum requirements seem to be : ( 1 ) a system of communication ; ( 2 ) an economic system , dealing with the production and allocation of goods ; ( 3 ) arrangements ( including the family and education ) for the socialization of new generations ; ( 4 ) a system of authority and of distribution of power ; and perhaps ( 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ increase social cohesion , and to give social recognition to significant personal events such as birth , puberty , courtship , marriage and death . The major institutions and groups are those concerned with such basic requirements . From them , others may emerge , such as social stratification , which then influence them in turn . There is little disagreement among sociologists about which are the major institutions , and in the following chapters I shall examine these elements of social structure in detail . We still have one other difficulty to face . Every society has a social structure , although several societies may have similar structures . But how are we to determine what is a society ; or in other words , the extent of a particular social structure ? Was ancient Greece a society , or were the city-states distinct societies ? Was India , until recently , a single society , or was it an aggregate of societies brought into some kind of unity by a cultural , and // especially a religious tradition ? It is difficult , in many cases , to determine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has argued that unless there is stark physical isolation , no society can be given a definite limit . But political independence has often been taken as the criterion of a separate society . Schapera ( 1956 ) , for example , writes : By a political community ' I mean a group of people organized into a single unit managing its affairs independently of external control .. . No community is completely isolated ... But so long as it alone decides on matters of local concern , so long as there is no dictation from outside , and so long as its decisions and actions can not be overruled by any higher authority , it may be said to have political independence . ( p. 8 ) Even so , difficulties arise , since political independence ' is relative ( there are satellites and client states ) , and we have to decide what degree of independence shall qualify any group as being a separate society . Moreover , we have to deal with many instances of the absorption of societies into larger units through conquest and imperialist expansion ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies within such larger units . The latter is the case with the feudal societies resulting from the dissolution of the Roman Empire , and with the new nations that emerged from colonial empires in the twentieth century . And we have already seen how observers at certain periods characterized Indian villages as little republics ' . In spite of these difficulties , the criterion of political independence in a defined territory is valuable , and where we find political independence along with distinct economic , cultural and familial institutions we can safely regard the group as constituting a separate society . So far we have been concerned with the spatial separation of societies , but what of their separation in time ? Britain is a society , but is Britain in the late twentieth century the same society as in the eighteenth century or the sixteenth century ? Is India the same society as a hundred or two hundred years ago ? Here we readily find a criterion , though its practical application may not always be easy . Wherever there is an important change in social structure we should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct society . We have to decide what constitutes an important change ; and this is not easy . We might say provisionally that it is a change which transforms all or most of the institutions in the society . Thus capitalist Britain or France are different societies from feudal Britain or France ; the USSR is a different society from Tsarist Russia . But our judgement will be influenced to // some extent by more general considerations about the classification of societies which we have now to discuss . Types of Society One of the first steps in sociology , as in any science , is a systematic classification of the phenomena with which it deals . I have discussed in earlier chapters the classification of social relations and social groups . Here I shall be concerned with the classification of inclusive societies , or social structures . We may begin by considering the numerous dichotomous classifications which have already been mentioned on several occasions : Tonnies 's Gemeinschaft ' and Gesellschaft ' , Durkheim 's mechanical solidarity ' and organic solidarity ' , Maine 's status ' and contract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The first thing to remark is that such classifications appear very inadequate to encompass all the varieties of human society which exist or have existed . If we now look more closely at the classifications we shall find that they resemble each other in important ways . All four writers contrast a type of society in which the group dominates the individual and determines for him a more or less unalterable situation , with a type of society in which the individual is properly speaking an individual ' , whose situation in society is at least partially the outcome of rational choices and contractual relations with other individuals . There are important differences between these writers on points of detail , in the accounts which they provide of how the change has come about , and in their valuations of the change . But the essential similarity of the classifications is unmistakable . It results from the fact that all four writers were profoundly impressed by the characteristics of the new industrial societies in which they lived . Thus they were led to contrast modern industrial societies with all other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the supreme distinction . This can be seen best in the work of Tonnes and some later German sociologists . Tonnies 's distinction between Gemeinschaft and Gesellschaft is entirely a distinction between modern capitalist , rationalistic , contractual societies , and all pre-capitalist societies . The theme reappears in Simmel 's ( 1907 ) study of the cultural characteristics of a society based upon a fully developed money economy , and it underlies all Max Weber 's work , in his fundamental concern with the increasing rationalization of social life ( Brubaker , 1984 ) . More recently , many sociologists have // reiterated the distinction between industrial and non-industrial societies in the context of studies of developing countries ' in the present-day world ( Aron , 1961 , and Chapter 17 below ) . But while the significance of the emergence of industrial societies is evident we may still question the adequacy of a classification which places all other societies in a single class and neglects the differences between the industrial societies themselves ( for example , whether they are capitalist or socialist in form ) . Spencer and Durkheim @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ classified in other ways . Spencer ( 1876-96 , Vol. 1 , pt 2 , ch. 10 ) proposed to distinguish four types of society : ( 1 ) simple societies , ( 2 ) compound societies , ( 3 ) doubly compound societies , and ( 4 ) trebly compound societies . The types are distinguished primarily in terms of scale ( or size ) , but also in terms of associated phenomena such as the more extensive division of labour , more elaborate political organization , developed ecclesiastical hierarchy and social stratification . But the utility of the classification appears less when it is realized that the first three social types comprise only primitive societies , while all civilized societies are grouped together in the fourth class , which includes , according to Spencer , ancient Mexico , the Assyrian Empire , the Roman Empire , Great , Britain , France , Germany , Italy and Russia . Spencer recognized that this classification cut across the distinction between militant and industrial societies , and he outlined , in effect , a composite classification of eight types of society ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ trebly compound societies ) . Moreover , Spencer warned that pure ' types are difficult to find for many reasons , including survivals and a kind of societal miscegenation . Durkheim ( 1895 , ch. 4 ) also outlined , in similar terms to those of Spencer while criticizing the latter 's scheme , a classification of societies . He distinguished : ( 1 ) simple societies ( the horde ) ; ( 2 ) simple polysegmentary societies ( e.g. Iroquois tribes ) ; ( 3 ) simple compounded polysegmentary societies ( e.g. the Iroquois confederation , the three tribes which founded Rome ) ; ( 4 ) doubly compounded polysegmentary societies ( e.g. the ancient tribes , the Germanic tribes ) . Durkheim did not go beyond these examples , but Moret and Davy ( 1926 ) later attempted a more elaborate classification in terms of scale and internal differentiation . Most of these classifications implied an evolutionary scheme . Other evolutionists proposed classifications in terms of intellectual development . Thus Comte , having formulated his law of three stages ' , according to which human thought developed from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempted to correlate material life , types of social unit , types of order , and prevailing sentiments with these intellectual phases . Hobhouse ( 1906 ) in a similar way distinguished five phases in intellectual development : ( 1 ) formation of the elements of articulate thought in primitive societies ; ( 2 ) proto-science in the ancient East ( Babylonia , Egypt and ancient China ) ; ( 3 ) the stage of reflection in the later East ( China , Palestine and India ) ; ( 4 ) the stage of critical and systematic thought in Greece ; ( 5 ) the stage of experiential reconstruction ' , represented by modern science . He then attempted to correlate types of social institution ( forms of political organization , family , property and social stratification ) with these intellectual stages . In the same work , however , he proposed two other classifications : a classification of primitive societies in terms of their economic level , and a general classification of societies in terms of the nature of the social bond . Using the latter criterion Hobhouse distinguished three @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizenship respectively . In a later work ( 1924 ) he introduced other criteria ? scale , efficiency , mutuality and freedom ? which should also enter into the classification of societies . Nowhere did Hobhouse attempt to bring the different criteria together in an ordered scheme of classification . Indeed , neither Comte nor Hobhouse can be regarded as having formulated a classification of actual societies . They were both primarily concerned with levels of civilization , and much of their work is an intellectual history of mankind . In this respect their schemes are less useful than those of Spencer and Durkheim , who attempted to define types of society as intelligible units of study . The best-known , and probably the most influential , classification of societies that has yet been proposed is that of Marx , who distinguished the principal historical types of society in terms of their mode of production and class structure . In a famous passage Marx ( 1859 , Preface ) wrote that , In broad outline we can designate the Asiatic , the ancient , the feudal and the modern bourgeois modes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society ' , while elsewhere he also referred to primitive communism as the earliest form of human society . The profound influence of Marx 's classificatory scheme comes , I think , from two elements in it : first , that the types of society which are distinguished correspond with actual , recognizable societies in different historical periods , and the criteria for distinguishing them ? the organization of the economy and the nature and interrelations of the principal social groups ? refer to definite , empirical phenomena which are amenable to historical and // sociological investigation ; secondly ( as will be discussed more fully in Chapter 17 below ) , that the historical framework of the classification makes possible an explanation of the transition from one form of society to another . Nevertheless , Marx 's classification poses a number of problems and needs to be elaborated in certain respects . It is clear , for example , that the major types of society may include subtypes . Thus Hobhouse , Wheeler and Ginsberg ( 1915 ) classified more than 400 tribal societies in terms of their levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social institutions were correlated with the type of economy . Marx himself , in his most substantial analysis of pre-capitalist economic formations ( 1857 ? 8 , pp. 471 ? 514 ) , noted the different forms that tribal and early societies might assume , and a Marxist anthropologist has explored in detail the difficulty of defining a single form of tribal society ' ( Godelier , 1973 , ch. 3 ) . Similarly , it may be necessary to distinguish subtypes of feudal society ( within European feudalism , in Japan , etc. ) , and of capitalist society ( early liberal , competitive capitalism and the organized capitalism ' of the twentieth century ) . The category of ancient society ' presents many problems ( Finley , 1983 ) , but the most intense debates , among Marxists particularly , have concerned the Asiatic ' type of society , to a large extent with reference to its place in a periodization of history ( Turner , 1978 , 1983a ) . Marx defined the Asiatic type of society as one which had an agricultural economy with small units of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and bureaucracy , whose power rested upon its regulation of water supplies . He examined particularly the case of India : Climate and territorial conditions , especially the vast tracts of desert , extending from the Sahara through Arabia , Persia , India , and Tartary , to the most elevated Asiatic highlands , made artificial irrigation by canals and waterworks the basis of Oriental agriculture . . . This prime necessity of an economical and common use of water , which , in the Occident , drove private enterprise to voluntary association , as in Flanders and Italy , necessitated , in the Orient where civilization was too low and the territorial extent too vast to call into life voluntary association , the interference of the centralizing power of Government . Hence an economical function devolved upon all Asiatic Governments , the function of providing public works ... These two circumstances ? the Hindoo , on the one hand , leaving , like all Oriental peoples , to the central government the care of the great public works , the prime conditions of his agriculture and commerce , dispersed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country , and agglomerated in small centres by the domestic union of agricultural // and manufacturing pursuits ? these two circumstances had brought about , since the remotest times , a social system of particular features ? the so-called village system , which gave to each of these small unions their independent organization and distinct life . ( Marx , 1853 , pp. 85 ? 6 ) Later ( 1867 , ch. 14 ) he observed that One of the material foundations of the powers exercised by the State over the small and disconnected productive organisms of India was the regulation of the water supply ' . Max Weber ( 1923 ) later used the same idea in his account of the differences between East and West in respect of the growth of towns and the emergence of a bourgeoisie : The distinction is based on the fact that in the cultural evolution of Egypt , western Asia , India and China , the question of irrigation was crucial . The water question conditioned the existence of bureaucracy , the compulsory service of the dependent classes upon the functioning of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his power in the form of military monopoly is the basis of the distinction between the military organization of Asia and that of the West . In the first case the royal official and the army are from the beginning the central figures of the process , while in the West both were originally absent . ( p. 237 ) More recently there have been several studies of what are variously called irrigation civilizations or hydraulic societies ( Steward , 1955 ; Wittfogel , 1957 ) . These studies have been related to the general study of bureaucracy , though little has yet been done in the way of large-scale comparative work on bureaucratically organized societies ( but see Eisenstadt , 1963 ) . The concept of irrigation civilization ' has been used by Karim ( 1956 ) in explaining the absence in India of Western-type towns and of a bourgeoisie able to acquire social and political influence . He writes , The primary function of the State was to look after the water supply ... Its power was built upon the control of water works . And to control , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the State stationed its agents at various local centres , which became the towns ' ( pp. 45-6 ) . These did not resemble the European medieval towns , with their commercial middle class , communal organization , and relative independence of the feudal state ( Pirenne , 1925 ) . The greatest changes in Indian social structure , during the period of British rule , were the decline of public works and thus of the paternalistic state , the development of capitalist enterprise , and the growth of towns ( not so much in relative size , as in social and political importance ) . One sign of the // emergence of a self-conscious urban middle class was the nationalist movement , which was created , organized and supported by the new professional groups and the commercial and industrial bourgeoisie ( Desai , 1948 , ch. 11 ) . It is not enough , however , to characterize pre-British India as an irrigation civilization ' , with a centralized bureaucracy and a village system of production . The unity and stability of Indian society depended also upon two other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of caste to be emphasized is not so much its rigid hierarchical character and the way in which it divided groups from each other , as its integrating function , closely connected with religion . Srinivas ( 1952 , ch. 2 ) , in a discussion of Indian social structure , observes that : caste guarantees autonomy to a community , and at the same time it brings that community into relation with numerous other communities all going to form a hierarchy . The importance of such an institution is obvious in a vast country like India which has been the meeting place of many different cultures in the past and which has always had considerable regional diversity . While the autonomy of a sub-caste was preserved it was also brought into relation with others , and the hierarchy was also a scale of generally agreed values . Every caste tended to imitate the customs and ritual of the topmost caste , and this was responsible for the spread of Sanskritization . . . Caste enabled Hinduism to proselytize without the aid of a church . Thus the separate village communities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system not only by the central bureaucracy which controlled water supplies , but also by a religious system of values expounded and interpreted by a priestly caste . How far there was anything similar in other irrigation civilizations ' is a matter for more detailed comparative study . The work of Wittfogel suggests that many important similarities can be found , in ancient Egypt , in Byzantium , and elsewhere , especially in the social functions of the priests and in the elements of caste revealed in detailed regulation of the division of labour . The foregoing account indicates some features of traditional Indian society which may enable us to classify it , however tentatively , as belonging to a particular social type . A similar account might be given of other societies which are now often grouped together as developing countries ' . China , like India , has been studied as a hydraulic society , in which a highly developed bureaucracy ruled over village communities ( Wittfogel , 1957 ; Weber , 1915 ) . In quite a different category are many of the new African societies , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by colonial rule ; or again , the countries of Latin America in which there are elements of a feudal structure , along with an exceptional degree of military intervention in political life . It is evident that any classification of types of society which took account of this diversity would be much more complex than the schemes proposed by the early sociologists , who derived their ideas largely from the experience of European history . There has been relatively little effort , however , to work out any more complex classifications ; on the contrary , sociologists seem to have reverted to one of the simplest distinctions made by early writers ? that between industrial and non-industrial societies . Of course , there is a good deal of justification for the revival of this distinction . The developing countries , regardless of their past , are all attempting to bring about economic growth , generally on the basis of industrialization ; and they are profoundly affected , in a great variety of ways , by their relationships with the industrial societies . Nevertheless , the distinction is scarcely adequate by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political concerns of the present time . The course of development in the non-industrial countries will be strongly influenced by their traditional social structures as well as by the aims which they now set themselves , and we shall not understand the new developments properly unless we grasp the different conditions from which they begin . On the other side , in the case of the industrial societies , we have to recognize at least the existence of two different types : those societies with a collectivist economy and those with a capitalist economy . Over the past two decades much has been done to elaborate and refine the conception of an industrial society ( Aron , 1962 , 1967 ; Galbraith , 1971 ) , and more recently there have been some interesting discussions of the advent of a post-industrial society ' ( Touraine , 1969 ; Bell , 1973 ) . But in spite of the fact that there are obviously some very general features of industrialism , it is not clearly established that the different types of industrial society are fundamentally alike in their social structures or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was suggested at one time by proponents of the convergence thesis ' ( Kerr et al. , 1962 ) . One of the difficulties in making comparisons between the types of industrial society3 is the dearth of comprehensive sociological studies of capitalism and socialism that have the scope and profundity , for example , of Bloch 's ( 1939 ? 40 ) historical study of feudal society ; though there is a magnificent analysis of the emergence of capitalism as a distinct civilization by Braudel ( 1979 ) . The major sociological accounts of capitalism // that deal to some extent with the social structure as a whole rather than with the purely economic aspects , are those of Weber ( 1923 , pt4 ) , Sombart ( 1902 , 1930 ) and Schumpeter ( 1942 ) . The study by Neumann ( 1942 ) of Nazi Germany as a distinctive form of capitalist industrial society is important in the context of the rise of fascist states during the period of economic and political crisis between the two world wars . Comprehensive sociological studies of socialism as a type of society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state-socialist societies by Lane ( 1976 ) ; for the most part , however , attention has been largely concentrated on socialist economies ( Horvat , 1982 ; Bottomore , 1987 ) , and on individual countries or specific aspects of the social structure such as the emergence ofnew classes and elites ( see Chapter 11 below ) . Sociological studies of particular modern societies are somewhat more plentiful , although many of them are mainly descriptive and statistical , and do not go on to analyse the basic structural or cultural elements . Among the studies of the USSR and its development those by Kassof ( 1968 ) and Lane ( 1970 ) are especially useful to sociologists . There is a good collection of readings on Chinese society and politics from 1949 to the Cultural Revolution in the book edited by Schurmann and Schell ( 1967 ) . Since the death of Mao Tse-Tung in 1976 , however , there has been a marked change of direction in China 's development ( in economic organization , population policy and the cultural sphere ) with a particular emphasis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to foresee at present what kind of society will eventually emerge from these transformations . Other socialist societies have also been studied in some detail ; especially Yugoslavia , which introduced at an early stage a distinctive system of workers ' self-management that has been emulated to some extent elsewhere in the socialist world ( Horvat , 1969 ; Broekmeyer , 1970 ) . Individual capitalist countries have also been studied , with more or less thoroughness . The American social structure has been analysed by Williams ( 1965 ) , and there is an interesting study of the USA as the first new nation ' by Lipset ( 1963 ) . A particularly good analysis of a distinctive society within a larger political entity , inspired by a growing national self-consciousness in the 1960s , is Rioux and Martin 's French-Canadian Society ( 1964 ) . There are a number of studies of West European nations . One outstanding work , by a historian , is that of modern France from 1848 to 1945 , which ranges widely over the class structure , marriage and morals , everyday life , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1979-81 ) . An illuminating study of // Germany ( Dahrendorf , 1965 ) analyses the long road into modernity ' from Imperial Germany , through the Weimar Republic and the Nazi dictatorship , to the two Germanies ' of the present day . There is , I think , no such notable single work on Britain , with the rather surprising exception of an early study , very sociological in its approach , of the condition of England ' ( Masterman , 1909 ) . The most interesting recent studies , understandably enough , are those which concentrate on Britain 's long-term economic decline in relation to the peculiarities of the class structure and of the traditional culture ( Wiener , 1981 ; Pollard , 1984 ; Gamble , 1985 ) . Clearly , it is extremely difficult to analyse the structure of a large and complex society in the context of its historical development , and the difficulties are compounded when we try to define and classify the types of society ' . Nevertheless , this is the kind of analysis , involving comparative and historical studies , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of any aspect of social life , no matter how small-scale it may be , in a systematic framework . What should be recognized , however , is that pure ' instances of the different types of society are not to be expected , and it is better to regard them as ideal types ' in Max Weber 's sense ; that is , as intellectual constructs which do not describe any actual society , but are useful in directing the analysis and investigation of actual societies.5 Civilization and Culture The terms civilization ' and culture ' are widely used , with a variety of meanings , in ordinary discourse and in sociological writing . The Oxford English Dictionary defines to civilize ' as to bring out of a state of barbarism , to instruct in the arts of life ; to enlighten and refine ' , and quotes in illustration Addison 's line , to civilize the rude unpolish 'd world ' . Civilization ' is then the civilized condition or state ' . Culture ' is defined as the training and refinement of mind , tastes and manners ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intellectual side of civilization ' . The terms have often been used in this way in general writing on the intellectual and artistic aspects of human society . Clive Bell ( 1928 ) , however , employs them in a narrower way to refer to the condition of refinement or enlightenment of a small elite in society , and this is one of the modern usages examined in an illuminating study by Raymond Williams ( 1958 ) . Many of the early social scientists used the terms to distinguish between savage ' and civilized ' societies , or between nature // peoples ' and culture peoples ' ; the point of division being the invention of writing . There are many examples of this usage in the works of the eighteenth-century Scottish historians mentioned earlier , in L. H. Morgan 's Ancient Society ( 1877 ) which distinguishes between savagery ' , barbarism ' and civilization ' , and in the early anthropological literature . The usage persists in a customary differentiation between primitive ' and civilized ' societies , though the terminology here is largely a matter of convenience . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ civilization ' or culture ' on one side , and savagery ' on the other , but between civilization ' and culture ' as applicable to all human societies . The distinction was made most clearly and elaborately by Alfred Weber ( 1935 ) , who differentiated between three processes in human history : social process , civilization and culture . I shall discuss his general scheme later , in examining the problems of social change . By civilization he meant primarily scientific and technical knowledge and the command which they give over natural resources ; by culture , the artistic , religious , philosophical and similar products of a society . A similar usage is the common distinction in anthropological and archaeological writing between material culture ' and non-material culture ' . More recently , culture ' has become a central concept in social anthropology , and has been given a very wide meaning . The major contribution here was that of Malinowski ( 1930 ) , who defined culture as comprising inherited artefacts , goods , technical processes , ideas , habits and values ' .6 He also included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not be really understood except as part of culture ' . In a later essay , Malinowski reiterated these views : culture obviously is the integral whole consisting of implements and consumers ' goods , of constitutional charters for the various social groupings , of human ideas and crafts , beliefs and customs ' . Further , the essential fact of culture as we live it and experience it , as we can observe it scientifically , is the organization of human beings into permanent groups ' ( 1944 , pp. 36 , 43 ) . The most important feature in Malinowski 's use of the term was his conception of culture as an integral whole , within which the functions of the various parts ( institutions ) could be studied. ? In other discussions the term culture ' has been used in the same broad way ( for example , by Kluckhohn , 1953 , and Hallowell , 1953 ) , but there has been a tendency to distinguish more strictly between culture and social structure , especially among British social anthropologists . Thus Firth ( 1951 , p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of looking at the same phenomenon : social structure ' refers to the relations between individuals and the form of those relations , while culture ' refers to the component of accumulated resources , immaterial as well as material , which the people inherit , employ , transmute , add to , and transmit ' ; it is all learned behaviour which has been socially acquired ' .8 This seems a valid and useful distinction , which corresponds broadly with a distinction often made in sociology between the study of social structure ( or the comparative study of social institutions ) and the sociologie de 1'esprit , that is , the sociology of mind or culture , which includes as one important part the sociology of knowledge . In studying culture we are concerned with ideas and values such as are found in religious and moral codes , in literature , science , philosophy , art and music . The term civilization ' has not acquired the same central importance as culture ' in either sociology or social anthropology , and it is used in a very general and imprecise way.9 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to have been widely adopted , although Maclver advanced it independently and emphasized its significance ) 0 Civilization has remained largely a historian 's term , and is often used to describe what anthropologists would refer to as a culture ; for example , in Burckhardt 's The Civilization of the Renaissance in Italy ( 1860 ) . But in the work of Arnold Toynbee ( 1934 ? 56 ) the term ' civilization ' is given a different meaning , which may contribute to a more precise sociological conception . Toynbee distinguishes twenty-one independent civilizations ( which he then confusingly calls societies ' ) as intelligible fields of historical study ' . These civilizations ' are distinguished from primitive societies ' , along lines which I mentioned earlier ( Vol. 1 , pp. 147 ? 9 ) . We need not be concerned here with Toynbee 's view that only civilizations and not societies ( which he refers to as nation-states , city-states , and the like ) are intelligible fields ' of study . From the sociologist 's point of view the contrary is true : actual societies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's discussion is of great interest in drawing attention to the fact that distinct societies are related to each other by sharing a common culture and cultural tradition . The number of societies thus related may be a significant feature of social development . It should be noted that a similar conception of civilization was briefly formulated by Durkheim and Mauss , in their Note sur la notion de civilisation ' ( 1913 ) , where they observed that although social phenomena could ordinarily be most usefully studied within well-defined units such as particular societies , there were some phenomena // which transcended these limits and which they proposed to call phenomena of civilization ' . We can now suggest a consistent , though still broad and general , usage for the terms culture and civilization . By culture we mean the ideational aspects of social life , as distinct from the actual relations and forms of relationship between individuals ; and by a culture the ideational aspects of a particular society . The distinction which Alfred Weber made between culture ' and civilization ' can be recognized by distinguishing between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , since it differentiates two elements within culture as a whole , and does not lend itself to a rigorous and overemphatic distinction between two fundamentally different types of phenomena . Weber made the distinction because he wished to contrast the growth and diffusion of science and technology with the uniqueness and independence of cultural products in each epoch and place . But it is not demonstrated that there is no development in the cultural sphere , or that cultural products can not be diffused ; and at the same time it is evident that within a particular society the material and non-material elements of culture are closely interconnected . Finally , by a civilization we mean a cultural complex formed by the identical major cultural features of a number of particular societies . We might , for example , describe Western capitalism as a civilization , in which specific forms of science , technology , religion , art and so on are to be found in a number of distinct societies . I shall not attempt here to classify civilizations , but only remark that a sociological classification would probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the latter is a valuable guide.i " The concepts of culture ' and civilization ' are obviously important in studying India and other developing countries today , for one of the outstanding questions concerns the relationship between the traditional culture and the values and beliefs which have been introduced from the West . Here we can study empirically the question of the material and non-material elements in culture . The developing countries have imported modern science , technology , and forms of economic organization , but is it the case that the non-material culture has been unaffected and has remained unchanged ? According to Alfred Weber 's conception material culture is transmissible from one society to another , while non-material culture is unique , incommunicable , and bound to time and place . The developing countries may acquire science and technique from the West , but they // will retain their own systems of religion and philosophy , their own forms of art , which , so far as they change at all , will change unpredictably through the influence of outstanding individuals working within the traditional culture . This view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these two elements in culture . The existence of socialist , communist and other political parties demonstrates the absorption of Western political philosophies and values . Parliamentary government in India and other countries shows the acquisition not merely of a system of government machinery , but also of political ideas and concep-tions of how a political community should be organized . Else-where , in China and Cuba , the whole social structure is being refashioned under the influence of Marxist thought which , though it has been modified to take account of different structural and cultural conditions , is still manifestly a Western doctrine . It may be said that some of the new values can be related to particular elements in the traditional culture , but that is only because ( contrary to Weber 's view ) there are many similarities in the doctrines of the major world religions , philosophies and ethical systems . The importance given to particular aspects of these doctrines may well vary with changes in material culture and in social structure . This is not to deny that particular cultures and areas of civilization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ world , Latin America ? have distinctive features , but simply to propose that these should be considered in relation to other features which are more universalistic in character , and to the impact which present social changes are having on cultural life . There is now much intermingling of cultures throughout the world , 12 one aspect of which is the growing assertion of the universal elements in human culture , and another the recognition of the value of many diverse variations on the common theme ( and a gradual aban-donment of a Eurocentric view of the world ) . These general observations provide a starting point for socio-logical inquiry . How are the various elements of culture , ' tradi-tional ' and Western ' , perceived and grasped by individuals and by different social groups ? How do they appear in popular literature and other media ( science fiction against the Ramayana ) ? A book published in the late 1950s ( Hoggart , 1957 ) depicted , in a striking fashion , the changes in the culture of the English working class , and there is great scope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developing countries . In a more formal way , changes in education and in law bring about a modification of cultural values , and their influence will be // discussed in later chapters . Sociological research in these various fields should be able to show how culture changes or persists , how new elements are incorporated or rejected , and how tradi-tional elements are conserved , modified or abandoned . But the formulation of a contrast or opposition between traditional ' culture and modern ' culture in the developing countries should not lead us into the error of treating these types of culture ( and especially the latter ) in an unhistorical way , as if they were uniform , harmonious and unchanging . During the 1940s and 1950s many sociologists , under the influence of func-tionalist ideas , assumed too easily that the Western capitalist countries were stable ' societies , in which a modern ' culture ( to be emulated elsewhere ) existed in a more or less settled form . They virtually ignored the existence of an alternative socialist culture in diverse forms throughout Europe , as well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the 1960s the functionalist assumptions have been upset by the growth of vigorous and widespread movements directed against the estab-lished culture ( as has also happened in the socialist industrial countries of Eastern Europe ) , while the meaning and value of modernity ' itself has been questioned by the post-modernist movement , which harks back in some respects to the idea of community expressed by Tunnies . Such problems of cultural conflict and transformation in both industrial and developing countries will be examined more fully in later chapters dealing with the forms of social control and theories of social and cultural change . 8 Economic Institutions Modern economic theories have not , on the whole , shown much interest in the study of economic structure , although many economics textbooks contain brief accounts of the organization of industry , the division of labour , the structure of enterprises , and so on . Economic sociology , on the other hand , is almost entirely concerned with problems of structure ; its major fields of interest , which we shall examine in turn , have been the division of labour @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ economy and structural changes ( especially the process of industrialization ) , the structure of the industrial enterprise or factory , and industrial relations . The Division of Labour One of the best known of Durkheim 's works is his study of the division of labour ( 1893 ) in which he analysed the social functions of the division of labour and sought to show how in modern societies , by contrast with primitive societies , it is the principal source of social cohesion or social solidarity . In the course of his inquiry , Durkheim distinguished two types of solidarity , mechanical and organic , which he associated with two types of law that he called repressive and restitutive . In a later part of the book Durkheim discussed abnormal forms ' of the division of labour in modern industrial societies , which diminish rather than promote social cohesion , and distinguished two principal forms : the anomie and the forced ' division of labour . By the first he meant a condition of extreme specialization of labour in which the individual became isolated in his specialism ; and particularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital and labour . Durkheim proposed as remedies the fostering of regular and prolonged contacts through professional associations and corporations , and through institutional arrangements for discussion and negotiation between capital and labour . By the second form Durkheim meant a condition in which individuals did not freely choose their occupations but were forced into them . He regarded this discrepancy between the abilities of // individuals and the functions imposed upon them as a principal source of class conflict . Durkheim thought that modern societies could and would get rid of these abnormal forms of the division of labour , and it is interesting to consider the extent to which his expectations have been realized . In capitalist societies the relations between capital and labour have been institutionalized in elaborate procedures for consultation , negotiation and arbitration ; and the choice of occupations has become wider for many people as a result of educational expansion and changes in the occupational structure . The effects may have been to reduce , in some measure , the intensity of class conflict , especially during the period of expansion of welfare capitalism ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a class compromise ' which was established at that time , and to the emergence of a corporatist ' form of society dominated by large corporations and organized labour with which the interventionist state negotiates in order to maintain social stability ( Offe , 1980 ; Panitch , 1980 ) . The situation is different in socialist societies where both the managers of collectively owned enterprises and the trade unions are subject to the control of a single dominant party , and the development of independent trade unions is strongly resisted ( as in the case of Solidarity in Poland ) , but there is nevertheless a large area of consultation and negotiation ; and the distinctive Yugoslav system of self-management enables the division of labour to be overcome , at least in some degree , through widespread participation in the management of economic enterprises and other associations . Many sociologists have discussed the relation between the division of labour and social stratification . Marx 's theory connected the existence of classes with the division of labour , and especially with what he called the first great distinction between manual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society ' in which the division of labour would be overcome ( at least in that sense which Durkheim referred to as a forced division ' ) by being brought under the conscious control of the producers ( Mohun , 1983 ) .1 A quite different early theory is that of Schmoller ( 1890 ) , who defined classes as occupational groups created by the division of labour and maintained by heredity ; a conception which finds an echo in some more recent studies of the ranking of occupations in terms of prestige as a basis for investigations of the extent of social mobility , where particular attention has been given to the recruitment of the more prestigious and influential professions . // The traditional Indian caste system displays a particularly close and formal relationship between occupations and social status . In the past , new castes were often formed when changes in technique occurred or entirely new occupations came into existence . Hutton ( 1951 ) quotes an observation by Enthoven in 1932 concerning the formation of a new caste of chauffeurs : Modern India , having created a caste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is almost ripe for a Rolls Royce caste rejecting food or marriage with the Fords ' ( p. 117 ) . In the more recent development of new industrial occupations the formation of new castes does not seem to be an important feature , and more significance attaches to the growth of trade unions and of class differences ; but it is still of interest to study the influence of established castes on recruitment to high status occupations and the persistence of traditional caste distinctions in new forms ( Bottomore , 1975b , ch. 10 ) . These questions will be discussed more fully in Chapter 11 below ; meanwhile we should note another important field of research , which concerns the social and psychological effects of the detailed division of labour in modern production . Friedmann ( 1956 ) examined the modern division of labour as it affects both work and leisure , provided an excellent review of research up to that date , and in a statistical appendix presented data on the extent and character of specialization and the subdivision of tasks in a number of industrial societies . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions of the division of labour : if highly subdivided jobs are to have meaning restored to them , certain conditions must play a part which Durkheim has failed to take into account : in particular , economic and social equality must be accorded to the worker , making him a full member , with equal rights , of the community to which he belongs ... But even this is insufficient ... A sense of solidarity is quite incapable of transforming the microscopic nature of tiny work units , if they are the only jobs allotted to the worker and he is chained to them for weeks , for months or even years . . . The present reaction against job simplification , the multiplication of experiments with transfer , work rotation , and even job enlargement , show that the division of labour is not necessarily a good thing in itself ; also that it would be too easy a solution to our problem to treat as abnormal ' the vast majority of its effects upon our technical civilization.2 ( pp. 75 ? 6 ) Friedmann went on to note @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalist production ? either the solidarity of all those engaged in production in an enterprise or branch of industry , or the solidarity of workers as a class ? and // that it is the latter which has developed most strongly up to the present time . There is another aspect of the social division of labour which has acquired increasing importance . Marx argued that capitalist production always required a reserve army of labour ' ( i.e. unemployed workers ) , which would expand in periods of economic depression , as at the present time in the capitalist industrial countries . But this phenomenon has also to be seen in the context of the international division of labour , determined in part by the activities of multinational corporations and governments , which effectively transfers some of the costs of economic crisis to the poorer countries . Moreover , a new order of problems has emerged in the capitalist countries themselves with the surge of technological innovation ( and specifically , the increasing automation of production , distribution and a variety of services ) which steadily diminishes the quantity of human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ what kind of society , the reduction of necessary working time will be accomplished through permanent large-scale unemployment or through some collective reorganization of the whole labour process.3 Property Property , according to Hobhouse ( 1913a , p. 6 ) , is to be conceived in terms of the control of man over things ' , a control which is recognized by society , more or less permanent , and exclusive . Property may be private ( individual or collective ) or common . In his account of the development of property Hobhouse observed that there is some personal private property in all societies , but that in many primitive societies the principal economic resources are communally owned ( e.g. hunting land , grazing land , pasture ) . In more developed agricultural societies private ownership comes to predominate , but Hobhouse pointed out that although tribal common ownership disappears , common ownership may be maintained for the joint family . Lowie ( 1950 , ch. 6 ) , in an excellent short account of property which uses comparative material from primitive and civilized societies , presents much the same view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , including names , dances , songs , myths , ceremonial regalia , gifts , weapons , household implements . So far as the instruments of production ' are concerned there are differences between hunters and food-gatherers , where the land is tribal property ( not always well defined ) , and // agriculturalists and pastoralists . Among agriculturalists individual private property in land is frequently found , though the clan or tribe may still exercise some control over its use or alienation . In the case of pastoralists , land may be communally owned but not the livestock : the ownership of livestock strongly develops the sense of individual property ' . Common ownership by a joint family occurs in many societies . In Europe , the Yugoslav Zadruga was a well-known example , but there were similar forms of property in other peasant societies . Most of these had given place to individual ownership by the early twentieth century . The nature of property rights in the Hindu joint family in the Vedic period is not entirely clear . Macdonell and Keith ( 1912 , Vol. 1 , p. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ idea that the property of the family was family property : it is clear that it was the property of the head of the house , usually the father , and that the other members of the family only had moral claims upon it which the father could ignore . . . ' But Kapadia ( 1958 , p. 194 ) has concluded that there is no clear indication in the Vedic literature that the patriarchal family was the only type of family organization . Later , according to the same writer , there were tendencies towards the disintegration of the joint family , and the scope of individual property was broadened , but the old patriarchal tradition was utilized to strengthen the joint family . Thus , at no period was there common family property , but in later periods there were restraints upon the powers of the family head to alienate property ( pp. 200 ff ) . In general , with the development of agriculture , manufacture , and commerce , individual or collective ownership of productive resources was extended , but some common ownership continued in most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ feudal Europe where the community retained a general control of cultivation and certain rights in the settlement of disputes . In Russia such community control lasted until the present century . The characteristic feature of all these property systems , as Hobhouse emphasized , was that they were concerned with property for use , and even where private ownership was highly developed there remained some community control and responsibility for ensuring that no member became entirely destitute . Property for power , and unlimited individual acquisition of wealth , reached a peak in nineteenth-century capitalist Europe and North America , but was relatively quickly subjected to some community restraints . The recent history of property is very largely a history of the imposition or reimposition of such restraints upon the // private owners of economic resources , and in a later phase the deliberate redistribution or appropriation of such resources by the community . A number of writers have attempted to distinguish the principal types of property system , or stages in the development of property . I have already mentioned Hobhouse 's scheme , which has three phases : the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ little inequality , and economic resources are owned in common or are strictly controlled by the community ; the second in which wealth increases , great inequalities appear , and private ownership escapes from community control ; and a third in which a conscious attempt is made to diminish inequality , and to restore community control . This scheme has some resemblances to the Marxist distinction into three stages : that of the primitive classless society , followed by class differentiation and the growth of inequality , and the final stage of a classless society at a higher level . Vinogradoff ( 1920 ) distinguished four principal stages : the establishment of property rights in a tribal and communal context , the application of the notion of tenure to land , the development of individual appropriation , and finally the imposition of restrictions under the influence of modern collectivist ideas . More recent writers have emphasized the complexity of property systems and have rejected the notion of a unilinear evolution . There have been a number of comparative studies of property in primitive societies , which illustrate the difficulty of determining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950 , ch. 6 ; Herskovits , 1952 , chs. 14-17 ) . Nevertheless , the evolution of property in Western Europe is fairly clear ; it has been well documented by economic historians , and its recent phases are reflected in property ideologies from John Locke 's natural right theory to the modern socialist doctrines ( Schlatter , 1951 ) . The history of property rights in India is less clear . The principal form of productive property was , until recently , land , and the tenure of land was regulated by Hindu customary law , later supplemented by Muslim law . Land tenure only became precisely determined during the period of British rule , after the Bengal Permanent Settlement Regulation of 1793 . It is doubtful whether under Hindu law , as recorded in the Code of Manu , there were any proprietary rights in land . The king had a right to a share of the produce , and the cultivator had the right to be protected in the occupation of his land and to transmit this to his heirs . The version of Muslim law which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have created some // proprietary rights ( Lindsay , 1941 , pp. 115 ? 27 ) . But the Permanent Settlement of 1793 created in Bengal , and later in other parts of India , definite proprietary rights for the zamindars , who were originally revenue collectors employed by the Muslim conquerors and who thus became landed gentry ( Gopal , 1949 ) . Elsewhere , in Bombay and Madras , a different settlement ( the ryotwari system ) created a class of peasant proprietors . The general results of British legislation were , therefore , to establish clear proprietary rights in land , to make land an alienable saleable commodity and thus to bring it within the general property system of a capitalist economy . Recent sociological studies of property in the capitalist industrial societies have been mainly concerned with two aspects ; first , the distribution of personal property and its social implications , and secondly , the concentration of productive property in large corporations and the related question of the separation between ownership and control . There have been numerous studies of the distribution of wealth and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in detail the inequalities of wealth and income , and their connection with the class system . More recent studies , some of which use data from the reports of the Royal Commission on the Distribution of Income and Wealth ( established in 1974 and disbanded in 1979 ) , include Atkinson ( 1974 ) , Routh ( 1980 ) , Scott ( 1982 ) and Field ( 1983 ) . They show that both wealth and income are very unequally distributed ( wealth more than income ) , but that there has been a trend towards greater equality over the long term ; thus the share of the top 1 per cent of wealth holders declined from about 69 per cent in 1911 ? 13 to 23 per cent in 1975 , and the share of the top 5 per cent from some 85 per cent to around 50 per cent , while the share of the bottom 80 per cent of the population increased from about 5 per cent to 18 per cent . Income inequalities have diminished somewhat more rapidly , largely as a result of progressive taxation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be noted that one major inequality ? between the earnings of men and women ? though it diminished in particular occupational categories , changed only slightly overall between 1913 ? 14 and 1978 ( Routh , 1980 , p. 123 ) . Britain is an exceptionally unequal society , and as Atkinson observed ( 1974 , p. 21 ) , It seems quite possible that , as far as the distribution of wealth is concerned , Britain has the doubtful distinction of leading the international inequality league . ' Moreover , since 1979 inequality has been increasing again as a result of changes in taxation and in the provision of public services , and the massive growth of unemployment . But there are clearly very // great inequalities in other capitalist societies , as is shown in the case of the USA by Mills ( 1956 , chs. 5 and 7 ) , Harrington ( 1962 ) , and Kolko ( 1962 ) . Elsewhere , in Europe ( and notably in Sweden and Austria ) , inequality has been mitigated by more strongly redistributive fiscal and social policies , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies is largely absent . In the socialist countries of Eastern Europe the accumulation of large amounts of personal wealth is impossible , but considerable inequalities of income , status and power exist ( Lane , 1982 ) which will be examined in Chapter 11 below . The rise of large corporations , including multinational corporations , is a distinctive feature of the development of capitalism in the twentieth century . The industrial capitalists of the early nineteenth century were both owners and managers of their enterprises , but as the enterprises grew larger more and more capital had to be drawn from outside , and this was made possible by joint-stock legislation . At present , the large companies which dominate the major branches of industry are managed and directed by individuals who do not own them . The owners of much of the capital are the thousands of small and medium shareholders who have little interest except in the profitability of the company and may not even know what it manufactures . In a well-known study , Berle and Means ( 1934 ) examined in detail the large corporations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for later theorizing about the managerial revolution ' and the transformation of capitalism ( Burnham , 1941 ; Berle , 1955 ) . These changes have been exaggerated by some writers . Although the managers of modern industry do not own the enterprises outright , they usually have an important shareholding and they are wealthy men in their own right ; there is no fundamental divorce between ownership of property and management of industry . Sargant Florence ( 1953 ) showed that on average in large companies , twenty shareholders out of some ten to twenty thousand hold , in Britain and America , nearly a third of voting shares ' , and this is quite enough to give them control of the company . He argued that there is certainly evidence for believing that the managerial revolution has not proceeded as far as is sometimes thought ( or stated without thought ) and that leadership and the ultimate decision on top policy may remain in many companies or corporations with the largest capital shareholders ' . Mills ( 1956 ) indicated how ownership and control are interwoven in American industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are not two distinct and clearly segregated groups ' . A more recent study ( Scott , 1979 ) which // examines in detail the structure of large corporations , in the context of two alternative theories ? of industrial society ' and of capitalist society ' ? also concludes that the developmental trends in industrial capitalism have not been associated with the demise of the capitalist class . . . a propertied class still exists and . . . derives its advantages from ownership of company shares and participation in strategic control . The impersonal ' structure of possession has not resulted in a loss of power by wealthy persons . ( p. 175 ) This study also draws attention to the increasing effective possession ' of industrial companies by financial institutions ( insurance companies , pension funds , banks ) , a phenomenon which is investigated thoroughly , in the case of Britain , in Coakley and Harris ( 1983 ) . The changes in conceptions of property which the emergence of large corporations and stateowned enterprises has brought about will be discussed further in the following section . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the classification of societies has often been based upon a preliminary classification of economic systems . Such was the case with Marx 's distinction of five major types of society : primitive society , ancient society , Asiatic society , feudal society , and capitalist society . In accordance with Marx 's basic assumptions the distinction is made not only in terms of the level of technology and the mode of production , but also in terms of property and class relations . Rather similar classifications have been proposed by other writers , especially by the German historical economists and sociologists , such as Bucher and Sombart . This broad classification of types of economy seems to have been generally accepted , and there have also been a number of attempts to distinguish subgroups within the principal types . Thus Hobhouse , Wheeler and Ginsberg ( 1915 ) , as I noted earlier , correlated different types of economic organization among primitive societies with differences in other social institutions ( stratification , government , etc . ) . The distinction between food-gatherers , hunters , pastoralists and agriculturalists , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , though some anthropologists ( e.g. Forde , 1941 ) have cast doubt upon the correlations between the type of economy and the forms of other social // institutions by showing that there is very considerable variation in institutions within the same economic type . The same is true , no doubt , of feudal societies and modern capitalist or socialist societies , but this does not exclude fundamental similarities between societies which have the same type of economy and fundamental differences where the economy differs . In the case of modern capitalism , Pirenne ( 1914 ) distinguished several stages in the social history of capitalism ' , in terms of the principal directions of economic activity and the social groups which took the leading role at each stage . Sociologists , from Marx onwards , have devoted much of their effort to the analysis of capitalism as an economic and social system ( Bottomore , 1985 ) . Aside from the debate about the origins of modern capitalism , initiated by Weber ( 1904 ? 5 ) and critically reviewed by Marshall ( 1982 ) , most attention has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century , and particularly to the growth of large-scale enterprise and of state intervention in the economy . Marxist writers have distinguished in various ways between nineteenth-century capitalism and the monopoly capitalism ' ( Baran and Sweezy , 1966 ) , state monopoly capitalism ' ( Harris , 1983 ) , organized capitalism ' ( Hilferding , 1927 ; Habermas , 1973 , pt 2 , ch. 1 ) , or late capitalism ' ( Mandel , 1975 ) of the twentieth century , which they also connect with imperialism or with the ' peo-imperialism ' of the post-colonial period ( Brewer , 1980 , pt 3 ) . But the rapid growth of large enterprise , and the concentration of economic power , is to be found in all the industrial countries , whether their economic regime is one of predominantly private ownership of the means of production , mixed public and private ownership , or mainly collective ownership . In the USSR , as in Britain or the USA , a relatively small number of individuals manage the giant enterprises on which material well-being depends and decide major economic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has led to a reconsideration of the notion of property , and in particular the elaboration of a distinction between juridical ownership ' and effective possession ' ( Hegedus , 1976 , pp. 93 ? 105 ) ; and to critical studies of bureaucratic domination in state-socialist societies ' ( i.e. the USSR and other East European countries ) . In those capitalist countries in which some basic industries have been nationalized problems have arisen in the control of the public corporations which manage them . From the point of view of the employee and the ordinary citizen public bureaucracies may be no easier to deal with , and offer no greater opportunities // initiated as I have noted by Weber 's study ( 1904-5 ) , but arising ultimately from Marx 's theory , concerned the origins of capitalism . In Weber 's view the development of capitalism required a generalization of attitudes towards work and wealth which had previously been exceptional in human societies ( see also the concise discussion in Heilbroner , 1952 , ch. 2 ) . The social ethic of Protestantism aided the diffusion of such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capitalism in Western Europe and North America , and may also have contributed certain specific characteristics . The importance of values and ideologies in the functioning of economic systems is brought out in later writing on the decline of capitalism ' ; for example in Schumpeter 's ( 1942 ) study , where it is argued that the decay of capitalism will be largely the consequence of the rejection of bourgeois ' values , not of economic breakdown . The argument recalls Max Weber 's dictum : The Puritan wanted work to be his vocation ; we are forced to want it ' , which expresses disillusion and suggests eventual hostility to the culture of capitalism . Perhaps more significant is the recent development of a theory of industrial societies and industrialization which takes account of many social factors , including ideologies , and represents at present one of the main points of convergence of economics and sociology . The writing in this field emphasizes the distinction between two types oC economy , industrial and non-industrial , and is concerned with industrialism rather than capitalism since it is evident that industrialization @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and political contexts . Lewis ( 1955 ) deals comprehensively with the economic and other factors involved in economic growth : the desire for goods , attitudes to work , the influence of property systems , social mobility , religion and family structure , the effects of population growth , and the role of government . A more specific problem of industrialization , the recruitment and training of labour for industrial employment in agricultural countries , has been exhaustively studied by Moore ( 1951 ) . This is an outstanding problem in all non-industrial countries , for the agricultural worker who is brought into industrial work also moves from the village to the town , and the process of adjustment to the new conditions may be long and difficult . In Europe , the problem of peasant workers ' and their families has called forth much useful research in two countries of collectivist industrialization , Poland and Yugoslavia . In the previous chapter I made some critical comments on the distinction between non-industrial and industrial societies . This question will be considered further in a later chapter on social // change @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Third World , as will the more recent analyses of the development of both capitalist and socialist societies . The Industrial Enterprise and Industrial Relations Within the general field of study of industrial societies there has emerged a more limited branch of study , now called industrial sociology , which is concerned with two main aspects of industrial life : the internal organization of the enterprise and the social relationships existing there , and industrial relations in the wider sense of the relations between the different groups in industry , principally between owners and managers , supervisors and white collar workers , and manual workers . Two major books by Moore ( 1946 ) and Friedmann ( 1946 ) survey a large part of the field of industrial sociology in the immediate postwar period , and give some indication of how sociological studies of industry developed . In the first place , there were practical problems of fatigue , boredom , absenteeism and other factors which adversely affected output . The study of such problems became particularly urgent during the First World War with the growing demands upon industry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first systematic inquiries ( by psychologists ) were undertaken in Britain . The next phase was the rise of the scientific organization of work ' movement sponsored by the American engineer , Taylor , and enthusiastically received by manufacturers like Ford . A third phase was reached with the work of the human relations movement ' inspired by Elton Mayo , the first which had a distinctively sociological character ( Mayo , 1933 ; Roethlisberger and Dickson , 1939 ) . All these studies were basically concerned with productivity , and with the psychological and social factors affecting it . From another direction , the trade unions and the labour movement brought pressure to improve working conditions , to create a more humanly satisfying working environment , and to provide opportunities both for individual advancement and promotion , and for greater participation by employees in determining the organization of work processes . These interests converged to favour sociological studies of social relations in the enterprise , particularly as the problems became more acute with the development of mass-production , conveyor belt production , and more recently , automation . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , have been the interpersonal relations in working groups and their influence // upon productivity , the role of supervisors , problems of management and bureaucracy , the effects of specialized work and possible compensations in leisure time , and the problems created by technological change . Special attention has been given to particular groups of workers , such as young people and women workers . The volume of research and writing is now vast , but the major issues and findings are well summarized in the books by Friedmann and Moore mentioned above , and in a more recent survey by Parker et al . ( 1967 ) . Research in industry has covered publicly owned industries as well as private enterprise , and has been conducted in both capitalist and socialist industrial countries , as well as in the Third World . It was mentioned earlier that the concentration of economic power had revived interest in the problems of ' industrial democracy ' . This interest has been stimulated also by the discovery that the public ownership of industry did not resolve all the problems of the enterprise , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conflict ) ; and by concern over the meaninglessness ' of specialized industrial work , and its effects on the individual and on output . In fact , there have been numerous experiments , in recent years , in workers ' participation in management or workers ' selfmanagement , and these experiments have been closely studied by sociologists . There is an account of some of this research in Friedmann ( 1956 ) and in several more recent studies of the Yugoslav system ( Broekmeyer , 1970 ) . There have also been interesting new policies for a gradual socialization ' of industry and wider participation in management , notably the Swedish wage-earners investment funds ' , which are critically examined in Himmelstrand et al . ( 1981 , pt 4 ) . The other aspect of industrial sociology , industrial relations in the broad sense , was for a time overshadowed by the studies within the enterprise . There was even some inclination , especially among American sociologists , to explain the wider industrial relations in terms of relationships within the factory , and to reduce the latter to problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while entirely ignoring the broader institutional framework of property , the class system , and political institutions . But this phase has now passed . There have been numerous studies of the different groups involved in industrial conflict and negotiation , though these have tended to concentrate upon trade unions and to leave in some obscurity the structure and policies of the organizations of technicians , managers and owners . This is partly because the immediate postwar // growth of trade unions , and the more favourable social climate of the welfare state , gave them greater power , while the extension of public ownership created difficult problems of relationships between trade unions and the managements of nationalized industries . At all events there have been many investigations of trade union leadership and organization , though the character of these studies has tended to change in recent years as trade union power has diminished , with rising unemployment and the implementation of government policies , especially in Britain , which are specifically designed to curb that power . One aspect of postwar trade unionism which is especially significant is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , and in many countries their increasing militancy and radicalism . The processes of negotiation , arbitration and conflict have also been widely studied , though for the most part in a national context . One comprehensive analysis of industrial conflict in Britain from 1911 to 1945 ( Knowles , 1952 ) correlates strike activity with other social phenomena , and there are other more limited studies along the same lines ; but there have been few major attempts to undertake systematic comparisons between countries or between historical periods , though two books ( Kornhauser , Dubin and Ross , 1954 : Ross and Hartman , 1960 ) make some contribution in this direction , and there is a brief comparison of Britain and Scandinavia in Ingham ( 1974 ) . It is evident that industrial conflict is closely associated with questions of class and politics ; and the trade union movement , industrial relations and conflict have been analysed in very different ways in the context of alternative conceptions of the structure of capitalist ( and also socialist ) societies . Durkheim , as we saw , thought that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the economic sphere , and in particular capital and labour , were brought into a closer relationship and regulated by an interventionist state which represents the interests of society as a whole . Much subsequent writing on industrial relations has explicitly or implicitly adopted this conception . Marxist writers , on the other hand , conceive trade unions as class organizations , and regard industrial conflict as a major element in the class struggle , which may assume exceptional importance in some circumstances , through the mass strike ' ( Hyman , 1975 , 1984 ) . One significant issue which has not been fully explored , though it has become prominent recently with the rise of the Solidarity movement in Poland , is the role of trade unions , and the significance of industrial conflict , in the socialist countries . In this brief survey I have tried to illustrate the distinctiveness // of a sociological approach , which consists in studying economic phenomena in the context of the social structure as a whole . The division of labour , property ownership , the type of economic system and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as social stratification and the political order ? viewed in the light of the historical changes which they undergo ? may all be involved when we try to describe and explain a particular set of economic conditions or events in one society at a particular moment of time . 9 Political Institutions Political institutions are concerned with the distribution of power in society . Max Weber defined the state as a human community which successfully claims the monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force within a given territory ' . Thus the state is one of the important agencies of social control , whose functions are carried out by means of law , backed ultimately by physical force . It is one association within society , and not society as a whole . I discussed earlier the distinction established between civil society ' and the state , which was an important step in the formation of sociology as a science . The early sociologists , having established this distinction , proceeded to examine the relationship between civil society and the state , and to attempt a classification of political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their approach was evolutionary and they were interested especially in the origins and development of the state . Regarding the state as one association within society , and as characterized by definite territorial limits , and being acquainted through the growing literature of ethnography with societies which seemed to have no formal political organization , they were naturally led to consider the question of origins ; and some of them went on to speculate , under the influence of the philosophy of history , about the future of the state . This same philosophical view ( and the political revolutions of the age ) determined their interest in the different historical forms of the state , especially in Western civilization . I shall consider first , therefore , the theories of the state which provide the framework of sociological analysis , then the classifications of political systems , and finally discuss in greater detail political organization and political behaviour in present-day societies , which can be directly studied by social scientists and to which most of the literature is devoted . Theories of the State The early sociologists made a distinction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not , a formal political system , // but they made it in different ways and they diverged in their accounts of how the state originated . Spencer distinguished in his category of simple societies ' some which had no headship and others which had only occasional or unstable headship . It was only at the stage of doubly compound societies ' that any elaborate political organization was to be found . Hobhouse distinguished between three types of society characterized by different fundamental social bonds : kinship , authority and citizenship ; and in a study of primitive societies demonstrated a correlation between the level of economic development , increasing social differentiation , and the emergence and consolidation of a regular political authority . Marx and Engels , having elaborated a classification of societies in which the state came into existence only at a stage of economic development where antagonistic social classes appeared , found confirmation of their views in the anthropological researches of L. H. Morgan . Engels 's ( 1884 ) systematic formulation of the Marxist view was based upon Morgan 's work and Marx 's manuscript notes thereon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ broadly of two kinds . Spencer and Comte regarded it as a consequence of the increasing size and complexity of societies , in which warfare was a major factor . According to Spencer , war consolidated the compound society ' and still more the doubly compound society ' . Comte attributed to warfare the first great mission ' of bringing about the expansion of human societies and the establishment of settled political authority . These views agree in some respects with the theory of Oppenheimer ( 1907 ) who , criticizing Marxism , discovered the origin of the state and of social classes in the conquest of one tribe by another : the state is a juridical institution unilaterally imposed upon a conquered people by the conquerors , originally with the sole object of subjecting them to a tribute ' . In contrast , the Marxist theory accounts for the emergence of the state by differentiation into social classes within the community following the growth of productive forces and of wealth , though Marx himself , in discussing early societies , emphasized the importance of war in their expansion and in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropological study has confirmed some of these distinctions and modified others . It is generally agreed that some primitive societies lack a political authority , and Lowie ( 1950 , ch. 14 ) writes : The earliest communities must have been tiny , egalitarian groups corresponding to a Semang or Eskimo camp . Such a community was in the main a body of kindred . . . ' At the same time , the role of kinship in maintaining // social unity should not be exaggerated , as it probably was by Hobhouse , Morgan and others . Maine ( 1861 , p. 76 ) argued that in early societies kinship was the sole possible ground of community in political functions ' , but Lowie ( 1950 , p. 317 ) remarks that this exaggerates the correct view that kinship has played an enormous part in the social life of aboriginal and archaic peoples ' , and goes on to say : That the territorial tie is never wholly negligible is proved a fortiori by two extreme instances of kinship-dominated tribes , the Ifugao and the Yurok . ' One distinctive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ where a separate political authority exists it is closely bound up with kinship , religion and other institutions.1 From an analysis of the origins of the state the early sociologists went on to consider its development , in the framework of a general evolutionary scheme . Thus they discussed the question of how small communities developed into larger , politically organized societies . Some , like Spencer or Comte , emphasized military conquest , while others stressed the integration brought about by economic or religious developments . Fustel de Coulanges ( 1864 ) attributed the formation of the Greek and Roman cities to the elaboration of a more inclusive religion ( and his ideas profoundly influenced Durkheim 's theory of religion ) , while Marx saw the mainspring of development in the emergence , and transformations , of an economically dominant class , its pursuit of specific interests , and its conflict with subordinate classes . The nineteenth-century evolutionists also agreed broadly in tracing a course of development , in the more recent history of Western civilization , from authoritarian states to less coercive types of political system , variously termed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an eventual culmination of this process in a liberated classless society ' . What most of these writers neglected , however , was the rise of the most significant political form in the modern world ? the nation-state ? and the immense power of nationalism . There was some analysis of the phenomenon , particularly by Marxist thinkers in relation to imperialism ( Bauer , 1907 ; Brewer , 1980 ) , but it is only in the last few decades that sociologists have begun to give it the attention it merits ( Smith , 1971 ; Tilly , 1975 ; Bottomore , 1979 , ch. 5 ) . Besides these questions concerning the origins and development of the state we have also to consider how sociologists have conceived the nature of the state . Here there are two broad alternative conceptions : one which treats the state as essentially a coercive agency , another which regards it as a moral agency embodying some kind of social consensus . Clearly , for Marxists // the state , in class society , is an instrument of coercion , an essential means by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relatively simple view which Engels ( 1884 ) expounded has attracted much criticism , and has certainly been modified in later Marxist writing concerned with the specific characteristics of the modern democratic state ( as contrasted , for example , with the absolutist state , fascism , or military dictatorships ) , with the relative autonomy ' of the state in relation to class interests , and with the problem of the state and its role in the present-day socialist societies.2 More attention has also been given to Gramsci 's ( 1929 ? 35 ) distinction between state coercion and ' hegemony ' , which emphasizes the element of consent ( brought about by persuasion or ideology ' ) in the maintenance of domination.3 The coercive nature of the state is also emphasized by Oppenheimer ( 1907 ) and by Max Weber ( 1921 ) . Weber 's position is close to that of Marx in some respects , in recognizing that state power may be in the hands of a particular class . But there is a considerable divergence in Weber 's actual analysis of political power . First , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there is always and necessarily a dominant group in society . Secondly , his analysis is concerned above all with the ways in which domination is legitimated , and he makes a distinction between three types of legitimate domination : traditional , charismatic and legal-rational ( Mommsen , 1974 , ch. 4 ; Parkin , 1982 , ch. 3 ) . What is central in these conceptions of the state is the idea of domination and of an ultimate coercive power . On the other side stand those theories which emphasize the nature of the state as the expression of some kind of moral unity of a society . Hobhouse ( 1912 , p. 133 ) also defined the state as an association ' distinguished by its coercive power , by its supremacy , and by its claim to control all who dwell within its geographical limits ' , but in discussing the modern democratic state based upon the principle of citizenship he qualified this definition substantially in arguing that the people or at any rate the citizens , are the state ... Law is no longer a command imposed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it ' ( Hobhouse , 1911 , p. 133 ) . The most forceful statement of this view of the state is to be found in Durkheim 's ( 1950 ) brief discussion , which omits any reference to the state as a repressive organ associated with particular social interests : The state is a special organ responsible for elaborating certain representations which are valid for the collectivity . . . Strictly speaking , the state is the very organ of social thought ' ( p. 62 ) . // Types of Political System The early and classical sociologists , for the most part , conceived the different types of state or political system in terms of an evolutionary scheme , though Weber , who rejected the idea of a universal history , is something of an exception ( Mommsen , 1974 , ch. 4 ) . As Aron ( 1967 , Introduction ) argued , a sociology which tends towards the interpretation of society as a whole is almost irresistibly led to define social types ; and the definition of social types leads to the hypothesis of an evolution from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ political system which the nine-teenth-century sociologists distinguished were relatively few , and their evolutionary schemes were mainly relevant to Western civilization : tribal and archaic societies , city-states , feudal states and modern democracies were the principal forms considered . Thus the Asiatic type of society and government was little discussed ; but at the same time the rise and expansion of nation-states in the West was also neglected . At the present time it seems possible to outline a more comprehensive classification , which is set out schematically below : This classification is largely descriptive , but it takes into account the scale of societies , the economic system , social stratification , religion , and other factors which have been seen to be important in determining political structure . It does not imply a universal evolutionary scheme , or any unilinear process of political devel-opment , but it does provide a framework for analysing particular historical transitions ( e.g. from feudalism to capitalism and the // emergence of nation-states , or from absolutism to democracy ) and specific types of political regime ( in socialist and capitalist societies , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has many other complexities and poses a number of problems ( e.g. that some of the categories may overlap ) which can not be fully explored here , 5 and I shall confine myself to considering some examples of the major historical types of political system before turning in the following sections to a discussion of the political institutions of present-day societies . Earlier , I discussed the application to India of the concept of Asiatic society ' . This implied a political classification , since an essential feature of the Asiatic type of society is the existence of an authoritarian government ruling through a centralized bureaucracy . At the same time , however , we have to consider that this type of government is superimposed upon a large number of small , and to some extent self-governing , communities . Thus there are two levels of political organization and action . The centralized state may be little more than a tax collecting and public works agency ; there is no fundamental political integration , but , on the contrary , a strong tendency for the separate units within the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unity in India we can see at work the forces of conquest and co-operation discussed above . India was unified at various times by conquest , by the Maurya and Gupta Empires , the Muslim conquest , and most completely by the British conquest . Yet in all these periods , and still more in the periods of breakdown of the central authority , the unity of the society was maintained largely by the caste system and religion . Secular and religious authority were closely related , and the influence of the Brahmins seems to have gradually increased . Moreover , the law books were written and interpreted by Brahmins , and law in India retained until recently a strongly religious character ( see Chapter 15 below ) . The situation resembled that in other Asiatic societies ' discussed by Wittfogel ( 1957 ) : Byzantium , the Inca Empire , ancient Egypt . The important political role of priests seems to have been connected in part with the rigid stratification system , which required religious justification . In later Indian history this political structure was complicated by the introduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it was finally dissolved by the development of capitalism and the growth of towns as industrial and commercial centres , under British rule , and by the emergence of a democratic political system after independence . The political system of the European feudal societies was // characterized by Bloch ( 1931 , 1939 ? 40 ) as the rule of a warrior class , which had securely in its hands the ownership of land , military force , and political authority , in a decentralized political system where the power of the central state was often weak and precarious . The emergence from this system of the absolute monarchies was a long and complex process , in which the early development of capitalism and the growth of towns played an important part ; it involved the substitution of hired soldiers for vassals and the constitution of a corps of salaried officials ( both requiring enhanced financial resources ) , and marked the first stage in the formation of modern nation-states ( Bloch , 1931 ; Anderson , 1974b ; Tilly , 1975 ) . The transformations of the political system in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factor is the rise of capitalism and , at a later stage , of socialism as an alternative to it . Elsewhere in the world the course of development has been different ; starting out from diverse forms of society , profoundly affected by the expansion of capitalism and colonial conquest , new independent nations have emerged which are inextricably involved in the world economy and global politics . In the following sections I shall examine in particular the main features of politics in the modern industrial societies and in the societies of the Third World . Political Institutions and Behaviour in Industrial Societies We must begin by reiterating the distinction made earlier between capitalist and socialist industrial societies , while recognizing that there are considerable variations within each of these categories ; and on the other hand , that some general characteristics of political systems in all the industrial societies can be identified : ( 1 ) the political community as a nation-state , ( 2 ) the existence of political movements , parties and pressure groups , ( 3 ) the election of the political executive by universal adult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affairs by a large centralized bureaucracy . The first of these characteristics , as noted earlier , received relatively little attention from sociologists until recent decades , and the significance of the nation-state has been altogether underestimated , especially in its bearing upon the development of capitalism . Similarly , nationalism as an ideology , and its connections with religion or class interests , have been much less // closely investigated than have other political ideologies- Yet the force of nationalism in the modern world is very great , and creates problems in relation to international order . Some of the major problems of the present day arise from the contradictions between the need for an international political authority and the forces of new nationalisms and old and new imperialisms . The study of political parties and elections in the capitalist societies has developed rapidly in the past few decades , along several different lines . The connection between political parties and social classes , which is the central conception of the Marxist theory of politics and the state , has been thoroughly investigated . The general relationship between class interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1968 ) . Numerous inquiries have shown that the main political parties in most societies are perceived by the electors as representing class interests , and that most electors vote in accordance with what they take to be their own class interests . Nevertheless , the relationship is by no means simple or unchanging . Political parties are also seen as representing diverse elements in a national tradition , and as being concerned in some degree with general , rather than class or sectional , interests . Moreover , not all individuals vote in accordance with their social class position as an external observer might define it . In British General Elections between 1951 and 1974 , approximately one-third of those in the working class voted for the Conservative Party , although this party is regarded by a large majority of electors as the party of the upper class ' .6 Over the same period some 20 per cent of those in the middle class voted for the Labour Party . At the same time there was a general loss of support for the two class-based ' parties , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ held an enduring allegiance to the party of their occupational class ' by the election of 1974 ( Crewe et al. , 1977 ) . In the more recent elections of 1979 and 1983 there was a further loss of workingclass support for the Labour Party . In the USA , although the class system differs in important ways from that in European countries , and class ideologies are less influential , a similar correlation between socio-economic status and electoral choice has been demonstrated , but with the same or greater divergences . There are in particular important regional and religious influences upon party affiliation and electoral choice ( Heberle , 1951 , ch. 12 ; Lipset , 1960 ) . In some countries , however , class alignment appears to be stronger ; thus in Sweden in the 1960s working-class support for the Social Democratic Party was around 80 per cent ( Scase , 1975 ) , and more generally in Western Europe , in contrast // with the British experience , membership of working-class parties , and electoral support for them , has increased since 1945 ( Bottomore , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the changing relation between class and party is the continued growth of the middle classes in all the industrial societies ( see Chapter 11 below ) ; but the political consequences of this process have been interpreted in diverse ways . Some analyses envisage the gradual consolidation of predominantly middle-class , post-industrial societies , characterized by a broad political consensus and in a certain sense classless ' ; others , a more conservative middle-class orientation , hostile to socialism and tending towards the revival of a more laissez-faire type of economy and society ; and yet others , the emergence of a new kind of dichotomous class structure , constituted by the controllers and managers of the institutions of economic and political decision-making on one side , and the rest of the population , reduced to a condition of restricted and dependent participation in public affairs , on the other , with the middle classes divided between the two categories on the basis of educational levels and the possession or non-possession of relevant technical knowledge ( Touraine , 1969 ; Bottomore , 1979 , ch. 1 ; Abercrombie and Urry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties stems from the classical work by Michels ( 1911 ) , who concluded that modern mass parties were not , and could not be , democratically organized , in so far as they were engaged in a struggle for power ; on the contrary , they were ruled by a small oligarchy which controlled the bureaucratic apparatus . Michels was led , like his mentor and friend Max Weber , to question the possibility of any broad democratic participation , in the sense of government by the people ' , in a modern industrial society , 7 and ( again like Weber ) he came to emphasize strongly the role of the leader ' and in due course was converted to the cause of Mussolini and Italian fascism . His study of political parties ( especially in its second edition , 1925 ) , a critic has argued , is to be understood as the work of someone who has passed over from revolutionary Marxism into the camp of elite theory ' ( Beetham , 1981 ) . The oligarchic and bureaucratic tendencies in political parties ( and in political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as creating problems for democratic participation rather than making any extension of democracy impossible ( Brym , 1980 , ch. 3 ) , but the tendencies themselves are real and important . A thorough study of British political parties ( McKenzie , 1963 ) broadly confirmed Michel 's analysis , and a comparative study by Duverger ( 1951 ) // also brings out the oligarchic character of party leadership , especially in those societies which have a single-party system . The critical attitude towards democracy expressed by the elite theorists bears upon one of the main features of the development of political regimes in the modern world , namely the transition from absolutist and authoritarian states to democratic systems of government . The growth of modern democracy has been a very slow and halting process ; universal and equal suffrage has only been achieved during the twentieth century , in many cases since 1945 , and democratic regimes have quite frequently been destroyed again by fascist movements and military dictatorships . Thus , even in the narrow sense of the right of all adult citizens to choose their leaders by means @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ delicate growth . Furthermore , the development of the oligarchic and bureaucratic tendencies that I have mentioned , the cult of leaders ( exemplified by Weber 's advocacy of what he called a plebiscitarian leader-democracy ' ) , and the strong resistance by dominant groups to those extensions of democracy which would encourage the regular participation of citizens in decision-making at all levels of social life are all serious impediments to government by the people ' . Weber 's preoccupation with the growth of bureaucratic power has been echoed in many more recent studies of bureaucracy in various spheres : in public administration , industry , trade unions and political parties . There are many divergent lines of inquiry ( Mouzelis , 1967 ; Albrow , 1970 ) , but one major emphasis has been on the separation between leaders and masses in large-scale organizations of all kinds , and a second on the possible emergence of a bureaucratic or managerial ruling class . The latter question has been discussed especially in relation to the socialist countries , which demonstrate , according to some scholars , the truth of Weber 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the proletariat ' but the dictatorship of the official ' . At all events there is now considerable criticism of bureaucratism ' in socialist societies ( Hegedus , 1976 ) as well as more extensive discussion of the emergence of a new dominant class in such societies ( see Chapter 11 below ) . But the most salient feature of these societies is the existence of a single party which monopolizes political power . This situation is justified in terms of Marxist theory as the expression of social unity resulting from the elimination of antagonistic social classes . The dictatorship of the party is equated with the dictatorship of the proletariat in a transitional period during which the foundations of the ultimate classless society are being laid . According // to the orthodox Marxist theory , after the achievement of the classless society the state , and presumably all political parties , will wither away ' . Critics , however , have pointed out that the coercive apparatus of the state has vastly increased in many socialist societies , to the detriment of individual liberty , and that the social distinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mass of people on the other , are very great . The major sociological criticism of orthodox or official ' Marxism is that it asserts that political power is always based upon , and can only be based upon , economic power , and at the same time fails to analyse in a scientific and exact way the notion of economic power ' . The latter point was briefly discussed in the previous chapter , where I drew attention to the ambiguities in the notion of ownership of the means of production ' . The assertion of a one-to-one causal relationship between economic power and political power goes back to the eighteenth-century distinction between civil society ' and the state , and to the impression made upon social theorists by the rapid emancipation of economic life from political regulation in the early stages of industrial capitalism . But in a broader historical perspective , while recognizing the important influence of economic structure upon other social institutions , we must also admit the relative autonomy of politics , as has been done increasingly in recent Marxist theory , and as Hilferding @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The major question is then the nature and degree of the state 's autonomy , in specific historical conditions , and this has been vigorously debated in recent decades ( Giddens , 1981 , ch. 9 ; Miliband , 1983b , pt 1 ; Offe , 1984 ) . It is clear , at least , that we can no longer ignore the issues of bureaucratic or managerial power , the formation and influence of various elites , or the activities of pressure groups in the political process . Political sociology has dealt with a far greater range of subjects than can be discussed here . The detailed study of administrative behaviour and organization has resulted in much useful knowledge which can be , and is , applied to improve the efficiency of administration . The conflict of ideologies , within and between societies , has promoted studies of the social influences upon political beliefs , and of the influence which those beliefs may in turn have upon political power ( Larrain , 1979 ; Abercrombie , Hill and Turner , 1980 ) . Mannheim contributed greatly to this branch of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on conservative thought ' ( 1927a ) . Socialist ideologies have been less studied , but Bougie ( 1925 ) analysed the influence of social structure upon the emergence and spread of egalitarian ideas , and // Raymond Aron ( 1955 ) examined the social factors which affect the acceptance of Marxism . More recently sociologists have studied the extent to which science and technology have become ideologies in the advanced industrial societies ( Habermas , 1968 ; Leiss , 1972 ) . These diverse studies have led to an increasing interest in the political role of intellectuals ( Brym , 1980 ) , especially in the particular situation of developing countries where intellectuals frequently represent modern Western culture and find themselves separated from , and in conflict with , the traditional cultural values of the mass of their fellow countrymen . One aspect of political behaviour , however , was relatively neglected by sociologists until the 1960s ; namely , the development of social movements . As I have indicated , parties and pressure groups have been quite thoroughly studied , but the more diffuse movements out of which they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this neglect was the preoccupation during the 1950s with stable democracy ' ? that is , with the political systems of Western capitalist societies , regarded as having attained a more or less definitive form with their existing array of parties and interest groups ? and on the other side with the totalitarian ' socialist societies , similarly regarded as having a permanent character.8 Only with the emergence , during the 1960s , of new radical movements in the industrial countries , and the continuing growth of revolutionary movements in the Third World , did sociologists begin to devote themselves seriously to the study of such phenomena . Since then a large literature has appeared , beginning with the accounts of the early stages of the movements in the USA ( Jacobs and Landau , 1966 ) and the student movement in France ( Touraine , 1968 ) , and continuing with comprehensive accounts of all the various movements ( students , ethnic and regional movements , the women 's movement , the peace movement , the ecology movement , the civil rights movements in Eastern Europe , the Polish Solidarity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world ) , notably in the studies carried out by Touraine and his co-researchers . The political significance of these movements is very great , in two respects . First , they are , in the main , non-class movements ( quite different from the early labour movement ) and their development poses new questions about the social bases of political action , especially in relation to Marxist theory . Secondly , they are major forces for change in the present-day world , which have already profoundly influenced the established political parties and have engendered new parties ; for example , // the Green Party in the German Federal Republic and similar , though less prominent , ecology parties elsewhere . Politics in the Developing Countries There are some political conditions which are common to most , if not all , developing countries ; in particular , the problems of establishing a new political system , and of making government and administration effective in bringing about rapid economic growth and a general improvement in levels of living , which is a major aspiration of the mass of the people . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pre-eminence of a national liberation or revolutionary movement at the time when the new nation was formed . In many countries military officers have taken power , either because of the failure of other political forces , or because the military have already acquired a political role and see themselves as more modern ' and efficient than other groups ( Janowitz , 1964 ) . But the circumstances in which these problems have to be faced are extremely diverse . If we disregard for the moment the enormous differences in size and natural resources , and also the unique characteristics of each country , arising from its history , its geographical situation , or its particular relationships with other nations , we may distinguish , as I have argued elsewhere : four main categories of underdeveloped countries , within each of which there are important similarities of social structure and culture : ( i ) the African states ; ( ii ) the Arab states of the Middle East and North Africa ; ( iii ) the Asian states ; and ( iv ) the Latin American states . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ means of anti-colonial struggles which have affected profoundly their political regimes . They have to face , in addition to the problems of economic development , those of consolidating a national community formed out of tribal groups whose existence within their frontiers is in some measure the result of the arbitrary division of Africa among the colonial powers . Among the countries of the second group , a number have been formed by independence struggles against direct colonial rule , but many others have enjoyed political independence for some time and have had chiefly to resist the indirect control of their economic resources by foreign powers . Their political problems are mainly those of breaking down feudal and autocratic systems of government , which are linked with highly inegalitarian and rigid class systems . The third group , that of the Asian countries , is characterized especially by the fact that these are , for the most part , countries of ancient civilization in which traditional social institutions are very strongly established . They are also countries which have liberated // themselves very recently from colonial rule , and although they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a national community , as is the case with the African countries , they face some similar problems of national integration in so far as they are divided into castes or linguistic regions ( as in India ) , or into ethnically and linguistically separate groups ( e.g. Tamils and Sinhalese in Ceylon , Malays and Chinese in Malaya ) . The fourth group , that of the Latin American countries , differs in important respects from all the others . These countries are , for the most part , more advanced economically , and they are already urban rather than agrarian societies , although they have only recently begun to industrialize on a large scale ; and they have been politically independent for a relatively long time . Thus , their political problems are not to the same extent those of national integration , although in some of them , such as Peru , the large Indian population has still to acquire full citizenship ; nor has recent political activity been directly inspired by nationalism , although it has been directed increasingly against North American economic influence in the region @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rapid increase of population , and the rise of a labour movement within a political system in which the large landowners have long been dominant , and have often ruled through military dictatorships . ( Bottomore , 1964 , ch. 5 ) There are , however , other differences which traverse this classification , one of them being that between capitalist and socialist developing countries . The latter , according to some recent studies ( Jameson and Wilber , 1981 ; White et al. , 1983 ) , have done reasonably well in promoting economic growth , and better than other countries in terms of economic equality , provision of health and education services , and tackling unemployment ; moreover , there have been signal achievements which are hard to measure . . . enhanced national identity and pride , greater cultural self-confidence , abolition or reduction of previously exploitative or oppressive social relationships , the spread of " modern " or secular attitudes towards nature and society , and the political mobilisation of previously inert strata ' , though these benefits often entail serious costs ' ( White et @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergence of a powerful state apparatus in which there are strongly authoritarian tendencies . However , authoritarian states ? dominated by landowners , indigenous and foreign capitalists , the military , or a combination of these groups ? are also common in the capitalist developing countries , which are characterized further by extreme economic inequality and the absence of civil and political rights for large sections of the population . India is a rather exceptional case of a developing country which has maintained a democratic system // since independence ( except for the brief period of emergency rule in the mid-1970s ) , in the framework of a capitalist welfare society that embodies elements of socialism , both in the existing degree of central planning and in the long-term commitment , in principle , of most Indian political parties to the creation of a socialist society . The problem of political unity has not arisen mainly from differences of caste or religion , or from factional conflicts , though all of these play some part , 9 but from the diversity of regional cultures and the danger ( which was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 1960s ) of a balkanisation ' of India ( Bottomore , 1975b , ch. 10 ) . The need for a strong central state is determined above all , however , by the extent of the economic and social problems that emerge in the process of development ; as Somjee ( 1979 , ch. 6 ) observes , India has a rich legacy of contradictions which are not going to be overcome in the near future . For while there is a widespread commitment to liberal values , and ... people have been stirred into political action in defence of such values , there is also a realisation that , given the immensity of India 's problems , an administrative firmness , similar to that which was seen in the days of the emergency rule , is sorely needed . Finally , it should be recognized that the politics of the develop-ing countries are embedded in world politics and profoundly affected by the conflict between the two main power blocs ; and it is in this context that another distinction between countries , in terms of their size and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much easier for a country such as China or India , or perhaps some of the larger Latin American countries ( though here the hostility of the USA to any kind of socialist regime , and its readiness to intervene in their domestic politics , constitute a for-midable obstacle ) , to pursue an independent course of develop-ment than it is for small , extremely poor African states to do so . The political development of Third World nations ( and also , of course , in a somewhat different sense and degree , that of the industrial countries ) has always to be examined in this world context , and political sociology will need to be concerned more closely in future with the study of international relations and of global and regional political institutions ( Bottomore , 1979 , ch. 6 ) . 1 0 The Family and Kinship The Nuclear Family The individual nuclear family is a universal social phenomenon . ' As Lowie ( 1920 , pp. 66 ? 7 ) writes : It does not matter whether marital relations are permanent or temporary ; whether there is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complicated by the addition of members not included in our family circle ; the one fact stands out beyond all others that everywhere the husband , wife , and immature children constitute a unit apart from the remainder of the community . The universality of the nuclear family can be accounted for by the indispensable functions it performs and the difficulty of ensuring the performance of these functions by any other social group . In the nuclear family or its constituent relationships we thus see assembled four functions fundamental to human social life ? the sexual , the economic , the reproductive , and the educational ' ( Murdock , 1949 , p. 10 ) . We may distinguish between the social and the psychological functions of the nuclear family . Kingsley Davis ( 1948 , p. 395 ) has distinguished four major social functions ; reproduction , maintenance ( of immature children ) , placement , and socialization . Of these the first two , and the fourth , are most important , since placement in the sense of allocation to a position in the occupational system or the status @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rigidly stratified societies ( e.g. in a caste society ) but not invariably , or even predominantly , in modern industrial societies . The psychological functions are primarily the satisfaction of the sexual needs of the marital partners , and of the need for affection and security , both for parents and for children . The family has often had other functions in addition to those we have mentioned . Murdock observes that : As a firm social constellation it frequently , but not universally , draws to itself various other functions . Thus , it is often the centre of religious worship , with the father as family priest . It may be the primary unit in // landholding , vengeance , or recreation . Social status may depend more upon family position than upon individual achievement . And so on . ( 1949 , p. 11 ) Anthropologists have consistently emphasized the economic functions of the family in primitive societies . The bond between the father and mother is not only , or even predominantly , the sexual privileges accorded to married spouses , since many primitive societies allow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ allow extra-marital relations either unrestricted or more frequently with prescribed relatives . A major factor in maintaining the nuclear family is economic co-operation based upon division of labour between the sexes . Levi-Strauss ( 1949 , p. 49 ) has given a graphic account of the miserable situation of unmarried individuals in the most primitive societies ; he writes of the spectacle of a young man in a village of central Brazil , crouching for hours on end in the corner of a hut , gloomy , ill-cared for , terribly thin and , it seemed , in the most complete dejection . . . he seldom went out except to hunt alone , and at the family meals round the fire he would usually have fasted if a relative had not from time to time placed a small portion of food beside him which he ate in silence . When I asked what was the matter with him , believing that he had some serious illness , my suppositions were laughed at and I was told , He is a bachelor ' . Economic co-operation also strengthens the ties between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these productive functions involving co-operative labour by the family members is a significant feature of the nuclear family in modern industrial societies , which I shall consider later . The basic structure of the nuclear family , it has been held , depends upon incest taboos ; from these it follows that the nuclear family is discontinuous over time and confined to two generations . A third generation can only result from the formation of new families by an exchange of males and females between existing nuclear families . In consequence ... every normal adult in every human society belongs to at least two nuclear families ? a family of orientation in which he was born and reared , and which includes his father , mother , brothers and sisters , and a family of procreation which he establishes by his marriage and which includes his husband or wife , his sons , and his daughters . ( Murdock , 1949 , p. 13 ) 2 The incest taboos , and their extensions outside the nuclear family , in rules of exogamy , together with rules of descent , are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and terminology which I shall briefly consider later . Here we need simply note that the extended incest taboos establish interdependence between families , sibs , and clans , and thus play an important part in the integration of primitive societies . Types of Family Structure The universality of the nuclear family does not mean that family structure is everywhere the same . On the contrary , it is extremely variable . Kingsley Davis ( 1948 , pp. 414 ? 16 ) has listed some of the major items of variation in the marital relation ( number of spouses , authority , strength of bond , choice of spouse , residence , etc. ) , in the parent ? child relation , and in sibling relations . We may , however , make a broad distinction between family systems in which the nuclear family is relatively independent , and systems in which the nuclear family is incorporated in , or subordinated to , a larger group , the polygamous or the extended family.3 The independent nuclear family is characteristic of modern industrial societies . Its predominance seems to be due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , and general social ideals of individual happiness and self-fulfilment , and to geographical and social mobility . It has also been affected by the increasing public provision for individual misfortune ; the individual is no longer so dependent upon his family in times of distress . The marked predominance of the relatively autonomous nuclear family is a recent phenomenon , which has appeared most fully in the most advanced industrial societies . The solidarity of this type of family depends largely upon sexual attraction and companionship between husband and wife , and companionship between parents and children . This does not seem to be such a firm basis as the wider complex of rights and obligations ( economic , sexual and so on ) which exist in the extended family . Divorce is frequent and has been increasing in most industrial countries . The solidarity of the independent nuclear family is greater where it includes young children , but as the children grow up the bonds tend to weaken again , first through the influence of peer groups , and later as a result of social and geographical mobility @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questions about the development of the nuclear family . The studies have been usefully surveyed by Anderson ( 1980 ) who examines three // principal approaches to family history : ( 1 ) the demographic , exemplified by the work of the Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure ( Laslett , 1977 ) , which concludes that large and complex households were never common , at least in England , and more generally that a nuclear familial form may have been one of the enduring and fundamental characteristics of the Western family system ' ; ( 2 ) the sentiments ' approach , in the work of Aries ( 1960 ) , Shorter ( 1975 ) and others , who argue that an understanding of family history requires attention not so much to stability or change in structure , but to changes in meaning , and that the modern nuclear family is to be seen as the product of ideas such as home ' , domesticity ' and privacy ' ; 4 ( 3 ) the household economics approach , which interprets households and families in terms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such things as inheritance practices ( Goody et al. , 1976 ) , peasant production ( Arensberg and Kimball , 1940 ; and see also the further references given by Anderson , 1980 , pp. 91 ? 2 ) , and the proletarianization of labour ( Medick , 1976 ; Thomas and Znaniecki , 1918 ? 20 ; and other studies cited by Anderson , 1980 , pp. 92 ? 3 ) . It has also been argued , notably by Shorter ( 1975 , ch. 8 ) , that the Western nuclear family has been undergoing major changes in the past few decades ? which could be characterized as the destruction of the nest ' ? and that a new post-modern ' family is emerging in which the individual members increasingly find their attachments and cultural identities outside the family circle , one major aspect of this process being women 's liberation ' . The composite forms of the family are to be found frequently in primitive societies , but also in many non-industrial societies . In Europe , the Yugoslav form of the extended family , the zadruga , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of extended family are still common in Asia , even in an industrialized country such as Japan . Ariga ( 1956b ) , discussing the role of the Japanese dozoku ( familial aggregates ) in economic life , writes : the managing bodies which operated business were commonly familial ... A dozoku was composed of a main family and families which were dependent upon it and affiliated through consanguinity or some other kind of relationship with the main family . When the scale of an enterprise grew too large for such a dozoku to manage the entire business , the enterprise was organized into a joint stock company with dozoku members constituting the governing body of the whole organization . Thus the Zaitbatsu ( financial cliques ) of pre-World War II came into existence . ( Vol. 8 , p. 238 ) // In the nineteenth century , until the land-tax reforms of 1873-6 , family property ( land , houses , etc. ) was owned by the family as a unit , and there was little individual property . More recently Morishima ( 1982 ) , in an interesting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Japan , has also emphasized the role of the family , observing that the Japanese are strong believers in the importance of the family and of kinship ' ( p. 197 , footnote 2 ) . In India , the joint family has existed since the earliest times . It was , in the past , a corporate body with property held in common , common worship of a tutelary deity , and authority exercised by the head of the family ( usually the eldest male in the eldest male line ) . According to Hindu law the family property was not strictly impartible , but partition was infrequent and it was quite usual for families to comprise three or four generations living , working and eating together ( Maine , 1861 ) . Besides property and work , religion was an important force uniting the joint family , for its members included the dead and unborn as well as the living . There is an obvious parallel here between the Hindu family and the family in ancient Greece and Rome ; Fustel de Coulanges ( 1864 , p. 42 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ united by something more powerful than birth , affection , or physical stength ; this was the religion of the sacred fire and of dead ancestors . ' These general characteristics are well illustrated in the study by Srinivas ( 1952 , ch. 5 ) of the joint family among the Coorgs of south India , who consider themselves to be Kshatriyas , that is , to belong to the second highest rank in the traditional caste hierarchy . The okka or the patrilineal and patrilocal joint family is the basic group among Coorgs . It is impossible to imagine a Coorg apart from the okka of which he is a member . It affects his life at every point and colours all his relations with the outside world . People who do not belong to an okka have no social existence at all , and the elders always bring pressure on the parties concerned to see that children born out of wedlock obtain membership in their father 's or mother 's okka . Membership of an okka is acquired by birth , and the outside world always identified a man @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not cease even after death , because he then becomes one of a body of apotheosized ancestors ( karanava ) who arc believed to look after the okka of which they were members when alive . The ancestors are worshipped , and offerings of food and drink ( bharani ) are occasionally made to them . Formerly , the boys in an okka , all sons of agnatically related males , grazed the okka 's cattle together , hunted birds , and played games . // When they grew up all of them jointly looked after the ancestral estate under the guidance of the head of the okka . Membership of an okka determines to a very large extent the choice of a spouse . First of all , marital relations are forbidden between members of the same okka . Where agnation overflows the okka , the taboo extends to agnatic relatives who are not members of the okka . Again , children of sisters may not intermarry . The ancestral , immovable property of an okka was formerly regarded as impartible . It usually descended from one generation of agnatically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process . Partition did , however , occur when every adult member of the okka wanted it . But such cases were unusual ? at least that is what one is told . Both the difficulty of partition and the preference for leviratic unions added to the strength of the okka . The members of an okka have to live together from birth till death . They are bound together by numerous strong ties , and they cooperate in performing common tasks . After death , they become ancestors who continue to show an interest in their okka and demand propitiation from their descendants . The okka is something very much more than the group of living members in it at any given moment . It is a continuum through time , and the body of living members at any particular moment form only points on it . Coorgs themselves clearly state that the okka has a longer life than its members . They are also aware that an individual lives , in a social sense , as long as his okka . There is a great desire for the continuance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than its extinction . When an okka is threatened with extinction certain traditional devices are resorted to perpetuate it . In recent times the importance of the joint family has gradually declined , largely under the influence of economic changes , especially in the diversification of employment and the fostering of an individualistic , acquisitive spirit . ' The latter is reflected in changes in the law of property . After the establishment of British rule in India there was increasing resort by Hindus to the power of testamentary disposition of property , and an Act of 1870 recognized will-making along the lines of English law . Later legislation further modified the legal position of the joint family ; the Gains of Learning Act 1930 recognized an individual right to property acquired through an education paid for out of family funds , while the Hindu Law of Inheritance ( Amendment ) Act of 1929 allowed matrilineal as well as patrilineal inheritance . The Hindu Succession Act 1956 is a further step in the direction of establishing individual property rights . In the Report on the 1951 Census of India ( Vol. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the basis of a classification of households by number of members , that families do not continue to be joint according to the traditional custom of the country and the habit of breaking // away from the joint family and setting up separate households is quite strong ' , and although this conclusion has been criticized ( Desai , 1955 , pp. 97 ? 117 ) the critics concede that co-residence , cotnmensality , worship and even property have become less important as criteria ofjointness , and what they emphasize is the persistence of joint family sentiment . In this attenuated form the joint family may still have some importance , like tribal affiliations elsewhere , in providing a degree of economic and social security for the individual . In the past few decades a major change in family systems of all types , but especially in the nuclear family ( Shorter , 1975 , ch. 8 ) , has resulted from the changing position of women in society and the rise of the women 's movement . At the same time , the study of the family has been transformed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical debate , particularly on the question of domestic labour , has taken place between feminists and Marxists , and there has been sustained criticism of traditional Marxist views , as well as of the social practice of present-day socialist societies ( Hamilton , 1978 ; Barrett , 1980 ; Himmelweit , 1983 ) . Marriage The forms of marriage are as diverse as the types of family system . The basic structure of the nuclear family is little affected by the diversity of marriage customs ; it is rather the differences between the independent nuclear family and the composite forms of the family which influence marriage . Where the extended family predominates plural marriage is likely to occur ( since it is economically advantageous ) , the choice of a spouse will probably be made by the head of the family , economic transactions will accompany marriage , and divorce will probably be infrequent.6 Where the nuclear family is relatively independent marriage will be monogamous , individuals will choose their own spouses , there will be few economic transactions connected with marriage , and divorce may be frequent . There @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Monogamy is the prevalent form of marriage in all societies , for the good reason that the sex ratio is approximately 1:1 in most times and places . As Samuel Johnson said , No man can have two wives , but by preventing somebody else from having one ' . Polyandry ( the marriage of one woman to two or more men ) is so rare as to be , as Murdock says , an ethnographic curiosity ' . It // occurs sporadically in several societies but where it has any permanence it may be accompanied by female infanticide , as among the Toda of South India . Polygyny ( the marriage of one man to two or more women ) occurs more widely , and is made possible by a surplus of females due to higher mortality among males . Even where polygyny is allowed , however , monogamy is the prevalent form of marriage and usually only the wealthier and more powerful males have more than one wife . Divorce is controlled and limited in some fashion in all societies , since a very high rate of divorce would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . The regulation of divorce , and its prevalence , are affected by numerous factors . The influence of religion has been very strong in the sphere of marital relations , and some of the major religions , for example , Hinduism and Roman Catholicism , have not allowed divorce . The actual prevalence of divorce is influenced , as was noted earlier , by the extent to which wider family and kin groups are involved , and by the existence of economic obligations . It is also influenced by the presence of alternative means of sexual and emotional satisfaction , through plural marriage , or permitted extra-marital relationships . According to Hindu law marriage is a sacrament , not a contract , and it was formerly indissoluble ( except in the case of some lower castes which had a custom of divorce , and in the case of conversion of one spouse to Christianity ) . But at the same time , polygyny was legal , and there existed legal forms of concubinage . These arrangements , of course , met the needs only of the male population . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hindu Bigamous Marriages Act 1946 , which enforced monogamy in Bombay State , and this had soon to be followed by legal provision for divorce ( in the Bombay Hindu Divorce Act 1947 ) . Since then monogamy and provision for divorce have been extended to the whole of India by the Hindu Marriage Act 1955 . In the Western industrial societies divorce has increased rapidly since the beginning of the twentieth century , and particularly since the mid-1960s ( Shorter , 1975 , pp. 277 ? 9 ) ; and much sociological research has been devoted to the problems of family instability ' 7 and of predicting marital harmony.8 The causes of the increase in divorce are not entirely clear , but a comparison with primitive societies and many non-industrial societies is suggestive . In these societies , marriage is entered into as an economic arrangement and in order to have children ( for economic and religious reasons ) , and not simply for the satisfaction of sexual needs ; moreover , it has the support of a wider // kinship group , and the personal satisfactions of the two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Western societies a combination of monogamous marriage , a rigid Puritan ethic which strongly condemned pre-marital and extra-marital sexual relations , and an ideal of romantic love established a model of the marital relation which is difficult , perhaps impossible , to realize . Marriage is no longer an economic partnership , and is no longer sustained by wider kinship groups . Finally , the desire for a numerous progeny is replaced by the deliberate aim of limiting family size . Thus the marriage bond is reduced to a simple relation of mutual attraction , and this is less strong than the network of economic , ritual and kinship interests which unite the family in other societies . We may regard a relatively high divorce rate , therefore , as a concomitant of modern individualism , the pursuit of happiness and strict control of sexual relations outside marriage . In practice , however , Western societies have greatly relaxed their control of sexual behaviour in the last few decades , and these changes may affect the divorce rate by diminishing the exclusive concern with sexual felicity in marriage . Kinship As @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the resulting fact that every normal individual is a member of two nuclear families ( family of orientation and family of procreation ) , which gives rise to kinship systems . The ramifications of kinship are considerable . Each individual has primary relatives in the nuclear families to which he belongs ; outside these families he can have 33 types of secondary relatives , 151 types of tertiary relatives , and so on in increasing numbers . No society , even among the Australian tribes where kinship had a very prominent role , has taken account of all the degrees of relationship in its kinship system . But societies may usefully be classified in accordance with the types of relationship which are emphasized , both in terminology and in behaviour . Lowie and Kirchhoff ( Lowie , 1950 , p. 63 ) distinguish four major types of kinship terminology , based on the treatment of the parental generation . Murdock ( 1949 , ch. 8 ) has a more elaborate classification of eleven types of social organization ' , in which six types are differentiated by kinship terminology , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foregoing ) are differentiated by descent . Social anthropologists have devoted much of their effort to // analysing kinship systems of particular societies , and to the comparative study of kinship . This interest reflects the fact that kinship is supremely important in primitive societies . It is a chief factor in maintaining social unity , even where there is a political system and a conception of territoriality , and it constitutes the framework within which the individual is assigned economic and political functions , acquires rights and obligations , receives community aid and so on . Usually , therefore , the most effective way to study the social structure of a primitive society is to begin with an analysis of kinship . The comparative study of kinship systems , which bulked large in the work of the early evolutionary anthropologists and sociologists , has received much less attention since that time , and as Lowie says ( 1950 , p. 86 ) , nearly everything remains to be done in this field ' . Kinship systems have been classified in various ways ( as by Lowie and Murdock ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ framework of explanation which would account for the occurrence of particular types of kinship system . Murdock has emphasized the importance of the rule of residence , and has shown how this is itself influenced by economic , political and religious factors . With such partial explanations we must for the present be satisfied . In recent years , however , there has been a renewal of theoretical discussion through the work of Levi-Strauss and the structural anthropologists , who attempt to show the basic structure of kinship as a logical schema , in terms of the exchange of women between social groups ( Levi-Strauss , 1949 ; and for critical comments Leach , 1970 , ch. 6 ) . Modern sociologists have shown relatively little interest in kinship , since it plays a smaller part in the life of the industrial societies which they have mainly studied . It may be that they have unduly neglected the phenomenon , due to their preoccupation ( especially in the USA ) with the urban middleclass family , which exhibits most plainly the characteristics of the independent nuclear family . In the industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , kinship is still important in controlling individual behaviour and as a system of mutual aid.9 Moreover , kinship has played , and continues to play , a significant part in consolidating the unity of upper classes and of various types of elites , especially through the transmission of property . But it remains true that kinship and family structure do not have the same fundamental importance in modern societies as they have in tribal or nonindustrial societies . // The Family and Society In the study of kinship and the family , as in other fields , the early sociologists and anthropologists were largely concerned with the construction of evolutionary schemes . Marriage and the family were supposed to have evolved from primitive promiscuity through various forms of plural marriage to monogamy . Kinship was regarded as having developed from matrilineal descent through patrilineal descent and patriarchy to a system of bilateral descent associated with the independent nuclear family . The hypothesis concerning the priority of matrilinear descent , and its connection with the lowest levels of primitive culture , was first put forward by Bachofen ( 1861 ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were proposed by many scholars up to the beginning of this century.l ? In more recent work the evolutionist approach has been abandoned . Anthropologists have concentrated upon the study of particular kinship systems and forms of the family , or on the analysis of the elementary structures ' of kinship , while sociologists have for the most part limited their interest to the problems of the family in modern industrial societies . The belief in a single line of development has had to be given up in the face of anthropological evidence ( Murdock , 1949 , ch. 8 ) , and it has even proved difficult to find any general framework of explanation to account for the varieties of kinship usages and family structure , or for changes in kinship and the family . Nevertheless , as we have shown , it is possible to establish broad classifications of kinship systems and types of family , although kinship usages appear to vary in a more random and arbitrary way than do marriage and the family . In respect of the types of family , and changes therein , it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relate them to other elements of social structure . The first generalization concerns the nature of the relation between the family and society . The nuclear family , I said earlier , is a universal phenomenon because it performs indispensable social functions . It is a group of major importance in any society ; but its importance is of a very specific kind . Human young remain immature for a period which is long in relation to the span of human life , and during this time they must be maintained and socialized . This is the principal function of the nuclear family . Its performance is independent of the form of the family , of wider kinship arrangements , of marriage customs , of the type of control of sexual behaviour , or of the performance of additional // functions by the family . All these vary with the variations in other social institutions . Moreover , the ways in which the nuclear family performs its major function are also determined by other elements in society . The family first socializes the child , but it does not originate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nation , caste or class . Thus the specific character of the nuclear family in any society is determined by other institutions ; it does not determine them . Similarly , social change originates in other institutions , not in the family ; the family changes in response . I shall consider this point more fully below , in connection with the effects ofindustrialization . Here it may be noted that the point I have made about the nuclear family has a wider application to primary groups as such . In an earlier chapter I examined the view of Cooley that such groups as the family and neighbourhood are primary above all in that they are fundamental in forming the social nature and ideals of the individual ' . A study of the nuclear family shows that the proposition is false . The family transmits values which are determined elsewhere ; it is an agent , not a principal . In primary groups we may perhaps more easily study the effects of major social forces ' , but we can not , in this way , investigate the forces themselves or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the family and society has very often been neglected by modern sociologists . No other group in society is so much influenced by religious and moral codes . The fact is surprising . Cupidity and lust for power would seem to be as powerful individual impulses as sexual desire , and as potentially disruptive of the human community . At the present time human society appears to be more gravely threatened by nuclear warfare than by the increase in divorce or the spread of pre-marital sexual intercourse . Yet religious and moral codes have rarely given as much attention to economic and political arrangements as to sexual behaviour and the family . " This connection between the family and religion can be seen in the preoccupation ( though this is perhaps now diminishing ) in Western societies with sexual promiscuity ' and divorce , and in India in the concern about the future of the joint family . The connection has had two important consequences : first , that scientific research into sexual behaviour and family life has been difficult or impossible until recent years , and secondly , that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social life to bring about rational changes . While the influence of religions has usually been to preserve established forms of the family , changes in economic institutions have been a major factor in bringing about changes in the family . // Durkheim ( 1898 ) once observed that the inadequacy of the economic materialist ' conception of history was most evident in the study of the family . But this is doubtful . While the early evolutionist schemes , including that of Engels , have to be rejected , it is undeniable that more limited sequences of change can be discovered and that economic factors are prominent in these . The anthropologists ( especially Lowie and Murdock ) who have undertaken comparative studies of kinship and the family have emphasized this point . 12 The influence of modern industrialism upon the family is universally recognized . The specific characteristics of the modern Western family are very generally attributed to the development of industrial society in its specific capitalist form ( Ogburn and Nimkoff , 1955 ; Shorter , 1975 ) . In India , the changes in the joint family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the emergence and growth of an industrial economy . Kapadia ( 1958 , ch. 12 ) , in discussing recent trends affecting the Hindu family , notes that British rule introduced a new economic order , ideology and administrative system , which began to transform Indian culture . Capitalism and liberalism alike emphasized individual effort and rationality , and the spread of these ideologies challenged the sentiments maintaining the joint family . Economic development was accompanied by the growth of cities and the breakdown of village isolation ; these changes also stimulated individualism , and brought about a revolt against the inferior position of women in the joint family . Kapadia also shows how , in recent years , the development of social insurance has begun to diminish the importance of the joint family as an organization for social security . In the long run , as economic development continues , there is no reason to suppose that the family system in India or in other Third World countries will differ radically from that which exists today in the industrial countries ( although cultural tradition , as I noted in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This family structure implies low rates of fertility and mortality , a short childbearing period which , together with other factors , brings about large-scale employment of married women outside the home , and the public provision of education and other services with a consequent restriction of family functions . And in the Third World , as in the industrial countries , the family will continue to change under the impact of economic , political and cultural transformations . // The division of society into classes and strata , which form a hierarchy of prestige and power , is an almost universal feature of social structure which has , throughout history , attracted the attention of philosophers and social theorists . But it is only with the growth of the modern social sciences that it has been subjected to critical study and analysis . Sociologists have commonly distinguished four main systems of stratification ? slavery , estates , caste and social class ? and within these systems a variety of status groups and elites . I shall briefly examine the first three systems , then consider at greater length the phenomena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of social stratification . Slavery Hobhouse ( 1906 , ch. 7 ) defined a slave as a man whom law and custom regard as the property of another . In extreme cases he is wholly without rights , a pure chattel ; in other cases , he may be protected in certain respects , but so may an ox or an ass . ' He continued , if the slave has by his position certain countervailing rights , e.g. to inherited property , from which he can not ( except for some default ) be dislodged , he becomes . . . no longer a slave but a serf ' . Slavery thus represents an extreme form of inequality , in which certain groups of individuals are entirely or almost entirely without rights . It has existed sporadically at many times and placesl but there are two major examples of a system of slavery : the societies of the ancient world based upon slavery ( especially Greece and Rome ) , and the southern states of the USA in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries . Nieboer ( 1900 ) gave an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such a system . First , every slave has his master to whom he is subjected . And this subjection is of a peculiar kind . Unlike the authority one freeman sometimes has over another , the master 's power over his slave is unlimited , at least in principle ; any restriction put upon the master 's free exercise of his power is a mitigation of slavery , not belonging to // its nature , just as in Roman law the proprietor may do with his property whatever he is not by special laws forbidden to do . The relation between master and slave is therefore properly expressed by the slave being called the master 's possession ' or property ' , expressions we frequently meet with . Secondly , slaves are in a lower condition as compared with freemen . The slave has no political rights ; he does not choose his government , he does not attend the public councils . Socially he is despised . In the third place , we always connect with slavery the idea of compulsory labour . The slave is compelled to work @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ likes , be it at the cost of starving . All compulsory labour , however , is not slave labour ; the latter requires that peculiar kind of compulsion , that is expressed by the word possession ' or property ' as has been said before.2 The basis of slavery is always economic ; it is , as Nieboer argued , an industrial system . Along with the emergence of slavery there also appears an aristocracy of some kind , which lives upon slave labour . But it is , also , in the opinion of most writers , the inefficiency of slave labour which is largely responsible for the decline of slavery . Along with this , however , there is another influence tending to the decline of slavery , which can best be traced in the ancient world . There is always a certain conflict between the conception of the slave as an object of property rights , and the conception of him as a human being possessing rights . We find , in both Greece and Rome , that with the development of debt-slavery a distinction is made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In Athens debt-slavery was prohibited by Solon , and ultimately it was abolished in Rome under the influence of the Stoics . Hobhouse ( 1906 , p. 277 ) pointed out that the formation of debtor-slaves has a certain softening influence upon the institution of slavery itself , for while the captive slave remains an enemy in the sight of law and morals and is therefore rightless , the debtor or the criminal was originally a member of the community and in relation to him there is apt to arise some limitation of the power of the master . In the ancient world , slavery was gradually modified by progressive limitation of the master 's right of punishment , the securing of personal rights to the slave ( marriage , acquisition and inheritance of property ) and the provision for manumission . The latter was supported and encouraged by the Christian church in the Roman Empire and later in feudal Europe , at least so far as Christians were involved . Some writers ( e.g. Nieboer ) have characterized slavery as an industrial system rather than a system of stratification , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ slaves and those who are ( relatively ) free , there is usually a system of ranks within the latter group . Hence slavery by itself does not constitute a system of stratification . But this argument raises some fundamental issues which will be more fully explored in discussing the theories of stratification ; and in particular the distinction that has to be made between class ' and stratification ' . In Marxist theory slaves , serfs and wage earners are all categorized as the direct producers ' upon whose labour the whole social edifice , including distinctive dominant classes , rests ; but this does not exclude the existence , in feudal societies and capitalist societies as well as in slave societies , of numerous intermediate strata ' . There are , however , various problems in defining a distinctive slave mode of production ' , as Finley ( 1983 ) has observed . Estates The feudal estates of medieval Europe had three important characteristics . In the first place , they were legally defined ; each estate had a status , in the precise sense of a legal complex @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , as has been said , to know a person 's real position it was first of all necessary to know " the law by which he lived " ' . In the twelfth century , when serfdom was increasing and a legal theory of the feudal state was emerging , the English lawyer , Glanville , listed the disabilities of serfs as being : inability to appeal to the king for justice , absence of rights over their chattels and holdings , liability to pay the fines of merchet and heriot . The differences between estates can be seen also in the different penalties imposed for similar offences . Secondly , the estates represented a broad division of labour , and were regarded in the contemporary literature as having definite functions . The nobility were ordained to defend all , the clergy to pray for all , and the commons to provide food for all . ' Thirdly , the feudal estates were political groups . Stubbs , in his Constitutional History of England ( 1874-8 ) , wrote : An assembly of estates is an organized collection . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of man who are recognized as possessing political power . ' In this sense the serfs did not constitute an estate . Classical feudalism knew only two estates , the nobility and the clergy . The decline of European feudalism after the twelfth century is associated with the rise of a third estate , not of the serfs or villeins , but of the burghers , who behaved for a long period as // a distinctive group within the feudal system before they transformed or overthrew it ( Pirenne , 1925 , especially pp. 112-19 , 122ff ) . The system of feudal estates was more complex and varied , as well as less rigid , than this summary account can show . The distinctions within estates , and the political aspect of feudalism , are excellently portrayed in Bloch ( 1939-40 , Vol. 2 ) . The opportunities for individuals to change their position in society are considered in Southern ( 1953 , ch. 2 ) and in Poole ( 1946 ) . There is a useful short account of Marxist views of feudal society by Hilton ( 1983 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the similarities between the European feudal societies and other societies which might be considered as belonging to the same type . The social system ofJapan from the twelfth century has often been described as feudal , for instance by Marc Bloch ( 1939 ? 40 ) and by Coulborn ( 1956 ) . The existence of feudalism in India is more controversial . It must be recognized , first , that even if feudal relationships existed during some periods of Indian history they certainly existed alongside , and were interwoven with , caste relationships and this implies that the social system can not be described , without important qualifications , as feudal . Secondly , the feudalism ' of the Maurya , Gupta and Mogul empires , and of their periods of decline , obviously lacked some characteristics of European feudalism . All scholars agree that Indian feudalism ' had as its basis independent village agriculture , not the manorial system : in the words of Shelvankar ( 1940 ) , Indian feudalism remained fiscal and military in character . It was not manorial . ' Many scholars hold also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different from that in the West that it could not establish a feudal system . In India , the king did not , in theory , create subordinate owners of land , because he himself was not , in theory , the supreme owner of land . What he delegated to his intermediaries was only the specific and individual right of zamin , i.e. the revenue-collecting power ' ( Karim , 1956 , ch. 2 ) . This view is not universally accepted ( Kosambi , 1956 , chs. 9 and 10 ) , but there is , at least , agreement on the fact that feudal relationships often developed more strongly when the empires were in decline , since in such periods revenue collectors could more easily establish proprietary rights in land and usurp political and judicial functions . In a different form the decline of empire was also a factor in the emergence of European feudalism.                     