@@774337

txt  | placed by the mode of the production theorists on the European transformation is thus wholly in accordance with Marx 's thought ; the ability to exploit the colonies presupposes that dynamic transformation . But the theory of imperialism , which emphasizes the pillage of the colonies , is not thereby negated ; the extent and the rate of accumulation in the metropoles , not to mention the actual modalities of industrialization there , presupposes in like fashion the colossal transfers of value from the colonies , through the exploitation of cheap and unpaid labor by millions of direct producers , through the monopolistic appropriation of raw materials , through the wholesale destruction of the precolonial production systems and the creation , instead , of extensive colonial markets for metropolitan products , and so on . Both views are correct , and in Marx 's own writings there is a dialectical correlation between the two . The problem arises when the two views are counterposed against each other and one is forwarded at the expense of the other , as many of the present-day mode of production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do . Indeed , there have been the opposite tendencies as well , among many of the dependency theorists , where metropolitan development is seen simply as an effect of the pillage of the colonies . That estimation is equally excessive , and one must restore that original vision of Marx where the European transition and the pillage of the colonies are seen as inextricable links in a dialectical , global process , each reinforcing the other . Moreover , researches that were not available to Marx but which are now available to us show in extensive detail that the precolonial non-European formations , especially in that world-system which extended from Canton to Zanzibar and from Indonesia to the East Mediterranean , were not nearly as backward as Marx and his contemporaries had supposed : India was not a cluster of " village communities , " nor were its cities mere " military encampments " ; transportation and communication systems were far more developed in the sixteenth century prior to their destruction by colonialism than they were at the end of the nineteenth century , after three hundred or more years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption of local chieftains but was accumulated for brisk networks of trade , giving merchant 's capital a vigorous position in the social formations and enhancing the incentive for technical revolutions in the means and processes of production ; and so on . In the  | event , and after colonial destruction , industrial capitalism was surely introduced externally by the metropolitan bourgeoisie . But the idea , which Marx surely held and which Warren repeats with such blind insistence , that the transition could not have occurred without colonial intervention needs to be examined in light of not only Marx 's journalistic prediction but , much more important , of more recent researches . Nor can the question be settled on the level of theory alone . If it can be demonstrated that the historical evidence on which the theoretical conjecturing was based was altogether inaccurate , then the validity of that conjecturing itself becomes very much the issue . Nor is it possible to assume , as Warren emphatically does , that even the journalist writings and the private correspondence of Marx and Engles give us a singleminded view @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are constant shifts and contradictions , and the main paradox within the structure of their thought appears to be this : Whenever they reflect on colonialism in a general way , in the shape of broad conceptual generalizations , they seem to be on balance on the side of progress and civilization , but in every article that either of them wrote about an actual insurrection or even sporadic acts of resistence in the colony , both speak in the lyrical cadences of revolutionaries : The Chinese Coolie suddenly becomes as admirable as a Parisian Communard , and those who equate colonialism with progress are then derided ? in Engels 's superb phrase ? as " civilizationmongers . " And instead of hoping for the triumph of progressive colonialism , they often characterize the acts of resistence as part of a war of national liberation , celebrating the mass character and the continental proportions of the anticolonial movement . Take , for example , the tone of the following passage from Engels ( Persia and China , 1857 ) : There is evidently a different spirit among the Chinese now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ active , nay , a fanatical part in the struggle against the foreigners . They poison the bread of the European community at Hongkong by wholesale , and with the coolest meditation . . . They go with hidden arms on board trading steamers and , when on the journey , massacre the crew and European passengers and seize the boat . . . . The very coolies emigrating to foreign countries rise in mutiny , and as if by concert , on board every emigrant ship , fight for its possession . . . . Civilizationmongers who throw hot shell on a defenceless city  | and add rape to murder , may call the system cowardly , barbarous , atrocious ; but what matter it to the Chinese if it be but successful ? . . . We had better recognise that this is a warpro aris et focis , a popular war for the maintenance of Chinese nationality . Marx , in somewhat more analytic terms ( " The Revolt in the Indian Army , " 1857 ) said : How far that native army can be relied upon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as soon as the war with Persia had almost denuded the Presidency of Bengal of its European soldiers . . . It is the first time that sepoy regiments have murdered their European officers : that Mussalmans and Hindus , renouncing their mutual antipathies , have combined against their common masters . . . The revolt in the Anglo-Indian Army has coincided with a general dissatisfaction exhibited against British supremacy on the part of the great Asiatic nations , the revolt of the Bengal Army being , beyond doubt , intimately connected with the Persian and Chinese wars . Finally , on the question as to whether or not Marx thought of colonialism as altogether a " progressive " process , the following from a letter ( to F. Danielson , 1881 ) , which he wrote toward the end of his life should suffice : In India serious complications , if not a general outbreak , are in store for the British government . What the British take from them annually in the form of rent , dividends for railways useless for the Hindoos , pensions for the military and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , etc. , ? what they take from them without any equivalent and quite apart from what they appropriate to themselves annually within India , ? speaking only of the value of the commodities and Indians have gratuitously and annually to send over to England ? it amounts to more than the total sum of income of the 60 million of agricultural and industrial labourers of India . This is a bleeding process with a vengeance italics in original . When one encounters passages such as these , as one frequently does if one goes beyond the two most anthologized articles and reads Marx 's writings on colonialism in their entirety , it becomes altogether difficult to argue that Marx never modified his initial view of colonialism as being " progressive " for the colony . For the " bleeding process " which , in his view , might well have led to a " general out  | break " was , in his own very graphic terms , a process whereby immense quantities of value that were produced in the periphery were accumulated nevertheless in the metropolis , while the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so that the railways , once expected to he the motor for industrialization , could then be recognized as " useless to the Hindoo . " In the process , India was undoubtedly pauperized . But what about the metropolis ? I quote and then comment on a somewhat enigmatic but highly suggestive text of 1858 ( Letter to Engels ) : The specific task of bourgeois society is the establishment of a world market . As the world is round , this seems to have been completed ... . The difficult question for us is this : on the Continent the revolution is imminent and will immediately assume a socialist character . Is it not bound to be crushed in this little corner , considering that in a far greater territory the movement of bourgeois society is still in the ascendant ? Some of the ideas Lenin developed later are here , though in embryonic form : the idea that the historical task of capitalism ? namely the creation of the world market ? is completed already and capitalism is therefore ripe in its places of origin for a revolutionary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ might nevertheless give the European bourgeoisies the material means to crush the revolution inside Europe . Yet , Marx seems unable to think these thoughts in exactly that way . This was the period , one may recall , when Marx himself was witnessing tremendous capitalist growth in North America , and he was wondering if the same might not happen in countries like China and India as well . This is at least how I interpret his idea of the movement of bourgeois society being in the ascendant outside Europe . It was only after he lost faith in the industrializing mission of colonial capital that colonialism could be declared , unequivocally , a bleeding process . One can draw three conclusions from this necessarily brief sketch . First , Marx 's views on the long-range consequences of colonialism remained highly contradictory throughout the 1850s . Second , as he witnessed the process , during the three decades leading up to the 1880s , whereby colonialism transformed itself into a fully fledged imperialism , he came to speak of it as ( a ) a bleeding process , which already @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and " rapacious , " and ( b ) a process that was likely to be highly detrimental to the development of the socialist revolution inside Europe , again an idea that Lenin was to develop greatly . Third , far from being  | a " reversal " of Marx 's thinking , Lenin 's ( and Bukharin 's ) theory of imperialism is a development of some of the ideas that had remained ambiguous and rudimentary in Marx . The " economics " of Lenin 's theory of imperialism is well enough known , and this is at any rate hardly the place to delve into it . But it is necessary to specify briefly what is referred to when speaking of Lenin 's theory of imperialism , and to specify also the political context that gave rise to this theory . The problem with conceptualizing the unity of Lenin 's theory of imperialism is that it is composed of a series of occasional texts which are , moreover , mutually discontinuous . I am referring here to that thread which connects his pamphlet , Imperialism : The Highest Stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national questions , and all these with those other texts where the strategic concept of " the weakest link " is elaborated . Together , these writings constitute a whole , though unfortunately a discontinuous one , hence lacking somewhat in rigorous connection between parts . Lenin 's own dissatisfaction with Imperialism , especially his pointed regret that it deals only with the economic aspects and that the presentation is much distorted owing to the existence of czarist dictatorship , should be better known . In any case , Lenin 's profound sense that imperialist capital had become , so far as the colonies were concerned , altogether " rapacious " was intimately connected with ( a ) his political commitment to the right of national self-determination in the colonies , ( b ) his emphasis on broad alliances in the colonies so that national contradictions might be incorporated in practices of class struggle , and ( c ) his sense also that under the new conditions , much of the dynamic of revolution had shifted to the colonies , so that the imperialist chain was likely to break first not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the weakest links ( the periphery , " advanced Asia " ) . The theory is thus not only an economic one ( monopolies , capital exports , etc. ) but also political ( national liberation , the politics of alliances , the weakest link ) . And regardless of the discontinuity between texts , the connection between the economic and political aspects of the theory was not schematic but conjunctural . Not only had imperialism organized a different kind of world-economy , it had also given rise to a dif- ferent kind of political conjuncture on the global scale . At least one aspect of this new conjuncture bears some comment here . What is remarkable about the period under consideration ? roughly from the 1880s to the 1920s ? is the connection , the almost exact contemporaneity , of two dialectically linked phenomena that had come about , in part , as a consequence of global imperialism : a general drift of the working-class movements in Northwestern Europe toward social democracy ( i.e. , toward parliamentarism , gradualism , social chauvanism , etc. ) , combined with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rise of anticolonialism and revolutionary nationalism in the imperialized countries . Some dates can be given . For the imperialized countries , this era began , schematically speaking , with the courageous bid in 1898 by Filipino nationalists to establish an independant republic ; and the history of the era would include , at the very least , the Irani revolution of 1905-1911 , the Mexican revolution of 1910 , the Chinese revolution of 1911 , the Egyptian revolution of 1919 , the coming to power of Amir Amanullah Khan in Afghanistan ( also 1919 ) , the Kemalist revolution in Turkey ( 1923 ) , and a whole history of variegated resistances and struggles for national independence that one can not begin to catalogue here . Nor was this a sudden flare , without prehistory or future . Rather , the period symbolized a growth , a qualitative development , a reconstruction of earlier memories , a revenge for past defeats : the liquidation of that prolonged moment of the national will in Paraguay ( 1814-1840 ) , when independent development had seemed possible ; the suppression of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Iran and China throughout the 1850s and beyond ; the defeat of Abdel Kader 's revolt in Algeria ( 1871-1872 ) ; the Occupation of Egypt ( 1882 ) ; the fall of Hanoi , after bitter war of ten years ( also 1882 ) . Throughout the nineteenth century , the peoples of the colonized world ? the " backward " peoples of what , after decolonization , came to be called the Third World ? had fought hard and lost . The period that began , roughly speaking , in 1898 and spanned the next quartercentury and which also happened to be the period when Lenin 's own thought matured and exploded on the world , was one when the dynamic of the nationalist revolution in the imperialized countries had seemed to be on the upswing . While it was none too clear that the anticolonial revolution would indeed develop an anticapitalist content , it seemed at least reasonable to work toward such an eventuality . In any event ,  | imperialism surely reversed most of those gains , and most national bourgeoisies became , especially after World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . However , one should not too easily forget that the few revolutions that did occur over the next few decades ? such as the Chinese , Cuban , Vietnamese , and Mozambiquan ? owed a great deal to the revolutionary transformation of nationalism and anticolonialism . As regards the growth of social democracy in Northwestern Europe , the case of the German party is well known , as are Lenin 's polemics against Bernstein and Kautsky . Less well known is the fact that it was a period of ageneral drift toward parliamentarism and gradualism in a host of countries , and that the drift , alongside the extension of suffrage which accompanied it , was characteristic of the workers ' movement in those countries during the opening decades of modern imperialism . Thus , for example , the Belgian party 's electoral strength grew from 13.2 percent in 1894 to 39.4 percent in 1925 ; the strength of the party in the Netherlands grew from 3 percent in 1896 to 18.5 percent in 1913 ; the Norwegian party 's strength grew from a paltry 0.6 percent in 1897 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3.5 percent in 1902 to 36.4 percent in 1914 ; in Finland , the social democrats had already won a plurality in 1907 , getting 37 percent of the vote ; the Austrian party gained 27 percent in 1907 and then a plurality , of 40.8 percent , in 1919 . As for England , Engels had himself occasionally spoken of " the supine character " of the workers ' movement there , and more modern commentators would characterize the practices of British social democracy , quite justifiably , as " Labour imperialism . " The opening decades of the imperialist era thus witnessed a crucial conjunction of facts : unprecedented acceleration of colonial conquest , accompanied by the growth of nationalism and anticolonialism in the periphery ; and equally unprecedented capitalist prosperity in the metropolitan countries , accompanied by incorporation of vast segments of the European working class into bourgeois parliamentarism via the agency of social democracy . The latter development , the incorporation of the European working class , was by no means inevitable ; but that is what happened . Lenin 's theory of imperialism , fragmentary as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practices appropriate to this conjuncture . As regards the colonies , his unequivocal support for national liberation was based not only on the theoretical affirmation of the right of national self-determination , but also on his perception of the actual strategic possibilities in the  | colonies . On the one hand , the parasitic character of imperialist capital was already obstructing the process of indigenous accumulation ( thanks to the bleeding process ) , so that political independence was in any case expected to strengthen the development of the productive forces , whether in the capitalist or the noncapitalist framework . On the other hand , since all modern classes in the colony ( the bourgeoisie as much as the proletariat ) were relatively undeveloped , it was at least possible that the working class , although numerically weak and socially backward , might nonetheless emerge as the hegemonic class in the colonial formation , provided that it was able to create a political framework of practice commensurate with the tasks of national liberation . What was at stake , then , was not the question of socialist revolution as such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parasite had already made the anticolonial struggle historically inevitable , for all classes in the colony , and the political hegemony of the working class could only be constructed in the course of that struggle ? hence the key link in Lenin 's writing between class struggle in the colony and the colonial question per se , the idealist discourses on the " progressive " character of capitalism notwithstanding . Assuming , as one in fairness should , that Warren had read more of Marx than he cared to cite , the only possible explanation for his highly tendentious reading lies in his own quite inordinate admiration for capitalism . This admiration is , in fact , a matter of considerable import : all the faults , sins , and brutalities of the system are forgiven in the name of progress . There is , for example , the overwhelming question of the sheer human costs , the manifestly barbaric slaughters , which constitute a necessary aspect of the construction of capitalism on a global scale . Warren accounts for these in two ways . First , he brushes them aside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the " historical-materialist " outlooks ; the latter , he says , occupies itself with questions of progress and excludes the questions of morality . His second line of argument , which contradicts the first but runs parallel with it , is to the effect that ( a ) human society has always been cruel but ( b ) no one in the past much cared about it because precapitalist societies , barbaric as they were , had no sense of morality in any case , and ( c ) the whole question of cruelty arose only in capitalist societies because ( d ) only capitalist societies are moral . In this latter line of  | argument , a higher sense of morality becomes a specifically bourgeois attribute and a gift of Europe to the rest of the world . Pages 21-24 of the book make remarkable reading on this score . Let me give an example or two . " The slaughter of the First World War , the Nazi concentration camps , the Vietnam War " are , for Warren , " relatively equivalent " to , for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ War . " The difference is merely numerical , and " if the technical advances of capitalism have brought the world horrors on an unprecedented scale , this is essentially a technical by-product . " The Nazi camps , he says , were no different than any other manifestation of racism . What was new , he emphasizes , was the sense of moral outrage which accompanied this no-greater-than-usual cruelty ; moreover , the outrage itself was a product of a morality peculiar to the humanistic civilization of capitalism . In other words , cruelty is transhistorical : Morality is specifically bourgeois . Warren is emphatic on this point and returns to it over and over again , from different angles . " Equality , justice , generosity " and " opposition to cruelty " are said to be unique features of the bourgeois outlook which " emerge early in the cultural history of capitalism . " We are also told that " the humanistic side of capitalist culture emerged very early in the development of capitalism in the first industrial society , Britain , and profoundly affected the working of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his excitement over capitalist ? particularly British ? humanism , Warren chooses to forget Marx 's unforgettable treatment of the horrors of primitive accumulation , not to speak of Engels 's detailed examination of the conditions of the working class in England in the midnineteenth century . Anything that even begins to challenge the notions of bourgeois liberalism is dismissed out of hand ; the whole of " the modern radical women 's liberation movement " is declared to be " revanchist , inward-looking , and backward " compared with the " humanist and progressive " John Stuart Mill . Finally , Warren postulates that there can be no real difference between bourgeois morality and socialist morality , because all industrialized societies must have the same morality , while " the cultural and moral differences between modern industrial societies and pre-industrial societies and cultures are far more fundamental than between the industrial societies themselves . " Presumably , inculcating a higher sense of morality is part of the civilizing mission of ITT and Exxon in the Third World , while the  | socialist society of tomorrow will be not much different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of today 's fetishized universal markets . " Capitalism and democracy are , " Warren says , " linked virtually as Siamese twins . " Elsewhere we are told that imperialism not only leads to " industrialisation and general economic development " in the Third World , but the " cultural and material achievements " of capitalism , including " the important connection between capitalism and democracy , " are equally beneficent for the social and moral uplift of backward peoples . The assumption , of course , is that capitalism will bring democracy to the Third World . This question of capitalist democracy deserves some comment because , unlike his peculiar ideas on capitalist morality , Warren 's enthusiasm for capitalist democracy would seem to be widely shared in Western Marxism . That the working class needs democracy is surely beyond doubt . That there is an " important connection " between capitalism and democracy is perhaps also obvious , though it might have been altogether possible to lose sight of this " connection " if you were an English woman trying to elect a Member of Parliament in 1913 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1933 , or an Afro-American trying , in 1953 , to buy a cup of coffee across most counters in the lovely Carolinas , North or South . In other words , there is a connection between metropolitan capitalism and metropolitan democracy , though even that connection seems to have worked , through most of the history of capital , only for those who were male , white , and Tory . But what of the periphery ? Capitalism arrived on our shores , in the shape of its guns and slavers and merchants , roughly five hundred years ago . I can not think of five countries in the imperialized periphery today where parliamentary democracy can be said to have become the stable political form of bourgeois rule . I will go further : There is a negative connection between capitalism and democracy in the periphery . The more these countries are integrated into global capitalism , the more despotic their state systems have become . The fascist , the Bonapartist , the military-dictatorial may be , as is said in Western Marxism , ' the " exceptional " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the periphery , these are the normal , the generalized forms . Moreover , these new varieties of despotism are manifestations not of the backwardness of the periphery but of the progress of the metropoles : The instruments of torture are usually imported , and those who administer the torture are by and large also either imported from or trained in the metropoles . Not that the local owners of capital are less murderous in their intent ; their ability to perpetrate genocides comes nevertheless mostly from the metropoles . I will go even further . Up to the advent of modern imperialism ( 1880s or so ) , parliamentary democracy remained an exceptional , beleaguered , tenuous , and limited form of bourgeois rule even in Europe ; it existed in some of the European countries , for some of the time , for some sections of the population . Far from being a " Siamese twin " of capitalism , bourgeois democracy , based on universal suffrage and functioning as a generalized and stable form of the bourgeois state , is , even in the metropoles , a rather @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of World War II ; in the less privileged parts of the Continent ? Spain , Greece , Turkey , and so on ? this form is neither generalized nor stable . Even in some of the richer countries , such as West Germany and Italy , the economic prosperity of the past thirty years has been the indispensable foundation for political democracy . Will Italian democracy , for example , survive if economic prosperity is profoundly threatened ? One hopes , but only a fool would take a bet one way or the other . And even if we grant , for the sake of argument , that Western democracy is now irreversible , this experience of thirty-five years in a small corner of global capitalism is insufficient to postulate a fundamental connection between capitalism and democracy as such , for the quintessential experience of capitalism even in the present generation is this : Democracy for the metropoles , dictatorship for the periphery ; the drug of ideology and protein here , the perfection of despotism there . I am speaking not of two systems , the civilized and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of one system , the imperialist . And imperialism is not simply a matter of the so-called productive forces , nor is it merely an economic system of unequal exchanges between autonomous national economies . Imperialism is simultaneously a world-economy as well as a global political system . The metropolitan/democratic state and the peripheral/despotic state constitute a dialectical unity in that system , because each is necessary , in its own space , for maximization of the accumulation process . And it is  | not very difficult to fathom why the typical peripheral state must be despotic . Apermanent army of the unemployed ; increased pauperization for the majority as a consequence of the concentration of the means of production in a few hands ; for the majority of the proletariat , a wage scale that gives it no more than is absolutely necessary for the reproduction of its own labor power ; the common ruination of the landless , the small producers , the craftspeople ; an unlimited supply of wage labor ; coercion , pillage , disease , death . These are among the fundamental laws of capitalism , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These laws seem to have disappeared from the vocabulary of Western Marxism because it thinks of capitalism , by and large , in terms of metropolitan states . On the contrary , as soon as one breaks away from Eurocentric nationalisms and thinks of capitalism as a world-system  --  or , more accurately , imperialism ? one immediately recognizes that these laws are operative , very much so , though now not merely on the scale of a France or the British Isles but on a global scale . It is in the conditions of existence of the direct producers and the unemployed populations of the periphery ? that vast majority of the world 's working class which lives in the majority of today 's capitalist states ? that capitalism continues to reveal itself as a system of political autocracy and economic destitution . As a result , the politics of these classes can not but be essentially and permanently insurrectionary . Conversely , the open , permanent , overwhelming violence of the typical peripheral state corresponds fairly precisely to this dialectic of destitution and insurrection . The power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of the barrel of a gun . Even aside from democracy , colonialism in Warren 's discourse is credited with bringing to the colony a host of other social and cultural benefits , especially in the area of education , health , and nutrition . " The colonial record , " we are told , " was remarkably free of brutality " ( p. 128 ) . Again , " the epochal imperialist sweep was indeed a titanic step toward human unity ( on the basis of the greatest cultural and material achievements so far attained by humanity ) " ( p. 137 ) . These are obviously statements rather contrary to facts . It is doubtful , for example that the indigenous populations of the Americas ,  | whose entombment was the prime condition for capitalist progress in their lands , could have thought that the process of their own demise was " free of brutality . " Nor is it at all clear that the enslaved populations of West Africa could have considered the slave trade a " titanic step toward human unity . " These matters concern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our own living present . No one who has lived through the period of the Vietnam war could , while in possession of his senses , speak of the " imperialist sweep " as an expression of humanity 's greatest achievements . And even setting aside the countless millions who died or were maimed for life in the process of this sweep , what about the ones who survived ? Warren makes much of imperialism 's contributions to health , education , and nutrition in the colonies . This again seems doubtful . It is perhaps in the history of Latin America , in the annals of Portugese colonialism in Africa , and in those maps of modern hunger which stretch from the Sahel to Kenya and from Somalia to the Bantustans , that one could best see the colonial and imperialist achievements in this regard . But since India is very much the country in question , from Marx to our own more modern author , it is best to give some examples from the past and present history of that " jewel " of the British empire . Here @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for these achievements . When one finds , for example , that roughly 80 percent of the population of Bangladesh , one of the earliest beneficiaries of colonialism in the subcontinent , is now eating fewer calories than what is considered minimally necessary even for paupers , one wonders about progress in health and nutrition , especially if one knows that the ratio between food prices and urban incomes is much worse today , in each of the three countries of the subcontinent , than it was in the days of Akbar ( the Mughal king , a contemporary of Elizabeth Ist , whose name Warren continually misspells ) . Nor is this a new development . This ratio , as well as the general food intake , has declined constantly since the advent of colonialism . In this , as in so many other respects , the histories of the metropoles and the peripheries present us with a stark contrast , whereby capitalism has harvested food for the winners , hunger for the losers : Only in the course of the last two hundred years , since the Industrial Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most of that third of mankind living in the rich countries of North America , Western Europe , Eastern Europe , Japan and Australia Brown and Finterbush , 1972 : 7.  | By contrast , as Gail Omvedt puts it : Whereas capitalist development in the centers of capitalism meant the end of famine as a common feature in human history , it seems to have resulted in intensification of famine elsewhere . The figures are grim . India , the longest fully colonised society , had the worst record : 10 million dead ( a third of the population ) in Bengal in 1796-70 , only a decade after the initial conquest and plunder of that region . . . ; one million dead in 1866 , again in the east ; one and a half million dead in 1869 in Rajasthan ; five million dead in 1876-78 ; one million in 1899-1900 . The population of colonial India was literally ravaged by death and disease . China too had major famines beginning about the middle of the 19th century . . . with between nine and thirteen million dead @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Hunan in 1929 ... The only major famine in Europe in this period was in its white ' colony : two to three million dead in the potato famine in Ireland in 1846-47 Omvedt , 19751.6 Except for limitations of space , one could document in virtually inexhaustible detail the declining rate of calorie consumption in the subcontinent , as in much of the periphery ; the growing food dependence of the Third World on the surplus-producing metropoles ; the manner in which the new technologies of food production have increased the power of the multinational corporations over the peripheral national economies , and how the American ruling class , through the agency of its state , uses and is determined to use food not as a step toward " human unity , " as Warren claims , but as a weapon , like the Marines and the nuclear bomb . I do not have the space . So , I will make some random observations regarding education , again with reference only to India . Britain 's long march toward the conquest of India had started much earlier , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Battle of Plassey and the subsequent subjugation of Bengal in 1757 . As regards education , however , the customary British practice for the next sixty years or more was to allot millions of rupees to this item in the budget , and then to spend only small portions of it , mostly on schools designed to teach the vernacular to the British themselves . This state of affairs lasted until about the 1820s , although the more farsighted among the colonizing intelligentsia were well aware of the benefits of the teaching of English for the colonial enterprise . It was in the 1830s , when the administration of India was becoming of direct concern to the British Crown , that the question of education , along with a host of  | other such administrative questions , came to be posed in earnest . Lord Macauley , who traveled to India in 1834 to campaign personally for the teaching of English , summarized the objective quite succinctly : We must do our best to form a class who may be interpreters between us and the millions who we govern . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ color , but English in tastes , in opinions , in morals , and in intellect . Macauley 's brother-in-law , Sir Charles Travelyan , was even more far-sighted and could already foresee the main requirements of what we today call the postcolonial society , for as early as 1838 he wrote in his hook , On the Education of the Peoples of India : No effort of policy can prevent the nations from regaining their independence . English education will achieve by gradual reform what any other method will do by revolution . The nations will not rise against us because we shall stoop to raise them . . . We shall exchange profitable subjects for even more profitable allies .. and establish a strict commercial union between the first manufacturing country and the first producing country in the world italics added ' . That just such a " commercial union " was consummated , and that India was given its fill of the gentlemen who were Indian in blood and color but English in tastes and morals , is indeed beyond doubt . But aside from the Anglicized elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century after Macauley 's tour of duty , the British were spending six dollars for colonial education for every hundred they spent on the colonial Army ; forty years after that , in 1921-1922 , the ratio was still one to ten . By this latter date , the British were spending an average of sixty-seven cents per annum per school-age child . But even these averages are bogus ; most of this money was spent on a handful of classy outfits which devoted themselves to the reproduction of the colonial elite . The upshot was that literacy rates in India remained almost constant for a century of British rule , from 1835 to 1931 , rising for adults from 4.4 percent to 6 percent and for five-year-olds from 5.8 percent to 7 percent . Even the little industrialization that did take place seems to have produced no cultural benefits for the working class : among the Mahars , Holis , and Dheds , the three castes most identified with industrial employment in Central India , the literacy p rate in 1921 was found to be a mere 1.5 percent ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ book is really as shallow and wrong-headed as I take it to be , such lengthy commentary on it might seem rather excessive . And one would have surely preferred to have ignored it if it were an expression of lone eccentricity . But as I argued in the beginning , the discussion is made imperative by the much wider context of the theoretical productions and political practices that have contributed to the currency and prestige of the book ; it will have its weight , regardless of worth . This context is especially difficult to define because no particular political party , no singular line of political or theoretical argument , no one towering personality can be said to have shaped the entire conjuncture ; there are enormous differences of outlook , ability , political preference , object of research , and so on . However , as one surveys the broad range of those recent debates that have dominated first the Continental and now , increasingly , the Anglo-American variants of Marxist theory , three aspects stand out in special relief : a distance from , and even repudiation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sition to capitalism as one that was internal to Europe , and of contemporary capitalism in which the imperalized countries are taken to be essentially irrelevant ; and a distance also from politics as such , in the name of culture , or philosophy and epistemology , or economics . Warren 's own drawback is that he operates at a low level of intellectual sophistication , and both the intensity and the sweep of his invective is likely to offend most readers . He is nevertheless enormously attractive for several tendencies in contemporary Western Marxism because he combines all three elements I cited above in highly pronounced terms : He attacks that part of Lenin 's thought ? namely the theory of imperialism ? that has been the hardest to combat ; he makes the case that the benefits of colonialism went not to the colonizer but to the colonized ; and , in the name of a wholly economistic " theory of the productive forces , " he rejects altogether the very ideas of any political struggle against imperialism . These are not minor or accidental matters . There have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constructions of independant Marxists as well as in the programmatic formulations of the leading European communist parties , powerful tendencies that  | have diverse origins but are nonetheless united in seeking to challenge and refute Lenin 's three basic contributions to Marxist theory : his theory of the capitalist state ( as a structure primarily of force , as a dictatorship of the bourgeoisie ) ; his theory of revolutionary politics ( party of the revolutionary vanguard , the politics of insurrection , the destruction of the bourgeois state , the " dictatorship of the proletariat " ) ; and his theory of imperialism ( as " rapacious " and " decaying " capitalism , and as a global system of monopoly capital , which begins to disintegrate first not in the centers but in its " weakest links " ) . Over the past decade or so , the contrary tendencies in Western Marxism have concentrated on the first two of these theories : the state and revolutionary politics . This was necessary because the incorporation of the Eurocommunist parties into the modalities of bourgeois parliamentarism was impossible without considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible ( a ) because a very extensive body of anti-Leninist argument could be taken over , with certain modifications , from a host of earlier debates ( Bernstein and Kautsky on the one hand ; parts of Gramsci on the other ) , to be made serviceable for the new conjuncture , and ( b ) because there already was the towering and immensely repugnant fact of Stalinism which could be , with some rearrangement of facts , collapsed into the theories of Lenin , so that the " existing socialisms " of the Soviet bloc could be read off as incarnations of Lenin 's texts . The matter of imperialism seemed less pressing and harder to handle , less pressing because , at first glance , it seemed not to conflict with the practical applications of Eurocommunism : NATO , and Fiat , and French troops in a dozen African countries , and the French Communist Party 's racist attacks on migrant workers inside France , could all be tolerated , ignored , filed away , as long as one got enough votes in Naples and Marseilles . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out , there had never been , over the past sixty or so years , a major Marxist challenge to Lenin 's characterization of imperialism as " rapacious " capitalism . The most important challenge to Lenin 's and Bukharin 's theories , the one that came from Rosa Luxemberg , had been argued on a different terrain : the role and potentialities/limits of the world market , the transformation of values into prices and the process of their accumulation on the world scale , and so on . The other big challenge , from Kautsky and his theory of ultraimperialism , whereby the Western imperialist countries were to form a benign syndicate for mutually profitable exploitation of the  | globe , never gained much currency among communists , due to the sheer persistence of imperialist wars and war machines . It was difficult , then , to suddenly start expounding on the beneficence of imperialism until a lot else had changed in Western Marxism . That Warren can now deliver that much-delayed discourse is a measure of these changes . In other words , after the rule of the bourgeoisie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on consent ; after the capitalist state had been theorized not as class dictatorship but in terms of its electoral forms , its bureaucratic structures , and its managerial functions ; after revolutionary politics had been conceptualized afresh as politics of the " historic compromise " ; after the state of the socialist transition was likewise conceptualized as not the class hegemony ( that is , dictatorship ) of the proletariat but as greater " perfection " of the parliamentary form and a " reconstruction of the national economy " ; after the relationship of the metropoles and the periphery had itself been defined ( in the term Enrico Berlinguer had borrowed from Exxon ) as " interdependence " ; after all that ? it had become possible , and perhaps even necessary , to eradicate the theory of imperialism from the vocabulary of Western Marxism , just as the concept of the dictatorship of the proletariat had been purged , by official decree , from the vocabulary of the Eurocommunist parties . Warren 's attack on the Leninist theory of imperialism is voluble and explicit . Analogous ideas were nonetheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a number of other , slightly earlier debates . Thus , for example , the **26;1389;TOOLONG debate presents itself as a theoretical discussion on the general category of " the capitalist state , " with none of the participants being aware even to a slight degree that the object of their analysis was not the state of the capitalist mode of production ? there perhaps can be no global theory at this level of generality ? but a type of state formation which is specific to the metropolitan countries , in the era of imperialism and at a particular juncture in history . Besides , they proceed in their debate with the presupposition that the effectiveness of this type of state is enclosed within the territorial frontiers of the nationstate , with little regard for the obvious fact that the creation and exercise of military might , of historically unprecedented ferocity and wholly commensurate with the requirements of global rapacious accumulation , is a specific task of this state , hence absorbing much of its revenues and accounting for much of the power of its personnel ; and that , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ field of Vd '  | our theorists , the contemporary metroplitan/capitalist state directly generates imperalist and racist ideologies within the metropolitan countries , and intervenes directly and in full force , even with great military force , in the dominant ideological production in the imperialized formations ; and that the likes of Reagan and Thatcher , the chief executives of such states , are , as a rule , rabid imperialists and racists . This relative neglect of the question of imperialism in much of the contemporary debate on the theory of the state could hardly be an oversight . It attests , rather , to an ideology which looks at the history of Europe as an autonomous history that may have passed through the " aberration " of colonialism , much as it also passed through the " aberration " of fascism ( the " exceptional " form ) , but whose secular history can be theorized adequately within the predicates of its own internal dynamic , so that the aberration in no substantial way contributes to , or detracts from , Europe 's essential splendor , isolation , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has come to be known as the mode of production debate ? not so much in the original exchange between Sweezy and Dobb , as in the more recent recapitulations of it . As I remarked earlier , the wholesale expropriation of the direct producers inside Europe and the colossal appropriation of the values produced in Asia , Africa , and Latin America had been , for Marx , two aspects of a single global process since that very early stage of capitalism which he calls the stage of primary , or primitive , accumulation . As the more modern debate progressed , however , the dialectical unity of the original conception was increasingly subjected to an either/or choice , so that there could be only one primary source for the transition ( the famous prime mover ) . In the course of this search for a unitary source , the complex historicity of the capitalist mode came to be reduced increasingly to a relation of expropriation between the direct producer and his direct exploiter ; in order to understand the capitalist transition , then , one had to examine only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ England . Colonialism , meanwhile , came to be associated more and more with commerce , and since we all know that in Marxist theory production takes precedence over circulation , it was said to be possible , by and large , to separate capitalism and colonialism as two different processes that had no necessary connection . This theoreticist separation between production ( capitalism ) and circulation ( colonialism ) was difficult enough to sustain even as a theoretical postulate , but the next step in this line of reasoning was indeed remarkable : Since there was discovered to be  | no theoretically necessary connection between capitalism and colonialism , one was now free to proceed as if there was no such necessary connection in historical fact either . A theoretically possible and potential history could thus be posited instead of the history that actually was . ' The effect , if not the purpose , of these lines of argument has been to revise Marxism once more in the direction of a Eurocentric world view . And once the originary formation of capitalism had been theoretically sundered from its colonialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an entity that had nothing basic to do with imperialism , and if quantitative analysis could show , in addition , that most values in contemporary capitalism were produced and exchanged within and among the metroplitan countries , then the penultimate question could in fact be asked : Is imperialism necessary ? The Syzmanski-Magdoff exchange covers the terrain of that question fairly well , ' and we need not dwell on it , except to say that even the posing of this question within a Marxist discourse is indicative of profound shifts in perspective . Instead of conceptualizing imperialism as capitalism itself , at the global/ monopoly stage , this perspective takes imperialism to be perhaps a facet , possibly an adjunct , surely no more than an option that the metropolitan state may or may not wish to exercise . There are , then , three questions : Does imperialism exist ? Is it necessary ? And is it bad ? Warren begins where others have left off , and his answers have the virtue of clarity : Yes , imperialism exists ; it exists because it is necessary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , beneficent . I have so far cited , in necessarily summary fashion and by way of example only , some of the highly influential debates among intellectuals who are , for the most part , free of party constraints . The case of the parties themselves is , if anything , worse . The crux of the matter here , bluntly put , is this : In the course of building what Togliatti used to call " national roads to socialism , " the Western European parties have gradually come to identify themselves with nationalist agendas to such a degree that they have abandoned , for the greater part , the struggle against the imperialism of their own respective bourgeoisies . Thus , if the Spanish Party has failed to support POLISARIO because the Spanish bourgeoisie is itself an interested party in the struggle over the Sahara , the French Party ( PCF ) has been remarkably silent about military intervention by the French state in half a dozen African countries ; instead , the PCF prefers to print in its own newspapers  | large pictures of the Mirage , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a contribution by French workers to the export effort of the ( beleaguered ) French economy . The Italian Party ( PCI ) , clearly the most influential of the Eurocommunist parties , follows much the same policies . It is well known that the term " dictatorship of the proletariat " disappeared from the lexicon of these parties after their Berlin Conference of 1976 . At the same time , and as part of the same thinking , PCI also abandoned the term " proletarian internationalism , " declaring it to be too sectarian , and substituted for it the term " internationalist solidarity , " which has no class content . This classless " solidarity " makes it possible , in turn , for Mr. Berlinguer to establish party-to-state relations with such governments as those of Somalia and India ; to endorse the economic integration of Western Europe under the rubric of the EEC , and to speak of a strengthened NATO as a bastion of Western European power against both the USSR and the United States ; to conduct highly publicized meetings with Brandt , Mitterand , Gonzalez @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ West Germany , France , Spain , and Portugal , respectively ? in order to work out a historic compromise between social democracy and Eurocommunism ; and to speak in his address to the European Parliament not of the imperialism of the European bourgeoisies but of a " framework of relations " between Europe and nations of the Third World based on " mutually advantageous cooperation , " a term not much different in content from the " interdependence " so close to the heart of the American ruling class . And it has been a long time since programs of the PCI have spoken of Italy 's own bourgeoisie as one of the imperialist bourgeoisies . The case of France , and hence the outlook of the PCF , is possibly the most pertinent in this regard , since France is the most openly active of all the European imperialist powers . Some of the PCF 's record goes back to the 1940s , when the party looked favorably at the reactivation of French colonialism in Indochina and Algeria . It is also indicative that in the current politics of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ against migrant workers , and that Georges Marchais himself has demanded for France draconian laws similar to the ones that exist in West Germany ? some of them dating to the Nazi period.9 These , again , are not fits of absentmindedness . These tactics are required by that variant of the " national road to socialism " which increasingly becomes a mere passageway of French nationalism . As a group of French communists , led by Etienne Balibar ,  | noted in their criticism of the draft documents of the 23rd Congress of the PCF , held in May 1979 : The Party 's discourse has been based for too long on the non-recognition , indeed the systematic suppression , of two sizeable realities : French imperalism , and the existence and the nature of inter-imperialist conflicts . Thus , we could look in vain in the preliminary documents of the 23rd Congress for an analysis of French imperialism . Indeed , any reference to it has disappeared from the preamble to the new statutes .. . In its present argumentation the Party is trying to suggest that France has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a matter of denying that the structure of French society , its productive apparatus and its work force , is marked by our history as an imperialistpower . . . To put forward such an argument is in fact to give up on principle all criticism of the structural distortion which the development of imperialist capital has placed on the means of production and on mankind . It is like saying , for example , that socialism does not have to transform from top to bottom a specialization of the industrial branches which relies upon the use of raw materials taken by pillaging the Third World , and which aims at the conquest of foreign markets ... At this stage , it seems to us , the class viewpoint so often claimed has completely disappeared Balibar et al. , 1980 ; italics in original . This came from inside the PCF and seems accurate enough . Interestingly , criticisms such as these have led not to the rectification of party policies but to the expulsion , instead , of Balibar and others who were opposed to the party 's racism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an offspring of the Eurocommunist parties . Nor are his formulations derived directly from the politics and the debates I have cited above . It remains nonetheless true that the terms of those debates and the persistence of those practices have contributed immeasurably to a general climate of opinion in which Warren 's thoughts become thinkable , even to a degree plausible , within a political framework that continues to define itself as Marxist . That is , extremist as Warren 's text surely is , it is also symptomatic of something wider . Notes 1 . I use the term " Western Marxism " not to cover the entire body of Marxist writings published in the Western countries but in the narrower , though not quite specific , sense given to this term by Perry Anderson and others of New Left Books .  | Some analysts have simply tried to unite the two different theories of imperialism and dependency by alluding to their complementarity " Ianni , n.d. : 41p. ) , while other analysts are in turn attempting to bury dependency theory ( Fagen , 1977 ) . I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ impossible to combine Lenin 's materialist analysis of imperialism with the critical-idealist perspective of the dependentistas ( see Johnson , 1977. for a more extensive critique of dependency theory ) . One can not , in fact , pose an abstract question of a theory of imperialism versus a theory of dependency , as some analysts claim ( Santi et al. , 1971 ) . Rather , as Lenin once noted , it is a question ofunderstanding imperialism ( monopoly capitalism ) and the national liberation movements in the colonies ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 738 ) . The accent is thereby placed on a question of transformation ( Economopoulos , 1978 ) instead of the difference between abstract models of classical capitalism and a supposed deformed , dependent capitalism . This latter approach in fact constitutes a question of sophistry . Hence , much of what has been held against Lenin 's analysis and cited in favor of a " theory of dependency " generally results from two elements : a lack of historical perspective in knowing what theses have already been ideologically produced by other political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capable of approaching reality in order to identify the dialectical ( relational ) , historical ( temporal ) and material ( spatial ) reasons for the occurrence of specific socioeconomic and political events . By showing the manner in which nonmaterialist analyses and sophistry are effected by dependency theorists themselves , I hope to set the groundwork for comprehending the manner in which **33;1417;TOOLONG analyses of space , time , and motion events within social relations are to be approached . It is this method of reasoning that determines the theoretical production of ideological or scientific knowledge . One specific need of theoretical analysis is that of taking the word concepts , such as " capital , " " labor , " " imperialism , " and " dependency " and explaining their different meanings . Such a task is essential before proceeding into other realms of theoretical analysis ( for example , that of identifying the needs of transformation at a given moment ) . It is necessary to distinguish the different theses involved , for dependency theory has dominated socioeconomic and political literature on the left in Latin America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alone , such ideas merit consideration and scrutiny .  | Marx reminded his contempories that he did not discover the existence of classes or even that of class struggle . Consider Marx 's letter to Weydemeyer , March 5 , 1852 : " And now as to myself , no credit is due to me for discovering the existence of classes in modern society or the struggle between them . Long before me bourgeois historians had described the historical development of this class struggle and bourgeois economists the economic autonomy of the classes . " The very concept of " class " was itself a product of class struggle and class analyses of social relations . However , Marx did explain in Capital ( " capital " being another bourgeois concept ) the contradiction between social production and private appropriation which produced classes and the struggle for surplus values . The materialist objective is to precisely explain the class meanings of the concepts in terms of the social relations . Similar to what Marx accomplishes ' regarding class analysis , Lenin went on to explain what " imperialism " meant in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , specifically in terms of monopoly capital and bompetitive capital and the struggle for the accumulation of surplus values ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 22 , 116-117 ) . In the works of Marx and Lenin one will not find the petty bourgeois characteristics of fetishizing a particular word concept . Marx and Lenin simply explain what the abstracted concepts mean in terms of historically existing relations . Lenin constantly made the point that the petty bourgeois analysts were merely debating over concepts , " arguing over words " and definitions around a particularword ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 267 , 373 ) . This same characteristic of the German petty bourgeois intelligentsia was pointed out by Marx and Engels in The German Ideology ( Marx and Engels , 1976 : 71 1 ) . Lenin 's emphasis , in contrast , was to identify the " component parts of the concept imperialism ' " : " I Monopoly , as the result of concentration , II export . if capital ( as the chief thing ) , + IV division of the world a ) agreements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital and its threads ' , VI replacement of free trade and peaceful exchange by a policy of force ( tariffs , seizures , etc. , etc . ) " ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 202 ) . Lenin placed the word " imperialism " between quotes in order to convey the idea that it represented the other side 's choice of words .  | That which was identified by the bourgeois economists as imperialism was explained by Lenin as due to specific material reasons of capital production . Even the title of Lenin 's book , Imperialism : The Highest Stage of Capitalism ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 22 , 185-304 ) appears to follow the wording of Steffen , who pointed out that " Imperialism is a universal I sic ! political stage of development , through which every I ! ! great people with large internal forces and a momentous mission must pass " ( 1972 : Vol. 39 , 260 ; italics in original ) . Consider also Lenin 's " Approximate Title for Censorship : Principal Features of Modern ( Recent , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 39 , 230 ) . Other expressions in Lenin 's Notebooks on Imperialism concern " Imperialism , the highest ( modern ) stage of capitalism " ( p. 202 ) ; " The Special stage of capitalism in our time " ( p. 230 ) . By using the idea of the highest stage of capitalism , Lenin was merely emphasizing the fact that call it as you will , capitalism was on its last leg , historically speaking . Thus , in order to emphasize the economic character of imperialism as a product of capitalist development itself and not merely the political significance of imperialism , Lenin turned the word concepts of the bourgeois political economists against themselves . In their sociopolitical meaning ( not to mention their everyday use before that ) , one must remember that both imperialism and dependency were concepts produced and emphasized by the bourgeois political economists of Lenin 's time . Before Lenin wrote Imperialism , in 1916 , already such titles had appeared as Fraisse 's International Situation of the Dependent Countries of the Congo Basin ( 1904 ) and Redslob 's Dependent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as some dependentistas do today , that dependency is a new phenomenon of contemporary imperialism is to ignore the relations that gave rise to relations of class dominance . Independent movements against imperialism and colonialism meant the existence of dependent countries during Lenin 's time , simple mechanical dialectics would illustrate this point . But the ideological point is to understand that " dependent " already reflected the imperialist 's class perspective : convincing the colonies that they depended on the imperial countries . Furthermore , Lenin did not make his analysis from the perspective of the dependent countries , just as he did not make it from the perspective of the imperialist countries . Lenin made an analysis of imperialism and dependency from the theoretical perspective of historical materialism.  | Most of the word concepts used even today by bourgeois political economists and by many Marxists to identify dependency were thought up several years before Lenin completed his synthetical study of imperialism . For the sake of example only , consider the following popular phrases in vogue today . The expression " less developed countries " appeared in The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1915 ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 49 ) ? not to mention the literature before Marx . But with respect to the studies on imperialism , also common were the concepts " colonial dependence " ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 68 ) and even " internal colonisation " ( Vol. 39 , 112 ) . This latter concept calls to mind the concept of " internal colonialism , " another supposed theoretical " advancement " disputed by authors such as Rodolfo Stavenhagen and Pablo Gonzalez-Casanova ( 1974 ) . As to who originated the idea , a case could be easily made that Wakefield ( see Marx , Vol. 1 ) or Hildebrand ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 112 ) beat both Stavenhagen and GonzalezCasanova to it long ago ? if , that is , one wishes to waste time considering the origin of word concepts . " Financially dependent countries " ( Vol. 39 , 195 ) , " dependence of independent countries " ( Vol. 39 , 240 ) , " periphery " ( Vol. 39 , 531 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are held to represent the conceptual backbone of contemporary dependency theory . Such concepts , however , were the daily bread of the bourgeois political economists of the early twentieth century . Today , ideological debate remains at the level of the struggle over word concepts . The scientific discussion of social relations corresponds to the level of the materialist explanation of those relations and word concepts and remains ignored by the dependentistas . The foregoing critique of dependency concepts ; - of relatively little significance , even though it directly contests the pretentious efforts of the dependentistas to create a theory of dependency , or to modify Lenin 's theoretical understanding of imperialism . For even when the dependentistas invent " new " word concepts ? some have done through " poetic license " with terms like " lumpenbourgeoisie " and " lumpendevelopment " ( Frank , 1971 ) ? the theoretical issues remain obscure and unanswered . The invention of a new word concept would appear to be the resolution of the theoretical analysis . The problem does not concern the coining of new word concepts which supposedly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need is to offer materialist explanations of the sociohistorical relations that exist . Dependentistas fail to achieve this , however , because of a dis- proportionate concern for the originality of concrete socioeconomic formations and the idealistic attempt to construct a theory of social relations around a particular word . This may be seen in the ahistorical nature of the definitions of dependency some authors have con-structed : Dependency is a situation in which a certain group of countries have their economy conditioned by the development and expansion of another economy to which itself is subjected . The relation of interdependence between two or more economies , and between these and world trade , assumes the form of dependency when some countries ( the dominant ones ) can expand themselves and self-propel themselves which the other countries ( the dependent ones ) can only do so as a reflection of that expansion , that can act positively and/or negatively upon its immediate development . Anyway , the basic situation of dependency leads to an over-all situation of the dependent countries that places them behind and under the exploitation of the dominant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Such neutralized , ahistorical definitions may be used to apply to capitalist as well as socialist relations between countries . In fact , as stated here , even the developed countries would be subject to this definition , since they too are subjected to the expansion and production of surplus value by the dominated countries ; if these do not produce , imperialism does not grow . I have critiqued such " definitions " elsewhere in greater detail ( Johnson , 1979b ) . A critique such as this of these idealist procedures is itself open to misinterpretation . This critique may give the initial impression of arguing against the word " dependency " as though it were inadequate , incorrect , or unnecessary . This is not the case , certainly , just as it is not the case to argue against Lenin 's having analyzed the word concept and relations of " imperialism . " The objection concerns the absence of materialist explanations of the social relations represented by the concept of dependency , as well as the absence of analyses of other aspects of those relations excluded by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and relations of imperialism , whose ideological counterpart was , and remains today ,  | dependency . Neither did Lenin occupy himself with creating a theory of dependency , a concept with which , as we have seen , Lenin was more than familiar . To even suggest , as Dos Santos does , for example , that Lenin did not review this side of the imperialist coin is simply a distortion of Lenin 's work . You can not study one without studying the other . Many of the theses Lenin postulated about the historical significance of imperialism came from the works of the bourgeois , liberal , and socialist political economists of the day : Agand , Bauer , Baumgarten , Cromer , Dietzel , Hildebrand , Hilferding , Hobson , Steffen , Ulbricht , among many others ( Lenin , 1971 : Vol. 39 , 792-827 ) . Lenin argued mainly against the thesis that imperialism was a deformation of capitalism 's expansion ( Vol. 39 , 264-268 ) ? that is , an undesired political policy that could be avoided if capitalism were effectively reformed . Lenin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a time for promoting socialist revolutions in different countries ( Vol. 39 , 316-317 ) . Some of the most significant socioeconomic theses forwarded by Lenin in his analysis of capitalism and imperialism , common to the work of other writers before him , though not expressed in these exact terms , regard the following ( Vol. 39 , 69-75 ) :  | It should also be remembered that in order for Lenin to have demonstrated some of these points , he had to censure himself to keep his book from being censured . The dependentistas of the 1960s and 1970s in Latin America apparently ignore the significance of Lenin 's theses when they identify dependency as a deformity of classical capitalism and speak about the suigeneris nature of dependent capitalism . Consider : " For that reason , more than a precapitalism , what one has is a sui generis capitalism , which only makes sense if we contemplate it in the perspective of the system as a whole , at a national level , and mainly , at an international level " ( Marini , 1973a ; 15 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ materially when dependency actually comes into existence , and what represents its unique historical characteristics . Dos Santos , for example , can not make up his mind whether Latin American countries were born into dependency or whether dependency is a more recent consequence of imperialism ( 1970b : 44-45 ) . Many speculators of Latin American dependent capitalism claim that the concept of dependency reflects something new , something original that was nonexistent under classical capitalism ( Bambirra , 1974 ) . These new features refer to theses about the superexploitation of labor : " My central thesis , on which I insist in all of my texts , is another : dependent capitalism , based on the superexploitation of labor , divorces the productive apparatus of the needs of consumption of the masses , thus aggravating a general tendency of the capitalist mode of production " ( Marini , 1978 , 74 ) ; the marginalization of the labor force ( Nun , n.d. ) ; the existence of unequal exchange relations ( Emmanuel , 1972 ) ; the problems of the realization of surplus value ( Marini , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ domestic and international markets ( Marini , 1973b : 53ff ) . On such ideological constructions the dependentistas make the absolutist statement that capitalism is impossible in Latin America and only dependence is reproduced ? that is , " more underdevelopment . " They grapple similarly with concepts of " subimperialism " ( Marini , 1973a ) , not recognizing that it is monopoly capital that creates itself again and again in the form of imperialism , out of the economic crises of capitalism and the concentration and centralization of capital . The idealist task of attempting to develop a Marxist theory of de pendency assumed today by many Latin American dependentistas  | immediately reveals their nonmaterialist conception of theory . The imperialist perspective produced both the thetically uncritical concept of imperialism and the antithetically critical concept of dependency , which harbored a hierarchically inferior value relative to the imperialist nations at that time . Imperialism and dependency were and still are word concepts of class combat , with specific ideological connotations and class meanings of struggle . They represent class ideologic ) concepts . Unlike Marx 's and Lenin 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to us , we see the dependentistas concerned with rescuing concepts , and creating various theses around the word " dependency . " Such critical-idealist efforts represent exercises in sophistry , where one aspect of a process is brought out supposedly to explain the entire process . ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 598 ) . At best , the concept of dependency reflects only one aspect of the process , on an ideological plane , by reflecting essentially an imperialist thesis . Dependency conveys the idea of inferiority vis-a-vis imperialist development by suggesting that Latin American countries depend technologically and financially on the United States , for example , for their existence . Historically the opposite obtains : Imperialism came first , then created that historical dependence . Consider , for example , " Just as it the bourgeoisie has made the country dependent on the towns , so it has made barbarian and semi-barbarian countries dependent on the civilized ones , nations of peasants on nations of bourgeois , the East on the West " ( Marx , 1975 : 38 ) . It is the United @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American labor forces in order to maintain its relatively high levels of production and consumption . Hence , Hobson and especially Lenin placed emphasis on the fact that finance , monopoly capital , was completely parasitic . By emphasizing the word concept of dependency for identifying Latin America 's socioeconomic formations vis-a-vis the United States , this particular dependentista thesis unknowingly ( in the best of cases ) posits an imperialist perspective . Despite this , the dependentistas in general articulate the needs of competitive capital ( for example , local and national capital ) in the face of monopoly capital . Dependentista theses in this contradictory vain reflected the critical tones of Latin American nationalism and anti-imperialism , though not always anticapitalism . They coincided with the ideology of some sectors of the local dominant classes and their needs of capital accumulation . Never- theless , at the same time , many dependentistas declared themselves to be politically against the national bourgeoisie and in favor of socialism , revolution , and international proletarianism ( Frank , 1969 ) . In Latin America during the 1950s , one class ideological program @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This school of thought postulated the need for foreign capital investment as a way to achieve development and eliminate underdevelopment . The imperialist class need was the exportation of capital ; the class ideological thesis was that foreign capital investment would bring about " development " ? obviously , capitalist development . Against this program of monopoly capital , the dependentistas produced a counterclass ideological program ( Dos Santos , 1970b : 109-110 ) . The class need of competitive capital here was to remain with as much of the surplus value as possible that was being produced in Latin America . In the face of difficulties in remaining with a " fair " share of surplus value , the ideological class thesis concluded the impossibility of capitalist development in Latin America . The direct opposite was postulated , then , in the face of the imperialist thesis . Neither of these two particular class ideological programs ( theses ) represents a scientific comprehension of how capital/labor relations become the dominant form of exploitation within a specific socioeconomic formation ? that is , how capitalist relations encourage ( develop ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others . In other words , how capitalist/imperialist " development/ underdevelopment " is created remains obscure . Dependency theses at this level concern themselves with how ( surplus ) values are transferred from one country to another ? that is , how classes struggle over the accumulation of value . The counterthesis concerning capital creating more dependence and underdevelopment was already put forward by authors Lenin identified as " arch-bourgeois and nationalist , " such as E. Agand , author ofBigBanks and the World Market ( 1914 ) , who committed precisely the same theoretical mistakes of interpretation as the modernday dependentistas ( Lenin 1972 : Vol. 39 , 120 ) . Agand maintained the level of analysis at the point of market relations and the unequal exchange of surplus values ( for similar errors , consider Amin , 1978 ) . In this light capitalism always appears impossible to attain , for one is seeing things through the perspective of the underdog capitalist who can never seem to make it imperialistically big . Furthermore , the  | thesis concerning the existence of a second-rate technology , also forwarded by contemporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " This technical progress , which alone can guarantee the continued ability to export , is , however , hindered rather than promoted by monopoly formations " ( Lenin 1972 : Vol. 39 , 594-595 ) . Dependency theorists like Dos Santos , among others , perceived a crisis in the developmentalist program of interpretation ( Dos Santos , 1970a : 173 ) . This crisis of the model of development and of the project of development implicit in it , which is dominant in the social sciences in our countries , brought about a crisis in this same science . It brought about a crisis in the very notion of development and of underdevelopment and the explanatory role of said concepts . From such a crisis is born the concept of dependence as a possible explanatory factor of this paradoxical situation . It is a case of explaining why we have not developed in the same manner as the developed countries of today . In less obstruse language , the question would read : Why are we not imperialist countries ? The answer would read : Because we have been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that a class program , like the one articulated by the political economists of developmentalism , has little to do with the actual material production of surplus values , which was being carried out then ( and is still being carried out ) effectively in Latin America . Succinctly , capital production remains in and flows out of Latin America before , during , and after the supposed theoretical crisis of developmentalist thought . Actually , there is no crisis in the production of surplus values , only in the possibility of their total appropriation , hence the struggle of monopoly capitalists ( imperialists ) against other dominant , competitive classes in Latin America for surplus value appropriation . A result of that conflict is the need for constructing ideological class theses supporting foreign investment , and the counterclass theses of the dependentistas denouncing imperialism in nationalist tones . There is no crisis in the practical apparatus of imperialism , only in getting the different classes in Latin America to accept foreign investment and capital extraction smoothly . In the face of such difficulties regarding direct foreign investment , imperialism devises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is that of international loans .  | The construction of class ideological programs and theses is nothing new in the struggle over surplus value exchange and accumulation . The counterideological theses of the dependentistas were maintained earlier by the Russian Narodniks , or the Russian populists , against whom Lenin incessantly fought ( Vol. 3 , 37-69 ) . Such theses referred to the deformed nature of Russian capitalism , the problem of the realization of surplus value , the problems of the domestic and international markets , and also basically the idea that it was impossible to establish capitalism in Russia then . There is one obvious reason for the similarity of socioeconomic theses between the dependentistas and the Russian populists . If one maintains the theoretical level of analysis at that of relations of the circulation of commodities , markets , and unequal exchange , then the conclusions are going to be similar ? irrespective of the concrete historical moment and socioeconomic formation one maybe dealing with . To further maintain the analysis of circulation and market relations at the level of the nation , where the nation represents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ further theoretical error . Analysis must be maintained at the level and moment of production/appropriation , as Lenin ? and Marx before him ? emphasized in his study , The Development of Capitalism in Russia ( 1899 ) , for understanding the process and the needs of socialist transformation . Despite the lessons of history to this respect , such elementary Marxist-Leninist theses are combated consciously by such dependentistas as Marini ( 1973b ) and Amin ( 1978 ) . The dependentistas thus replace the developmentalist binominal wording of development and underdevelopment with a supposedly more accurate word concept : dependency . An example of the theoretical sophistry carried out by the dependentistas can be brought out if we consider two analogous themes : the relationship of the dependency of capital/labor , and the relationship of the dependency of one nation on another . I will first refer to Marx 's theoretical work regarding capital/labor relations . Then I will apply the logic of the dependentistas to Marx 's analysis of capital/labor in order to exemplify their error in reasoning . In Capital , Marx shows the various moments of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital is dependent on labor for the production of surplus values ( that is , for its very own reproduction as a class ) ; at another moment . ( b ) labor is dependent on capital in order to sell its labor power , given the  | historical conditions of the forced separation of labor from the means of production ; and at still another moment , ( c ) capital and labor , as a system of social relations , are ( inter ) dependent on one another in order to reproduce that set of social relations . Conversely , it is pointed out that ( d ) capital is independent of labor , given its conditions of control over the means of production ; ( e ) labor is independent of capital , capable of producing its own historical process materially , without the assistance of the totally parasitic capitalist class ; and ( f ) capital/labor relations are independent of other systems of production as they exist in relation to one another . To explain materially each of these specific moments of capital/ labor relations , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of capitalism . Each thesis represents a specific relation of capital/labor , social relations , and is exclusive of the other . All are correct apprehensions of capital/ labor relations , and none denies the other . Each represents a specific moment of the entire process . Each of these empirical theses reflects a particular aspect of the production and surplus value under capitalism . Each one of these empirical events have been and is used as an ideological thesis to promote specific class needs at a given moment in the history of class struggle . Each of these scientific theses , empirically identifiable in history , may have a significantly opposite ideological value , given the conditions of class struggle itself . For example , if one were to emphasize solely the particular thesis that " labor is dependent on capital , " the historical process of socialism would be obscured and capitalists ' needs would be openly supported . Something similar occurs ideologically with the thesis that " Latin American countries are dependent on the United States . " Within the realm of analyzing nation to nation relations one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ manner , at the level of international relations of capital production : First , the United States ( monopoly capital ) depends on Latin American countries ( competitive capital ) for the production and appropriation of surplus-value ; second , Latin American countries depend on the United States for finance capital and technology , given  | the historical conditions of imperialism 's control over the means of production and capital ; and third , the United States and Latin American countries ( inter ) depend on one another , given the international division of labor and the system of capital production . Conversely , one could construct other formulations of these same theses , in an opposing , antidependency sense : First , the United States is independent of Latin American countries , given its control over the means of production , its own labor forces , and its control over capital accumulation ; second , Latin American countries are independent of the United States , given their productive , creative potential to construct their own historical process ; and third , the United States and Latin American countries are independent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of autonomy within the international division of labor , and so on . Any one of these particular postulates can be , and has been , used by both imperialists and dependentistas alike to forward ideological theses about their specific class needs of capital accumulation and appropriation . What becomes clear , however , with these two examples of scientific theses are their ideological potential use is the fact that the concepts of dependence , independence , and interdependence correspond to the most superficial level of analysis , given that all matter/energy is in relation to ( dependent/independent of ) other matter/energy events . The materialist level of analysis identifies and explains the conditions of existence and relation of each specific thesis/need regarding those relationships . The level of abstraction exercised by the dependency theorists begins erroneously by maintaining the unit of analysis at the level of interrelations between nations , regarding market and exchange relations of the circulation of commodities , capital , and labor . The dependentistas make the obvious point that the United States depends parasitically on Latin American countries for the extraction of surplus value , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consumption of the United States and the relatively high wages paid to its labor force . Such theses were already made by the bourgeois political economists before Lenin and were simply emphasized by Lenin in his work on imperialism . But from this important materialist thesis ( which reaffirms the parasitic nature of capital on labor in general and not merely between national capital ) the dependentistas turn the ideological table . They place all of the theoretical and critical emphasis of their approach on the idea of the dependency  | of Latin America vis-a-vis the United States . By concentrating on this moment of dependency , their work objectively supports an imperialist thesis , in spite of the dependentistas ' attempt to illustrate exactly the opposite . By emphasizing that Latin America is the inferior element of the hierarchical scale , unable to survive and exist without U.S. capital and technology , the ideological coup serves imperialism well . For their work actually accepts the existing levels of U.S. production and consumption as being historically high , as actually representing " development . " Never is it explained that those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development " in abstractio , but , on the contrary , those levels themselves are historically low levels . For they are repressed levels in relation to the material capacity and potential of socialized production and appropriation unfettered by capitalist relations . In fact , all levels of production ( and therefore of consumption ) in the " highly developed countries " are repressed . The simple fact that machine production runs constantly at a percentage level below its productivity capacity confirms this point , as does the fact that the capitalist system produces repressed levels of employment and wage-earners ( that is , unemployment and the nonmaterialization of labor power ) . Instead of emphasizing the U.S. dependence on Latin America for capital extraction , they choose to identify their entire theoretical effort of interpretation by citing the technological and financial dependence of Latin American countries on the United States . With that simple point , the mystification of the power of capital and technology is maintained as a remedy to " development , " while the class contradiction of production and appropriation is all but ignored . They distract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) that labor power alone is the creative force of social history ( and of technology and capital ) , while capital is but a mere form of social relations , a product itself of that labor power . Hence , it is not a point of who depends on whom , but rather what are the social relationships and their contradictions . The fetishism with the ideology of growth in terms of capital and technological production as progress thereby remains dominant in their writings . By limiting their analyses to emphasizing the word " dependency " the dependentistas then allow for imperialist ideologues to take that particular word and counterattack with other ideological theses . Such is the characteristic of class struggle over words as Marx and Engels pointed out in The German Ideology . The negative connotations of  | dependency pointed out by the dependentistas are thus established and applied to other social relations . At the level of abstracted theoretical analysis , the use of the concept " dependency " has played an important role for the imperialist ideological construction : " Cuba and Eastern European countries depend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American countries depend upon the USA " ( Eckstein , 1978 ) , or , " We live in an interdependent world , and should live together peacefully , harmoniously " ( Rock , 1964 ) , or " the USA depends now on foreign oil and must eliminate such dependence " ( Werner , 1978 ) , ad infinitum . The ideological uses of dependency concepts are too numerous to list here . These are some of the outstanding examples of ideological class theses that support the capital needs of U.S. imperialism today . Since the dependentistas concentrate on a superficial aspect of international relations of surplus value exchange , they have been unable to combat the very relations they explicitly hope to eliminate : the imperialist relations of production and appropriation of capital . Had Marx limited his theoretical efforts to constructing , for example , the " theory of dependence of labor on capital , " or had Lenin merely spoken about the theory of the " dependence of Russia on France " ( when , in fact , Lenin emphasized the opposite relationship of " the dependence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then we would simply have more examples of sophistry . The inability to identify theoretical sophistry , combined with the superficiality of the conceptual level of dependency theses , explains in part dependency theory 's popularity . Dependency theses are easy to handle precisely because of the simplistic theoretical postulates and the lack ofhistorical memory reflected in the petty bourgeois intelligentsia 's work . This very lack of memory regarding similar theoretical positions that have been produced earlier in history is itself an imposed feature of capitalist/imperialist relations : the repression in education , arepression that has assisted in the diffusion of dependency theses , an example of spontaneous forms of resistance to imperialism . All capitalist societies are hierarchically structured , where those perceived structures are assigned values determined by class needs . The hierarchies are visible ideologically in the theoretical interpretations and apprehensions . Practically , they are visible in reality where class values are assigned to the hierarchical arrangements of relations . From the perspective of capitalist-imperialist values , the kind of " development " in the so-called central economies is assigned  | a high value , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Despite all the critiques by such authors as Frank ( 1969 ) , dependency concepts correspond to and accept those hierarchical arrangements , for they do not reject the ideal type of the kind of " capitalist-imperialist development . " They merely draw attention to the fact that Latin American countries are unable to achieve a similar kind of development . Ultimately , dependentistas simply identify and talk about certain arrangements of hierarchically structured class relations of domination . Thereby they state nothing new , but simply refer to the superficially obvious : that hierarchical class relations depend on other relations ( that is , certain space-time and motion events ) . They identify relations of superiority ( such as imperialism ) and inferiority ( such as dependence ) of specific moments of relations . Then they go onto state that these relations ( in fact , the products of these relations ) determine the entire process of hierarchically structured relations , which is simply false . The relations of dependency are a product of ( and therefore reflect ) the structured hierarchies , and are themselves in that manner @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ material existense : the struggle created by the contadictions of social production and private appropriation . Thinking that simply pointing to their existence tells us how the entire process and system exist constitutes an ideological postulate . It is this elevation of the specific , particularistic thesis to an absolutist , all-encompassing thesis for the entire process which represents the ideological construction . The specific thesis may even represent a scientific apprehension of that moment of the process to which it refers . But when that thesis is assigned to the other moments of the process as a material reason for explaining the overall process , then it loses all scientific meaning . Marx and Engels referred to this ideological procedure in The German Ideology as the inversion of moments within a process . It is at this point that one must be able to link up the ideological theses within the social sciences with specific class needs at particular moments in history . Political Theses The main dependentistas articulated socioeconomic theses regarding the needs of national , competitive capital in the face of monopoly capital ( imperialism ) in Latin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carried out against the local dominant classes . Consider especially the thesis that identified the immediate enemy as the national bourgeoisie ( Frank , 1969 ) . This represents another outstanding contradiction of dependency theses . While the dependentistas ' socioeconomic interpretation of Latin America 's economy reflected class needs of the local dominant classes ( competitive capital ) , the political interpretation of those same conclusions led to the idea of excluding the local dominant classes from national revolutionary praxis . Instead of basing themselves on a political praxis of the unity of class alliances in practice , they went against the class needs they articulated in their theoretical interpretation by ignoring and denying the potential role of the local dominant classes in national liberation movements . With that they thereby isolated the proletariat even further . The thesis concerning the immediate enemy , however , did not go against the needs of imperialism during the 1960s . At that time the United States , licking its wounds from the Cuban Revolution , tried to break up the alliances in Latin America between the popular social movements and certain sectors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ movements proved to be politically threatening during the 1950s in Latin America and were put down by coups d'etat and extensive repression . Immediately after World War II , when U.S. imperialism was once again turning its sights toward Latin America , an immediate imperialist need was to weaken the local dominant classes , which had become strengthened during the war years . In this sense , the radical political position of some of the dependentistas did not contradict the counterrevolutionary programs being drawn up then by the United States ( ABT Associates , 1966 ; Condit , 1968 ) . In fact , the dependency thesis of nonalliance with the national bourgeoisie objectively fit right into those programs ( consider Menges , 1968 ) . Recognition of this fact by the critics of dependency theory caused some of the dependentistas to be accused of being agents of imperialism ? something they vehemently rejected and still reject ( Frank , 1974 ) . Furthermore , the antinational bourgeois thesis effectively countered the efforts of the work of the communist parties in Latin America during that time . It also offered an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ carry out guerrilla actions in Latin America , especially during the late sixties and early seventies . Such actions further isolated the intellectuals from the workers , as well as from the local dominant classes , as well as further isolating the  | workers from socialist struggle . And given that such theses of struggle appeared to be the result of nationalist socioeconomic analyses of dependency and imperialism , it was all the more difficult to combat the political implications of such theses . The political theses of the need for armed revolution and socialism formulated by some of the dependentistas ( Marini , 1969 ; Frank , 1969 ) - again , similar to the political theses of the Russian Narodnikscannot be concluded from an analysis of the circulation relations of capital . Only from the contradiction of production and appropriation and the recognized need of gaining control over the means of production can one understand Marx 's political conclusions about the historical need for socialist revolution . Dependentistas like Dos Santos , who propose reformist policies , would appear to he more consequential with their analyses of market relations ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They suggest the need to politically renegotiate dependency in the face of imperialism , by renegotiating the terms oftrade and the exchange of surplus values : in short , get a larger share of the surplus value exchanged . Such theses openly articulate and represent a competitive capitalist perspective . Such nationalist , political theses of struggle over surplus values are more in line with the theories of unequal exchange , marginalization , underconsumption , and the needs of nationalist , competitive capitalists . Hilferding 's conclusion of the need for socialism was quite similar to that of writers like Frank and Marini : " The reply of the proletariat to the economic policy of finance capital , to imperialism , can only be socialism , not free trade " ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 337 ) . This was the conclusion Marx arrived at after analyzing capital-labor relations and the contradiction ofsocialproduction and private appropriation . It does not result from a characteristic of monopoly capital ( imperialism ) alone , which is merely a specific historical degree of capital accumulation . A critique of monopoly capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Marx from relations of capital and labor . To attempt to draw the conclusion about the historical need for revolution and socialism from relations of the unequal exchange of surplus values ultimately avoids the contradiction of socialized production and private appropriation , for as Marx showed time and again , capitalist relations mean precisely the exchange of unequal ( nonequivalent ) exchange values . Marx and Lenin emphasized that it was this contradiction of production and appropriation that was present in all  | class societies , no matter what particular sociohistorical form they may take . Obviously , as the dependentistas ' theses show , one may propose the idea of the need for socialism for the wrong reasons , and worse still propose actions that have no chance of achieving socialist transformation whatsoever . Again , however , it is not a question now of concluding the historical need for socialism in abstractio based on an analysis of production and circulation relations for some twenty-odd Latin American countries . Nor is it a question of concluding the need for armed revolution in abstractio , and denouncing all forms of alliances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national bourgeoisies ) . For socialism is the historical outcome of the presence of the contradiction between production and appropriation ; and revolution is the outcome of the forms of control that the capitalist classes exercise over the means of production and the means of appropriation . The ideological socioeconomic theses of dependency , however , appeal to many analysts because they seem to offer a theoretical and practical substantiation for political praxis itself . As Lenin once showed , however , it is a question of comprehending the strategy for socialist revolution in a concrete situation of class struggle . In other words , it is not a question of repeating Marx 's nineteenth-century conclusions about the historical need for socialist revolution , but a question of how to produce the knowledge that serves as a material base for the howl , whys , and wherefores of socialist revolution ? that is , how to effect such transformations in concrete historical situations . According to Lenin ( 1972 : Vol. 39 , 271 ) : The struggle for socialism lies in the unity of the struggle for the immediate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolutionary struggle for power , for expropriation of the bourgeoisie , for the overthrow of the bourgeois government and the bourgeoisie . What have to be combined are not the struggle for forms + phrases about socialism , the struggle for socialism , ' but two forms of struggle . For example : 1 . Voting for reforms + revolutionary action by the masses ... 2 . Parliamentarism + demonstration .. . 3 . The demand for reforms + the ( concrete ) demand for revolution . . . Economic struggle together with the unorganized , with the masses , and not only on behalf of the organized workers .. .  | 4 . Literature for the advanced + free , mass literature for the most backward , for the unorganized , for the ' lower masses ' .. . 5 . Legal literature + illegal . The above socialist strategy of struggle runs contrary to the polemics of proposing either a proalliance policy with the bourgeoisie ( characteristic of some communist parties in Latin America ) or an antialliance policy with the bourgeoisie ( characteristic of many dependentistas and new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . Lenin , to the contrary , emphasizes the materialist nature of political analysis : knowing when to employ whichever particular form of struggle at a given moment in history and in a concrete case of class conflict . It becomes idealistic to abstractly support a priori one specific form of struggle as being the form to win a revolution , while rejecting and excluding the other political forms of struggle . For all of the above-cited aspects in the brief strategy noted by Lenin are already an integral part and product of class contradictions ? that is , they remain present in class struggle whether one agrees theoretically with them or not . Therefore , it becomes a materialist question of knowing when and how to promote and organize these different existing aspects in correspondence to the needs of transformation , Choosing abstractly one form or another as the omnideterminant form of struggle and transformation results in ( and comes from ) a conceptual fetishism of the form itself , as though a change in the form of struggle itself were not determined by struggle but capable of singularly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one form of political stru ? lp . Such a historical fact alone should further reveal the theoreti ophistry of the dependentistas , who foxward the end ( for example socialist revolution ) as the means for achieving that very end . With the dependentistas ' apparently radical propositions for political praxis one can now see the complete framework . In dependency theses there exists then a nationalist articulation of competitive capital 's needs , which ultimately denies those same needs at both the level of socioeconomic relations of production and circulation and political policies for struggle . The socioeconomic theses do not effectively question the relations of production of monopoly capital , while the political propositions attack the local dominant classes , thereby isolating the workers in an abstracted international proletarianism. and encouraging the petty bourgeois intellectuals into isolated acts of guerrilla violence . With that monopoly capital(imperialism) remains  | untouched in the end . History would seem to repeat itself , in that the objective process of capital surplus value production and appropriation effectively continues , while the " prevailingsubjective ' ideology consists of national ' phraseology which is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 236-237 ) . The ideological theses of dependency theory in this light can easily be understood to be the dominant ideas among the petty bourgeois left , a school of MarxismLeninism that even monopoly capital tolerates and diffuses , in spite of the stated opposing aims of the dependentistas themselves . One specific historical case of this contradictory situation may be found in Mexico . During 1970-1976 , the president of Mexico , Luis Echeverria Alvarez , spoke out strongly against U.S. imperialism in international forums with a nationalistic phraseology of dependency concepts . These actions were coupled at home by populist policies in education and an apparent " democratic apertura " in politics . Parallel to these populist policies , however , was the penetration of monopoly capital in the form of international banking loans , which ultimately reached almost $30 million by the end of Echeverria 's regime . At this point in time , the dependency rhetoric appears to have been an ideological camouflage for the movement of monopoly capital . As always in capitalism , freedom of speech is highly compatible with the free movement of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ times ? the rhetoric . Hence dependency theory reflects , on one level , a spontaneous ideological reaction to imperialist theses of socioeconomic interpretation . On another level , it signifies a reflection of the local competitive capitalist classes ' interests and needs of surplus value accumulation . And on still another level , it reflects a means of camouflaging imperialist capital penetration . Such theses , then , can be and are given different meanings at different moments of struggle . In that , dependency theory has no one specific meaning . In light of such historical events , the theoretical discussions and polemics of dependency theory seem to dwell on false problems ? problems which , however , have concrete solutions in reality : national liberation movements and socialist revolutions . The basic question remains , then , to be not the abstract debates of the theory of imperialism and/or that of dependency , or both , but rather , as Lenin pointed out : " imperialism is oppression of nations on a new historical basis . . . . the other half ( of the problem ) = @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Asia and Africa . . . . in the colonies " ( Vol. 39 , 736 ) .  | Debating theoretical sophistications founded on ideological interpretations as to whether it is because of imperialism or because of dependency that something occurs only distracts analytical efforts from the essential issue of imperialist relations as against the historical need to transform those relations into socialist ones , through national liberation movements , national revolutionary movements , through the very social relations determined by imperialist monopoly capital . The polemics of imperialism versus dependency reveals a scholastic review of conceptual details and different wordings . This polemic simply talks about the differences between capitalist and imperialist relations and their specific sociohistorical products : relations of forced domination and forced dependence , historically imposed on entire nations , while the contradiction of imperialism against national revolutionary movement requires questions and answers of an entirely different historical nature : the whys , hows , and wherefores of achieving socialist transformation in the face of monopoly capital . In order to advance to the analytical level of the socialist theses of 1915 about " socialism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or that socialism and not self-determination works for " joint determination " ( p. 757 ) , is not possible as long as these other issues are still conceptually imprecise and the various meanings of dependency theses are obscured under the abstract polemics of dependency theory and the theory of imperialism . In other words , an analysis of socialist international relations , or communist relations at the level of what is the contradiction of production and appropriation relations and those relations between nations under capitalism/imperialism , is difficult to assess as long 2 ' e does not recognize the false polemics established by the ideologiethin capitalism-imperialism itself . njuncture , the political significance of dependency theory itself has changed greatly from that of the 1960s and early 1970s . Particular theses and word concepts about dependency have become assimilated into the socialist language of struggle and reflect a certain political consciousness . The imperialists now fight this tendency in order to eliminate the ideological cut of certain dependency theses . In effect , they are attempting to reestablish the imperialist thesis that " development " is possible and present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are now attempting to counter the dependentistas ' counterthesis which stated that only more underdevelopment and dependence was created ( Friedman , 1978 ) . And even though dependency theses are erroneous in many ways , the critical edge and political consciousness that the words themselves now reflect are a product of acute class struggle ? which occurs in spite of the existence of dependency theory itself . The existence of such consciousness occurs because of the contradictions in the social relations themselves , and would occur with or without the theoretical constructions of the socioeconomic theses . In fact , dependency theses themselves are the product of the battle between competitive capitalists and monopoly capitalists ( Johnson , 1979b ) . Nevertheless , this kind of articulated ideological nationalism expressed in dependency theses provides a material basis for struggle , though not for its scientific analysis and interpretation . Such occurs with all of the spontaneous ideological reactions to the contradictions of capitalist class struggle . While many analysts today are seeking to understand dependency theory , some of the dependentistas who initiated the theoretical pretensions are now trying to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1974 ) , an equally idealist task which confirms their previous idealist reasoning about trying to draw up a " theory . " Some students in North America want to know , on the other hand , what dependency is and attempt to adopt it for their own analyses of Latin America ( Cardoso , 1976 ) . Again , this is a contradiction of the system that reflects its logic : Some of the forefathers of the so-called theory of dependency now visualize such a theory as a " no no , " while their students see it as an enigma and frustration , unable to understand what it was , much less use it . Other dependentistas are seeking to press beyond dependency theory and theories of imperialism in order to explore newly perceived contradictions of capitalism and imperialism . " The present crisis in imperialism theory ' is no exception ? nor is it unusual , though perhaps tragic , that it occurs as a response to a profound structural crisis in the world-economy " ( Friedman , 1978 : 131 ) . Such is the perception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or something similar , with the world-economy as the center of analysis . These analysts ( some of whom are former dependentistas ) see a need for " a more consistent theoretical model of the functioning of the world-economy " ( Friedman , 1978 : 141 ) . On the other hand , some analysts , like Samir Amin are declaring " that there can be no economic theory of the world economy " ( 1978 : 64 ) without an analysis of class struggle . // In order to carry out imperialist policies , one needs an imperialist ideology . Of this the imperialists and their ideologues are well aware ( Hagan , 1964 ) . A specific need of an imperialist ideological perspective is to reflect the idea of a unified , interdependent , integrated , harmonious ? or at least working ? world-system . The concept of world-economy or world-system , used by bourgeois political economists for ages , fits the bill quite nicely . In fact , definitions of the world-economy , offered by authors like Samir Amin , simply replace the concept of imperialism ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " refers to the central economies , and " world capitalist system " refers to the central economies plus the peripheral ones . Such are the practices of ideological debate , not scientific materialist discussion . Lenin identified imperialism as the beginning of the end for capitalism . History has since been that of national liberation movements and socialist revolutions , each one confirming that theoretical apprehension . Since its very birth , capitalism-imperialism has always been in constant relative growth , while in absolute terms of space alone on this planet it has been diminishing . In the face of a floundering , spatially receding economic system of social relations , an important ideological thesis of imperialism today ? and of yesterday ? is to state or convey exactly the opposite notion . Thereby one may deny historical processes of time by concentrating on facts and statistical figures of relative quantitative growth in order to portray an image of absolute imperialist growth . The 1-systems analysts ( some knowingly , some unknowingly ) lend t. , , mselves to such a task through their theoretical pretensions . The ideal concept @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that of a " United States of the ( Civilized ) World " ( Lenin , 1972 : Vol. 39 , 684 ) , based on analyses of the so-called world-economy then . Today similar theses of a more abstract nature appear in the suggested form of concepts of " world-systems analysis , " " worldeconomy , " " world capitalist system , " and so on , over and above the conception of a capitalist/socialist process of development . With that the very object of study ( " world , " " world system , " etc. ) has been identified as determining the nature of the theory of theoretical approach , suggesting an undifferentiated world-economy where capitalism and socialism are but forms of that abstract system . The hierarchy of center and periphery defines , then , the system to which both capitalist and socialist economies can be subjected . The relations of the contradiction of socialized production and private appro100 Critical Perspectives priation are ignored once again , abolishing the concept of a capitalist/ socialist process . That is , the struggle and transformation throughout history of eliminating @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social production and appropriation . By using the center and periphery hierarchy , on a nation-to-nation basis , relativized statements obtain that seem to deform all of the defined categories : " Europe is a strange sort of periphery " ( Friedman , 1978 : 140 ) . This point appears to be contradictory because the analysis was made at a superficial level to begin with , where the concept of periphery is held to be a negative spatial position within the perceived hierarchy . When reality and relationships turn out to be more complex than the simple center/periphery definitions of space , then the poles are reversed , and the relationship ( reality ) would seem to be positivistically contradictory ofthe ideal concept . Europe , then , could never be conceived to be a periphery , and conceiving it as such would apparently contradict the center and periphery theory from the start . Obviously , to overcome such silly ideas , one would have to abandon these positivistic lines of reasoning in the dependentistas ' and world-systems analysts ' spatial categories of center and periphery and establish a **34;1487;TOOLONG @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has been accomplished on only few occasions throughout history . Within the center and periphery hierarchy , the ideological thesis now surfaces in the word concept of " world-system " or " worldeconomy , " while the object of study itself ( that is , capitalist-imperialist economic relations ) vanishes before the researcher 's eyes . The new relations ( socialism ) that are being constructed are generally ignored , then , in an attempt to return to a period of time that time itself has assisted in destroying . The process toward socialism is the result of the conscious class effort of millions of workers who have fought and died in the imperialist wars in the national liberation movements and in the socialist revolutions of this century against the very system of capitalist relations itself . These sociohistorical events alone signify the socialist process of transformation and the process of the elimination of capitalist relations . This scientific thesis must be emphasized in the face of the suggested and explicitly stated imperialist ideological theses about constant capitalist world growth and domination , now surfacing once again in abstract concepts of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ By ignoring many historically significant Marxist theses about the capitalist-socialist process , and the contradiction of socialized proIdeologies // duction and private appropriation , critical idealists will continue to produce abstract analyses that advance a specific object of study as defining its own theoretical outlook . In other words , the dependency theorists and the world-systems analysts conceive of the object of study ( dependency , world-system ) as that which supposedly defines and represents their theoretical approach , when actually , as we have attempted to demonstrate here , one should understand that the specific theses about the object of study are already a product of a theoretical conception ? in this case , of positivistic misapprehension and misconception . The very suggestion that specific theses represent the theoretical framework of analysis ( the theory ) already shows that a **33;1523;TOOLONG conception is absent , that theory as such is denied . The specific theses about a concrete space-time/motion event are already the result of an idealistic/materialist theoretical apprehension . With that procedure , however , such analysts distract attention from analyzing what theory represents in the social sciences ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values and perspectives of capitalism/imperialism . There is , then , one may say , a crisis in this particular concept of theory , ever present , however , in an infinite number of forms throughout history . But it is an ongoing crisis which signifies the existence of class struggle at the level of ideology ; the crisis in no way represents its possible demise . Such misconceptions represent the empirical manner in which man has had to relearn history as well as relive ' ' " tany analysts think that the particular theses proposed represen ; theoretical approach , and that adhering to a specific thesis makes one a dependency theorist or a world-systems analyst . In fact , in both cases , each is simply an idealist who produces sophistries and perceives crises where no crises exist in reality . They limit themselves to constructing value systems about perceived hierarchies , not knowledge about reality . One of the by-products of a world-systems analysis is the avoidance of identifying the historical process of capitalist and socialist production and the contradiction of social relations of production and appropriation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which easily allow for capitalism and socialism to be conceived as specific forms ofthe world-system , " a dependent function of this larger global ' transformation " ( Friedman , 1978 : 145 ) . There is no resolution to the counterposing of different theses within sophistry . Ideological debate is waged every day at this level . Materialist explanations of space and time processes are not pro102 Critical Perspectives duced therein . Some world-systems analysts are attempting now to accommodate the opposing ideological theses of the developmentalists and the dependentistas ( Friedman , 1978 : 136-137 ) . When two sets of ideological theses are counterposed regarding the possibility ( developmentalism ) or impossibility ( dependentista ) of development , it would seem that one or the other opponent sustains the correct thesis . Now it is being suggested that since the system changes , therefore the theses reflect the change in the system , which means that neither is wrong , but only wrong at a later date and correct for when the thesis was actually stated ( Friedman , 1978 : 83-104 ) . Such are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ propose apologias for the developmentalist and the dependency thesis of sophistry . Obviously two sophistries do not make a right . Furthermore , all theoretical and practical knowledge is space-time determined inasmuch as it is produced at a specific level and moment of the process and apprehends specific events , but that does not necessarily mean that those theoretical apprehensions are exact representations of those events . One must discuss the apprehensions in terms of the levels and moments of the process that they reflect . " The capitalist world regards imperialism , its last card , as the last refuge against the bankruptcy and spontaneous disintegration that threatens to engulf it with fatal certainty . But imperialism is also a remarkable , incomparable artisan of revolution " ( Lenin . 1972 : Vol. 39 , 251 ) . Contrary to much scholarly opinion , there are no crises in theories of dependency or of imperialism . There are only those crises created by imperialism itself in the social relations of production and appropriation , which are resolved by the hand of its own products : class-conscious processes of socialist transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective in explaining the problem inasmuch as they were biased toward the national problem in examining the order of imperialist domination . In one way or another , there has been confusion in the thought and research of the majority of us , a situation that has persisted because for a long time we have continued to study Latin America only in its entirety , neglecting the examination of well-defined , specific situations . This has given rise to formulations in which frequently no distinction is made between generality and theoretical abstractions . I have chosen to limit this chapter to the study of the Peruvian case in particular , and I have taken the question of capital accumulation as the basis for the construction of a problematic of imperialist domination in this country . The most striking result ofthis manner of focusing the issue is that some of the principal received hypotheses regarding the relations between capitalism and precapitalism and among the respective social classes , as well as regarding the articulation of the interests of specific classes in a specific state and the resulting international relations , require thorough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation is necessarily influenced and formulated by specific historical factors . Since Lenin , imperialism has been known as the stage of capitalism in which , as a consequence of the known processes of technological development , entrepreneurial reorganization , concentration of capital , and domination by finance capital ? processes historically initiated in England and other European countries ? the international circuit of accumulation is expanded by means of the export of capital . Capital export proceeds from countries where these processes take place toward other territories or countries where the capitalist mode of production has not yet reached that level of development , or where the economy is basically or totally precapitalist . In this way a new international structure of capitalist accumulation was created , characterized by the establishment of a few countries as the centers of and in control of that accumulation . As a consequence , the center bourgeoisies establish economic domination and in varying degrees political domination , according to the level of development of the national state in the countries to which they export capital . // The degree to which a country is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the specific history of its national society depends not only on its condition as a recipient of capital , but also on the nature of the relations of production which predominate and/or exist within it , on the development of its social classes , and on the form and development of its political organization . The nature of imperialist domination assumes characteristics determined by the specific , concrete conditions . In dealing with countries which at the time of their incorporation into the imperalist chain have atotally or predominantly precapitalist economy , the export of capital to them necessarily also constitutes capitalist relations of production . Of no less importance is the fact that these relations of production are precisely those of the imperialist state of capitalism ? that is , they are dominated by international monopoly capital , whose centers of accumulation are located beyond their own borders . While during the precapitalist period capitalism based on the export of commodities and the financing ofthis export encountered above all a problem of the realization of surplus val i its imperialist stage capitalism based on the export of capital found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ capital . With regard to the first problem , capitalism did not necessarily require the establishment of capitalist relations of production in the territories and countries with which it came into contact . The expansion of mercantilism ? the expansion of the monetization of the relations of exchange ? were sufficient . On the other hand , the difficulties of accumulation originating from the concentration of capital and the consolidation of monopoly capital in its first stage made it necessary to establish capitalist relations of production in colonized territories or territories economically subordinated to the capitalist market to allow for the expansion of the circuit of production and reproduction of capital . Thus , investment in these countries of capital from the principal centers of capitalist development fulfilled this need and gave rise to the nuclei of capitalist relations of production characteristic of the monopoly stage . Since the generally precapitalist nature of the country dominated by or recipient of capital did not allow for the internal utilization of // production resulting from that capital investment , the realization of the corresponding surplus value could not be carried out within the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own market . Likewise , since in the dominated country an internal circuit of capital accumulation did not exist , the majority of surplus value realized there was also accumulated in the centers . For international monopoly capital of that period , the recipient country was basically converted into a location for the production of surplus value , the majority of which was later realized in the international market and in the production of the imperial center . Thus , that which was an external market for the dominated country was an internal market for monopoly capital from the point of view of the realization of surplus value . What for the dominated country was an external accumulation of surplus value generated within its own border was for monopoly capital an internal accumulation . The nonexistence of an internal circuit of accumulation in the recipient country inevitably impeded the internal integration of the various sectors of production . As a consequence , each of these sectors became separately integrated into the circuit of accumulation of the capital-exporting countries ? that is , an external or foreign circuit . Thus , external @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the structure of imperialist domination during that period . This continued until transformations within international monopoly capital and in the economic structure of the dominated country required a new structure . It was less this capital 's foreign origin than its monopoly status that gave it its imperialist character . In other words , it was not so much its national character as its class character and , within this , its specificity which imparted on this structure its imperialist nature . In fact , before , during , and after this invasion by international monopoly capital , other foreign capital came to our countries but in the capacity of competitive capital . For these capitals the domestic market and internal accumulation were vital . This was not the case for international monopoly capital in that stage , for which the domestic market and internal accumulation were not essential . For this reason , when Latin American political parlance incessantly refers to the problem of the foreign location of the " centers of decision-making " in regard to our economy , in practice it reflects a symptom or a result @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem . For this reason , this manner of focusing our problems obscures the roots of these problems . It removes from sight the monPeru , // opoly capitalist nature of imperialism to project only the foreign character of domination . Peru 's definitive entrance into the imperialist order did not come about until the end of the nineteenth century . This does not mean that before this time important relations did not exist between the Peruvian economy and the economies of those countries where capitalism was developing and entering into its monopoly stage . The first direct investments of European capital were recorded around 1850 , in the development of guano on the islands . However , imperialist capital 's first presence in Peru was short-lived . Notwithstanding the importance of the economic and political consequences for Peruvian history , it was not able to consolidate imperialist investment or capitalist production in Peru under the control of monopoly capital . The development of cotton cultivation in the valleys of the central coast and the north of the country , in association with the markets of London and New York , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States , was done under the immediate control of t - ruvian landowners even though they were subordinate principally to the financing and commercial hegemony of the English bourgeoisie . The construction of a network of railroads was done at the expense of the Peruvian state , even though this served to enrich the foreign contractors and in particular the " Yanqui Pizarro , " Henry Meiggs , and it consolidated the state 's financial mortgage to the English capitalists . The relations between the Peruvian economy and European capitalism before the end of the nineteenth century were characterized principally by being finance-mercantile relations ; and if indeed they formed part of the first forms of imperialist penetration , they still did not constitute mechanisms of direct exportation of productive capital to Peru and consequently of capitalist relations of production under the control of monopoly capital . These finance-mercantile relations allowed for the revitalization and expansion of mercantilism in the Peruvian economy and stimulated the appearance of the first precarious bases of capitalist relations of production in the country in small , scattered nuclei , interwoven and framed in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ direct control of // strata of the landed bourgeoisie . Some of the fractions of this class were feebly beginning the transition to capitalism , and while still tied to the appendages of its seigniorial-mercantile origin , they projected their possible capitalist future . Nevertheless , it was on this basis that the Peruvian economy was integrated into the international division of labor of that period . This restricted the economy to the production of raw materials and importing manufactured goods , and subordinated it to the control of the imperialist bourgeoisie . The first stage of the invasion of monopoly or imperialist capital in the Peruvian economy coincided with two historical situations which determined the depth and specific conditions in which that domination was established . On one hand was the displacement of the imperialist hegemony of the British bourgeoisie by the bourgeoisie of the United States . This process involved significant consequences . British capitalism had concentrated on exportable industrial development , principally in the textile industry , which required cotton and wool as raw materials as well as foodstuffs such as wheat , meat , and sugar . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our countries was not essential , nor were large-scale capitalist relations of production . This type of raw materials and foodstuffs could be advantageously produced under precapitalist relations of production . Commercial and financial control were sufficient to establish the respective international division of labor and the resulting " unequal exchange . " In contrast , the industrial development of U.S. capitalism came about in connection with metallurgical production . For this the principal needs were mineral and energy resources . The production of these resources in the necessary scale could not be done in Latin America ? and Peru in particular ? without using advanced technology and consequently the implantation of capitalist relations of production on the basis of direct capital investment . In this way , as the displacement of the axis of imperialist hegemony toward the United States reflected the greater development of the forces of production in that country with respect to England and consequently greater concentration of capital , these same factors pressed toward the modification of the type of economic relations with other countries that were incorporated into the sphere of capitalism through the direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ displacement of monopoly capital 's interests toward new raw materials . // On the other hand , the national state that was forming in Peru became weakened , as did the most important groups of the landowning-commercial sectors that had developed on the Peruvian coast since the middle of the nineteenth century . This weakening of the fractions of the ruling class , which were trying to consolidate their economic and political hegemony in the country and in their class , was the direct consequence of the economic disarticulation and the subsequent financial ruin of these groups caused by the effects of the crisis at the beginning of the-decade of the ' 70s and later during the war with Chile . This was the basis for the debilitation of the state apparatus that constituted the foundation of the growing control of these groups since the middle of the nineteenth century . The weakening of the national state in formation was accentuated later as a consequence of the political breach inside these groups resulting from the kinds of imperialist domination entering Peru under the control of U.S. capital and the U.S. bourgeoisie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with an incipient nuclei of a capitalist bourgeoisie , had the possibility of maintaining ownership and immediate control of their productive resources as the basis of a relative autonomy within their subordination t financial and commercial control of the British bourgeoisie . This situation was radically altered with the invasion of U.S. capital . Indeed , because of its greater concentration , its greater need to expand its bases of accumulation , and its need for different raw materials ? the exploitation ofwhich required direct capital investment ? this new capital advanced , taking away from these groups the ownership of their principal productive resources . In this way , it undermined the basis of relative autonomy which had been previously maintained . For this reason several nuclei of landowner-merchants and of the capitalist bourgeoisie in formation did not easily resign themselves to the loss of their previous position , and they tried to resist by seeking to bargain with U.S. capital over the conditions of subordinated association , the limits of autonomy , and the distribution of benefits . These nuclei were basically tied to the ownership of the land @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the case of the dispute for the control of the mines of Cerro de Pasco . On the other hand , other groups which originated principally from more specifically commercial activity found that their interests were best served by subordinating themselves completely to U.S. capital . The presence of U. S. capital involved the expansion of international // and domestic commerce and furthermore offered these groups greater possibilities of access to political power , since the maintenance of the other groups ' bases of power also meant the continuity of their political hegemony . For this reason , the invasion of U.S. capital also involved the rupture of the political cohesion of the Peruvian ruling class . The groups which were able to gain control of the state , at the service of the new and more powerful imperialist order , had to attack and reduce the political power of the previous groups , making this struggle appear to be a process of the desoligarquizacion of the state ( deposing of the oligarchy ) and , as such , a progressive movement . This was basically the historical direction of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the control of the new imperialist capital , mainly U.S. , could establish itself in a profound way . The crippling of the historical possibilities of a national bourgeoisie , as proprietor of important productive resources and of the relatively autonomous management of the state within its general subordination to imperialist domination , was definitive . Although the establishment of this new kind of imperialist control in Peru was in general a phenomenon inscribed in the conditions in which they economic relationship had been developing between this country and those countries in which capitalism was maturing , it was not equally necessary that this control be produced in such a massive and profound way . This was clearly the consequence of the previous economic and political debilitation of the most advanced fractions of the ruling class in Peru . Given the basically precapitalist character of the Peruvian economy , the introduction of capitalist relations of production under the control of monopoly capital into this matrix produced a characteristic combination of monopoly capitalism and precapitalism in a combined structure . That is , it produced a new economic structure in Peru . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of workers under its control and its geographical extension , precapitalism was overwhelmingly predominant and for this reason conserved ample autonomy within its own sphere , in its entirety and within the historical tendency to move forward , it became subordinated to the needs and the logic of monopoly capitalism . Precapitalism 's place and its functions // within the entirety of the new economic structure depended basically on this subordinated articulation to monopoly capitalism and secondarily to its own nature . From this time on precapitalist relations of production in Peru could no longer be considered only in terms of their previous historical character , but also in terms of their articulation with capitalist relations of production , which were predominantly monopoly capitalist in nature . During the historical development of this new structure , this was the factor which determined the place and character of these relations of precapitalist origin in the Peruvian economy . This characteristic combination of monopoly capitalism and precapitalism and the history of this combination dominated and defined the character of and the changes in the Peruvian socioeconomic formation until not very long ago . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of accumulation of monopoly capitalism grafted onto this matrix , and only in relation to this will the role of precapitalist origin in the new structure be dealt with . Between 1890 and 1925 , the investment of monopoly capital was established under the control c F principally four large corporations : Cerro de Pasco Copper Cori ion , Grace and Co. , International Petroleum Corporation , and reruvian Corporation , the first three being U. S. capital and the last , British capital . As an indication of the differences of power and interest between the two capitals , the former operated in the sectors of production ( mining , export agriculture and textiles , petroleum , respectively ) and the latter in railroad transportation . Along with these were several small firms , such as the British Duncan Fox in the textile industry . Parallel to this , a network of banks , ofwhich the Bank of Peru and London was the most important , and international trading firms served this new monopoly formation in Peru . There were two bases which defined the semicolonial character of the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I ) the nonexistence of an internal circuit of accumulation , and ( 2 ) the enclave nature of the nuclei of capitalist relations of production controlled by monopoly capital . The former determined the type of relations between the Peruvian economy and the centers of monopoly capital accumulation as relations of structural dependency . The at116 Case Studies ter determined the type of relations between monopoly capital and the precapitalist matrix in which the enclave was established . During this period monopoly capital being exported to Peru was above all interested in broadening the bases of protection of surplus value , the majority of which was accumulated in the major centers and in the raw materials and energy sources to develop this central accumulation . On establishing itself in Peru , monopoly capital became concentrated in the primary sectors of the economy : mining , oil , agriculture , and only secondarily in the financial , commercial , and transportation services which permit productive activity . Only on a limited scale did monopoly capital become established in manufacturing . The development of the forces of production capable of supplying an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this reason this did not constitute an area of significant interest for imperialist capital . However , the bases for the development of industrial production were not negligible . An incipient textile industry was already established , as well as small factories for the production of beverages , food , shoes , and other nondurable consumer goods . Perhaps even more importantly for the future ? in association with the needs of the export agriculture of cotton and sugar cane ? important bases were established for metallurgical production , which began to develop and recruit a growing number of laborers . As is well known , monopoly capital was interested in expanding the market for its own metropolitan industrial production , and consequently it was interested not only in not developing but in asphyxiating the possibilities of developing the bases of industrial production already established in the countries where it went . This is exactly what occurred in the Peruvian case . Monopoly capital took over the textile industry , the most developed industrial branch , but did not expand it and in a short period liquidated all the bases of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ circuit of accumulation which was beginning to link agricultural production ( cotton ) and livestock production ( wool ) with industry as well as the possibility of linking industry with agriculture ( the production of agricultural tools and machinery ) and whose development would have necessarily permited the integration // of mining and oil with industry , was soon reduced to an insignificant scale . Industrial development was incapable of generating a domestic market and a focal point of accumulation and integration of the diverse sectors of the economy . The consequences of this liquidation of the foundations for an internal circuit of accumulation and the concentration of monopoly investment in the primary sectors was decisive : ( 1 ) The definitive consolidation of the international division of labor restricted Peru to the condition of being a primary producer with a limited market for industrial production . ( 2 ) The nonexistence of a domestic market for the realization of a fundamental part of the surplus generated in primary production created a structure in which surplus value was entirely realized in a foreign market . ( 3 ) Given the absence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the majority of this surplus value realized abroad was accumulated in the centers of monopoly capital . This constituted a mechanism of decapitalization of the Peruvian r ) my and of underdevelopment , hindering the expansion of ca , sm , the economy , and the development of the forces of production . ( 4 ) There was no internal focus of accumulation that could integrate the various sectors of the economy that were developing under the control of monopoly capital . Each of these sectors was separately articulated to what was an external focus of accumulation for Peru but an internal one for monopoly capital . This meant that the " centers of decision-making " ? as referred to in the **28;1558;TOOLONG literature ? regarding the " national " economy were foreign . The structurally dependent nature of the capitalism established it Peru was due to the fact that monopoly capital controlled that capitalism , which for no accidental reasons had developed and had its centers of accumulation abroad . Its nature as monopoly capital more than its national origin constituted the imperialist character of it , , operation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sectors o production where the matrix of the relations of production was almos entirely precapitalist , the nuclei of capitalist relations of production i // established in these sectors were grafted onto this precapitalist matrix , becoming an enclave . Such capitalist enclaves established within a precapitalist matrix were characterized by relations of exploitation between monopoly capital , an external center of accumulation , and wage labor . They were , therefore , capitalist relations of the imperialist stage of this mode of production . In this specific sense , then , they constituted imperialist enclaves . From the point of view of the problem of accumulation , the relations between the precapitalist matrix and the imperialist enclaves were organized through two principal mechanisms : ( I ) the combination of surplus value ( generated within the enclave ) and mercantile surplus ( generated in the precapitalist matrix ) in the establishment of global profits for monopoly capitalism ; and ( 2 ) the direct utilization by this capital of institutions and mechanisms which were part of the precapitalist relations of production for capitalism 's own ends . The first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ costs of production and reproduction of labor within the enclaves and the effect of these costs on capitalist profits . Everything produced in these enclaves was sold in the metropolitan market outside Peru . However , it was sold at the same prices as production originating within the metropolis . For example , Cerro de Pasco Copper Corporation sold copper in the United States from its Peruvian enclave at the same price as the copper produced in the United States . However , Cerro de Pasco paid its Peruvian workers much lower wages than those paid to U.S. workers in copper production . In this way , Cerro de Pasco obtained superprofits compared to copper-producing companies in the United States . The central explanation resides in the differences between the capitalist cost of the reproduction of labor in Peru and in the metropolitan countries . The value of labor as a commodity is measured by the value of the products the workers uses to reproduce his labor power . In the countries which were the centers of monopoly accumulation , such products came from industry or capitalist agricultural and livestock production @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the commodity labor . In Peru , on the other hand , the limited significance of internal industrial production consumed by the workers in the enclaves and the high prices of imported goods which restricted their access to these products meant that the rePeru , // production of labor was based on production originating in the precapitalist part of the economy . Therefore , less value was incorporated into labor power in relation to that of the central countries . This meant that by means of low wages , monopoly capital was also extracting the surplus produced by peasants exploited by precapitalist landowners or the surplus produced by artisans under the domination of the mercantile bourgeoisie . Capital not only exploited the workers and thereby obtained surplus value , but it also indirectly exploited the peasants and artisans of the precapitalist part of the economy . The basis of greater profits was precisely the existence of precapitalist maturity which allowed capital to reproduce labor power in the enclaves at a lower cost . In this way , surplus value and mercantile surpluses were combined in the generation of global profits for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and precaptialism in a global process of accumulation . The imperialist enterprises which operated in agriculture or mining directly exploited peasant producers outside the enclave . Thus , given the difficulties of recruiting a sufficient and stable supply of labor to work all of their L Grace and later imperialist companies handed over part of these i . ds to various types of tenant farmers . They gave them some credit facilities for inputs and later collected the production from these lands at a very low cost and incorporated it with that produced by its workers in the process of realization and accumulation in the metropolitan market . In agriculture as in mining , these companies became the only purchasers of the production of the exportable agricultural products and livestock produced by independent peasants and landowners and of small-scale mining . The companies then sold these products at the same prices as those produced in their own enclaves . In connection with the central mechanisms which served the first structure of imperialist accumulation , a new economic structure in Peru was established . First , it was structurally linked to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the mediation of the mechanisms of accumulation which operated inside it and not only as an imposition exercised from the outside , this being due to the foreign location of the " centers of decision-making . " Second , it was a system of structural articulation between capitalism // and precapitalism where the capitalist sector was characterized by being basically monopoly in nature and the precapitalist sector was characterized by basically servile and semiservile relations . However , relations of reciprocity ( in the indigenous communities ) and of simple commodity production of independent artisans and peasants were present . Thus the global economic structure of Peru during this period was composed of elements at the same time contradictory and complementary , articulated in connection with the domination of monopoly capital with external centers of accumulation , and in this sense it was imperialist . Internally , then , what appeared in some ways to be a dual structure , in the sense of two structures ? one capitalist and the other precapitalist ? was in reality one combined structure . This resulted from the articulation of elements that were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a specific moment in the needs of capital . From then until recently , the history of this contradictory and complementary relationship has internally determined the process of this structure . However , at the same time that this structure was created to serve the needs of the imperalist chain of capital accumulation , this internal history was also determined by the modifications of the imperialist chain and the mechanisms of articulation with it , and these at the same time were being modified in relation to the changes in the internal structure . In this way the global economic structure of Peru was formed and consolidated , dependent on the laws of the international accumulation of capital . The relations of precapitalist production ? independently of their specific character : servile , semiservile , reciprocity , or independent simple commodity production ? not only remained organically articulated to the capitalist mode of production but also subordinated to its needs and its logic of future historical development . Notwithstanding the ample initial predominance of precapitalist relations of production by virtue of the number of workers involved and the geographic area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concrete behavior of precapitalist relations of production could no longer be defined solely or principally by their own nature , but above all by their subordinated articulation to the needs and laws of capital . In other words , they were no longer solely precapitalist relations of production . They were if taken separately ; they were not completely so in relation to their link with capital . Perhaps from here on it is more appropriate to call them relations of precapitalist origin . // As international monopoly capital came to dominate the Peruvian economic structure , it was the central determining factor of the direction of the economy 's historical development . The locomotive of this train was capital , and within capital , the monopoly sector . In other words , despite the predominance of the relations of precapitalist origin for a fairly long period in the specific sense already mentioned , the direction of the historical development of this economic structure was determined by the predominance of the capitalist sector and fundamentally by international monopoly capital . This reveals well the complementary and contradictory nature of this articulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period even the expansion of the precapitalist sector was necessary for monopoly capital . Inasmuch as this was so , the presence of capital was also necessary for the precapitalist sector . On the other hand , capital can not exist without constantly enlarging its bases of accumulation and expanding the monetization of the relations of exchange . In this sense , modifications in the internal structure of international monopoly pressured monopoly ca invested in the country to expand its bases of accumulation . However , the expansion of the monetization of the market , the dispersed and erratic appearance of competitive capital in the shadow of monopoly domination , also tended to deteriorate , crack , and finally disintegrate the relations of production of precapitalist origin . Finally , since the domination of capitalism began and was consolidated in Peru on the basis of the domination of international monopoly capital and the bases of national internal capital were profoundly crippled , it was the evolution of international monopoly capital that came to define the later historical behavior of capitalism in Peru . Mariategui referred to this process , maintaining that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Peru , the more the domination of imperialist capital would expand , diversify , and modernize in the country . He was not mistaken . The organization of this economic matrix was the fundamental factor governing the way in which basic social interests were organized , as social classes , and the way they were articulated politically in the state . The contradictory but complementary combination of imperialist capitalism and precapitalist relations in a common structure // necessarily implied the formation of a coalition of interests between the dominating classes of both modes of production ? the imperialist bourgeoisie and the native capitalist bourgeoisie on the one hand ; on the other , the mercantile bourgeoisie and seigniorial landowners . This coalition of interests was also inevitably centered on the hegemony of imperialist capital ? that is , the imperialist bourgeoisie . This defined the character of these classes , their behavior , the scope of their activities , their interests , and their struggles . Meanwhile , the social interests of the exploited and dominated classes were shaped not only in relation to specific demands originating from their particular position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the global character of the coalition of dominant interests or dominant classes and of imperialist hegemony . The social interests of the dominated classes from that time on were defined not only in regard to the relations of each one with the ruling class under which it was directly situated , but also in connection with the relations with the whole coalition of dominant classes as such . This situation , which came to govern the relations between those who dominated and the dominated themselves , was marked by its combined contradictory and complementary character . It brought about a particular union of conflicts and convergences in class relations and class struggles . The incipient nuclei of the Peruvian capitalist bourgeoisie that was beginning to appear arose from the transition from nuclei of the precapitalist mercantile bourgeoisie through the guano and saltpeter business and the production and commercialization of cotton after 1850 . These nuclei of a Peruvian capitalist bourgeoisie still maintained the values and modes of behavior deriving from their origin as seigniorial landowners , who dominated a mass of indigenous peasants or African slaves . For this reason this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the separation from the Spanish colonial empire . These first groups of the Peruvian capitalist bourgeoisie reached the end of the century with an extremely debilitated economic capacity and with its political articulation destroyed ? that is , without the real class capacity to bargain the terms and conditions of association with the imperialist bourgeoisie at the precise moment in which imperialist // capital was invading the Peruvian economy . Since it was precisely those nuclei of the bourgoisie ( mercantile and incipient capitalist nuclei ) which had , since the middle of the nineteenth century , been able to impose their hegemony over the control of the central apparatus of the nascent Peruvian state , the seigniorial landowners , who were not linked to the international market , were not in a condition to participate in the problem of the penetration of imperialist capital . As a consequence , the imperialist bourgeoisie found a very easy and totally controllable economic terrain and nothing to stop it from taking control of all the principal productive resources in each of the branches of activity which were of interest to imperialist investment . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crops , mines , oil , trains , banking , international trade , and the incipient textile industry . At a certain moment it wa ) able to take over the direct administration of the principal port customhouse of the country , leaving the Peruvian state without revenues and forcing it , before 1930 , to finance more than eighty percent of its budget with U.S. loans and credits . Where , then , was the national bourgeoisie ? Its incipient nuclei , which still had not entirely disposed of their seigniorial shell , were reduced to surviving on the crumbs left by imperialist capital from the productive resources of each branch of production and to using the state 's resources to complement the meagerness of their own sources of economic power in the well-known combination of corruption and capitalist accumulation in our country . These reduced national bourgeois nuclei found themselves living not only off the crumbs of imperialism but entirely in vassalage to it . They were in a position analogous to that of serfs who lived on the lord 's land , even though they appeared to live @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thus appeared fixed in and surrounded by the financial , commercial , technological , and ultimately political mechanisms which imperialist capital had established ? in the economic and political terrain of the imperialist bourgeoisie . The character of the national bourgeoisie ? that is , of the social interests of these groups ? was above all shaped by their essential link with imperialist capital and constrained in its development by the limits set by imperialist capital . In the framework of a process in which imperialist domination was disputed between the English and the U.S. bourgeoisies , the former being the first to dominate the Peruvian economy , the nuclei of the capitalist bourgeoisie appeared divided // by their association with each of the imperialist bourgeoisies . Finally , in a process which required that the relations of production become capitalist in the areas which were of interest to imperialist capital , the seigniorial traditions ? either genuine or adopted ? of the nuclei of the national bourgeoisie served as another factor of discontinuity and internal conflict within these groups . For these reasons , but fundamentally because of the character @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nuclei of the bourgeoisie from the beginning were weak and fraught with internal conflicts ; they were also economically and politically disarticulated as a consequence of the disarticulation of the branches of activity within the internal ambit of the Peruvian economy and as a consequence of the situation in which each of them was separately articulated to the demands and fluctuations of the economy of imperialism . In other words , these nuclei of the Peruvian bourgeoisie were structurally unable to develop as an effective national class in order to bargain with the imperialist bourgeoisie for their national interests of domination . They increasingly had to develop in relation to the expansion and consolidation of imperialist capital in the country . Imperialist capital was able to impose the conditions of its hegemony in Peru without difficulty because the Peruvian bourgeoisie was too weak to establish itself as a national ruling class before the imperialist invasion . Once this imperialist hegemony was established , the Peruvian bourgeoisie was conditioned by the interests and forms of domination of the imperialist bourgeoisie , which also imposed on it the conditions and limits of its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concrete interests of the Peruvian bourgeoisie reinforced these conditions and reinforced the hegemony of the imperialist bourgeoisie . It thus could never be a national class , except in terms of its origin ; it could never be nationalist , much less anti-imperialist . With the integration of the surplus value generated in the imperialist enclaves and of the marketable surplus produced in the precapitalist haciendas in the formation of the global profits of imperialist capital , the seigniorial landowners were increasingly pushed toward their conversion to landowner-merchants while the export-import merchants saw their scope of operation expanded . The result of this // was the expansion of mercantilism and the progressive conversion of the landowner-merchants into a mercantile-seigniorial bourgeoisie . The commericalization of surplus became a central interest of the most important nuclei of this class . The search for the expansion of the resources which would permit the production of such surplus was the inevitable consequence in the conduct of this class . As a result , the most important and extensive process of concentration of agricultural property in the hands of this type of landowner began through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which had survived from the colonial period and through the first wave of the concentration of agricultural land with the beginning of the republic . This process let loose a series of peasant uprisings thrc out the first three decades of this century , above all affecting the . pions in which the greatest number of " indigenous communities " were located . Thus , class struggle in the precapitalist countryside in that period correspond to the new position of the landowning class in the country 's economy through its organic connection with the imperialist bourgeoisie and to the new positions which the serf and free peasants assumed under imperialist hegemony . Considered in an isolated context , this struggle between landowners and peasants in a way reproduced the characteristics of the social struggles within feudal society . However , the content of these struggles was not determined solely by the precapitalist character of these relations of production , but also by the articulation of these relations to the interests and means of exploitation of the imperialist order . The concentration of agricultural property not only affected the property of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The process also involved theft of the lands of the small and medium landowners . The rural banditry , which reached its highest point during this period , was in great part fed by the rebellion of the dispossessed landowners . Luis Pardo and Benel were its typical representatives , and their names became part of popular legend . Thus , the redefinition of the position and role of the landowners in the global structure of this economy under imperialist hegemony also redefined the class relations between peasants and landowners , forcing the great masses of peasants into servitude in order to produce the surplus which could be sold in the market generated by capitalist penetration . It also redefined the relations among the stata of the landowning class , pushing members of the lower strata toward commercial occupations and producing an exodus toward the cities and // capitalist centers and , in part , the proletarianization of these strata . On this base appeared a stratum of rural and semirural ( or semiurban ) commercial bourgeoisie ? both small and medium ? which was closely tied to the landowning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Later , however , it was destined to dispute the control of the land and the rural economy with the weakest sectors of the landowning class . This stratum of the small and medium rural commercial bourgeoisie ? an intermediary in the relations of exchange between the landowners and the dominated native imperialist bourgeoisie ? was also an efficient and ubiquitous intermediary in the relations of exploitation between the bourgeoisie and the free and servile peasants . This stratum of rural merchants , recruited mainly from the intermediary ethnic strata , which in the indigenous language of that period were included under the generic name of " mistis " ( mestizos ) , intensified the exploitation of the indigenous peasants . In this way , the social relations typified by " internal colonialism " between Indians and non-Indians , founded on the expansion and strengthening of servile-merchantile relations of production , were expanded and strengthened . The precapitalist economic base was indispensable for the model of capitalist accumulation of that phase and for the social relations of internal colonialism , its social foundation , and its ideological justification in that sphere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ under the control of the Peruvian groups of the bourgeoisie , a population of workers was created which formed a new social class . In the nineteenth century , a disperse stratum of precapitalist and incipient capitalist wage laborers had been forming through a new dynamism of mercantilism in Peru , particularly since the period of the height of the guano industry . However , because of the precariousness of capitalist activities in guano and in the urban centers , and because of the massively predominant character of precapitalist relations of production in the country , nothing recognizable as free labor market was formed , nor did the first groups of workers stabilize this situation . The replacement of black slaves by the importation of Chinese laborers under labor contracts which tied them to the land in the mercantile haciendas of the central and northern coasts also impeded the formation of a // rural proletariat there . However , these same practices of coercive recruitment of labor proclaimed the nonexistence of a process of the liberation of labor from servile agricultural activities . As a consequence , it was only after @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production that the formation of the proletariat began in a stable and significant way . Given the enclave nature of the principal forms of capitalist exploitation and the lack of internal articulation among the diffe ranches of production under imperialist domination , this new clays in formation also emerged disarticulated and scattered in nuclei which were not only economically but also geographically separated in enclaves without close communication among them . As a class in formation whose members were principally peasants from a servile or communal tradition , the process of social and psychosocial proletariantization developed very slowly . This situation was reinforced as much by the fluctuation of some of its members between workingclass and peasant activities as by the character of the primary activities in which they were mostly concentrated ? that is , by the continuity of their position in the rural world . In their new position , workers coming from the countryside gradually began to liberate themselves from the sociocultural relations of internal colonialism , and this differentiated them in the sphere of the peasant population . The proletariat which was forming in the cities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the urban-mercantile artisans and from the middle peasant sectors which were robbed of their resources . They constituted a special fraction within the new proletariat in formation , characterized by their mainly urban extraction , their relatively considerable level of educ ion expressed in their ability to read , write , and publish numerous papers and pamphlets during the entire period prior to the 1930s . This allowed the urbanindustrial fraction of the proletariat to exercise an active leadership role in the ideological-political and syndical formation of the new class , despite their small numbers and their secondary importance in the economic structure of the country . The great struggles for the eight-hour day , the organizing of trade unions , and the revolutionary politicialization in Lima prior to 1930 bears witness to this fact . The internal characteristics of the remaining sections of the proletariat in formation were conditioned by the organization of imperialist capitalism at that time . The nascent proletariat was numerically small , disarticulated , fluctuating , basically non-urban-industrial , mainly  | of peasant origin , linked by its patterns of consumption to the cultural patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ will of the patron . As such , this proletariat closely corresponded to the type of imperialist presence and its concrete model of capital accumulation . It must be added that with the little diversification of economic activities and the persistence of seigniorial patterns in the internal regime of imperialist as well as dominated native capitalist enterprises , the relations between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie took on a **25;1588;TOOLONG ( " oligarchical " ) character for a long period . Due to all these factors deriving from the particular combination of imperialist capitalism and precapitalism in the country , the relations of production between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat were subjected to a system of organization remote and different from that which corresponded to the same relations in the imperialist centers . The prolonged duration of the work day , the obstacles to union organizing , the **25;1615;TOOLONG discipline , the adherence to internal colonialism , the lack of social rights , and coercive recruitment were the characteristics which defined the concrete relations of imperialist exploitation of the proletariat in formation during the major part of the first three decades @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ model of accumulation were established and consolidated . The concentration of capitalist agricultural property in the valleys of the central and northern coasts , where the land was suitable for export crops in which imperialist capital was interested at the time , meant the displacement of the peasants of the zone toward proletarianization on the capitalist haciendas as well as the displacement of members of numerous seigniorial-mercantile landowning families outside that class . The members of those landowning families were thus pushed toward liberal professional or bureaucratic occupations , swelling the ranks of the new middle social strata , which had been slowly forming since the recuperation of the Peruvian economy 's association with the capitalist international market . The same process of forming a domestic market around the capitalist activities in the enclaves and the principal urban centers stimulated the gradual growth of a stratum of middle-level merchants in the // countryside as well as in the cities , and of people to provide services for the needs of the new dynamism of the urban population , particularly in Lima . A petty bourgeosie was forming in the sphere of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of public services , as well as of financial institutions and international and domestic commerce , enlarged the bases of a bureaucracy that was recruited from the members of the declining landowning fan and from the members of the small middle urban groups prel , iuusly formed during the course of the revitalization of mercantilism during the second half of the previous century . Incipient professionalization of a classical liberal type , bureaucratization , the formation of a new petty bourgeoisie , and the expansion of the small and medium mercentilist bourgeoisie in the countryside , constituted the principal channels of the formation and expansion of these middle social strata . The socioeconomic destiny of these middle strata was conditioned by the characteristics and the fluctuations of imperialist capitalism , by the type of relations it had with precapitalism , and by its relations with the matrix economy of imperialism . The rhythm of growth of each of these fractions of the middle strata depended on the rhythm of expansion of imperialist capitalism in the country . At the same time that capitalist accumulation was also founded on the maintenance and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of growth of capitalist activities and of their spread in the Peruvian economy were limited in advance by the small domestic market 's own needs , which were generated around the capitalist activities of the enclaves concentrated in certain areas . During this period the possibility of a rapid expansion of the economic activities of the middle strata was restricted to these limits . The problem , however , was that the concentration of property and of the control of productive resources , in the capitalist as well as the precapitalist sphere , increasingly pushed more human contingents toward a middle social position without expanding the economic activities in which they could engage themselves . The austerity of the economic sphere suitable for sustaining the middle social positions obliged an important part of the contingents from the landowning ranks to look for refuge principally in the area of public bureaucracy . They pressed for the expansion of public positions even if they were not really necessary . The tendency toward the inflation ofthe bureaucratic sectors ofthe middle strata was one ofthe  | resulting characteristics of this type of imperialist hegemony in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real need for the growth of public services . On the other hand , the maintenance of precapitalism , founded on relations typical of internal colonialism and for this reason impregnated with all the seigniorial values to the point of becoming encrusted in these conditions , meant that the social ideology of the whole society , and in particular of the middle groups formed by the explusion of a part of the landowning class during the course of the concentration of argricultural property , also tended to become stronger as the last barrier to defend their social position . People tried to stay in middle social positions while still maintaining a perception of themselves as members of the seigniorial class . They sought to imitate and maintain the conduct , norms , and social values of that class , despite the fact that the actual material conditions were not even sufficient to convert them in any stable way into middle strata . The formation of a socially and psychologically seigniorial middle stratum with very precarious , indeed impoverished , economic bases was one of the characteristics of this process . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the base of many of these middle group 's political conduct after the 1920s , as will be discussed later . However , the austerity of the economic sphere of the middle sectors forced the poorer strata and the groups not originating from the landowning ranks toward proletarianization in the incipient industrial-urban formations , which the activity of immigrants with entrepreneurial aptitudes and imperialist capital established under the total hegemony of the latter . The majority of Lima 's urban artisans and the middle groups originating from past mercantilism in activities of personal services constituted the major part of the first working-class contingent in the textile factories and foodstuffs industries which were established in Lima since the beginning of this century , as well as in the semifactory activities ( particularly bakeries ) . This social origin marked the conduct and the social ideology characteristic of the first groups of the urban proletariat during the first thirty years of this century ; they quickly accepted anarchosyndicalism . As in any process of change from a mercantile to a capitalist economy , the middle strata corresponding to that economy were forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proletarianized . However , in its place in the specific // conditions of the combination of imperialist capitalism and precapitalism , new middle social strata appeared whose channels of formation , social values , and political behavior were not only the result of capitalism as such , but also the result of the particular form of reproduction of capital which imperialism had established in the country . The formation of a national state had not been completed during the nineteenth century , not even under the direction of the nuclei of the bourgeoisie which were distancing themselves from the seigniorialmercantilist ruling class . With the repercussions of the national defeat in the war with Chile , the political and administrative apparatus precariously constructed after 1850 had practically disintegrated . As reconstruction was beginning , imperialist hegemony was in the full process of establishing itself . Later the political organization of social classes ? that is , of Peruvian society ? could no longer correspond solely to the previous national or class conditioning . The socioeconomic articulation which imperialist hegemony shaped in the country implied the presence of capitalist and precapitalist classes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and complemented each other in relation to the combination of capitalism and precapitalism in capital accumulation and in the production of mercantile surplus at the service of the former . This implied a coalition of class interests between those controlling both sectors of this structure of exploitation which is expressed as a coalition of power for political domination . The class character of the new state was necessarily impure , hybrid , at the same time bourgeois and seigniorial . The history of this state from that time on consisted not only of its confrontation with the dominated classes but also of its complex and contradictory dialectic of opposition and combination of class interests , in different degrees at different times . The problem of class was not , however , the only one that affected the setting-up of this new state . In the coalition of power that was established as the social base of the state , the hegemonic fraction was the imperialist bourgeoisie . This was , of course , imperialist due to the  | characteristics of capital and to the capitalist relations of production which correspond to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ controlling this capital and these relations of production was of foreign origin . As a consequence , the problems of the definition of the state 's class character were joined by the problem of its national condition . For this reason part of the later history of the state was also conditioned by this national problem . The problem of the definition of its class character along with the definition of its national character has since dominated this history . In this coalition of power the dominant capitalist and precapitalist classes were articulated : ( 1 ) Bourgeoisie : imperialist bourgeoisie + dependent capitalist bourgeoisie ( 2 ) Landowners : mercantile-landowners + seigniorial landowners In this coalition of power , the imperialist bourgeoisie was clearly hegemonic , as a result of the type of organization of the economy . However , because of its foreign character , it could not directly and explicitly assume the control and management of the state , since the state was formally independent . Only the national fractions of this coalition of power were in a position to assume the immediate and explicit control of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the state was determined by the needs of imperialist capital accumulation , it consisted of politically and administratively guaranteeing the conditions of his model of capitalist accumulation . The new state fulfilled a central function of the service of imperialist domination ? a class function . However , since the bourgeoisie that controlled this domination was foreign , this function appeared to serve the domination by foreigners , as a national function . In other words , the national problem concealed but also manifested the essential class character of the basic function of the state . The problem of imperialism ? that is , the class character of this state ? presented itself as a national problem . The ideological form characteristic of the social perception of the nuclei of the dependent bourgeoisie and of the middle strata retained only the national dimension of the problem of imperialism . This ideology also pervaded the  | perception of even the dominated classes , including the majority of the proletariat even until today . The ideological posing of the problem of the national character of the state corresponded , for that same reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new state that represented that coalition ( erects and power was actually a dependent national state , in that is guaranteed the interests of a foreign bourgeoisie . However , as with all ideologies , it confused appearance with reality . As a consequence , it made that which was really essential disappear ; the imperialist character did not reside above all in the foreign character of the imperialist bourgeoisie , but in the nature of the established ruling relations of production in the Peruvian economy ? in other words , the capitalist relations of the imperialist stage . The class content of the problem was hidden and at the same time expressed by the foreign character of the bourgeoisie which controlled imperialist capital . This superimposition of the national problem over the class problem , which established the ideological perception of imperialism as an exclusively national issue , was determined by the fact that the essential class character of the state , consistent with its position as a guarantor of imperialist hegemony , was manifested during this period fundamentally in the fulfillment of this function but not in the concrete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the state . Actually , keeping in mind the class composition of the national fractions of the coalition of power , which were the only ones in a position to assume direct control of the state , it is clear that the class character of the state on a concrete level was much more precapitalist than capitalist . In the association of the dependent capitalist bourgeoisie with the landowning class ( mercantilist and seigniorial ) , both shared dominance from the point of view of an external description of the situation . In the first place , because of the nature of its relations with the imperialist bourgeoisie , the dependent capitalist bourgeoisie was reduced in numbers and economically and socially weak because its productive resources consisted of the crumbs left by imperialism ; it was internally disarticulated as a class in the productive structure because of the disarticulation among the branches of production in the internal national order ; it retained all the seigniorial adherences derived from its historical origin ; and the possibilities of expanding its domestic market more rapidly and massively were limited because of // its @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of association of interests between imperialist capital and the precapitalist base of surplus production and maintaining this base as long as this association was necessary for imperialist capital . Above all , its own resources of power were congenitally limited , and it was not able to impose its style as a capitalist bourgeois class in the political domination of the society . In contrast , although now subjected to the hegemony of imperialist capital , the precapitalist classes ? the mercantile landowners and the seigniorial landowners ? found in this submission the material foundation of their concrete power in society , which was even strengthened by the concentration of mercantile agricultural property . By dominating the majority of workers in the country in the social sphere through relations of internal colonialism and in the economic sphere through servile and semiservile relations , these classes , among which there was no definitive break in practice , appeared as one class with functions in the process of becoming differentiated . The weakness of the central state apparatus over the economy and over a society with these characteristics permitted the establishment of immense @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercantile or purely seigniorial landowners which gave rise to the phenomenon known as " political caciquism , " an analogy to the prehispanic chieftancies . In this way a somewhat paradoxical situation presented itself . On one hand , in the coalition of political power the precapitalist classes were immediately predominant as the concrete social base of the state . This was a combination of bourgeois and seigniorial aspects in its concrete appearance , and in that appearance the seigniorial element was predominant . On the other hand , however , the very existence of this coalition of power , as well as the basic state function of guaranteeing the hegemony of imperialist capital , created a situation in which the state had a predominantly bourgeois character in its essential function despite its predominant seigniorial base . The dependent national state , which criss-crossed the class problem with the national problem in relation to the hegemony of imperialist capital , also assumed its oligarchical continuity on new foundations . In other words , a national-dependent oligarchical state was emerging . It was oligarchical in the specific model of political domination with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but combined : it was national in the formally independent condition of the nation-state ; it was dependent ( this word is not very appropPeru , // riate ) because the hegemony of imperialist capital in the functions of the state was dressed with the foreign origin of the imperialist bourgeoisie . Here a principal theoretical problem is posed . In Marxist theoretical discourse , the central thesis regarding the relations between social classes and the state is that the state is fundamentally an instrument of domination of a ruling class over the dominated class . In the Communist Manifesto Marx maintained that the administrative apparatus of the state is nothing more than committee which administrates the common affairs of the ruling class . In bourgeois society this refers to the bourgeoisie . Politically , the state is the organized power of the ruling class ? in this case the bourgeoisie ? to oppress the dominated class . Later , after studying the characteristics of the phenomenon of Bonapartism , Marx found that under certain historical conditions the state appears to rise above the social classes and establishes itself as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomy of the state with respect to classes can be neither total nonpermanent . As long as the socioeconomic order consists of a system of class domination , even in a time when it emerges as politically autonomous over classes . It serves the interests of the ruling class even when it obliges this class to subordinate itself to state regulations . This means that in the Marxist theory of the state , the relation between the state and social classes is more complex than it would appear to be if only the first of those theses were maintained , even though it continues to be the matrix of the theory . However , the study of Marx regarding Bonapartism clearly illustrates the necessity of permanently recovering the real potential of the **26;1642;TOOLONG focus of Marxism . The study of a specific state , in a specific historical situation , involves examination of the specific characteristics of classes and class struggle in every moment ? of the greater or lesser capacity each class has in that moment to monopolize , share , influence , and dispute the power of the state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and social classes implies focusing on the state as a center of power which is permanently disputed by the classes and where consequently the relative position of each of the classes to the state depends on its greater or // lesser capacity to influence , participate in , control , or monopolize state power . The specific conduct of the state as an administrative apparatus and as a system of political articulation between classes depends on the historical variations that are produced in class struggles . As long as the basic structure of exploitation and domination are not radically altered , these variations in the political conduct of a specific state will continue within the framework of the system of domination of the time . Unlike the situation resulting from the period of bourgeois revolutions in Europe , in which capital accumulation inevitably required the elimination of the seigniorial state as well as of precapitalist relations of production , the problems of accumulation during the new stage reached by capital in Peru required a combination of imperialist capitalist and precapitalist economic relations as well as the political combination among those in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth needed to expand its domestic market and free labor to create a free labor market in order to expand and consolidate the bases for the internal accumulation of capital . The imperialist bourgeoisie in Peru needed to generate surplus value to be realized and accumulated in its own market , not in the Peruvian market . It was not interested in the complete expansion of the Peruvian market , or in completely freeing labor . To the contrary , it sought to maintain the bases of superprofits derived from the low cost of labor power and the appropriation of marketable precapitalist surpluses . The ambivalence of the class character of the state was the principal basis for the ambivalence of the proletariat 's political struggle . This was also the basis for the possibility , later materialized , of the hegemony of reformist-nationalist populism of the middle strata . The major part of the middle strata , which originated from the disintegration of many of the seigniorial-mercantilist landowning nuclei as a consequence of the war with Chile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural property had similar difficulties . On one hand , the magnitude ofthe economic sphere ofthe middle strata was not ample enough . nor could it accommodate the ranks of those who were being pushed toward a middle social position or were struggling to maintain it . The reinforcement of seigniorial landPeru , // owning domination and the enclave nature of capitalist operations hindered the rapid expansion of intermediate economic activities . On the other hand , the seigniorial presence in the state and the weak and dependent bourgeoisie with aristocratic pretensions which participated in political power with a prir ity peasant base that was isolated , scattered , illiterate , and subjugated to the local power of the landowners , allowed for monopoly control of the state through this coalition of power ? that is , the formation of an oligarchical state . The emerging middle strata were not acceptable in this combination of power , except as part of the subordinated bureaucracy or as professionals at the service of oligarchical-imperialist domination ? that is , as bureaucratic professional clientele of the oligarchic system . During this period the objective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exercise the political and social functions characteristic of these strata in pure capitalist societies , these being political and social mediation . The middle strata , for this reason , were forced to confront the oligarchical-imperialist coalition in the search for the expansion of their own social , economic , and political perspectives . Their social position and their social origin prevented them from grasping the complexities of the situation of this society , except in ideological terms , not in theoretical-scientific terms . The leadership of the middle strata understood the national dimension but not the class dimension of the problem of imperialist hegemony . From oligarchical domination and its functions relative to imperialist hegemony , they retained only the problem of democratic participation . The characteristic ideology thus constructed was thus marked by demands for the expansion of the channels of popular participation in the generation of power , without questioning the social bases of power , and by demands for the rescue and consolidation of the national independence of the state in the face of domination by the foreign bourgeoisie . Nationalist democratic reformism was the resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ characteristics , its dispersal and lack of communication , and the continuous theft of its lands , was not in a situation to face the problem of the state . It perceived its principal problem directly in relation to the struggle for land . The peasantry did not have the basis that would permit it to distinguish the anti-imperialist component of this struggle for land . All these conditions gave rise to a well-defined process . 1 . The coalition of power had no fraction interested in or capable of even indirectly supporting or stimulating the struggle for political // democratization through the affirmation of the national independence of the state . The weak dependent bourgeois fractions were conditioned to move within the framework of imperialist hegemony and its commitments with the seigniorial landowners . 2 . The middle strata had no ground for political mediation between the ruling class and the dominated class except in ideology , whose marterialization , however , brought them face to face with the coalition of power . 3 . The proletariat found itself in an ambivalent situation between its antibourgeois direction and its antioligarchical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The peasantry had no channel of participation in the national political confrontation except in an indirect way through its struggles for land . The consequence of all these factors was the emergence of a coalition of the dominated and the middle strata in which the political participation of the peasantry was abstract or indirect . Thus , the dominant coalition was confronted by a coalition of the dominated and the middle strata . Historically , this meant the impossibility of a system of legitimate and stable political mediation that would permit the control and equilibrium of the order of political domination . Due to this situation , the dominant coalition soon was forced to maintain itself in power by means of the permanent presence of the armed forces in the direct management ofthe political apparatus ? retaining , however , the direction of the administrative apparatus and the political direction of the armed forces ' conduct in the state . The sphere of stable legality , a correlate of political legitimacy and the middle strata , from then on was out of reach of this oligarchical coalition , subordinated to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ repressive character of the oligarchical regime notably served to reinforce the leadership role of the middle strata over the proletariat and to consolidate the populist-nationalist ideology among the masses . The relevance of the struggle against the dictatorship and repression relegated the limitations and political-social incongruities of the middle strata 's leadership in the popular movement to obscurity . This complicated history would be literally incomprehensible if it were thought of in terms of the hypotheses received from the European experience or from a reification of the central categories of Marxism . Any analysis can grasp reality only after an adequate understanding of the problem of the character of imperialist domination . // Dieterich , 1978 : Harding , 1976 : Laclau , 1971 : O'Laughlin , 1975 : Luporini and Sereni 1976 : Cueva , 1976 , 1977 ; Foster-Carter , 1973 , 1976 : Assadourian , 1977 ; Godelier , 1974 , 1977 ; Rey , 1976 ) . The paradigmatic debate which these discussions initiated called everything related to the interpretation of Latin American societies and social change into question : the formulation of the questions , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy and political implications of evidence and analysis . Even the most narrow and empirical of scholars found it difficult to ignore the raging debates since the categories for which they were collecting data were being challenged as to meaning , validity , and usefulness . The hemisphere-wide discussion of methods and models for studying society and social change had an important impact on a fledgling indigenous social science endeavor in a country like Guatemala that had long been dominated by the descriptions and interpretations of North Americans , in this case anthropologists such as Tax ( 1941 , 1953 ) , Redfield ( 1939 ) , Gillin ( 1948 ) , Tumin ( 1945 , 1949 , 1952 ) , Adams ( 1956 , 1957 , 1967 ) , Nash ( 1958 ) and their North American and Guatemalan students . North American social science models were in vogue throughout the hemisphere after World War I1 , partly because of their superior access to funds for research and training , but were particularly hegemonic in countries like Guatemala where , after the counterrevolutionary coup of 1954 , academic and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many of those Guatemalans who might have contested the formulations of the North Americans chose exile over persecution . The challenge to North American social science interpretations finally came in the 1960s , when , stimulated by the discussions elsewhere and by the emergence of an opposition movement at home ( based on the Cuban guerrilla foco model ? see Debray , 1975 ) , Guatemalan scholars directed their attention to concrete questions about their society 's history , sociology , and economic development . These included : What was the character of the Spanish conquest and why did it differ in Guatemala ? To what extent did the liberal reforms of the late nineteenth century represent a break from , rather than continuity with , the social structure and economy of the colonial period ? When and how did capitalism emerge in Guatemala and what have been its specific characteristics ? In what ways and to what extent were the changes of the 1944-1954 period revolutionary ones ? What // has been the impact of the infusion of foreign cal and the expansion of export agriculture in the last two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of these changes ? Finally , the most controversial but perhaps most important question of all , of what significance is it that more than half of Guatemala 's population is Indian ? What , in particular , does this imply for the success of opposition and revolutionary movements ? ( Torres Rivas , 1971 a , 1971b , 1980 , 1981 ; Martinez Pelaez , 1973 , 1975 ; Figueroa Ibarra , 1974 , 1976 ; Cambranes , 1975 ; Flores Alvarado , 1971 , 1973 ; Ciro Cardoso , 1969 ; Meji a , 1970 ; Guzman Bockler , 1975 ; Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1974 ; Guzman Bockler et al. , 1971 ) . All of these questions are of importance to the reconstruction of Guatemalan social history and to the understanding of possible emergent trends for the future . But they also are of theoretical and methodological importance , although they are not explicitly framed as such . Linked to their answers are key issues in the larger paradigmatic debate , and that debate will be advanced by a better understanding of social change and development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is to explore the 1 arger issues in the context of Guatemala , evaluate critically the contending theoretical frameworks ? modernization , dependency , and mode of production , and contribute to and argue for the elaboration of one , articulation of modes of production . The modernization paradigm draws on various schools ofthought : nineteenth-century evolutionists ( such as Comte , Spencer , and Durkheim ) , twentieth-century neoevolutionists ( such as Sahlins and Service , 1960 ) , and modern **25;1670;TOOLONG ( such as Parsons , 1951 , 1964 , 1966 , 1971 ; Smelser , 1964 ; Hoselitz , 1960 ; Rostow , 1960 ; and Moore , 1963 ) , a subcategory of neoevolutionists . Like the nineteenth-century evolutionists , the modernizationists conceive of change as a unilinear and continuous progression along continua with fixed endpoints : folk and secular , gemeinschaft and gesellschaft , traditional and modern . Unlike the nineteenth-century evolutionists , however , they acknowledge that social evolution ( defined as greater specialization , differentiation , and adaptation ? ( Parsons , 1951 , 1964 , 1966 , 1971 ; Semiser , 1964 ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ societies but in the development of social systems overall . Thus , primitive or traditional societies can develop from contacts with modern , developed social systems as well as from their own internal evolutionary change . While some theorists allow only for contacts characterized as " diffusion " ( Parsons , for example ) and others include domination and conquest ( Sahlins and Service , 1960 ) , the direction of change is always hypothesized as the same : more developed , more modern , more adaptive . Resistance to change is assumed to be inevitable , especially on the part of nonelites , because of lack of information , traditional values , and psychological fear of anything new , but resistance always eventually gives way to acceptance , since only acceptance ensures survival . The modernization model includes both evolutionary notions of change from one endpoint to another and the structural-functionalist notion that societies tend toward states of equilibrium to which interdependent and interrelated parts contribute after changing from one " ideal type " to another . Within each type ( i.e. , traditional , modern ) , cohesion among @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ values , which not only give the system its " glue " but define its basic character . Feudalism , capitalism , and socialism , in this view , are distinguished not by their structures of production and reproduction but by their dominant economic values . The Panajachelenos studied by Tax ( 1953 ) are considered " penny capitalists " because of their commercially oriented attitudes and behavior . Social classes , such as Indian peasants and Ladino intermediaries ( i.e. , nonIndian ) are likewise defined attitudinally and interactionally ( how an individual thinks of himself or herself and how he or she is treated ) rather than structurally ( Tumin , 1945 , 1949 , 1952 ) . Within this framework , the problem of modernization is the problem of smooth and orderly change from one set of core values to another . Public policy must see that change proceeds rapidly enough for adaptation to new environments but not so rapidly as to seriously dislocate the interdependent parts from each other . It must promote changes that will favor adaptation to new realities and social order : physical integration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a common language and value system . Modernism , then , is rational and functional for survival , and social integration of regions and groups is necessary for the modernization of nations . As Adams argues , // The process of nation-making requires the substitution of the direct exercise of power overall individuals forthe indirect exercise of power through corporate segments of individuals . The national power center must be able to communicate directly with , and exercise control directly over , the population . To do this , it is necessary to contain local and provincial power nuclei that can compete for control 11967 : 4691 . Toward this end , the haciendas and Indian towns ( reduccioues ) in Central America created under Spanish colonialism were the first step . For several centuries , however , physical isolation of regions and towns from the centers of power and dominant culture made their control precarious and their existence a potential threat to national cohesion . Only with improved transportation and communication as a result of the liberal reforms of the late nineteenth century and the growing use of Indian labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , 1967 ) . Parallel to the process of administrative and political units is the need to integrate individuals and social groups , since heterogeneity of cultures and languages , like regional isolation , is seen as an obstacle to national survival and a threat to social cohesion . But such integration has been problematic in countries like Gurntemala , where , as many anthropologists have observed , cultural differences between Indian and non-Indian are long-standing , in spite of numerous arenas of interaction . While the traditional modernizationist view might argue that contact between the cultural groups is simply not consistent or even enough , others have argued that heterogeneity might actually be functional and a guarantor of stability . The assumption that modern societies inevitably strive for and need social integration and cultural homogenity to survive presents certain problems in the study of a multiethnic , multicultural society of long duration such as Guatemala . Why , if Indians ( of various ethnic nationalities ) and non-Indians interact in certain spheres , such as towns and markets , do they maintain separate languages , behaviors , and world views @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ buy and sell goods in impersonal markets and calculate their worth without reference to sentiment or kinship ties . In a tradition dating to // before the conquest , they are " practical , matter of fact , mundane and secular-mined " traders who " move around , go places on business and comeback , or move to another town for a few years , or sometimes for the rest of their lives . " Yet , in noneconomic matters , the Indians from Panajachel retain it classic primitive folk world view . clouded with animism in which sun and earth , river and hill , are anthropomorphized ; animals talk ; plants have emotions ; and it is possible for a hoe to work alone ; such things as fire and maize are capable of direct , punitive action .... Animals , plants , humans alike change their natures with the phases of the moon 1941 : 381 . Tax and Redfield suggest an amendment to the structural-functionalist assumption of universal adoption of modern values on contact with modern societies : that as long as certain types ofvalues ( i.e. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , others , such as primitive world views , can and may coexist simultaneously unless direct attack is made on them ( Tax , 1941 ) . Other anthropologists who have studied Guatemalan village life argue that sharp distinctions between indigenous and nonindigenous behavior and attitudes may actually be necessary for the maintenance of social order . Indians are said to accept dominant values even though they do not benefit from them or are victims of a double standard in their application . Gillin ( 1948 ) argues that the Indian " chooses to accept his condition as a result of a reciprocal , symmetri cal exchange for rewards of status or psychological security . " As it result , Indians attribute misfortune to an angry god rather than to ladinos . Tumin argues that the forces of custom and traditionalism ( that 's the custom ; ' that 's the way things are ; ' ) tend to promote a general unawareness of and indifference , on the part of the exploited and deprecated groups , to these invidious aspects of the total situation . And , where awareness is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sensitivity present in the awareness and thereby recommend to the Indian the passive acceptance of the status quo 1949:24. and that in the situation described , there are no discernible stresses and strains pushing toward rapid or basic social change . Additionally , in those areas where cooperation or co-participation is indispensable to the it // continuity of the social order , the caste arrangement is sufficiently flexible to permit clearly defined , hierarchically structured cooperation which for a variety of reasons , is mutually acceptable to both groups 11949 : 25 . But the degree of stress and strain ? or , more straightforwardly , underlying conflict ? is a matter of dispute . Siegal , writing roughly in the same period ( 1941 ) , locates Indian-ladino relations historically ( something the **25;1697;TOOLONG rarely ever do ) , and argues that apparent acceptance of an " invidious " system actually incorporates realistic resistance to it : Outward manifestations of hostility are relatively scarce partly because of the quick and harsh penalties imposed ... on rebellious native groups . Instead , Indian hostility takes the form of a widespread , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stubborn retention of native beliefs and practices . This resistance discloses itself variously : natives try to avoid public service ; they apply public pressure against members who work for whites , associate with whites , or have sexual relations with whites ; they perform religious rites and ceremonies as a closed group , completely excluding white participation ( assuming that the latter desired to participate , which is hardly likely ) ; they seek ways to keep their children from white schools ' ; they reject the national language , Spanish , as the chief medium of communication , always using the native dialect themselves ; they wear native costumes clearly different from the dress worn by whites Siegal , 1941:4291 . Neopluralists such as Colby and van den Berghe , on the other hand , argue that functionalists are wrong , from the beginning , to assume that multiethnic , multicultural societies constitute single integrated systems that strive toward equilibrium . Rather , they posit , both integration and separate parallel culture . Institutions may coexist with certain political or economic ties but retain autonomy to the extent that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , culturally distinct groups with a compartmentalized institutional structure of duplicatory ( as distinguished from functionally differentiated ) sectors ( van den Berghe and Primov , 1977 ; Colby and van den Berghe. 1969 ; Boeke. 1953 ) . In other words , a plural society is composed of // Each cultural or ethnic group may have its own set of kinship institutions , religious and cosmological systems , voluntary association , child-rearing practices , and status-ranking criteria but interact together in key areas of the polity and economy , and only at these linkage points are they subject to common social and economic forces . Otherwise , they lack a common history and culture . The coexistence of plural systems can not be assumed , they argue , to be based on a lack of conflict or competition for hegemony : Colonial or plural societies were held together , not by consensus on basic values , as Parsonian functionalists had been claiming ; or by the will of the people , as the amiable optimists of the Enlightenment had preached ; or through the countervailing checks and balances of competing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Tocquevillian tradition had advanced ; but through the political and economic domination of one ethnic group over the others , a domination usually originating in conquest . Subject groups could continue to live semi-autonomously side by side and preserve separate sets of religious , family and other institutions , but under the overarching political and economic control of the conquerors van de Berghe and Primov , 1977:6 . Since the divisions in plural societies are almost always religious and/or ethnic-racial , and since disparities in wealth and power usually coincide with ethnic-racial groupings , conflict generated by an attempt by dominant groups to impose their values on weaker ones is almost inherent . Certain institutions , such as godparenthood , and certain conditions , such as material interdependence , may mitigate the tendency toward conflict , but intergroup conflict will grow with the degree of ethnic difference and the degree to which rankings within the groups are loose . Neopluralists challenge both the assumptions of diffusion and inherent acceptance of hierarchy . At the same time , however , they share with the **25;1724;TOOLONG a major preoccupation with forms of culture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ origins and development of the economic , political , and social structures that frame them . The modernization model has a number of significant weaknesses ? methodological , empirical , and political ? not all of which need to be repeated here ( Bodenheimer , 1970a ; Frank , 1967 ; Cockcroft et al. , // Its most fundamental problems relate to an overly linear , teleological , and ahistorical conception of change . The endpoints of the continuum of societal change are posited as fixed , a priori , and the characteristics ascribed to each are static and often idealized . Traditional societies , for example , are denied any significant history of change or evolution prior to their contact with modern ones . Modernism aspires to be a description of functional prerequisites for development that is independent of a particular economic system ( capitalism or socialism ) but in fact is a specific description of developed capitalism in Western cultures in this particular historical period . Even more , however , it is a description that is part empirical fact and part idealization in accord with the dominant ideology @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ role in individual opportunity , especially at the highest levels which might be assumed to be the most modern , and fororal differentiation of functions ( between private business , the executive branch and the military ) is often more illusion than reality ( see Frank , 1972 ) . Furthemore , the methodology of equating the process of change with movement between these two fixed points is highly problematic . Now developed societies did not necessarily pass along the continuum projected ( the United States , for example was never a " traditional " society ) and even if they had , the possibilities for repeating the transition can not help but be influenced by a different international context ( Frank , 1967 , 1969 , 1972 ; Bodeheimer , 1970a , 1970b ) . Nations like individuals , are not necessarily discrete autonomous units ; they are members of social groups which interact in systems where some units have more power than others . Contact between dominant and subordinate nations in the modern period may actually result in the retardation of some aspects of change in the latter and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the retardation of progress of the less developed ( the " development of underdevelopment , " to use Frank 's now-famous term Frank , 1967 ; J. Taylor , 1979 ) . A model of development must take into account the possibility that contact between more and less developed societies does not necessarily lead toward linear change along the modernization continuum . In the absence of a more dialectical conception , the model inevitably favors the status quo distribution of power and wealth and dismisses as negative , disruptive and irrational , a priori , any challenges to // developed country interests , even though such challenges may be necessary for the development of less developed societies . The most controversial and polemical application of the dependency perspective to the interpretation of Guatemalan society was developed in the late 1960s by French anthropologist Jean-Loup Herbert and Guatemalan sociologist Carlos Guzman Bockler ( 1970 ) . Taking their cues from anticolonialist writers such as Franz Fanon ( 1963 ) and Albert Memmi ( 1967 ) , Guzman Bockler and Herbert argued that the fundamental contradiction in Guatemalan society was racism and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dualist , pluralist , or evolutionary Marxist , was racial bias in favor of non-Indians . Preconquest culture is pictured in previous studies as passive , stagnant , or degenerating and devoid of history , while postconquest society is characterized as dynamic , developmental , and civilized . Preconquest culture is variously characterized by scholars and chroniclers as " savage , " " uncivilized , " " pagan , " " politheist , " or " infidel , " while postconquest society is characterized as having brought peace and forged a nation ( Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1970:131-132 ) . Such characterizations only serve to reinforce racist justifications of the conquest and its brutal subordination of indigenous people and are , furthermore , historically incorrect . Rather than being passive and stagnant , or declining and degenerating , preconquest society was actually in transition from one stage to another ( from partriarchal clans to city-state ) when the conquest intervened to freeze its development for over 400 years , ( 1970:5-32 ) . Other reconstructions ( Carmak , 1973 ; Martinez Pelaez , 1973 ) support the view of preconquest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fruit farming , for example , and slavery , for use in transportation , agriculture , domestic production and ritual sacrifices , were already in existence . Because of the wars of conquest , in which larger nations consolidated their control over smaller ones , the role of calpulis , or collective kinship and production units , was being transformed . Their power was being challenged by a new class of landowners , the warrior nobility , and their duties had already shifted from primary emphasis on traditional clan activities to supervision of war-related production on state lands and the distribution and superInterpreting // vision of production on individual plots ( Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1970:11-17 ) . " The beginnings of class differentiation and the dominance of warriors over others also may have been accompanied by changes in kinship and family ties toward greater patrilineality and patrilocality , although , according to the Spanish priest Las Casas , polygamy , promiscuity , and adultery were common at the time of the conquest and were not severely punished . Preconquest technology was most developed , not surprisingly , in areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) , and metal smelting was widely used in weapon-making and artisan activities but minimally in the production of agricultural tools . The sophisticated irrigation system in use was based on a profound knowledge of meterology and astronomy , but overall technological development in preconquest society was uneven . In commerce , agriculture , and construction , the Mayans never used their domesticated animals , nor did they apply the principle of the wheel ( with which they were acquainted ) to replace or extend human energy . Guzman Bockler and Herbert argue that the characterization of preconquest society as degenerating derives from an overemphasis on intellectual , academic , and artistic criteria at the expense of material and technological ones . This " idealism and utopianism " results from a comparison of the architectural and artistic grandeur of Mayan culture at its height ( duringthe Tikal period ) with a more modest state of the arts at the time of the conquest . Although the authors do not build on this criticism by offering an explicit alternative , they clearly favor greater emphasis on material ( i.e. , technological and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preconquest society . When it comes to the definition of postconquest society , however , Guzman Bockler and Herbert single out two dimensions over all others : its incorporation into world trade ( changes in the sphere of circulation ) and racism ( changes in the dominant ideology and discriminatory practices ) . These changes produced , in their view , a new mode of production , a colonial capitalist mode , in which two poles , inherently linked to each other ? metropolis/colonizer and peripheral/colonized ? appeared . Racial ideology ( supporting the dominance of non-Indians ) and subordination to the world market , institutionalized as minifundia-latifundia , have sustained the poles , according to the authors , from the conquest to the present .  | In Guzman Bockler and Herbert 's conception of the colonial mode of production , surplus extraction and periodic crises are externally determined , but these alone are not sufficient to generate united internal opposition . Rather , such opposition is mediated by the ideology of racism . Nonelite ladinos suffer from improverishment , as do Indians , but they respond , according to Guzman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recover their losses at the expense of Indians when an upswing occurs . Non-Indians ( ladinos ) have little capacity to organize because they lack a " positive collective identify " and a material base to support cooperation among themselves . Their existence is defined by isolation , atomization , alienation , and an individualistic , egoistic , " get it while you can " spirit . Ladinos have no other identity , in Guzman Bockler and Herbert 's view , than imitation of that which is foreign and the rejection of that which is " truly national " ? that is , Indian ( Guzman Bockler et al. , 1971 ; Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1974 ; Guzman Bockler , 1975 ) . Indians , on the other hand , have " zones of refuge " ( Aguirre Beltran 's term Guzman Bockler et al. , 19711 as a material base from which to reinforce group identity ( which persists even then they migrate as individuals ) and the experience of discrimination to bind them together . Indians will lead the struggle for national liberation , the authors argue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national identity . Furthermore , this national identity can only be Indian , since only Indian culture recovers values that are " authentically Guatemalan . " Mestizo culture can never be a superior synthesis of Spanish and indigenous culture , as many Mexican intellectuals argue , because forced confrontation between a superior ( Indian ) culture and an inferior ( Spanish ) one can never yield a more desirable result ( Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1974:140-142 ) . Guzman Bockler and Herbert do not clarify what the role of sympathetic ladinos might be in this recovery of national identity . They seem to imply that ladinos can unite with Indians if they agree to " renounce their privileges " and embrace Indian culture . The authors provide little reason for ladinos to do so , however ( since they dismiss common material conditions as unifying factors ) , other than a desire to escape the alienation associated with having no identity . The role ofthe ladino as well as the end result of national liberation is therefore unclear . Herbert comments enigmatically : Guatemala will be mestizo , ladino , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of knowing . The sociologist can not move ahead of the  | social dialectic ; rather , he must express it , away w ith some lag .... The only belief he should have is that the dialectic is open ; a society has not one possible path but many none pre-determined . Guzman Bockler and Herbert argue that the classes created by the conquest , Indian/colonized and non-Indian/ colonizer , are the same ones that define Guatemalan society today . The underlying criterion for their delineation is the relationship to colonialism ? that is , whether they share in the privileges and spoils of the colonizers or whether they are denied the privileges of the colonizers and forced to supply the spoils . Admittedly , non-criollo , non-Indian ladinos are in a somewhat contradictory class position according to this schema because they are both exploited ( subject to surplus extraction ) by higher status ladinos and exploit ( extract surplus from ) the Indians . But racism , according to the authors , prevents this exploitation from defining their class position . The bottom line of Guzman Bockler and Herbert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , command and control of labor ) , since if it were the majority of ladinos who are landless would occupy the same position as the majority of Indians and landed ladinos and landed Indians would both be exploiters . Rather , it is membership in the sociohistorical categories " Indian " and " ladino . " Guzman Bockler and Herbert assert that their definition is not racial ( i.e. , genetic ) butrelational ( createdby history ) . Were Indians to recover their land and cultural identify and ladinos to give up their position as colonizers ( the latter is a precondition for the former ) , there would be no more Indians and ladinos ( Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1974 ) . Until that happens , however , no amount of change in outward appearance , geographical mobility , laws , educational achievement , accumulation of wealth , or intermarriage can erase or minimize racial discrimination . At every level of the social hierarchy , marginalization takes place . As much as Indians might want to lose their identity , they can not choose to do so . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples . Because of this experience , Guzman Bockler and Herbert expect that the newly emergent bourgeoisie that has accumulated wealth in commerce and land since the 1930s  | will take a leading role in any Indian revolution , identifying with the cultural values of the Indian masses rather than those of the ladino elite ( Guzman Bockler et al. , 1971 ) . The most serious methodological problem in Guzman Bockler and Herbert 's approach is its assertion that one part of a dynamic whole ( the internal colony ) can remain frozen and unchanged in essence for over 400 years and that , at the same time , it can be unfrozen and put into motion along the same path once national liberation is achieved . The model gives little explanation of why Indians would suddenly mobilize to recover their identity at a particular point in history , unless it is the result of awareness of decolonization trends elsewhere in the world . The real cause of change in the model is the nonmaterial desire to resist alienation by recovering or strengthening collective identity . Psychology also explains the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ humiliated by over 700 years of Moorish occupation and had acquired a racial hatred which they took out on Latin America 's indigenous population ( Guzman Bockler and Herbert , 1970 ) . Material factors ( such as loss of land or economic insecurity ) may support and encourage national liberation movements , but they are not fundamentally determinant , for if they were , poor ladinos and poor Indians would join in common cause . Ironically , the criticism of utopianism and idealism applies not only to previous scholars of pre- and postconquest Guatemalan society but to Guzman Bockler and Herbert themselves . They attempt to be dynamic in their treatment of preconquest society , relational in their definition of Indian and ladino ( arguing that it is impossible to imagine the dominance of one without the subordination of the other ) , and dialectical in their conception of the internal colony ( as part of the same system as the colony , not parallel to it ) . But their efforts to provide an alternative to structural-functionalist modernization theory flounders on some of the same shoals . The racial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modernization theory . Preconquest indigenous societies are dynamic , but postconquest internal colonies ? and therefore Indian-ladino relations ? are not . Indians have the capacity to recover a positive national identify , but ladinos have no identity at all to recover , let alone a positive one . Ladinos can identify with the recovery of Indian values if they give up  | being ladinos , but Indians can never become ladinos ( even when they intermarry or abandon their culture by choice or by force ) because racist ideology and institutions will cc ie to treat them as Indians . And land and racial categories tend to be correlated ? but when they are not , ideological and culture factors predominate over material ones . It is possible to remedy the static character of the Guzman Bockler and Herbert version of the dependency thesis without abandoning the framework altogether , but to do so requires a new conception of mode of production , social classes , and Indian-ladino relations since the late nineteenth century . The colonial and neocolonial ( or " dependent capitalist " ) periods of Guatemalan development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their own characteristic social classes as well as the forms of integration into the world market which are their determinants . Within the latter mode , stages of development can be delineated ( " competitive-industrial , " " **32;1751;TOOLONG , " etc. ) that correspond to stages in the development of the external system on which the society is dependent . Classes and Indian-ladino relations vary not only according to the two modes of production but somewhat according to the stages of development of the dependent capitalist mode . Guatemalan sociologist Torres Rivas , for example , argues in a 1971 essay that Guzman Bockler and Herbert are correct to argue that colonialism instituted social classes based on racial and ethnic origin in Guatemala ( i.e. , Indian/colonized and criollo/colonizer ) , but they are incorrect to insist that such classes persist even after independence is granted and the mode of production changes to dependent capitalist with the expansion of coffee production for export . Once the mode of production became dependent capitalist , Torres Rivas asserts , the basis for the determination of classes was no longer race or national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .  | For the first time , in this period , a single nation was forged and classes were differentiated to a greater degree than any time after the conquest . Indians divided into rich , middle , and poor peasants . Some of them became seasonal or permanent wage laborers , and ladinos separated into those who owned property or possessed a skill , a subsistence plot , or only their unskilled labor power : some of them resided in rural and others in urban areas ( Torres Rivas , 1971 ) . Cutting across social classes , a colonial element of discrimination and segregation , based on race or ethnicity , throughout the liberal period ( and continues to exist to the present day ) , but the dividing line , Torres Rivas and others have argued , is not color , since physical appearance between Indians and the majority of ladinos differs little . Rather , discriminatory and segregationist practices are based on visible signs of cultural origin , behavior , kinship , or self-identification , even though such practices may be rationalized on the basis of racially @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct from ladinos and other indigenous ethnic groups . Under colonialism , clear distinctions between native inhabitants and conquerors made a racially and nationally determined class structure possible , but the mixture of races , ethnicities , and national origins through intermarriage , legally sanctioned or not , made impossible the maintenance of a rigidly defined class structure based on color . The qualitative transformation in the basis of the class structure reflects the qualitative transformation in , notthe continuation of , the colonial mode of production . Likewise , an internal colonial condition of indigenous peoples can not be conceived of , according to this view , until a single nation is formed , and this did not occur with the conquest but with the integration of the territory into a common unit through the extension of a national market into remote rural areas ( beginning with the liberal reforms ? Torres Rivas , 1971 a ) . Internal colonies should not be racially or ethnically but spatially or geographically defined units or groups from which surplus is extracted for the metropolis ? that is , units which suffer the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ developed units . Such units may coincide with racial or ethnic differences , such as in the case of the Western highlands of Guatemala , where the majority of the Indian population is concentrated , but the basis of the determination of units is a common relation to a center which extracts surplus , not to an ethnic group , and the disadvantageous relationship that this surplus extraction represents to the statellite or peripheral  | unit can be overcome only by common cause with others who suffer a similar fate ( poor ladinos in the Eastern region , for t pie ) in the pursuit of socialism , not just national or national minority liberation ( Torres Rivas , 1971 a ) . From Guzman Bockler and Herbert 's colonial mode of production point of view , legal changes in the status of Indians and Indian communities after independence from Spain are largely symbolic ? that is , changes in form rather than substance . For Torres Rivas and other Marxists , on the other hand , these changes are crucial , in that they change the context for discrimination and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ common conditions for the majority of Indians and poor ladinos . Changes in the legal structure , to the extent that they reflect and facilitate changes already occurring in economic and political structures , create new social and institutional arrangements that not only make possible the development of capitalism but pressure for a socialist alternative . Even though liberal reforms in Guatemala included the reintroduction of various forms of " unfree " labor , and even though these unfree forms were almost exclusively applied to the recruitment of Indian labor , the abolition of differnt legal statuses for Indian and ladino meant that racial and ethnic criteria had to be couched in theoretically more general social and economic terms ( indebtedness , vagrancy , etc . ) . Once Indian community lands were subject to individual title and sale on the market like any other and even disguised forms of labor were outlawed by the 1944 revolution , Indian and ladino workers occupied the same status with respect to the law and could , if they so desired , band together in common complaints . While Indian and ladino labor continued to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who benefited from such separations , and while linguistic and cultural differences often made communication and perception of common interests difficult , the recuitment of labor on the basis of individual rather than village contracts , mediated by a noble hierarchy , was an important step in the breakdown of colonial society and the development of capitalism . The more rationalized and capitalist the work setting , the greater the possibility for common cause between Indians and non-Indians . On foreign enclave plantations , for example , banana companies such  | as United Fruit prohibited the maintenance of subsistence plots by recently proletarianized peasants , making their separation from the latifundia-minifundia complex of social relations more complete . Plantation bosses , like traditional landowners , attempted to maintain an ideology of racism by laying down special rules of behavior for Indian and black workers ( such as removing hats when speaking to " white " people and entering through back doors of residences ) , but workers on these plantations ( some of them recently immigrated Indians ) challenged such rules ( and included them in their strike demands ) as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes that Indian villages underwent at the same time were anything but symbolic . Once landownership was individualized , titles could be lost through indebtedness or outright robbery to local ladinos and wealthy Indians . A small Indian bourgeoisie with private wealth in land emerged for the first time , and local governmental positions that had been almost exclusively in the hands of Indians passed to resident ladino middlemen ( Colby and van den Berghe , 1969 ; Guzman Bockler et al. , 1971 ) . Furthermore , despite the fact that the 1944-1954 revolution was predominantly led and supported by urban ladinos , at least in the beginning , it initiated a program of land distribution to small capitalist farmers that , had it been allowed to prevail , would have transformed the conditions of Indian and ladino peasants intothat ofsmall capitalist farmers , breaking down the Indian communal village-ladino tenant farmer distinction . In the most recent period of capitalist expansion , the changes are even more dramatic . Whole villages are forced to migrate every year where only certain categories of individuals ( young men , widows , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ years ( drought , depression , etc. ) migrated before ( Torres Rivas , 1980 , 1981 ; Chinchilla , 1980 ) . The penetration of foreign missionaries into Indian villages since the 1954 coup has challenged the autonomy of traditional Catholic Indian practices on the one hand , and brought a new social concern to religion on the other ( Chinchilla and Jamail , 1982 ) . The cooperatives and modest development programs advocated by the religious workers have drawn violent reactions from large landowners whose docile , cheap , and abundant labor supply is thus interfered with . The combination of attacks on the improvement efforts of Indian  | communities and the indiscriminate repression of Indian and no . Indian labor on the plantations has created , ( as a consequence of capitalism , ) non-symbolic changes in Indian-ladino relations even deeper than those that would have prevailed had the 1944-1954 revolution prevailed . The dependent capitalist reformulation of the internal colonialism thesis is an advance , in that it makes the convergence of ethnic/racial groupings and units of surplus extraction an empirical question rather than an a priori @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between the two can change overtime ) . Nevertheless , it is weak theoretically because it never clarifies the formal relationship between the two as sources of conflict : class exploitation and other forms of oppression ( such as ethnic and racial ) . Stavenhagen recognizes this problem in commenting that some of the concepts he uses are ambiguous and are defined more in commonsense than formal theoretical terms ( 1970 ) , but this does little to advance a theory of social change . Torres Rivas , likewise , does little to clarify the issue despite this comment : It is useful to use both concepts to analyze the social structure : colonial or internal colonial structure and class structure : this allows for the study and analysis of relations between sectors , regions , or ethniccultural groups in the economic order and for learning about the variety of diverse relations the population has with the means of production and distribution in the productive process overall . The concept of structure of internal colonialism allows forthe enrichment and completion of the class analysis ( 1971 a:53 1 . Granted that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic and other similar divisions , the central question is still in what kinds of categories should other relationships be analyzed and to what extent are these categories equivalent to , overlapping with , or different from the Marxist conception of social class ? If both exploitation and oppression are equated , on the basis that both constitute forms of surplus extraction , and no distinction is made // as to the quality ( or form ) in which the surplus is extracted and reproduction of the group is achieved , ( i.e. , if slavery is seen just as a disguised form of wage labor ? Bodenheimer , 1974 ) , both become social classes and the emphasis , theoretically and strategically , is placed on the amount rather than the kind of surplus extracted . This leads to formulations such as those put forth by advocates of the guerrilla foco strategy of the 1960s ( Debray. 1975 ) and some feminists in the developed capitalist countries ( Bennholdt-Thomsen , 1977 ; von Werhoff , 1981 ) that the more absolutely oppressed and materially impoverished any social group , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in itself may be true for given revolutionary situations , the formulation of classical Marxism was much more specific ? in other words , that in a revolutionary struggle that is not only anticapitalist but pro-socialist , only the sectors in which surplus is extracted in the form of surplus value is the conflict an inherent contradiction objectively resolvable only by socialism . This theoretical distinction between surplus in general and surplus value in particular is the basis for the central political role assigned to the urban and rural proletariats ( i.e. , those who have only their labor power to sell and whose reproduction depends on the circulation of their wages on the capitalist market ) . At any one point in time groups other than the proletariat may be more active , more mobilized , and more openly revolutionary in their demands , given the more absolute level of their poverty or the immediateness of repression directed against them . But this empirical observation in no way contradicts the classical formulation that the linchpin of capital accumulation and reproduction occurs in the most proletarianized sector , no matter how @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership and organization , it is potentially the most consistently anticapitalist and pro-socialist . ' Of course , the most fundamental characteristic of Third World social formations is the heterogeneity of their relations of production . But precisely because of this heterogeneity , the theoretical categories must be clear and capable of describing and explaining the origins and historical development ( not just the correlates ) of changes . As John Taylor comments in an evaluation of the work of Frank : The concept of economic surplus ... precludes any rigorous analysis of the structure , reproduction and development of modes of production ; hence it can not provide an adequate basis for analyzing either the // development of capitalist penetration of non-capitalist modes or the existence of different forms of this penetration 11979:851 . Finally , even if the **26;1785;TOOLONG problems were somehow overcome , the empirical question remains : To what degree does surplus transfer actually occur from regions and zones ( including those with high concentrations of indigenous population ) , and to what extent is this transfer associated with " underdevelopment " ? While more scholars have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who did test it with regard to the Indian highland region of Guatemala concludes that While Guatemala developed very little during the successive stages of its export crop dependency , ' it underdeveloped only when capitalistic agriculture came to dominate its economy and made the mass of its population dependent on wage labor . . . And before capitalism could develop , the old-metropole-satellite urban structure had to he destroyed in the western region and be replaced by a competitive form of commerce that would create the wage-dependent proletariat . Hence , I argue further , contrary to various dependency arguments that by preventing the creation of a proletariat , the earlier administrative commercial system ? that is the metropole-satellite structure ? hindered rather than caused dependency Smith , 1978:6021 . The missing elements in the evolutionary stagist conception of modes of production ? a dialectical conception of interactions between modes , forces , and relations of production in the economic base , levels of the mode of production ( economic , political , ideological ) , and between cycles of production and reproduction ? are in fact necessary elements for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formations . The evolutionary Marxists are correct to posit an overall evolutionary direction to the development of societies from simple and undifferentiated to more complex and differentiated . But the pattern of development is not without temporary regressions and qualitative breaks , and the direction is generally linear but not unlinear . Not every society passes through feudalism , nor does it experience capitalism in the same way , given its variety of origins ( external as well as internal ) , stages , and interactions with preexisting forms . // It is true that there is a limited number of known societal types with more or less identifiable sets of fixed basic laws . Capitalism , for example , requires a free market in land , labor , and capital and the reproduction of its means of production and labor force primarily through the circulation of wages for goods and services on the market . But the pace and evenness of change and development where capitalism is dominant will vary greatly according to the character of other modes with which it interacts , and the nature of the contradictions engendered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well . Third World societies , though different from each other in many respects , share certain general patterns of articulation occasioned by their contact with imperialism and certain unresolved contradictions or dislocations . Taylor observes that the existence of these dislocations and the effects that imperialist penetration has upon them in trying , as it were to adapt them to the political and ideological reproductive requirement of a capitalist mode of production , can produce  --  in specific conjunctures in the transition ? the possibility for the emergence of the preconditions of a different mode of production . Thus , there can be no such thing as a linear succession ' from dominance by a non-capitalist to dominance by a capitalist mode of production . Imperialist penetration , having as its object to create the preconditions for a transition to a specific form of capitalist production , can produce ... the preconditions for the possibility of a socialist mode of production 1979:1031 . As a result of imperialism , it became more and more common for externally imposed capitalism ( in its various stages of development ? merchant , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ production and/or divisions of labor , dominant classes , or religious beliefs to facilitate or guarantee its dominance and reproduction . The first form of capital usually to penetrate Third World social formations , merchant capital , often remains dominant for long periods of time , drawing on precapitalist forms whose existence limits its further penetration into the agricultural sector . Because the nature of the relationship between the old and new dominant modes depends on the character of both , and on relationships to other modes that may be present , there is no automatic or guaranteed period of irresolvable contradiction initiated on their contact ( as the evolutionary Marxist view would sustain ) . Rather , there may be long transitional periods in which old modes or parts of them // are actually reinforced or recreated . The long-term tendency is still hypothesized as dissolution or diminuition of an old dominant mode in favor of the new one , but in Third World social formations , transition periods are long and the norm rather than the exception . Thus , while the overall direction of change is toward higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more complex , interdependent divisions of labor , the actual path of change is not linear but dialectical and interactive . Conflict is an everpresent part of the cycle of reproduction of the existing system as well as the reason for the emergence of its replacement . Mediating structures ( education , religion , mass communication , and institutions such as godparenthood ) can channel , displace , or mask conflicts , but they do not annul them . Part of the reproduction of the existing sytem , in fact , may be the reproduction of conflicts in ever more antagonistic forms . From the perspective of the historical materialist model , the basic movement of human history is . . . the dialectical development of the forces and relations of production . Marx did not see this movement as an even , progressive , and harmonious development of the division of labor , but as uneven , periodized , qualitative change , marked by revolutionary transition from one epoch of production to another . The new system of production emerges historically from the old , but not as the synthetic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations of production in the new mode of production differs in its terms from that of the preceding epoch of production . To understand history is therefore to be able to define these historically specific terms O'Laughlin , 1975:3501 . Change originates not only in the conflict among modes of production and between production and reproduction of the dominant mode but in dislocations among different levels ( economic , political , and ideological ) of a single mode . The overall determinant of the parameters of change is economic , but within the degrees of freedom allowed , especially at particular transitional conjunctures , political and ideological structures may be independent sources of conflict and make independent contributions to change . And within the economic base itself , the relationship between the two components should be conceived as dialectical , neither substituting the class and class struggle component for the technological ( as the evolutionary Marxist have traditionally done ) , nor attributing unlimited powers of change and transformation ( as the Maoists and some structuralist Marxists have idealistically done ) . // O'Laughlin seems to capture Marx 's original conception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relations of production is the key to the uneven , periodized and non-teleological process of human evolution . No understanding of social change can be analytically separated from technological change , for in acting on the external world and changing it , people at the same time change their own nature 1975:354-3551 . She continues : The base . . . is not self-reproducing ; it only can be realized within a social totality . In that sense every mode of production describes not only a base but corresponding forms of superstructure 11975:3581 . Where more than one mode of production is present in a concrete society or social formation , the discrepancies among forms of labor recruitment and economic organization , institutions of power , and forms of ideology and culture can be great . Precapitalist , prefeudal world views may govern the thought processes of seasonal indigenous workers who are working on modernized cotton plantations whose production is supported by the state and internal financial institutions . Although the workers are recruited individually , the process of individualization of human labor on the capitalist market maybe retarded by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technology , and the market . Collective and communal social institutions and cultural practices may persist , even among plantation workers ( especially seasonal ones ) and may even be essential to their survival and reproduction . At the same time that these institutions and beliefs may facilitate their use to the capitalist for certain periods of time ( more individualized and less cooperative workers might die in greater numbers , for example from the harshness of the conditions ) , they can also generate a capacity to organize resistance ( especially clandestinely ) that is difficult to stamp out , once other methods or ideologies are fused . The results of the articulation of socialist and precapitalist communal ideologies , tactics , and methods of organization are nothing but explosive in a country like Guatem la . Thus , what makes the development of capitalism in Third World social formations particular is not only that it is articulated with other modes of production but that these articulations make the rate of // change within other modes and within capitalism , as well as among the different levels of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor posits , in a more general formulation : As a result of its being determined in the last instance by an articulation of modes of production , the Third World formation is characterized by a whole series of dislocations between the various levels of the social formation . As opposed to the previous period of determinancy in the last instance by a particular non-capitalist mode , in which the different levels were adapted to one another , the latter are now dislocated with respect to each other , and with respect to the existing economic structure itself . Imperialist penetration intervenes economically , politically , and ideologically within these dislocated levels in order to ensure the increasing dominance of the capitalist mode of production , and to create that restricted and uneven form of economic development ( together with its political and ideological guarantees ) Taylor , 1979:103 . Since the sources of conflict and contradiction and , thus , change are multiple and more complex in this model than in the evolutionary Marxist view ( which expects to find a one-to-one relationship between economic base and superstructure ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . And since it , unlike the dependency perspective , holds that there is a distinction between the general abstract societal-type model ? that is , mode of production ? and historically concrete societies ? that is , social formations ? the methodology for elaborating a theory of social change must be both historical-empirical and abstract . It must move back and forth between the two levels , not because one is a higher form of thought , as the Althusserian school would claim , but because both types of analysis are necessary for each other . The elaboration of the abstract model depends on an understanding of the actual historical process . All systems of production may have invariant elements but , to agree with O'Laughlin , these provide only a tautological framework of analysis which says nothing of historically specific social forms of production 1975:351 . Further , Since the purpose of theory is to develop those abstractions through which the concrete ( always historically specific ) can be understood , a set of universal concepts can not define any particular mode of produc164 Case Studies tion . Analysis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ general determinations to observation and conception at the level of the concrete and then back to the theoretical articulation of general and specific categories 11975:351 . Rescued from the mechanical and dogmatic formulations of the evolutionary Marxists , as well as from the overly abstract and structuralist expositions of the early articulationists , the mode of production-social formation approach can capture both the general patterns of development of common societal types ? capitalism , for example ? and the particularities that influence the rate , evenness , and type of change . As such it strengthens the potential links between concrete studies of concrete societies and the elaboration of more general and formal theoretical explanations of social change . The importance of the mode of production approach , with its emphasis on the ways in which internal social structures ( particularly classes and class conflicts ) influence external ties ( of dependence , for example ) , can be seen in a quick review of the Central American case . There all countries were conquerored by Spain and have played a more or less similar role in the international capitalist market @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a limited number of agricultural products , particularly coffee ) . These countries have developed different class structures and forms of class conflict that shape the crisis of the state and influence the revolutionary and other opposition movements that function in the region today ( Torres Rivas , 1980 , 1982 ; Chinchilla , 1980 ; Chinchilla and Hamilton , 1982 ; Chinchilla and Jamail , 1982 ) . To paraphrase Marx , Spain conquered Latin America , but it did not conquer it exactly as anticipated . The degree to which feudal institutions , culture , and forms of labor appropriation were implemented and endured was dependent on the proximity to centers of Spanish rule , the effectivenesss of native resistance , and the " fit " or " incompatibility " of native institutions and social structures With those that were externally imposed . These factors , together with natural resources , geography , and population settlement patterns , // explain many of the differences in development patterns in Central American countries still visible today . Where native populations were scattered and/or nomadic , as in the United States , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of native labor for surplus production was virtually impossifile . Populations were largely decimated , restricted to reservations or regionally isolated ( Service , 1955 ; Wheelock , 1979 ; Woodward , 1976 ) . Rather than extensive articulation between new and old modes of production , the latter were dissolved in favor of the former or their influence limited and isolated . Small or nonexistent native populations after conquest , as in Costa Rica and Argentina , meant that new forms of land tenure and agricultural production could be established without interference from preexisting structures ( Cueva , 1977 ; Woodward , 1976 ) . Where highly developed tribal or Asiatic-type modes of production ( or a combination of the two ) existed , on the other hand , the conquest produced a combination or linkage of modes of production that guaranteed the reproduction of the dominant mode ( Dieterich , 1978 ; Godelier , 1974 , 1977 ; Wolf , 1955 , 1959 ) . In Mexico , for example , a tendency toward concentration of private estates in the hands of Indian nobles had already begun . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hands of Montezuma and the temples ( Chevalier , 1963:207-226 ) . The Indian nobles soon lost their lands because of indebtedness or were forced to sell them to the Spaniards at minimal prices . A new class of landlords began to appear whose wealth was based on land , mining , and commerce . The rapid concentration of landownership in the hands of non-Indians and the high degree of racial mixing encouraged by the settlement of Indians and non-Indians in the same towns distinguished Mexico 's social structure and economy from the colonial period on . In Guatemala , on the other hand , the creation of exclusively Indian settlements , in which non-Indians were legally forbidden to reside , resulted in a whole different economic , political , and social dynamic . Indians living in settlements , rather than on vast estates , provided for their own reproduction as well as that of the Spanish settlers . The towns and land under indigenous community control provided the material base for a civil-religious hierarchy and preconquest religious customs , the latter combined with Catholicism , with which it was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian areas were ( and are still ) forced to adapt to native rituals and beliefs // as much as they were able to change them ( Colby and van den Berglie , 1969 ) . Native labor frequently resisted paying the amount and kind of tribute demanded of them , and their resistance forced revisions in Spanish colonial institutions and policies ( such as in the New Laws of 1542 ) . Resistance was not sufficiently organized or coordinated to make the conquest impossible , but it did make it incomplete , espy cially culturally and ideologically , and helped to shape the form by which the external mode of production was imposed . It also negatively influenced the extent to which wealth could be internally concentrated and accumulated . The origins of capitalism in Central America are internal as well as external . Internally , the rapid expansion of coffee production by native producers and immigrants came in response to international demand ( generated by internal changes within European countries ) . Externally , capitalism developed as a result of the penetration of foreign monopoly capital into banking , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mercantile and agricultural interests increasingly dominated over old colonial groups and demanded political changes that would make capitalist production in agriculture possible : centralization of a modern state apparatus , creation of a government bureaucracy , and the establishment of a national bank and educational system ( Jones , 1966 ; Woodward , 1976 ) . In all countries , economic and political reforms under the banner of liberalism came to the fore during this period . But the extent to which the reforms were carried out and the degree of domination of the new class alliances over the old varied from country to country . Costa Rica , for example , experienced the real differentiation of its society into classes for the first time . Prior to the conquest , it had had no native population of indigenous modes of production to speak of . During the colonial period , few towns arose and no haciendas were established . The economy was based on subsistence-level family farms with no real export market , making it the poorest country in the region . The desire to overcome this poverty stimulated interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ achieved . In the beginning , government incentives for coffee production ( in the form of gifts of free land and plants from nurseries ) accelerated the // tendency toward minifundia family production that was dominant in the previous period . Increasingly , however , the inability to repay loans from intermediaries of London merchants or to borrow for capital improvements resulted in differentiation into landed and landless classes , the latter recruited to work on the lands of the former . Yet even with this proletarianization , labor was scarce relative to demand , and wages , even for imported Black and Chinese workers , were relatively high ( $1 to $5 for a 10-hour day , the same amount earned by rural workers in El Salvador and Guatemala today ? ( Saenz , 1972 ; Calvo , 1980 ) . Coffee production was relatively efficient and earnings from coffee exports relatively high . As much as four million kilos were exported by 1850 , before the completion of the Panama Railway to the Atlantic coast , and total exports reached 20 million kilos by 1 900 ( Estadistica y @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Taylor , 1980 ) . More than in any other Central American country , coffee earnings were invested in education , health , and sanitation ( Woodward , 1976 ) . Even when coffee earnings dipped , taxes remained relatively high and were used , along with earnings from the national lottery , to maintain a level of social welfare spending . Costa Rica developed a degree of social equality and political stability unknown in other Central American countries . The racial ideology that justified the conquest of native peoples elsewhere were relatively absent in Costa Rica , since native labor was also virtually nonexistent and the need for an army to intervene in politics was minimized . Liberal versus conservative rivalries , based elsewhere on material conflicts between emergent capitalist and colonial-based interests , often violent in form , were muted in Costa Rica , resulting in relative social peace accompaning the rise to dominance of the capitalist mode of production . Coffee production in El Salvador , however , brought a different kind of political peace from 1870 to 1930 . A tiny , highly homogenous coffee oligarchy ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and cattle ranchers of the colonial period ) was consolidated rapidly at this time . It managed to gain control of the vast estates and undertake rapid and relatively complete expropriation of indigenous communal land . In part , this was due to the relative economic weakness of the Catholic Church ( in contrast to Guatemala ) and the progressive ( i.e. , economically liberal ) character of the colonial merchant class opposed to the Crown ( in contrast to the // monopoly trading interests of its Guatemalan representatives ) . These factors , together with the smaller size and less concentrated character of the indigenous tribes , initially encountered by Spanish conquerors , and their relatively greater distance from colonial control , resulted in a different class structure and dominant ideology ( more purely class than racial/ethnic and class ) than in neighboring Guatemala . Liberal reforms in Guatemala had stimulated the formation of a distinctly colonial class . There , as elsewhere in the region , with the exception of Nicaragua , a new merchant class successfully challenged the interests of colonially-tied conservative oligarchies . But challenging forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the army and foreign monopoly capital . This dependence , in turn , reinforced politically conservative tendencies , even among liberals , and a morbid fear of Indian uprisings as long as indigenous peoples remained distinct ethnic communities . Elaborate strategies had to be continually readjusted and reinforced , not only to diffuse working-class and peasant unrest in general but to ensure that ethnic identities and loyalties remained primarily local . While even progressive young intellectuals of the 1920s , such as Miguel Angel Asturias , argued for the disappearance of the Indian through intermarriage with Europeans , differential forms of appropriation of Indian and ladino labor actually prolonged the distinctions and reinforced different social and economic structures . Labor recruitment in the early period of liberal reforms in Guatemala reverted back to the legalized forced labor of the conquest due to the need to lure indigenous workers out of their ample subsistence settlements onto estates and plantations . As long as large amounts of good land remained outside the control of large landowners and there was little internal market and very little money circulating to speak of , Indians @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the estates , had little reason to want to migrate . Furthermore , coffee producers had little previous capital accumulation with which to lure them , either through wages or a combination of wages and payment in kind . Legally sanctioned forced labor under the guise of vagrancy laws and taxes made the transition to capitalist production in agriculture in a society with a strong colonial legacy possible . Today in Guatemala , class differentiation as a result of capitalist expansion is once again proceeding dramatically , extending tl economic changes begun in the liberal period ( see Torres Rivas , 1980 , 1981 ; Chinchilla , 1980 ; Chinchilla and Hamilton , 1982 ; Chinchilla // and Dietz , 1982 ) . Small producers are made more and more dependent on the capitalist market and state or private loans for their own reproduction , and the artisan supplement to marketed surpluses and cash wages is less and less available due to declining demand for handcrafted as opposed to ( cheaper ) manufactured goods . As agriculture for export expands but not enough ( or consistently enough ) to provide the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are needed , at least seasonally , to make production possible . Once again , the highland Indian communities are undergoing a process of rapid transformation as whole villages migrate in search of cash income from wage labor . Once again , in Guatemala this transformation in the mode of production and class structure has a particular colonial or ethnic component . As expressed by the Guerrilla Army of the Poor , one of the revolutionary organizations that has been working for over a decade in the areas of greatest Indian concentration , class and ethnic consciousness interact differently for subsistence and semiproletarian indigenous producers : Subsistence Indian farmers and semiproletarian Indians ... produce and think differently ; they share a sense of ethnocultural identity , but differ ideologically as a result of their different social and economic status . Among semiproletarian Indians , now the majority , ethnic-national consciousness is permeated with political and ideological elements which belong to the encompassing modern relations of production . These include an incipient awareness of exploitation , a beginning differentiation along class lines to visualize the existence of rich Indians , class consciousness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ For the subsistence Indian farmer , the relation with ladinos is one of ethnic-cultural oppression and discrimination . For the semiproletarian , the ladino is also oppressor and discriminator but he begins to understand that the exploiter is the rich . Thus , two systems of parallel and apparently incoherent contradictions are introduced into his awareness , since the logical conclusion of this second aspect is that there are also exploited ladinos even if they are not culturally oppressed 11982:31 . In order for capitalism to develop in Guatemala , land for sale on the free market had to be freed from the inherited monopoly control of the // Catholic Church and Indian communities . Little wonder , therefore , that the two allied strongly against the liberal economic , political , and social initiatives ( Rodriguez , 1955 ) . Resistance to the erosion of their economic base , the land , was unsuccessful but the success of other forms of ideological and cultural resistance may be evident in what is known as indigenous culture today . While the customs and rituals may have distant roots in the colonial and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice were radically transformed during the period of liberal reforms . The shortage of priests created by restrictions of religious orders simply made the practice of sacraments and rituals the responsibility of the autonomous community . The closed corporate community described by Wolf ( 1955 , 1957 , 1959 ) probably consolidated at this time in reaction to increased exploitation and attempted penetration by external forces . Rus and Wasserstrom , in a comment on a similar phenomenon in Chiapas , Mexico , argue that faced with a dominant ideology which in the 19th century demanded that Indians accept their position as landless ( or near landless ) laborers , indigenous people at least those who did not become mestizos ? chose to put up the strongest ideological resistance of which they were capable . . . . Exploited as occasional or transient laborers , they responded as Indians , as members of native communities which were themselves being pulled apart into different social classes . It is this paradox , then , fed by the emergence of new social relations within such communities , that cargo systems sought to mitigate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exacerbated 1980:475 . The extension of capitalism through primitive accumulation in the countryside and appropriation of surplus value in the modern rationalized factories in the cities has created conditions for a revolutionary movement that can no longer be based only in the cities or include only ladinos . Nor will it take the form of a race war , since the same process , differentiating ladinos along class lines , has differentiated some Indians from other Indians to an unprecedented degree . While the economic and political crisis is generalized throughout Central America because of the conflict between new forms of production and old forms of political domination , the crisis has a particular expression in Guatemala because of the dependence of capitalism , pn several articulated modes of production for its reproduction . This will influence not only the strategy of the revolutionary movement but the character of the new mode that takes its place . // Capitalist development in two periods in Central American countries , the period of liberal reforms and the past two decades of the Common Market , has led not to increasing underdevelopment or stagnation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ predicted , and not toward cumulative , integrative modernization , as the **25;1813;TOOLONG would have imagined , but to uneven internal accumulation of capital and explosive political crises . The rate of external surplus transfer has been high and external dependency has increased . Internal development of the productive forces and significant qualitative transformations of the internal class structures have also taken place . The absolute well-being of many direct producers and newly incorporated proletarians may actually have declined , but the qualitative transformation in their relationships to production and the market have transformed the character of their political struggle , not only making it highly anticapitalist in content but tending toward socialist transformation as well . Proletarianized workers , even those in multinational firms with somewhat better wages and working conditions , are not the coopted " tail end " of the movement for change but its spearhead . At the same time , the highly interrelated and articulated nature of the contradictions bring other social forces into play : semiproletarianized rural workers , small and medium peasants , and the urban unemployed and underemployed as well as students , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of revolutionary popular war ( see Debray , 1975 ; Chinchilla , 1980 ; Nunez , 1980 ) . A theory of social change in Third World social formations must account for both the generalities of capitalist development and the particularities of its expression in particular social formations . Neither oppressed Indians nor exploited ladinos alone can make a revolution in this modern context of articulation of modes of production that give a country like Guatemala its specificity . It is the intersection of contradictions , of classes , ideologies , and political structures , that makes the existing situation so explosive ; it is the understanding of these intersections that makes it possible to put forth a strategy to overcome them . Like the revolutionary strategy , a theory of social change must integrate the generalities captured in the concept of changes in the mode of production ? changes that have affected all Central American countries in the past two decades ? as well as their particular expres182 World-System and Class Analyses The single world economic system is composed of many parts which are very unequal : a developed North @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of course , Japan ) and the socialist East . We distinguish the individual features of the various parts of the world , including the Third World , which is becoming more and more differentiated . Within the world-system there are different modes ( I prefer to speak in terms of relations ) of production . Today precapitalist relations of production are still very prevalent in many parts of the world , combined with capitalist wage-labor relations of production and perhaps also with postcapitalist ( meaning socialist ) relations of production . What is important , however , is that these diverse relations of production combine to contribute to the world process of capital accumulation in a single world capitalist system , whose common features and operation I have sought to examine previously and elsewhere ( see notes 1 , 2 , and 3 ) . The world-system has experienced periodic crises throughout its history . A crisis is a period in which the previous expansion could not continue on the same basis . In order to survive at all during a crisis , it is necessary for the system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cultural transformations , including technological change . During these periods of crisis there is a need to reduce the costs of production : lowering wages , moving production to places where production is cheaper , and ( very important in the long run ) technological change . In periods of crisis , there are new inventions which require vast investments in order to transform them into a new basis for production during the subsequent expansion . The world-system is once again in such a crisis today . The question is whether the world capitalist system will be able to make the necessary readjustment . If it can not , then of course the system will destroy itself . But if it can make these readjustments , then there is reason to believe that it may experience another period of expansion similar to that of the postwar years which would begin after these readjustments have been made . This may occur in ten or fifteen years or perhaps longer . During this period of readjustment , there will again be vast economic , social , political , and cultural convulsions in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tendency for the leading economic power , now the United States , to lose its hegemony and to be challenged by new rising economic powers , now Western Europe and Japan . Productivity in Europe increased twice as fast and in Japan increased almost four times as fast as in the United States during the 1960s . In // the 1970s productivity increased slowly in these economies , and in the United States it had declined since 1979 . This is the real economic basis of the relative decline of the United States . The U.S. center of hegemony has not so far been able to make the necessary economic , social , and political readjustments quickly enough to be able to compete with the newer economies that are more easily able to do so . The world-system is very unequal ; the process of capital accumulation , although it is a single process , is very unequal from one place to another and from one sector to another and takes place through many different relations of production . The process is also very uneven ; periods of relative stagnation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between these features : The nature of the inequality changes most rapidly during the periods of stagnation or crisis ; further , the incorporation or exit , the linking and delinking from the world-system , also occur as a result of or in response to these crises of accumulation . Having started our historical review at the end with the present crisis , we go backwards to review the previous ones . The present crisis began in the 1960s after a period of expansion since World War 11 . That period of expansion was based very significantly on the changes that occurred during the long crisis from 1914 to the war , a crisis which included two world wars , the Great Depression of the 1930s , the rise of fascism , socialist revolutions in the Soviet Union and China , and the growth of state monopoly capitalism . In other words , that crisis generated vast economic , social , and political transformations that laid the basis for the new expansion . Another basis for the postwar expansion was the very seriously reduced wage rate of labor during that crisis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ primitive accumulation ? that is , capitalist accumulation on the basis of noncapitalist relations of production . I point , for instance , to the concentration camp labor in Eastern Europe that Germany relied on substantially , and in general the mistreatment of labor in Eastern Europe as a whole . Perhaps there were also similar forms of accumulation in Japanese imperialism 's Greater East Asian Co-Prosperity Sphere . That crisis was also the period of the absolute decline of Great Britain , prior to the dominance of the United States . It was a period in // which there was no one completely hegemonic imperial power . This is one of the important factors that explains the violence of the two world wars , which were essentially fought to determine who would inherit the dominance of Great Britain in the world . That particular deep and long crisis from which capitalism obviously emerged strengthened had followed a period of expansion from 1896 to 1913 ; this had followed another major economic crisis in the world from 1873 to 1895 , which in turn had followed another expansion from 1850 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been a period of stagnation ; 1940-1945 to 1967 one of expansion ; 1913 to 1940 one of stagnation ; 1896-1913 one of expansion ; and 1873-1895 one of stagnation and crisis . The period 1849-1873 was one of expansion analogous to that of the postwar years in the twentieth century , when Great Britain was the economically and politically dominant force in the world , called Pax Britannica , like Pax Americana after World War II . This expansion led to a renewed period of crisis , analogous to the one today , a period of crisis in capital accumulation . The major manifestations of its resolution were the relative decline of Great Britain as the United States and Germany and , behind them , Russia and Japan began to rise and challenge Britain ; the development of monopoly capitalism in the industrial countries ; and , most important , the development of classical imperialism and recolonization , in this case particularly of Africa . These were the economic and political bases for the regeneration of the system , putting it on a new footing which permitted the expansion from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major crises there was a period of rapid technological invention representing an effort to reduce costs and expand production in new sectors . These inventions , in the view of Schumpeter , then resulted in innovations . Great investments in new technological processes occurred , and innovations in the creation of new leading industries became the basis of the next major expansion in world capitalism . We return to technological innovation after another brief historical excursion into crisis periods . There was another period of semistagnation and crisis from 1816 to 1848 , which led to the famous revolutions in Western Europe of 1848 , and had followed on the first major period of expansion generally recognized as the beginning of industrial capitalism , from approximately 1790 to the end ofthe Napoleonic Wars in 1815 . Now I depart increasingly from orthodoxy with regard to the interpretation of economic history , because Marxists , followers of Kondratiev , and many // others would regard this period not only as a sharp historical break but in fact as the beginnings of the capitalist system . This was the time of the Industrial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to that there was no capitalism , because there was no dominance of industrial wage relations ; since there was no industry , there could have been no industrial capitalism , or capitalism of any kind . My interpretation is very substantially different from this , and this has a considerable relevance for a theme of this book , mode of production . Consider the period 1762-1790 . That was a period of crisis in capital accumulation which led to cost-reducing inventions , particularly in the textile industry and Watt 's steam engine , that were the technological basis for the Industrial Revolution . However , the real innovations in these areas did not occur until the expansion of 1790-1815 associated with the first Industrial Revolution . This led to another period of relative stagnation and crisis from 1815 to 1848 , in which there occurred the invention of machines to produce machines , which led to another major investment drive around midcentury . In other words , the first Industrial Revolution was in the production of consumer goods , particularly textiles . What is sometimes called the second Industrial Revolution @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Revolution , was in the production of textile machinery , which previously had been produced by hand . Now machines began to be produced also by machines : textile machinery , steam engines , including mobile steam engines powering locomotives and then the steam ship . During the next crisis , from 1873 to 1895 , came the technical inventions which provided the basis for what might be called the third stage of the technological and industrial revolution based on electricity and petroleum , and then the internal combustion engine leading to the automobile , which has completely transformed society in most parts ofthe world . Then came the 1920s-1940s extension of new technique into the petrochemical , electronic , and nuclear fields , which were the technological bases of the post-World War II expansion . At the present time , obviously , we are again at the beginning of another series of cost-reducing technical inventions based on the microchip , on biotechnology ( that is , new techniques in genetics and in cloningof genes to produce new life forms ) . Technological leaps may extend into the field of energy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the turn of the century . So far I have confined myself largely to the center of the worldeconomic system and , to some extent and as part and parcel of this series of expansions and contractions , the shift of the metropolitan  | center from Great Britain to the United States in the course of this economic development . The rise of imperialism as a consequence of the crisis of one century ago . 1873-1896 , has hardly been mentioned . Until 1816 , India exported more manufactures than it imported ; and all through the eighteenth century until the beginning of the nineteenth century , India was a large exporter to the rest of the world . A major basis of the Industrial Revolution was the destruction of the Indian textile industry and the so-called deindustrialization of India . Marx talked about primitive accumulation and the separation of the producer from his means of production ? that is , that landowners lose their land and that owners of tools lose them and become converted into proletarian wage workers . This is , of course , what happened in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this study . In a famous article written in 1852 in New York Tribune , Marx said that Britain shows India the mirror of its future . If that is true , it has not happened yet , because obviously India has not yet become developed like Great Britain . On the contrary , in this world capitalist process of development , the separation of producers from their means of production in the West and in the North was followed by their reabsorption into the productive process as proletarian wage workers . This caused a great deal of suffering , which was recognized by Marx and was very well described by Engels in his book on the working class in Britain . In the South , in what is today called the Third World , this process did not happen at all . There was also a separation of producers from their means of production in agriculture , manufacturing and handicrafts , but what never happened was the real reintegration or reabsorption of these people into the productive process in the same way as in the North . In this regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mistaken . Up to 1816 , India was still exporting far more manufactures than it imported . In many other parts of what is today the Third World , there was local manufacturing for local consumption . The Industrial Revolution transferred the locus of manufacturing from the world as a whole into what are today called the " traditional " industrialized countries , and it substantially deindustrialized the rest of the world . Around 1800 , there was no great technological gap between the West and the East and the South ( except in certain sectors , such as weaponry ) . This technological gap first developed through the development of industry in the West and the deindustrialization of parts of what today is the South . During the second Industrial Revolution , still worse happened . Around the middle of the  | nineteenth century the West went on to the production of machines by machines , and the real technological gap developed ; because the South did not participate in this process either , it fell two stages behind . Not only was it not able to produce manufactures through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ still less able to produce machines for the industrial process ; the Third World became dependent on importing both from the West . In the crisis of the 1930s import substitution brought some industry to some nations . In the present crisis , through export substitution of export promotion , there has been to some extent a process of apparent reindustrialization of the Third World , as some so-called traditional industry is transferred from the North or the West to the South . However , for the most part , the industry that is transferred is that which has now become relatively old and obsolete in the West , as the West goes on to a new technological revolution based essentially on the production of technology by technology . First it was the production of consumer goods , then of producer goods , and now it is the production of productive techniques , of technology itself , in the West ( now , of course , including Japan ) , which makes it again possible to produce in the South a number of consumer and even producer goods . Meanwhile , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ technological production , so that the technological gap continues to widen . I have provided only the briefest historical sketch of crisis and expansion . The roots of the capitalist world-system go back much further than the Industrial Revolution , where conventional and Marxist historiography usually set them . There is no space to explore this here , but I would say this . If we try to understand capitalism and the history of capitalism as being based simply on Europe or Britain , and if we try to find a transition from feudalism into industrial capitalism at the end of the eighteenth century and then analyze its spread from one place to another , we are missing the very essentials of historical and contemporary capitalist development . If the essentials of past capitalist development are missed , we can not possibly understand the essence of contemporary and future historical development . For these reasons I submit that it is absolutely essential to understand the present through the past , and to understand both the present and the past in terms of worldwide relations within the development of a single world @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system , despite many transformations and the incorporation of // one part of the world after another , of one culture , one nationality after another , has apparently maintained certain significant structural features all the way through . At least some of these essential structural features , I suggest , are that it is a single system that is very unequal from one part to another and that it goes through this continuously uneven process of development in which the crises are as much a part ? and perhaps an even more fundamental aspect ? of the process of development than the periods of expansion . And what is significant about that for us is the world is passing through another one of these periodic crises . The latest crisis will be essentially politically resolved in one way or another depending on how the class struggle comes out , as it depended in the past on how the class struggle came out at those times . Dimensions of the Present World Crisis2 The present world economic crisis is another general crisis of capital accumulation in the world capitalist system analogous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century ( 1873-1896 ) ago . After the last major crisis during the interwar years , there was a renewed expansion during the postwar period . This expansion apparently lasted until 1973 , but in fact it had already begun to slow down in 1967 and to turn into a renewed period of relative stagnation and crisis . Initially , this crisis took the form of reduced rates of profit and a renewed recessionary cycle . There was a recession in 1967 , which excluded the United States and Japan , the former ( and in part the latter ) because of the American expenditures to finance its war against Vietnam . In this recession , official unemployment in the industrial capitalist countries ( of North America , Western Europe , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand ) rose to five million . Unemployment then declined again in the 1968-1969 recovery . Then came the 1969-1970 recession , in which the United States and Japan also participated . Unemployment in the industrialized countries then grew to ten million . This recession already had very serious consquences . Before the recession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States to finance the Vietnam War . There had been important changes in relative productivity among industrial producers during the 1960s . Productivity in Europe had grown twice as fast as in the United States and in Japan twice as fast again as in Western Europe .  | This change in the relative competitive abilities on the world market and the flood of dollars were exacerbated when growth rates declined during the 1969-1970 recession and led , on August 15. 1971 , towhat President Nixon called a " new economic policy " and what the Japanese called " Nixon Shokku " : Nixon imposed wage and price controls in the United States , took the dollar off its fixed relation to gold , permitting it to be devalued , and imposed a special discriminatory surtax of ten percent on imports from Japan . Thereby he effectively destroyed the basis of the international monetary system that had been established atBretton Woods after World War II with fixed exchange rates and opened the way to widespread currency fluctuations and further devaluations of the dollar . This decision was an attempt to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rapid increase of American exports , especially of armaments and agricultural products . Then followed the recovery from 1971 to 1973 , which was , however , short-lived and led to the major 1973-1975 worldwide recession , in which official unemployment grew to 15 million persons , with nearly nine million in the United States . The world recession of 1973-1975 also led to the end of rapid Japanese growth rates and to a decline in output in 1974 in Japan as well as in the other industrial countries . Since that time there was another recovery ? from 1975 to 1979 ? in which unemployment decreased again in the United States but continued to increase in Canada , Western Europe , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand . Total unemployment in the industrialized world during the so-called recovery rose from fifteen to seventeen million . In 1979-1980 renewed recession struck and unemployment increased to about twenty-three million in 1980 ; the OECD predicted an increase to thirty-one million by 1982 . This is equivalent to nearly the entire labor force of a major industrial country . Moreover , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is much higher than what governments say . This seems to be particularly the case for Japan . In 1974 , for instance , registered unemployment in Japan was 730,000 ; but according to an Employment Status Survey , real unemployment was 3,276,000 , and male unemployment was twice as high and female unemployment was ten times as high as officially registered unemployment . These figures for Japan still do not include the four million other people who either worked part-time but wanted to work more or those who were discouraged from looking for work . This problem is now exacerbated by the enforced earlier retirement age .                     