@@774371

txt  | northern Europe where crusaders gathered to begin the journey to the Near East . Cologne , a major mustering point for crusaders , was the scene of one of the earliest of these attacks as potential crusaders gathered to travel down the Rhine . Ecclesiastical and secular rulers often , but not always , opposed these acts of violence , not because they believed that the rights of the Jews were involved , but because they disliked the random , unofficial violence involved or because they believed that baptism should not be forced upon the unwilling . In 1215 , the Fourth Lateran Council of the church mandated distinctive dress for Jews and required that they reside within a designated region of the towns they inhabited . This was the origin of the ghetto . In Church law , the Jews were allowed to live among Christians , admittedly under restrictive conditions . Some secular rulers would not even allow that much . Jews in northern Europe generally came under the special personal protection of the rulers . This protection could be lifted at any time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1290 , Edward I of England ordered all Jews out of his kingdom , a decision that was not reversed until Oliver Cromwell formally invited them to return in the midseventeenth century.52 In Spain , where the largest concentration of Muslims living in the Christian world could be found , the condition of the Muslims was roughly equivalent to that of the Jews elsewhere . There were restrictions on their activities , and at least some attempts were made to restrict aspects of their religious life . Popes occasionally complained about the fact that in Spanish Christian cities the cries of the mullahs calling the faithful to prayer could be heard to the scandal of Christians . Nevertheless , the role of the Muslims in the economic and professional life of Christian Spain effectively insulated them from persecution . Here again there was no formal legal right to practice an alien religion . Toleration was a practical necessity , not a theoretical ideal . Limits or restrictions on the religious practices of Muslims and Jews were not perceived as an invasion of their right to religious freedom . Instead , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for practical purposes , were always a potential danger to Christian souls.5 i Periodically , efforts were made to convert Jews and Muslims to Christianity . In that way , the skills of these peoples would not be lost to their Christian masters , but the danger to the souls of Christians would be eliminated . Muslims and Jews presented one test of the Christian reaction to the nonbeliever . Heretics , those who were members of the Christian Church but who objected to one or another of its doctrines , provided another test . Here again , the eleventh century was an important turning point in Christian attitudes toward those who did not conform in matters of  | religion . Before the eleventh century , heresy was generally seen as an individual matter . Increasingly , however , it became a social issue as distinct groups of dissenting believers appeared who rejected Church doctrine and even advocated what amounted to radical social change . From being an individual posing a threat to the souls of his neighbors , the heretic was transformed into a sinister member of a subversive cult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this sort generally accused the church of having abandoned the poverty of the early church in favor of an alliance with temporal wealth and power . Almost as if to prove the truth of the allegation , church councils in 1179 and 1215 issued decrees asserting the need for cooperation between ecclesiastical and secular officials in order to rid Christian society of those who wished to subvert its spiritual and its temporal well-being . It should be noted that the heretics themselves were not demanding toleration . They , like the dominant papally led church , believed that they possessed the truth and were as willing to persecute nonbelievers as was the pope whom they criticized . The most emphatic statement of the relationship that should exist between church and state in these matters appeared in a decree of the Fourth Lateran Council 1215 : " Convicted heretics shall be handed over for due punishment to their secular superiors . " A secular ruler who " neglects to fulfill the demand of the Church that he shall purge his land of this contamination of heresy " risked excommunication and even loss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ replace a recalcitrant heresy hunter " shall exterminate the heretics , possess the land without dispute and preserve it in the true faith . Secular rulers saw no difficulty with their assigned role as executioners of heretics . As early as the sixth century , Christian Roman emperors at Constantinople had issued legislation designed to eliminate heresy by eliminating the heretics . One law stated that at the very least it " is just to deprive of their worldly goods those who do not worship the True God . " 56 Other laws ordered the death penalty for heretics . Although the implementation of these laws varied from reign to reign depending on the realities of Byzantine politics , the principle was clear ? heretics had no rights at all , not even the minimal toleration that Jews and Muslims enjoyed . The first medieval secular ruler in Western Europe to issue legislation concerning heretics was the Holy Roman Emperor Frederic II ( 1220-1250 ) . Between 1220 and 1239 he issued a series of decrees for his various possessions that provided a scale of punishments for heretics ranging from public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he issued the Constitutions of Melfi for the administration of his southern Italian possessions . In the constitutions he asserted the secular ruler 's  | responsibility for eliminating heresy and specified burning as the proper punishment for convicted heretics . The opening chapter of the constitutions explained the importance of eliminating heresy this way . Heretics try to tear the seamless robe of our God . . . . They are violent wolves , but they pretend the tameness of sheep until they can get inside the sheepfold of the Lord . . . . They are sons of depravity . . . . Therefore , we draw the sword of righteous vengeance against them . . . . We have decided in the first place that the crime of heresy and these condemned sects should be numbered among the public crimes as it was promulgated in the ancient laws . . . . Committed to the judgment of the flames , they should be burned alive in the sight of the people.57 These laws in turn became the model for similar decrees issued by other Christian rulers over the next @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interests into a definition of what constituted the common good meant that there could be no justification for heresy . As Thomas Aquinas ( 1225  --  1274 ) put it , " if forgers of money or other malefactors are straightway justly put to death by secular princes , with much more justice can heretics . . . be not only excommunicated but also put to death . " 58 The analogy is striking because it compares the coining of false money with its implication for the temporal economy with the impact of false doctrine on the spiritual economy . During the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries , special church courts , the courts of the Inquisition , searched out and extirpated heresy in Europe . By the early fifteenth century , these courts had fallen into disuse because of their success in eliminating heresy . At the same time , however , secular rulers continued to be vigilant where heresy was concerned . In 1401 , Henry IV ( 1399-1413 ) of England issued a statute ordering the burning of convicted heretics.59 This was a reaction to the appearance of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( 1320 ? - 1384 ) . Like earlier reformers , Wycliffe had demanded a purified church , one that gave up its lands and political power . His insistence upon purging the church of its wealth was attractive to some , especially nobles , who hoped to benefit materially from the process of divestiture that Wycliffe proposed . On the other hand , Wycliffe 's argument that sinners could neither administer the sacraments nor hold public office legitimately was less acceptable . Wycliffe 's ideas were condemned by the church , first at a synod of English bishops and then by the Council of Constance ( 1414-1417 ) . ti0 Henry IV 's statute on the punishment of heretics made it clear that Wycliffe 's teaching had significant social and political implications that had to be checked . It was not only Wycliffe 's theological ideas that were dangerous , it was the fact that his followers " made unlawful  | conventicles and confederacies , they hold and exercise schools . . . and , as much as they may , excite and stir the people to sedition and insurrection and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ These activities result in " not only the greatest peril of souls " but " many other hurts , slanders , and perils . . . which , God forbid , might come to this realm " unless the spread of heresy was halted.61 The medieval identification of heresy with social and political unrest found its greatest crisis in the sixteenth century as the Protestant Reformation produced large-scale heretical movements that possessed strong political and military support . At the beginning of the Reformation , the identification of the religious community with the political community was firmly in place . By the end of the Reformation , there was strong evidence that the two communities could be distinguished , though intellectual support for this opinion was still weak . Once the existence of two or more religious communities within a single political community became theoretically possible , the problem of minority rights became an important one for political and legal thinkers . community became theoretically possible , the problem of minority rights became an important one for political and legal thinkers . Two events in the sixteenth century paved the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society in which they lived . The first of these was the Protestant Reformation that ended the Roman Catholic Church 's monopoly of religion in Europe . There emerged as a result a multiplicity of Christian denominations , each asserting that it alone possessed Christian truth and each possessing strong political support that prevented Catholic authorities from eliminating it . The second event was the discovery of the non-European world and the subsequent debate about the rights , if any , that indigenous peoples possessed in the face of their potential conquest by Europeans . These events did not , strictly speaking , concern majority-minority relations . The Reformation was a debate about religious truth , not a debate about religious toleration . The debate that broke out in sixteenth century Spain about the conquest of the Americas concerned the right of a Christian minority to conquer a non-Christian majority in the name of religion . Nevertheless , both of these events contributed at least indirectly to the development of modern theories of minority rights . Protestants as well as Catholics in the sixteenth century believed in the absolute truth of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the leading Protestant reformers , the problem with the dominant Catholic Church was not simply that individual churchmen were corrupt or immoral . Rather , Martin Luther , John Calvin , and the other preachers of reform declared that the Church of Rome was teaching false and perverted doctrine , which , if followed , would lead men to eternal damnation . Luther , Calvin , and their followers were not asserting their  | right to practice a competing version of Christianity , they were demanding that secular rulers act to reform the practice of the Christian faith within their realms under the direction of reformed clergy . Inasmuch as secular rulers had long accepted a role in securing the spiritual as well as the temporal well-being of their subjects , the call by the reformers to impose reformed religious practice in their lands was acceptable to many rulers . For a ruler who took his spiritual responsibilities seriously , the problem was not whether he should interfere in religious practice but what religious doctrines and practices he should impose on his people.62 An unforeseen and unintended consequence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religious minorities . This was not due to a revival of ancient skepticism about religious truth , but because of the inability of a single religious denomination to dominate Europe as a whole in the way that the Catholic Church once did . Even within the individual European kingdoms , rulers found it impossible to eliminate minority religious groups completely . The rulers of France and Germany in particular found themselves forced to authorize limited religious toleration and even to extend political rights to members of minorities in order to maintain the integrity of their kingdoms . The choice was for some form of religious toleration , usually for only one religious minority , as the price for ending a destructive civil war . The religious civil wars that broke out in Germany during the 1520s resulted in the first attempts to use religious toleration as a basis to resolve potentially destructive conflicts . After facing two serious wars that were closely linked to the religious crisis , the Knights ' War in 1522 and the Peasants ' War in 1524-1525 , some of the German nobles met at Speier in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of wars that the Reformation had spawned . The nobles who attended the meeting proposed as a temporary solution that each secular ruler within Germany be allowed to determine the religion to be practiced within his domain . This would mean that the king of Germany and Holy Roman Emperor Charles V ( 1519-1555 ) , a staunch defender of the Catholic Church , could not legitimately interfere in the religious life of any of the approximately 300 political units that composed Germany unless that unit was a part of his own family 's personal domain . This solution was based on traditional principles about the rights and privileges of the German nobles . Throughout the Middle Ages they had acquired for themselves much of the power that in other kingdoms remained in royal hands . In spite of a late fifteenth century attempt to provide at least some rudimentary institutional forms that would unify the 300 political units in Germany , the central authority was virtually nominal . In this case , the local rulers took upon themselves the traditional royal responsibility for  | the spiritual well-being of their subjects @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ religio , his land , his religion . The ruler of the land could choose the religion of his people . Even this formula did not give unlimited freedom to the nobles to select a religion . The only allowable choices were Catholicism or Lutheranism . After another series of wars in which neither Catholics nor Protestants were able to win the upper hand permanently , another meeting was held , this time at Augsburg in 1555 , to seek a permanent resolution to the crisis . Here again , the cuius regio eius religio formula was accepted as the basis of a solution . This time , Charles V assented to the solution so that either Catholicism or Lutheranism could be imposed by a noble on his subjects with imperial blessing . No other forms of Christian religion were permitted to " enjoy their religious beliefs , liturgy and ceremonies as well as their estates and other rights and privileges in peace " within Germany . The Peace of Augsburg was the result of political exhaustion , not the result of any growing awareness that religious minorities possessed rights that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Augsburg 's essentially intolerant substance was its explicit rejection of all religious denominations other than the two denominations , Catholicism and Lutheranism , that possessed significant political and military power : ' However all such as do not belong to the Iwo above-mentioned religions shall not be included in the present peace but be totally excluded from it . Even as the peace was being signed , Calvinism was beginning to make significant inroads in areas that had been Lutheran previously , thus paving the way for a new round of religious violence and requiring a new solution that would incorporate a third denomination . In the long run , the fissioning of the Protestant movement during the last half of the sixteenth century undermined the Peace of Augsburg . The failure to develop a theory of society that would reconcile the conflicting claims of competing religions meant that the growing number of religious minority groups could only make the situation worse , possibly leading to even harsher efforts to repress heresy . In 1618 , the Thirty Years War , a three-sided religious war in Germany engaging the Calvinists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Thirty Years War became the turning point in the history of the role of religion in Western society . Ostensibly , the war began as a religious war involving the three major denominations in Germany . During the course of the war , however , it became clear that the war had provided an opportunity for neighboring states , regardless of their religious position , to acquire land and power in Germany even at the expense of their coreligionists . The rulers of Denmark , Sweden , and , above all , France supported one or another party in . Germany in order to advance their own political ends . Eventually this led to the Catholic king of France  | providing the bulk of foreign support for Protestant rebels against the Catholic Hapsburg rulers of Germany . The reason for this was that French political interests would be best served by a weak German monarchy . Inasmuch as the Hapsburg monarchs were Catholics , it was rational for French policy to support the Protestant nobles who were in rebellion against the Hapsburgs . In matters of foreign policy , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The focus was upon achieving political goals that would enhance the stature of France even if the results would be detrimental to the Catholic Church elsewhere . The Peace of Westphalia which ended the Thirty Years War settled the religious issue in a few words . The Reformed Calvinists are to have equal rights in Religion and other matters with the other states and subjects . ... but besides the religions named Catholic , Lutheran , Calvinist above , no other shall be accepted or tolerated in the Holy Roman Empire . This peace , in other words , only gave legal recognition to those religious groups that were too strong to be destroyed . Persecution of small Protestant sects such as the Anabaptists continued in the lands controlled by the three legally recognized religions . The Anabaptists were unable to win recognition because they were often pacifists and therefore unwilling to use force in their own defense . Thus they were fair game for the stronger powers that saw persecution of heresy as their religious duty . In the final analysis , the Peace of Westphalia simply reiterated the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been used ineffectively in Germany for over a century . Religious toleration , if indeed that is even the term for it , was available only to those groups who possessed political and military might . The series of religious wars in Germany made it increasingly clear that religion was becoming a divisive force in society instead of the unifying force it had once been . The problem was now how to deal with religion in this new context . The traditional Christian opinion that there was only one true faith and that it was the secular ruler 's responsibility to insure its position in the state was no longer viable . As political reality revealed a wide variety of competing religions , each claiming the privileges and position of the medieval church , the secular rulers found themselves in an increasingly complicated dilemma . A handful of people on the fringes of the Reformation movement , such as the Anabaptists , proposed separating religion from government and allowing each man to worship as he pleased so long as he did no harm to anyone . This solution was not acceptable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ believe that toleration was fundamentally destructive to the purposes for which government existed in a Christian society .  | Although Germany had the worst outbreaks of religious violence , it was France that produced the most extensive discussions of a theory of religious toleration.68 In addition to problems arising from the religious crisis of the sixteenth century , France was also undergoing serious internal conflict involving the various political , economic , and social subgroups that composed the kingdom and their relationship to one another and to the monarchy . More than any other kingdom in Europe , France reflected the complex nature of medieval social structure as it survived into the early modern world . The request for religious toleration in France came at the same time as the monarchy was making strenuous efforts to eliminate group autonomy in favor of national uniformity . By the midsixteenth century , France was the scene of a series of religious civil wars pitting the Catholic monarchs against the Huguenots , the French term for Calvinists . The Huguenots had strong support from among the ranks of the nobles and from the urban @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bringing under tighter control . Thus , when the Huguenots demanded religious toleration , they were demanding a kind of autonomy in religious matters that the kings were anxious to eliminate in other spheres of French life . The religious civil war was then given special urgency because of its implications for the future of the French kingdom . Would the kingdom he unified and centralized under the king or would it be decentralized with a great deal of power remaining in the hands of the nobles and the middle class ? By the 1580s it was clear that neither side could win a complete victory over the other and that the only victor would be the king of Spain , who was gaining influence in France through his support of the Catholic party in the wars . Faced with the possibility that France might be significantly reduced in power as a consequence of the religious wars , a group of important public officials , both Catholics and Huguenots , began to develop a basis upon which the existence of the French kingdom , with a Huguenot minority within it , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ politiques , was headed by Michel de L'Hopital , chancellor of France . These men were important political figures who were in a good position to weigh the consequences of the continuation of the religious wars on the future of the kingdom as a whole . In their opinion , the religious claims that the wars incorporated undermined the purpose for which government was established , that is peace and order . L'Hopital was pragmatic in his approach to toleration and to the issue of minority rights . As a traditional Christian , he was opposed to religious toleration because of its detrimental effects on the souls of the king 's subjects . On the other hand , he and his fellow politiques concluded that when the spiritual ends of society can not he obtained except at the price of destroying the very political structure that was necessary to insure the achievement of these  | goals , then the spiritual goals became unrealizable and therefore must be subordinated to the needs of public order and security . With the accession to the French throne of King Henry IV in 1594 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ IV had been a leader of the Huguenot party who , because of the biological accidents of royal life in the sixteenth century , became the leading heir to the French throne . Reputedly saying that " Paris is worth a Mass , " he reconverted to Catholicism , the religion of his earlier years . This made it possible for him to accept the throne . His public return to the Catholic Church made him acceptable to the Catholics , while the Huguenots recognized the necessity of the reconversion and accepted it . As king , Henry IV issued the Edict of Nantes in 1598 , granting a number of legal privileges to the Huguenots while maintaining the Catholic Church as the official state religion . The Catholic , Apostolic and Roman faith shall be restored and re-established in all those districts and places of this our Realm . . . in which its exercise has been interrupted , there to be freely and peaceably exercised . In return for agreeing not to interfere with the practice of the majority 's religion , the Huguenots , numbering about 10 to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to exist . We permit those of the so-called Reformed Religion to live and abide in all the towns and districts of this our realm . . . free from inquisition , molestation or compulsion to do anything in the way of Religion , against their conscience . . . provided that they observe the provisions of this Edict . Here again , the basis for toleration , that is , for granting the right to exist and to participate in public life , rested not on a theory of rights but upon acceptance of political reality . There were so many Huguenots and they could muster so much political and military might that they could effectively bring much of the kingdom 's life to a halt if they were not granted legal recognition . Like the Lutherans in Germany , the Huguenots forced the government to grant them legal status as the price for their allowing public life to function uninterruptedly . Only the Huguenots in France benefitted from this grant , however . It was not extended to any other Protestant sect . Under Henry IV 's successors , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were gradually whittled away until Louis XIV revoked the Edict of Nantes in 1685 . The Huguenots were then required to convert to Catholicism or to emigrate . From the royal perspective , the revocation was designed not only to save the souls of the Huguenots , but also to eliminate a group that opposed royal centralization of power in France .  | European ideas about the role of religion in society and about the role of minority groups . When Henry IV issued the Edict of Nantes , he was responding to an immediate crisis in a traditional manner , that is , granting legal privileges to a corporate body that could not be eliminated . The Huguenots were simply being treated as other such groups , the clergy , the nobility , various economic groups , and chartered towns were being treated . Even as Henry IV was doing this , however , the tide was running against the conception of a kingdom as a federation of groups , each with its own rights , privileges , exemptions , and status . Under Louis XIII ( 1610-1643 ) and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a policy of limiting the powers of those groups that posed a threat to royal control of the entire kingdom.71 The power of the church had been significantly restricted in the early sixteenth century when Pope Leo X granted to King Francis I the right to make all major ecclesiastical appointments in France.72 By the terms of this agreement , the Concordat of Bologna , even the decrees of church councils , such as the Council of Trent ( 1564 ) , could not be published in France without royal permission.73 The powers of the nobles were limited less directly . More and more nobles came to rely upon positions in the royal service and other forms of royal largesse for their income . To insure obtaining a share of royal money , a noble was forced to attend permanently upon the king . Louis XIV capped this development when he constructed the great palace at Versailles as a stage on which he produced , directed , and starred in a continual pageant that kept the nobles occupied while royal officials carried on the supervision of government at the local and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performed.74 During the eighteenth century , there was a reaction against this policy of reducing the powers of the interest groups in order to strengthen the power of the monarchy.75 Groups and their interests flourished during the eighteenth century as a line of weak French kings was unable to continue the policy of exalting the monarchy at the expense of the groups . On the eve of the French Revolution , there was even what has been termed an aristocratic reaction against a century of royal attempts to control the nobility . The attempt to bring peace and order to France by controlling the groups that possessed rights and privileges that caused division within the kingdom and to replace these group loyalties with total reliance upon the king 's personal willingness to rule justly , that is the policy of royal absolutism , ultimately failed . The groups were too well-entrenched and the tools available to the government too weak to make absolutism possible . What all these efforts did demonstrate was that groups , whether based on religion , economic position , or hereditary status , could be destructive of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new basis for constructing a society using a basic unit other than Interest groups would be required .  | autonomous individual who possessed a body of rights rooted in natural law , rights that preceded the creation of the state . The purpose of the state in this theory is to protect the rights of the individuals who compose the society . The religious wars of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were not sufficient in themselves to force the development of a theory of individual rights . What gave added weight to the pressure to discover a new basis upon which to construct governments was the European encounter with quite different societies in the wake of Columbus 's momentous voyage . By the middle of the sixteenth century , European intellectuals had begun to debate the legitimacy of the European conquest of the non-European world that was beginning . The issue boiled down to what , if any , rights did non-European societies possess in the face of European conquest . In raising this question , however , the intellectuals were asking fundamental questions about the nature of society and of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different from European states when joined to the demand for reconsidering the nature of religion 's role in European society meant that it was possible to construct theories of society that did not rely upon the European experience alone . The problem of the rights of non-Christians vis-a-vis Christians centered on the question of whether or not the Christian Church 's obligation to preach to all men transcended a society 's right to exclude foreigners and to govern itself according to its own laws without any outside interference . According to this line of argument , Christians could not legitmately invade non-Christian lands simply in order to convert the inhabitants to Christianity . In general , however , the writers who took this position , recognizing the natural right of men to select their own rulers and to live as they saw fit , also tended to admit an important exception to the right of a society 's members to live as they pleased . If these people lived according to laws and practices that violated natural law , then it was permissible for European Christians to conquer them , not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the natural laws that bound all men.76 In practice , violations of the natural law meant that the people practiced cannibalism or had unacceptable sexual mores . Under these circumstances , a Christian invasion was justified in order to punish crimes against the natural order . The underlying assumption here , of course , was the notion that all men know , or could know , a basic set of principles governing human behavior . As Europeans encountered an ever widening circle of different societies , ranging from very primitive aboriginal peoples to the very sophisticated Chinese and Japanese societies , they found it necessary to reconsider their attitudes toward non-Europeans . In addition , once the process of reevaluating the rights of non-Christians began , it was not nossible to stop further analysis of minority groups within Europe as  | govern themselves that were rooted in natural law applicable to all men , how could it be denied that minority groups within Europe also possessed the same rights ? The ultimate goal in this line of thought was the concept of a world order based not on religious principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society that all men could accept . In the seventeenth century , Hugo Grotius presented the European world with his On the Law of War and Peace , a discussion of an international legal order based on the " law of nature . . . comprising alike that which is so called in a larger sense , proceeding as it does from the essential traits inplanted in man . " This " essential trait " comes from God who has " willed that such traits exist in us. " 78 Grotius spoke in terms of rights as legal capacities , not the philosophical notion of natural individual rights as they came to be understood in the eighteenth century . Nevertheless , Grotius played an important role in the development of those later ideas . During the eighteenth century , attacks on the existing European hierarchical social and political order , combined with a deeper awareness of the great variety of social and political orders that existed elsewhere and a revival of interest in the republican thought of ancient Greece and Rome , all contributed to further reconsideration of the nature of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ based on egalitarian assumptions . That is , eighteenth-century intellectuals concluded that all men are equal by nature and possess the same basic rights so that in a just society everyone would be equal before the law and in the realm of public affairs . In differing but related ways , the American Declaration of Independence and the French Declaration of the Rights of Man expressed this new approach to political life . For the Americans , it was " self-evident , that all men are created equal , that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights , " and that " to secure these rights , governments are instituted among men . " The rights that individuals possess spring from nature itself , not from law or from historical experience . This statement was , of course , inconsistent with a number of aspects of American colonial life at that point , slavery and property restrictions on voting being the most obvious contradictions . Nevertheless , the American thinkers at least recognized the conflict between their theories and the political realities . Developing an egalitarian society was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frenchmen who led the revolution that ended the uncien regime in 1789 . The American colonies did have the rudiments of a hierarchical society , but such a society was comparatively undeveloped . Above all , there were few groups that possessed traditional or legal rights in the way that such group rights existed in Europe . When the French revolutionaries came to the problem of creating a new society , they had first to destroy the remains of an old and well-entrenched  | legally and politically equal . Rights belonged to individuals without regard to what , if any , groups to which they belonged . Groups became private matters , not matters of public law . In effect , the state became the sole legal group to which individuals belonged . It also became the guarantor of the individual 's natural rights . Since the eighteenth century , the theory that society is composed of groups that are bearers of legal or civil rights has battled with the theory that the individual is the only bearer of rights and that the state exists only to protect these rights . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Edmund Burke in his Reflections on the Revolution in France . Burke argued that natural and civil rights were different . Furthermore , he also argued that the historical experience of a society can not be summarily dismissed by a committee of constitution-writing intellectuals . Thus , the claims of long-standing groups to special status can not be rejected out of hand.79 To a great extent , Burke 's criticism of the French revolutionaries was that they failed to appreciate human psychology , that the sovereign individual of their theories not only did not exist , he could not exist . The response of the French revolutionaries and those who subsequently accepted their views was that the state should form the individual who would then take up the burden of these individual rights . The public school , along with the body of common law and the sole officially recognized national language , was to be the means of creating the new man . The problem of minorities was then to be eliminated by a process of social homogenization . The expectations of the French revolutionaries about the new man who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frustrated in a variety of ways even before the century was over . The pressure on the subordinate groups within France was resisted . Under Napoleon the Christian religion that the original revolutionaries ousted in favor of the Cult of Reason was restored , along with religious toleration for Protestants and Jews . Napoleon even created a class of noblemen when he created the Legion of Honor to recognize merit . The greatest threat to the ideals of the Revolution came , however , not from a betrayal of its principles in France , but from their extension throughout Europe . Romantic nationalism , a result of revolutionary ideas about society , spread throughout Europe , encouraging every linguistic and cultural group to desire its own sovereign state in order to protect its unique way of life.80 The subsequent history of European political life has revolved to a great extent around the conflict between theories of individual rights and the demands of groups that their rights be recognized as well .  | DURING the United Nations General Assembly debate concerning the draft Universal Declaration of Human Rights , its chief author @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Declaration ought not to include mention of the rights of minorities . She also insisted that so far as the American continents were concerned , the minorities problem did not exist . The Belgian representative , Guy Lebeau , felt that the issue of minority rights was essentially one of tolerance , and he reminded the Assembly of Adolf Hitler 's policy of raising the problem of the treatment of German minorities in countries adjacent to Germany as a pretext for Nazi expansionism . The Soviet delegate , at another session of the General Assembly , proposed incorporation of guarantees to " national minorities . . . to use their native language and to possess their own national schools , libraries , museums and other cultural and educational institutions , " while " every people and every nationality within a state shall enjoy equal rights . " The Soviet proposal was defeated , but in its wake have come a series of subsequent international pronouncements meant to guarantee some aspects of minority rights . In spite of the fact that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights makes no mention of minority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ protection of those rights prior to the passage of the Declaration , but there is no longer a trend toward the international protection of minority rights . The problem of minority rights grew up in the wake of the breakup of the European state system following the defeat of Napoleon . The slow disintegration of the Ottoman Empire , occurring also roughly in the same period , gave rise to other important minority problems . Added to these postimperial problems were the uncertain claims of nationalism , an ill-defined ideology that was at its height in the nineteenth century and has spread more widely in the twentieth to the postimperial problems of our own age . Doubtless there were minority confrontations  | with majorities in past ages , but the contemporary minority rights issues with which we have familiarity are largely rooted in the nineteenth century . An examination of those roots should reveal how claims of local communities and groups became converted into international declarations and matters of concern to international politics . The situations of the Greek Cypriotes , the Walloons , or the Palestinians can best be understood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) minorities were created or appeared and the attempts of the international system to deal with them . The nineteenth century was concerned less with religious or racial groups than with linguistic and ethnic groups . Talleyrand , writing from the meetings of the Congress of Vienna to his monarch , Louis XVIII , reminded the king that the old order had vanished in France and elsewhere in Europe after Napoleon 's conquests . The clergy and the nobility were no longer potent groups . Instead , to apply his much prized " principle of legitimacy , " the support of the people would be needed to restore authority to the post-Napoleonic regimes . The sovereign could not rule alone , but he required " the people " to accept and believe in him . But which " people " did Talleyrand have in mind ? For France , the Netherlands , and Belgium , there was no question of changing the political base of the regime , although there was considerable talk of redrawing boundary lines ? and some were redrawn . Napoleon had unleashed new forces on Europe . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in Poland , all over Austro-Hungary , and in the Balkans . New groups were asserting themselves . New actors were making claims for international recognition . Peoples who had long been silent made claims to nationhood or at least some sort of autonomy . The Congress of Vienna , an assemblage of victorious allies attempting to redraw the boundaries of Europe , was ill-disposed to accommodating these new forces , but to some extent it did . In the process the first modern international documents on behalf of minority rights were produced . " These launched the modern age of minority rights . They also helped create the riddles of minority rights by recognizing some groups while ignoring others and applying no clear-cut principles . The game of European power politics was intense at the Congress of Vienna . One of the major boundary provisions gave Prussia two-fifths of Saxony , while the remaining three-fifths was restored to the ancient Saxon dynasty . Prussia also obtained Swedish Pommerania and the Duchy of Westphalia , thus becoming the leading power in northern Germany . Austria conceded dominance in those areas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provinces on the Adriatic and further promises in Italy . This settlement avoided a risk of war between Prussia and Austria but further retarded the hopes of Italian peoples for self- government . But minority rights recognition was obtained for Belgians , Savoyards , and especially for the Poles . Poland had been wiped off the map of Europe by a 1795 treaty . Napoleon recreated a small Polish state in 1807 , called the Duchy of Warsaw . Napoleon lost the Grand Duchy of Warsaw to the armies of Tsar Alexander . The tsar 's forces had overrun all of Poland , including portions claimed by Austria and Prussia . The Polish settlement and Polish national integrity were largely in his hands . For reasons of power politics , Prussia and Austria received parts of Polish territory , but a new Kingdom of Poland was formed , with a lengthy constitution guaranteeing certain rights to the Polish people . Although a majority within Poland , the Poles were treated as a minority within a greater Russia . This Polish constitution , drawn up in 1815 , is the first modern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Principles of the Constitution of the Polish Kingdom " was drafted by Prince Adam Czartoryski . The constitution itself was the product of a joint Polish-Russian team , which the Russians dominated . The " Principles " emphasized the national character of the Polish kingdom and the rights of Polish citizens . The " Principles " promised an equitable protection of the rights of Jews , a feature sacrificed in the final version of the constitution . The first article of the constitution guaranteed to " the Polish people " full independence and a separate political structure , while subsequent provisions retained Russian control over foreign policy . A considerable degree of Polish autonomy over cultural affairs was permitted , while legislative power was held by the landed Polish classes . The tsar reigned over Poland as a Polish king . Thus , the powers of Europe came to accept a limited degree of group ( and national ) autonomy ? a first step toward the recognition of minority rights , ( though the Poles were a majority in their own territories ) . Rather than ignore the claims of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the legitimacy of this politically weak linguistic and cultural group . A clearer example of minority rights might have been provided if the claims of the Jewish community in Poland and Germany had been recognized . The Jews failed in both instances . During the negotiations over the German settlement , Jews actively pressed for emancipation and an extension of the limited rights available to them in some of the German states . None of the major powers was sufficiently interested . No international ( or national ) protection of the rights of Jews ever emerged . The German settlement at the Congress of Vienna was no triumph for Metternich , the Austrian diplomat . Metternich was bitterly opposed to nationalist and ethnic movements , but he acceded to the desire for a united Germany . The German Confederation , however weak , included all territories populated by Germans except for the Swiss and Baltic  | territories . Prussia and Austria were considered German , although Austria included many non-Germans . However , the seeds of later minority friction were sown by the inclusion of Slavic and Italian minorities from Trieste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a unified Germany was created by international agreement , a Germany linked by language and culture . Minority rights had emerged less deliberately within the Ottoman Empire . This ancient Empire was crumbling when the Congress of Vienna concluded its work , but the Ottomans had evolved a system of dealing with religious and ethnic minorities because of the policies of progressive sultans , anxious to maintain their hold on territories populated by non-Muslims . The non-Muslims in many cases , were numerical majorities but effectively status minorities . Under the Ottoman system , Muslim religious law determined the organizational and representational basis by which the sultan 's subjects were divided . Non-Muslims were allowed their own religious laws and institutions , since they were generally not members of the ruling class . Ottoman society was divided into communities according to the millet ( nation ) system , under which each individual had to belong to a millet representing his religious group . This millet system was established in the fifteenth century , during the height of Ottoman power , by Sultan Mehmet II and lasted until the twentieth century @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The millet system was originally established to gain the support of Christian religious leaders in conquered areas and to thus discourage the possibility of Greek Orthodox affiliation with Rome . Autonomous selfgovernment under recognized religious leaders became a prevalent Ottoman principle of governance . The principle was gradually extended to the Armenians , the Jews , and other non-Muslim minorities . Actually , the Ottomans were borrowing a page from the Roman book . The Romans allowed their subjects to apply their own laws to themselves . The medieval European empires and the Middle Eastern empires also had applied a similar policy . But the Ottomans expanded upon these ancient practices to create something akin to modern minority group rights . Each millet " established and maintained its own institutions . . . such as education , religion , justice , and social security " including , " separate schools , hospitals and hotels , along with hospices for the poor and aged . " Millet courts and many of these other social institutions remained in operation until the twentieth century . These Ottoman expressions of minority rights were known @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , they were international in character . Nonetheless , warfare between the Ottomans and the  | pressed to the gates of Vienna . While it is true that the Ottoman example was not supported by international treaties such as those flowing from the Congress of Vienna , its practices were still important to minority groups all over Europe and the Middle East . The Ottomans translocated peoples from Asia to the Balkans and from the Balkans to Asia Minor , and the ethnic history of the Balkans and the Near East was shaped by Ottoman policies . The Ottomans scrambled the population of their territories in a way that gave rise to new arrangements of groups . All this helped lay the foundation for the minorities problems that played so large a part in the post-World War I era . The Ottoman policies could be a model of recognition of group rights ( the millet ) or could destabilize an area in such a way as to arouse minority unrest and agitation . Either way , their policies were of international interest and concern . Ethnic minorities became a political issue @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Religious minorities had existed since earliest times . Attempts to root out heresy often resulted in persecution of religious minorities . In Christian Europe the bitter wars between Protestants and Catholics following the Reformation eventually resulted in international understandings to stabilize the conflicts . The 1648 Treaty of Westphalia attempted to settle the conflicts in the German states . Protection of religious minorities was accomplished in a number of seventeenth- and eighteenth-century treaties between the great powers . However , ethnic claims did not arise until the following century , when the group animosity that formerly had been displayed in religious conflict took another form . Nationalism was enflamed by the writings and speeches of prominent intellectuals . " In Germany the philosopher Gottfried von Herder ( 1744-1803 ) had emphasized the importance of a mother tongue in the social and cultural development of the individual . Smaller nationalities throughout Europe and the Near East , fed by the message of Herder and other cultural nationalists , became more conscious of their linguistic and cultural heritage . Intellectuals within the heterogeneous Austrian , Russian , and Ottoman Empires took up @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dormant nationalistic sentiments were aroused , endangering the national unity of many of the long-established states . In eastern , central , and southern Europe , nationalists often insisted each nationality was somehow entitled to its own territory . Giuseppe Mazzini preached of an Italy uniting within the borders of all those who spoke the Italian tongue . Slavic minorities became aroused to clamor for independence from the political states in which they lived . Since many of the Slays lived in Austrian and Turkish territories , Pan-Slavism became a major aspect of Russian foreign policy , Russia being the only independent Slavic power in the nineteenth century .  | problems posed by minorities enflamed by nationalist sentiments helped unsettle the relationship between the major states of Europe . The same forces helped accelerate the decomposition of the Ottoman Empire . Nationalism was the seedbed of modern minority rights , and minority discontent was one of the most unsettling forces in international relations . Throughout the nineteenth century the great powers attempted by treaty and other international arrangements to treat the claims of Eastern European minority groups . In the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which helped launch World War I was fired by an advocate of a minority group . Small wonder that during and after World War I the treatment of minority groups became a matter of prime international concern . The victors of World War I who met together in Paris in 1919 were keenly concerned with the treatment of minority groups . This concern was not so much due to the desire to describe minority rights as it was due to the fear of political instability created by dissident minorities . As Woodrow Wilson put it , " nothing , I venture to say , is more likely to disturb the peace of the world than the treatment which might , in certain circumstances , be meted out to minorities . " 12 Humanitarianism and a concern with human rights were both present at the Paris Peace Conference , but political concerns were paramount , and minority group rights were recognized as international law for political reasons . National minorities had been overtly aroused by wartime Allied propaganda . Many of them had been submerged in the AustriaHungarian Empire , the Ottoman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ representatives came to Paris in the expectation that their peoples would become masters of their independent states.14 Nationalism among the minorities was a fervent force at the Peace Conference . The leaders of various minority groups had convened their own " Congress of Oppressed Nationalities " at Rome a year before the Paris Peace Conference . The delegates carved up central and eastern Europe according to their own notions . Their dreams had been fed by nationalist ambitions and by the speeches of American President Woodrow Wilson . Had he not preached the principle of the right of the national selfdetermination of peoples ? Had he not said that self-determination was an essential corollary of democracy ? " He had , and in so doing he created a rational justification for minority rights , but a justification that encouraged the expression of those rights in a claim for nationhood , or so it seemed . The international protection of minorities through the League of Nations was a product of the Paris Peace Conference . Various minorities treaties were written creating legal obligations among the signatories on behalf of racial , linguistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only the signatories . Austria , Hungary , Bulgaria , and Turkey ,  | defeated states in World War I , were bound by minority provisions inserted in their peace treaties . New or enlarged states , including Poland , Greece , Czechoslovakia , Rumania , and Yugoslavia , concluded special minority treaties with the Allied Powers . Albania , Lithuania , Latvia , Estonia , and Iraq later made similar declarations to the Council of the League of Nations . Thus was established the postwar minority system , with the Council of the League of Nations as guarantor . Minority rights had been truly internationalized , although many of the world 's minority groups were not involved in the system . Minority rights were , in most cases , imposed upon the nation states . Defeated nations had been compelled to recognize international obligations to some of their minorities . New states ? those few that had obtained Wilsonian self-governance ? were similarly bound . The League minority system protected national minorities particularly ; not all racial , religious , and linguistic minorities . These minorities were provided the critical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also allowed , in many instances , to choose the nation-state in which they would become members . Migration of minorities was encouraged because it was hoped that the location of minorities in states of their own choosing would dampen minority nationalism . In this way minorities that had not obtained statehood would be satisfied with the lesser prize of choice of residence . The minority rights created were novel in their coverage . Positive minority rights were created with respect to language , education , and religious and cultural activity . Minorities were given rights to maintain their own charitable , religious , educational , and social institutions . They were to receive an " equitable share " of public subventions for educational , religious , and charitable purposes . Encouragement of these positive minority rights promised to maintain minority distinctiveness , but many statesmen believed that they would , at the same time , encourage national unity . Positive minority rights are group rights . As such , they are outside the liberal , Western tradition of individual rights . These group rights were developed in Paris in response @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were intended to satisfy the high hopes of liberated peoples of central and eastern Europe . Unfortunately , the questions of whether the groups had rights as legal entities was left unclear . The League system was permeated with individualistic ideas of rights , for " Wilson and his fellow-architects of the League were saturated with the individualist traditions of liberalism , and consequently found the concept of group rights alien to their thinking . " Individual rights were extended to members of minority groups . These were provided in the more familiar negative form of rights available through the principle of nondiscrimination . Signatory states were bound  | to assure members of national minorities full protection of life and liberty and complete equality with national minorities with respect to civil and political rights . Individuals , then , could assert their claims if they had been denied rights solely because of their group affiliation . The rights in question adhered to individuals , not to the groups themselves . Equal treatment , not special treatment , was the thrust of these individualized rights of minority group members . The post-World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ universal . Africa , Asia , most of the Near East , Latin America , the Pacific regions , and North America were not included . Wilson 's efforts to include protections of national , religious , and racial minorities within the Covenant of the League of Nations proved unacceptable . The British , partly in response to pressures from Australia and New Zealand , insisted on dropping those references from the proposed covenant . Only a few states were compelled to accept the guarantee clauses . Poland and Czechoslovakia agreed because they received accessions of German territory , a source of German agitation in later years . Rumania , Greece , and Yugoslavia , being weak states , also agreed to protect their minorities . The great powers did not . There is even some question of whether anyone was seriously concerned with honoring the international obligation to safeguard certain minorities in the years between the two world wars . The enforcement procedure for aggrieved minorities was most cumbersome . The minority group , through its representatives , could petition the Secretariat of the League of Nations , alleging the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Secretariat , in turn , would transmit the petition to the government concerned , which was supposed to send its explanation . Then the petition and the explanation were forwarded to the president of the League Council , who would invite two other Council members to join him for a preliminary examination of the question . The Committee of Three did the real work , such as it was . However , there was a strong tendency to accept the views of the government in question . As Noel Baker of the United Kingdom later observed : " Many times in the Committee of Three it was a very embarrassing and difficult quesion to say , when a government said its conduct had been irreproachable , to insist nevertheless the matter must go forward for investigation and decision by some international tribunal . " The Committee of Three had no means of enforcing its decision , nor did the League Council . Minorities , aware of the risks of offending their own governments , became afraid to petition the League . Persuasion and conciliation sometimes were attempted , but they rarely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on November 9 , 1921 . The League , in a rare act of daring , did support the German  | petition . However , nothing substantial was done until December 1923 . By then Poland had expelled most of the settlers . Yet , this case was one of the League 's few " successful " defenses of minority rights . Perhaps the new states that were saddled with minority rights treaties were too weak to resist minority group pressures , particularly when the minority was supported by a kindred state just across its border . Czechoslovakia particularly suffered from its minority problems , even though it treated its minorities generously . The Sudeten German problem led to the downfall of Czechoslovakia , but those minority Germans were clearly agitated by Nazi propaganda and German expansionism . The collapse of the international system of minority rights protection under the League of Nations came swiftly . In 1933 Germany left the League of Nations , partly for reasons allegedly based upon the treatment of German minorities elsewhere . A year later Poland announced that it would not abide by the League @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1938 came in a year when only four minority petitions were received by the League of Nations . In December 1939 the minorities section of the League Secretariat was disbanded . This ended a twenty-year experiment in the international protection of minority rights . The failure of the League of Nations minority system was not a failure of the concept of minority rights . Rather , it was a misapplication of the minority rights concept . The international imposition of measures on behalf of minorities was perceived as a threat to the national sovereignty of newly created states . Under international law , states are supposed to he equal to each other in their sovereignty . The fact that some states were subject to minority rights doctrines while others were exempted was offensive to the sensitivities of leaders such as Jan Paderewski of Poland . As a Polish representative once stated , the League should " grant to minorities such satisfaction as is legitimate and compatible with the interests of the state . " In doing so , the minority states believed , the League would be treating them in a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ system to small eastern and central European states was a defect that could hardly be justified when Germany , Belgium , and Italy failed to undertake similar obligations . Minority rights principles were not universal in application . They were international only among those states that were new and weak . Assimilation of diverse groups was impeded , and national disintegration was indirectly encouraged . Kin states took a special interest in protecting their adjacent minorities . In 1930 the British delegates to the League " frankly adopted the view that where German minorities were concerned it was for the German government to look after their interests . " Later , of course , Germany pressed the rights of German  | minorities to the uttermost , finally using it as a pretext for subversion and war . On the other hand , many of the minority states of central and eastern Europe did try to reduce the power and influence of internal minority groups . The majority nationality often persecuted " disloyal " minorities in the name of national security . Discriminatory and oppressive measures were adopted in many minority states @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of group rights by an international organization was symptomatic of larger disorders . The League of Nations minority system failed for reasons similar to those that resulted in the subsequent failures of the League in other areas . The world order was disintegrating under the pressures of aggressive , expansionist policies . Weaker minority nations feared the powerful expansionist states and curtailed the liberties of their minorities in order to protect themselves against fifth column subversion . Also , the virulent nationalism of Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy was a central and eastern European disease as well . The League was impotent to manage these fears and tensions . The rise of nazism in the 1930s spelled the triumph of racism . The persecution of Jews was novel in its vicious intensity . Genocide , the slaughter of a group , became virtually an official policy of the Nazi regime . Nazi racism was extended to Slays , gypsies , and others deemed inferior races by Nazi propagandists . The brutal treatment of certain groups by the Nazis raised anew the issue of the fragility of minority rights . Moreover , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the national minorities of post-World War I days . Instead , they were members of groups that were often barely conscious of their common identity . Nazi racial ideology generated new demands for collective rights . Minorities still needed the protection of a sound international order . Although the League experiment had failed , the vulnerability of groups to persecution , genocide , and oppression had been clearly demonstrated by the theory and practices of the Fascists and the Nazis . During World War II some demands were renewed for a new international standard of human rights , including a universal standard for the protection of minority groups . But many of the former minority states opposed returning to international guarantees of minority rights . The Czech government in exile asserted its determination to never again concede a special status to minorities . Czechoslovakia , Poland , and other minority states did not wish to return to a condition that encouraged dissension by ethnically alien groups . In Latin America and North America , various resolutions were adopted maintaining that the concept of international protection of minorities was inapplicable in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the concept of international protection of group rights .  | national group protection . A 1943 resolution of the American Jewish Conference called for an international bill of rights which , in addition to ensuring individual rights , would recognize " the inalienable right of all religious , ethnic and cultural groups to maintain and foster their respective group identities on the basis of equality . " During World War II , Max Gottschalk , an American Jewish leader , called upon the proposed United Nations Organization to include among its human rights measures some " special guarantees for all minorities everywhere . " Prominent international law scholars Hersh Lauterpacht and Hans Kelsen proposed forms of international protection of minority rights for the postwar world . Unfortunately , governmental leaders did not respond to these pleas . There was no Woodrow Wilson to encourage minority hopes . There was no official sentiment to support the reinstatement of the League system and precious little official concern with the issue . American officials played a major role in forming the structure of the world after World War II , but most of them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the American undersecretary of state , declared in 1943 : Finally , in the kind of world for which we fight , there must cease to exist any need for the use of that accursed term " Racial or Religious minority . " If the peoples of the earth are fighting and dying to preserve and to secure the liberty of the individual underlaw , is it conceivable that the peoples of the United Nations can consent to the reestablishment of any system where human beings will still be regarded as belonging to such minorities ? Welles articulated views held by Roosevelt and other American leaders who perceived no need for a special protection for minorities . The kind of discrimination with which they were familiar was discrimination against a group that sought integration into society , such as American blacks . What they could not conceive is that a group might want to separate and be apart from the rest of society and feel the need of guarantees of special treatment . In 1945 a United Nations Conference on International Organization met in San Francisco to give final shape to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ United Nations Organization would promote respect for human rights , making human rights violations a matter of concern in international law . The United Nations Charter shows no evidence of a consideration for minority rights . The Charter did not recognize minority rights as a problem of international concern . The neglect of minority rights did not rule out future treatment of those issues , but minority rights were not high on the international agenda . The Charter is not totally silent on the question of collective rights . The  | Charter . This right has always been limited by the existence of United Nations trusteeships , which obviously are not based upon selfdetermination . Nonetheless , the United Nations Organization has often taken stands favoring the termination of dependency relationships . Selfgovernment of peoples has been accepted in important decisions of The Hague International Court of Justice . The right of a people to be independent of foreign domination is an ultimate group right , although it is not actually a minority right . However , if the right extends to peoples within the boundaries of a national state , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the right of self-determination implies a right to secede , then a minority group may remove itself from minority oppression by exerting its collective right . This is what the Bengalis did when they established Bangladesh . The Ibos of East Nigeria failed to create their new state of Biafra , but their rallying cry was , essentially , " self-determination . " Secession is not actually condoned by international law . The dismemberment of a state is not a right . However , self-determination , as a principle , contains an implicit threat to the integrity of multiracial , multiethnic , and multinational states . The right seems to include peoples living under colonial domination or peoples living with well-established states such as Ukrainians in the Soviet Union and Scots in the United Kingdom . However , a recent United Nations study links the collective right of self-determination to anti-colonialism and to the enhancement of national integrity . All that self-government seems to require is that " the seceding people is located in a well-defined territorial area in which it forms a majority . " 36 The territory claimed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ peoples who may claim competing rights to self-government . The Palestine problem in which two peoples have claimed the same territory for generations has embittered the Near East to the point of war on several occasions . Current Palestinian terrorism against Israel is a continuation of a war by one people against another . Israeli treatment of West Bank Palestinians is a further example . There is , of course , not much likelihood that a sovereign state would peacefully consent to its own dismemberment . The right of self-determination may practically mean little more than a justification for those people who succeed in their independence movement . But international law seems to support the self-determination of people as a right , regardless of the uncertainty of the outcome of any independence movement and the ambiguity of the word " people . " The 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights does proclaim a minimal version of minority rights . The Covenant provides that :  | In those states in which ethnic , religious or linguistic minorities exist , persons belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enjoy their own culture , to profess and practice their own religion , or to use their own language . The Covenant represents a minimalist version of minority rights . Minority rights are not promoted by such a provision . Minorities are not given special economic , social , or political advantages , nor is their position made secure against majority culture , language , or religion . Certainly no kind of autonomy is envisaged by the 1966 Covenant , nor are minorities entitled to any institutional safeguards . The 1960 Convention Against Discrimination in Education goes much further , in the education area , to protect minority values and culture . The Convention states that " it is essential to recognize the right of members of national minorities to carry on their own educational activities , including the maintenance of their own schools . " However , this article mentions only national minorities , not religious or linguistic groups . While these two conventions are all that is left of a general international concern with minority rights , they express little more than a gesture , although the conventions are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has singled out a group for special consideration . In 1974 the United Nations General Assembly resolved that " the Palestinian people have ' inalienable rights ' " including a " right to self-determination without external interference " and a " right to national independence and sovereignty . " Of course , the legal effect of such a declaration is questionable , and the political motivations are fairly obvious , but the resolution does rest upon a group claim that violates or limits the sovereignty of a member state ? Israel . There remain some vestiges of international protection of minorities in the European Convention on Human Rights , which permits groups , as well as individuals or states , to bring complaints to the European Court of Human Rights . National sovereignty has been somewhat infringed by this European Convention . The fourteen states that have accepted the compulsory jurisdiction of the European Court have had to make a few concessions to minority rights . The European Court has concerned itself with linguistic minorities in Belgium and the Roman Catholic minority in Northern Ireland among other cases . In addition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that have relevance for minorities . Rights to nationality , freedom of religion , of expression , and of association are important . However , except for the right of " association with a national minority , " the European Convention strongly resembles the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in its vagueness concerning minority rights . This phrase ,  | found in Article 14 of the Convention , falls short of the generous language proposed for minorities by the Minorities Sub-Committee of the Legal Committee of the Council of Europe Assembly . However , the general position for minority rights in international law is quite weak nowadays . While the United Nations has never pronounced the minority protection system dead , neither has it vigorously attempted to cope with the protection of minorities , except as an aspect of racism . There is a United Nations subcommission ostensibly devoted to the Prevention of Discrimination and the Protection of Minorities , but little has been issued from that docile body . One international law scholar has declared that the fashion for the international protection of minorities has " become nearly obsolete " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " 44 But the need for international protection is no less than in the past . The Palestinians , the Kurds , and the Basques are fighting for what they perceive to be their rights . Indeed , it may be concluded fairly that " in the world of reality . . . there is scarcely a state today ( even in Europe ) which is free of minorities and their problems " and " it is clear that the exclusive pursuit of individual human rights , without paying heed to the collective needs of minorities , is a counter-productive policy . " In 1964 at a Security Council meeting of the United Nations , the Indian representative stated that many of the world 's minorities wish for governments of their own . The breakup of member states was considered a hazard of an undue emphasis upon minority rights . India itself has been repeatedly endangered by separatist threats . Perhaps , " the subject of international human rights has almost from the very beginning been dominated by the politician , who has been the true midwife of virtually all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ longer be innovating minority rights because it is not prudent to do so in a period when civil wars and international disorder are more dangerous than in the nonnuclear past . The priorities of international politics no longer favor minority rights . This does n't invalidate the concept . It does require fresh thought , new approaches , and a review of the errors of the past . Other international conventions may hold some promise as a future source of minority rights . The International Convention on the . Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination , adhered to by ninetyfour nations , mentions " special measures taken for the sole purpose of securing adequate advancement of certain racial or ethnic groups " that are permitted within the terms of the Convention . The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , adhered to by forty-four nations , declares that " all peoples have the right of self-determination " and goes  | on to assert that " by virtue of the right they freely determine their political status and freely pursue their economic , social and cultural development . " Most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than to " peoples . " But most promising of all is the provision of this same Covenant that specifically endorses a principle of minority rights . The following clause contains the essential elements that can lead to an eventual complete international recognition of minority rights : In those states in which ethnic , religious or linguistic minorities exist , persons belonging to such minorities shall not be denied the right , in community with the other members of their group , to enjoy their own culture , to profess and practice their own religion , or to use their own language . Under this Covenant a Human Rights Committee has been established with the power to scrutinize alleged rights violations . The Committee has had little to do with minority rights claims , but at least the principle of minority rights has been formally accepted by most of the nations of the world . At least international law has learned something from the Nazi excesses . Minorities do have a basic right to physical existence . The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide is based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ genocide is defined as any act " committed with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnical , racial or religious group , as such . " These principles concerning minorities are generally " recognized by civilized nations as binding on states , even without any conventional obligation , " according to the view of the International Court of Justice . This Convention treats minorities as groups and recognizes a group right of existence . However , the Convention does not establish a right to specific characteristics of groups so that the destruction of cultural , linguistic , religious , or other group traditions is not prohibited . The concept of minority rights still retains some international regard . Even though the vigor of the early years of the century have waned , t here is a continuing sense of the importance of respect , at least , for the claims of minorities . The latest evidence of the continuing international support for some limited version of minority rights can be found in the I lelsinki Accords subscribed to , among others , by the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Accords declare that : The participating States on whose territories national minorities exist will respect the right of persons belonging to such minorities to equality before the law , will afford them the full opportunity for the actual enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms and will , in this manner , protect their legitimate interests in this sphere . "  | This minimal statement , restricted to national minorities , may represent a realistic , contemporary , international assessment of the status of minority rights . Clearly , much progress remains to be made in the international arena . It may be necessary , as a practical matter , to " stress the essential , mutually complementing functions of minority rights and human rights , " but it is unlikely that formulating a new international convention on minority rights will be an attractive task for the United Nations  | IN international law a minority is usually viewed as a population group with a characteristic culture and a sense of identity that is in a subordinate political , social , or economic status . Indeed , many believe that minorities are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or dependent status . Numerous societies have been based upon the rule of small elites sometimes composed of members of languages , religions , races , or castes different from those of the subject populations . These numerical minorities , whether through enslavement , military domination , imperialism , or colonialism , have maintained ascendancy over long periods of time . These types of minority rule regimes are uncommon in the modern world , but linger on in South Africa and some portions of Asia . Minority rule is an important phenomenon ; it is the antithesis of minority rights , for the numerical minority actually allocates rights and privileges . Minorities need not be subservient and , as recent African experience suggests , black minorities may dominate black majorities . Minority rule persists in the modern world as a vestige of prenationalist sentiments or as a holding action for colonialist settlers and their offspring . One of the saddest , most brutal examples of minority rule resulted in warfare in the 1950s in two African ministates , Rwanda and Burundi . In both countries a minority tribe , the Tutsi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rules over the numerically superior Hutu . The Tutsi had invaded the region ( part of the former Belgian Congo ) before the fifteenth century . They subjugated the Hutu , converting the majority population into virtual serfs . At the end of World War II this long-time condition was upset by modernization and intervention by the United Nations and Belgium , the Trust Administrator . Democratic institutions were introduced . Parties emerged . Eventually bloody civil war broke out . In Rwanda , at least , the Tutsi minority rule was shattered . ' Nationalism , Western ideals , and  | modernization destroyed the basis of minority rule , repeating a process that had taken place in Europe a century or two before . In southern Africa minority rule clearly derives from other impulses . We shall return to these examples . The ancient world generally practiced slavery . Egyptian slaves built the pyramids . Slaves toiled in Babylonia , Persia , and all over the civilized world . Even Athens , at its height of glory , was supported by slaves who worked for its free citizenry . While @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was rarely benign , and in most cases , as in ancient Greece , it rested upon the power of a minority ; even Athenian democracy itself rested somewhat upon minority rule , although experts disagree as to the extent and scope of Athenian slavery.2 Plato argued against the enslavement of Greeks . Most Athenian slaves probably were Greeks obtained through conquest and war . Plato condemns the practice ? but only as it applied to Greeks.3 Even so , Plato regards slaves as having inferior , undeveloped minds , as a different and lower order of beings.4 Apart from the issue of enslaving other fellow Greeks , Plato accepted the conventional view of slavery prevalent in Greece and elsewhere to justify subjugation of a majority by a more potent minority . Aristotle more consciously developed the notion of minority rule supported by slavery . Free citizens would be a minority in the city because they must be free to be active participants in politics . Essentially , " for Aristotle , citizenship is the privileged status of the ruling group , able to practice the good life and therefore learn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because it is a leisured class . " 5 Aristotle was able to justify this position with the argument that slaves are unfitted to rule themselves and are necessarily dependent . Aristotle also contended that many men were slaves by nature because they lacked the ability to reason and benefitted from subjection to a master who was better able to make reasoned judgments.b In ancient Greece no slave ever held public office or sat on a council or a jury . The majority of slaves were non-Greeks . The main sources of supply were war and piracy . Captives , usually barbarians , were enslaved and sold on an open slave market . So-called Greek democrat did not discourage slavery . On the contrary , " the cities in which individual freedom reached its highest expression ? most obviously Athens ? were cities in which chattel slavery flourished . " The minority ruled and the majority were enslaved or were unrepresented.8 Slaves were never in a numerical majority in ancient Greece or Ro but they were the largest fraction of the unrepresented populatio  | Minority rule was based on a number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and noncitizens , were always without political voice . The political power of the ancient world rested largely in the hands of free , male citizens , who rarely were concerned that they formed a minority of the populaton . Slavery continued into the nineteenth and twentieth century , when it was isolated in smaller , backward areas . Burmese ascendancy in Assam led to the enslavement of Assamese in the early nineteenth century . These slaves formed the bulk of the population in various villages throughout what is now modern Burma . Slavery persists today , it is said , in the Sudan and parts of Saudi Arabia and once flourished under the early Ottoman Empire . But the mass enslavement and subjugation of a conquered people by external invaders has virtually disappeared in the modern world . Slave states , the most arbitrary form of minority rule , were never prevalent , but they have now ceased to exist . All human societies have been marked by social differentiation and inequality . The division of labor among men produces a series of graded distinctions in social ranks . Even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , modern democracies , based as they are upon the formal equality of all individuals , deny the legitimacy of political inequality . This modern , democratic commitment to formal political equality is less than 150 years old . Prior to modern times all societies were based upon some form of elite rule , whether by aristocrats , kings , classes , castes , or conquerors . In a sense all premodern societies accepted political inequality and the rule of some kind of elite . In that sense minority rule has been the norm in human history , while political equality has been an exception . Elite political minorities have been prevalent in the governance of almost all political institutions . Only utopians , radicals , and political opportunists deny this fact of political life.9 The history of political philosophy provides many rationalizations for one or another form of minority rule . Plato justifies the rule of the intelligent ; Thomas Hobbes proposes a sovereign Leviathan ; John Calvin glorifies his church ; Karl Marx extols the proletariat and its temporary dictatorship . John Locke describes a majority principle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of adult males . Thomas Jefferson argued that a majority of Americans should formulate public policy , but he did n't include slaves or women in his calculations . Few modern democrats recall the brief history of majority rule and fewer still would admit the fragility of the principle in operation . For most societies minority rule has been virtually unquestioned . Indeed , it is doubtful whether either rulers or ruled thought much about  | the matter until the rise of the modern state and the later rise of capitalist democracies . The unequal distribution of political power was virtually a part of the natural order . If there was any question , it was which minority should rule ; church or king , army or nobility , one dynasty or another , the Red Rose of Lancaster or the White Rose of York . Most men were mere pawns and peasants during such struggles . They were indifferent to the outcome , since they would , in any event , be relatively powerless.10 Feudalism was probably a result of a form of militarism , but it provided a firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ derive authority from military power , ownership of land , conquest , religious belief , factory ownership , or from a political party . In premodern societies it is fairly easy to locate the source of authority , but in modern societies it is frequently very difficult to discern which group , if any , dominates . Because of this dispersion of political power and authority in modern , democratic states , minority rule rarely is evident , yet many observers of democracies find that even they exhibit signs of elite dominance , of minority rule . " In the past most people were classified as elite or nonelite according to their parentage . There was a Spartiate caste in Sparta , Eupatridae in Athens , and Brahmans in India . First-born sons of royalty and noblemen had a natural claim to elite status . In simpler societies accidents of birth sometimes conferred elite status.12 Birth and parentage are important sources of social power in the modern world , especially in societies in which caste and class are significant . Monarchy , of course , usually rested upon parentage , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through parentage remains a potent force in the world , a force for minority dominance , if not minority rule . Education has also provided the basis for elite political dominance . The Inca nobility preserved its elite status by means of a system of education reserved exclusively for the nobility . The Inca Empire provided noble students with information on religion , laws , customs , and the arts of governance . Poetry , music , philosophy , and astrology were in the curriculum . Military training was emphasized so as to aid ill the repression of the peasantry.13 The use of education to perpetuate elite rule , frequently coupled with a denial of education to the subservient masses , has continued to modern times . History also discloses some remarkable examples of the emergence of new elites from an earlier condition of servitude . Perhaps the best example is provided by the Mamelukes , a warrior caste who were dominant in Egypt and sometimes elsewhere in the Middle East for over 700 years . The Mamelukes were originally non-Arab slaves used as soldiers by their Arab masters . Gradually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ masters . By 1250 Aybak ,  | the first Mameluke to actually become a ruler , was able to force the mother of the last Arab sultan to marry him after she had murdered her own son . The Mamelukes were not fully defeated until the Turks bested them in the sixteenth century . Mameluke governors retained vast regional powers until Napoleon eventually defeated them during his 1798 invasion of Egypt . Probably the most impressive example of minority rule in history is provided by the Aryans of India . Sometime around 1500 B.C. the Aryans invaded the Indus civilization of northern India . For 2,000 years they ruled in numerous kingdoms . Maintaining a cultural separatism by means of a well-developed caste system , the Aryans gradually created a whole new civilization . Cultural assimilation eventually defeats a conquering minority . The Norman invasion of Great Britain ( eleventh century ) resulted in a superimposition of a Norman aristocracy on the English and the rise of a new elite , which brought with it Norman feudalism . Norman French became the language of the upper classes . However , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinctive new culture . In modern times elite rule is rarely based upon culture or language . Economic status , party , and social position may be more significant than family , religion , or even race . Military cliques , dictatorial parties , major corporations , and economic classes provide the pools from which modern elites are usually drawn . The decade of great conquering empires imposing their alien culture on a vastly more numerous but defeated foe has passed . Nationalism and the urge for self-government are usually too strong to permit direct rule by a occupying minority . Perhaps nazism , with its doctrine of elite Aryan dominance , was the last effort to deliberately promote direct minority rule . Probably South Africa is the only major modern example of direct , intentional minority rule . Rhodesia has passed away . But these nations are so distinctive as to require separate and detailed consideration . Their deliberate effort to retain elite , minority power requires explanation and elaboration . Imperialism , as a phrase , has been reduced to a catchword . The vigorous pursuit of adjacent territory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over territory after successful conquest was a policy of Egyptians , Babylonians , Persians , Medes , Greeks , Aryans , Mongols , and countless other peoples pressing against their neighbors and sometimes conquering them and ruling over them . The empires of history were often warrior nations that were usually based upon force . Thus , " a will for broad conquest without tangible limits , for the capture  | of positions that were manifestly untenable ? this was typical imperialism " in the ancient world and for a period extending into the fifteenth century age of European discovery.14 Booty and tributes were extracted from the conquered peoples , but nationalism was absent . Conquered peoples retained their religion , culture , and language ( with some exceptions , as in the religious imperialism of the Arab conquests in the name of Allah and Mohammed ) , but for the most part old-style imperialism did not usually create a new social order with new elites drawn from the conquering peoples . Modern imperialism and colonialism had that impact . Unlike premodern imperialism , the dominant powers of recent centuries have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the collapse of these colonial elites . Colonialist minority rule is dead or nearly so , even though imperialism of another sort is very much alive . Irrational expansionism was the hallmark of premodern imperialism . Roman imperialism eventually threatened the stability of the domestic political scene , but it continued inexorably and aimlessly until it collapsed . " Eventually , the elite corps of the soldiery , the Praetorians , determined the rise and fall of the emperors . In seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Europe , the absolute monarchs pursued a policy of personal aggrandizement intended to stamp out the feudal nobility and to centralize power in the hands of the king . The policy succeeded in Spain , France , and parts of Germany , where a centralized state was created under the military and political dominance of the crown.16 But this kind of imperialism was not colonialist in nature . The absolute monarchs succeeded where the Romans had failed . They created viable , large-scale governing units . The product of monarchial aggrandizement was not an empire , it was a state . Some of these states themselves launched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior existence of a state . It is not coincidental that the European colonies in the Western Hemisphere were launched at a time just after European states were being formed . Modern imperialism has been defined as " that consciously undertaken state activity in which force , intrigue , or even negotiation is employed to secure the long-range political or economic domination by the state of foreign territory or foreign peoples it wishes for some reason to control . " 17 Modern imperialism did not depend solely upon war and it was not purposeless . It proceeded from familiar state policies , which were intended to benefit the mother country . The " imperialist sponsor ? individual group , or class ? is aware of and committed to its activities , which it invariably undertakes in the name of the state . " " Imperialism of this sort was principally a European activity during the past four centuries , but Asian imperialism also existed , as the defeat of the Japanese in World War II amply illustrates . In some ways the Eastern  | European Communist states may be perceived as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been extended slightly to encompass the available facts.19 The initial European impulse toward foreign dominations was for gold , silver , and spices . The Spanish conquest and subjugation of Peru is a classic example . In 1532 Francisco Pizarro arrived on the Peruvian coast with a small band of adventurers . Pizarro encountered another empire , the Incas who held sway over large parts of South America . Pizarro met and imprisoned the Inca emperor , Atahualpa , who had refused to accept Spanish suzerainty or Christianity . The emperor 's followers gathered a hugh ransom in gold and silver to procure his release , but to no avail . Atahualpa was executed and Pizarro went on to capture Cuzco , the Inca capital , and the Inca Empire disintegrated . In 1542 Pizarro founded Lima as the Spanish capital , and Lima became the center for Spanish rule in the New World . After a series of unsuccessful revolts , the defeated ( majority ) Indians were put to work in the gold and silver mines . Spanish landlords acquired titles to vast estates and they , too , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gold and silver from their colonies back to Spain . The defeated majority Indians and Creoles ( those of Spanish descent born in Peru ) were rendered powerless and poor , while Spanish royal power was extended into the New World.20 Minority rule had arrived but not for the first time in the Americas . Aztecs and Incas had once ruled slave empires of Indian subjects . The British , Dutch , and French East India companies exhibited a new and special kind of imperial development , a quasi-private national trading imperialism . Queen Elizabeth of England chartered the British East India Company in 1600 . The company was composed of a group of merchants who gradually procured trade privileges that yielded large profits . The British East India Company began to intervene more and more in political affairs , especially in India . Ultimately the British government itself assumed more direct responsibilities for the administration of British affairs in India , setting up a board of control for India . This indirect , quasi-private imperialism was based upon the private pursuit of profit . In France economic activity was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ XIV 's devoted finance minister , JeanBaptiste Colbert , pursued a conscious policy of national imperial development that was to become the model of European imperialism until the nineteenth century . Mercantilism or " Colbertism " was based on the principle that national power was based upon the national accumulation of wealth . For the Spanish imperial wealth meant New World gold and silver . For Colbert and his successor 's national wealth meant a favorable balance of trade , the predominance of exports over Imports . For this purpose Colbert encouraged and planned the French East India Company for the purpose of trading in the East . In Colbert 's  | day the chief idea was to transport all French merchandise in French ships and to retain an exclusive trading relationship between the mother country and the colony . Ideally , the French East India Company was to acquire colonies . Failing that , it was to acquire trade monopolies and preferences . Minority rule would be more indirect , less obvious . English mercantilism was similar . The English colonies in the New World were perceived to be a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back to the mother country where , after being manufactured into finished goods , they would become English exports to the rest of the world . Thus , the American colonists were discouraged from manufacturing even rum or cloth . The discouragement of manufacturing in America , the requirements of an exclusive trading relationship between the American colonies and Great Britain , and harsh English enforcement policies help lead to the American Revolution , the first , modern successful anti-imperialist rebellion . Yet in America , the native Indians did not fit into the system . The American colonies were an example of imperial settlement policies similar to those used by Spain in settling their lands in the New World during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.21 The colonists moved into marginal lands sometimes displacing the native populations , sometimes slaughtering them . Emigrants came as a distinct minority and gradually pushed out the indigenous people who became a numerical or a virtual minority.22 The French , Dutch , and Swedes attempted settlements in North America , but none persisted . The friction between colonist and homeland grew in time . Eventually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of settlement created a host of problems of minority group relationships in the newly independent states , but the European states learned a lesson in imperialism . Settlement imperial policies are extremely costly to maintain and , as transportation and communications technologies improved , settlement as a means of imperialism was replaced by a newer form of imperialism resting firmly upon colonialism without settlement . The empires of settlement were gradually abandoned as the European powers came to the realization that mercantilist policies were not benefitting their national interest . The first French colonial empire ended in 1763 , while Spain and Portugal lost South America in the early 1820 's . The first British empire ended in 1783 , although the loss of the American colonies delivered substantial benefits to English foreign trade . The unending accumulation of gold and silver proved a foolish national policy , and the single-minded pursuit of a favorable balance of trade required a national regulation of production and distribution that only hampered the accumulation of capital in private hands . In effect , industrial production as a form of wealth depended upon free markets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Adam Smith ,  | Adam Smith 's Wealth of Nations was published in 1776 , a fateful year in world history . The American Revolution in the same year was , in many ways , a protocapitalist revolution . The American colonists wanted to develop their " infant industries , " although the colonial system discouraged it . The artifical regulation of imports and exports led to outbursts like the Boston Tea Party and to protests over taxation without representation . But the American Revolution was also a blow against the old imperial economy , and it was supported by many members of the British Parliament partly because they were infected by the new liberal doctrines of freer trade , which became best explained and rationalized by Adam Smith and later by Richard Cobden . The English remained virtually alone in the empire business after 1815 and , for more than a century thereafter there were no important colonial rivalries . Imperialism seemed almost dead . Suddenly , in the period between 1870 and 1900 , most of the European powers became deeply involved in imperialist policies . France , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanded their colonial interests or made new colonial claims . None could match the British Empire , upon which the sun never set . Even the Americans , having spread themselves from the Atlantic to the Pacific , pursued imperialist policies . Belatedly the Japanese launched some ventures , to their great sorrow . Australia and New Zealand found a few islands to their liking . This new imperialism was one of the great events in world history.23 New imperialism gave rise to widespread minority rule by distant colonial administrators and their indigenous agents . New imperialism created the artificial national boundaries within which new minorities were formed . New imperialism became the subject of lively and bitter political disputes ever since . Lenin called it " the monopoly stage of capitalism , " the last phase of capitalism prior to the revolution . Since Karl Marx died in 1883 , long prior to the full development of imperialism , we do not know the correct Marxist view of overseas expansionism . Joseph A. Schumpeter regarded imperialism as an aberration , as an atavism , and as not a necessary feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the imperialist impulse , but regardless of the theoretical debate , imperialism has been discredited , and the term is now one of approbation and condemnation . No nation can openly and honorably pursue a policy of imperialism today . Even conservative capitalist writers condemn and criticize imperialism . The criticism began to mount with the 1902 publication of J. A. Hobson 's Imperialism.24 Hobson vividly argued that Great Britain 's absorption in maintaining her colonial possessions and obtaining new possessions was not worth the cost in terms of money , energy , and blood . Imperialism was bad business policy , and it did not provide a genuine outlet for so- British settlement in tropical climes . The use of national power to secure new markets by annexing fresh tracts of territory was regarded as an unsound policy for an advanced industrial country . Lenin took Hobson 's argument several steps further by concluding that the new imperialism was a form of capitalist suicide , capitalism 's highest , final stage.25 Regardless of the linkage between capitalism and imperialism , their is little doubt that " imperialism is , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nations of the largest part of the rest of the world . " 26 This appropriation led directly to the most massive example of minority rule in world history . Never before had so many people come under the political control of so few people . The new imperialism provides the best example of minority rule . With the decay of that imperialism , minority rule has become a rarity , unless one describes certain Communist states as another form of new imperialism , or unless one accepts a Leninist view of finance capital in its penultimate phase . The social , psychological , economic , and political sources of new imperialism are much debated and little understood . However , nationalism was clearly a major factor . European countries , many of which had themselves been recently unified , attempted to express their newfound national sentiments through expansionism . Germany , Italy , and even Belgium were latecomers to imperialism because they were newer nations . Cecil Rhodes and Henry Livingston were British heroes because they glorified the sense of British nationality . In its American version , imperialism was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ others , by Theodore Roosevelt . The net effect of the heightened sense of nationalism was a sense of cultural superiority , coupled quite naturally with a sense of mission . Of course , the subject majorities were denied their nationhood . Racialist themes were also prevalent in the new imperialism . This racialism was another pretext for minority rule when the poet-laureate of imperialism , Rudyard Kipling , called upon his brethren to " take up the white man 's burden " and " serve your captive 's need . " He justified this because " your new-caught , sullen peoples " were " half-devil and half-child. " 28 Colonialism had existed in the past without regard to skin color , but the new imperialism often resulted in a few white men ruling over large numbers of dark-skinned peoples . Indeed , for many whites that was its prime function . Another explanation for the outburst of the new imperialism was the competitive drives of the leaders of the European nations . When Prince Bernhard von Bulow , the German foreign minister , said " we do not want to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place for ourselves in the sun , " he clearly expressed the envy of the newly unified Germans for a share of the uncolonized world . The map of Africa became varicolored as the competing European powers staked their claims . In  | Asia , too , the Europeans carved out their zones and spheres of influence . Europeans , armed with modern weaponry and moved by rapid transportation , were technologically far superior to native Africans and Asians . Their competitive lust for empire was irresistible . The key element in the new imperialism was its organization . When the British government supplanted the private East India Company , it gave great attention to constructing a thin layer of top administrators through whom India was to be governed . A bureaucratic tradition was developed for the administration of overseas territories . Virtually every European imperialist power followed suit . With considerable variation , every European state established a chain of command extending from a central ministry in charge of colonies to a governor in the colony . The governor was served by one or two levels of provincial administration , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into practice . Administrative functions were usually divided among the ministries as in Europe : army , justice , health , education , and so on.29 The pattern of rule placed a handful of Europeans in charge of a huge native population , which itself was divided into many cultures , groups , and factions . All the nineteenth-century empires depended upon the cooperation of native officials or at least a locally recruited staff of subordinates . The French tended to rule more directly than the English , but in practice there were too few Europeans to rule over the natives . Consequently , native traditional chiefs , sultans , kings , and regents were placed in the colonial employ whenever possible . Doubtless , many European powers changed their motives over time . Uplift of the native population and improvement of the economy were sometimes by-products of imperialism . In many colonies education was provided and notions of self-government were , at least , discussed and considered . But in the final view the new empires were administrative and expropriative in nature . They were based upon minority rule and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the most part . European residence in most colonies was minimal . Only Algeria , South Africa , and Rhodesia received sizable numbers of European immigrants . Most European residence was temporary anyway , and a sense of detachment from the indigenous populations was widespread . Europeans remained detached from native society . In colonial India the English made the barriers clear in their clubs and social life . Further , the English lived on the high ground , the Hindus below.30 Minority rule was institutionalized in the community life of the empires.31 By World War I many of the European colonies were on the brink of revolution . In India a great riot broke out on April 13 , 1919 , which resulted in the killing of over 400 Indians by British gunfire . When the Incident was investigated , it was revealed that under martial law the  | British General Dyer had issued his infamous " crawling order . " This order required that no Indians should pass on a certain street where a white woman had been attacked . If Indians wanted to pass on that street @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were placed at certain points to enforce obedience to this order . " 32 By the end of World War II imperialism was in disarray . Within a decade after the end of the war , virtually all European empires had vanished . Portugal and Spain held out the longest , but eventually Mozambique , Angola , and the Spanish Sahara gained their independence . Decolonization was often the result of warfare , as in Indonesia , Indochina , and Algeria . Violence in Malaya , Kenya , and the Belgian Congo helped speed independence . Elsewhere European powers , exhausted by their wartime struggles with each other , " voluntarily " relinquished their colonial holdings . Colonial elites , the ruling Europeans and their native agents , were replaced by nationalist leaders . A new elite had arisen , but an elite grounded in the people of the region , an " elite which rose in response to the colonial presence , " not an alien minority elite . The postcolonial elites in Africa and Asia were largely educated in the West . They were sons of the native bourgeoisie @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the colonial administrative system into a representative political system . Independence from colonialism did not usually give rise to political democracy , but it did end alien minority rule and put in its place representative national leaders.34 Unfortunately , the boundaries for the newly independent countries had been drawn rather arbitrarily by the European powers , giving rise to problems of national integration and minority group relations that still plague many of these former colonial states . The Republic of South Africa , which stands out as the world 's leading contemporary example of minority rule , can not be explained merely in terms of the heritage of colonialism and imperialism . Racial separatism is an old story in South Africa , and minority rule has been prevalent for centuries . White Afrikaners , descendents of Dutch immigrants , cling to a privileged position that effectively excludes blacks from political life and renders white descendants of the English virtually powerless . In South Africa four million whites ( or probably fewer ) have political power , while 20 million blacks have no voice in national government . Slightly less than half @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while the other half lives in cities . The urbanized blacks pose a particularly great threat to white minority rule , since they live close to the areas of white population and greatly outnumber the whites .  | edge of predominately white Johannesburg . Other minorities , the Indians and the mixed breed coloured population , also are denied full political rights and are segregated in industry , education and home life from the dominant whites . Minority white rule in South Africa is a unique phenomenon ( save Rhodesia until Zimbabwe was created ) . There are other authoritarian regimes in the world . There are more brutal dictatorships . There are even more repressive regimes . But in no other nation is the principle of minority rule so glorified . Nowhere else is the minority so firmly in control , in spite of its cultural and ethnic position as a minority . The first European settlement in South Africa was made in 1652 by the Dutch East India Company at Tabler Bay on the Cape of Good Hope . The early Dutch immigrants brought in their own cattle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hottentot tribes . The Dutch farmers pushed further away from Cape Town and extended their farmlands further into the countryside . Gradually , the Hottentots were converted into herdsmen and laborers for the Dutch . Slavery was also introduced ; by 1701 there were 1,780 freeholders of European descent ( including 200 Huguenot refugees ) and 1,100 slaves . Separatism was the policy almost from the beginning . Hottentots were not subject to Dutch law . The Bushmen ( San ) were driven off the newly acquired white man 's grazing lands . The Bantu people were to the north and east of the original Dutch settlements . They were 600 miles away from Cape Town , separated from the whites by the barrier of the Great Fish River . The white farmers ( known as Boers ) had become a distinct culture by the mid-eighteenth century . In this protracted warfare against the black Xhosa , the whites gained control over more and more territory , which they settled , having expelled the blacks . Boer separatism was an old practice and policy . When the British replaced the Dutch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy . While the British called for better treatment of the Coloured and black Africans who served the Boers as workers , servants , and slaves , they still attempted to keep the blacks and whites apart . In 1819 Lord Charles Somerset , the British governor of the Cape , entered into a treaty with the native chief , Gaika , which established the first separate black Bantustan territory.35 British colonial policy in South Africa was aimed at resistance to Boer expansionism , but between 1835 and 1843 a Boer migration from the Cape Colony took place . This migration of Dutch farmers , known as " the Great Trek " brought the Boers into conflicts with the Zulus . The Boers established their farms and formed their own republics of Transvaal and the Orange Free State . In doing so , native lands were taken and white farmers converted the indigenous blacks into laborers  | British efforts to control the Boers failed until the South African ( Boer ) War of 1899-1902 , which resulted in the Boers defeat . Concessions were made to appease the Boers but none @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bonds of the commonwealth itself were broken . For in spite of their defeat by the British , the Afrikaners hold most of the political power and form the core of the ruling white minority . The triumph of Afrikaner nationalism did not arrive until after World War II . Afrikaner nationalism shattered the compromise which created the Union of South Africa as a member of the British Commonwealth and instituted the basic policies of racial segregation and separatism for which South Africa is best known . When the National Party came to power in 1948 , it took steps to institute a frankly racist policy to uphold and strengthen the minority rule of whites , but particularly of Afrikaners who compose most of the membership of the party . The party was not only anti-black , it was also anti-Asian , anti-coloured , and somewhat anti-English . The consolidation of Afrikaner rule seemed its prime goal . The coloured group was removed from the common roll , meaning that they were stripped of their vote in the national government . Instead , they were given greater autonomy over their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was supposedly to help the group maintain its " ethnic identity . " The same " autonomy " was given the Indian community through an essentially advisory Indian Council . Eventually , the blacks were given so-called homelands while the coloureds , having no homeland , were given a " brown parliament , " the Coloured People 's Representative Council , in place of the representation they formerly had ( through white members ) in the central parliament . Racial segregation and separation had existed in South Africa prior to 1948 , but not to the extent and scope with which it is still practiced . Daniel F. Malan included his policy of apartheid in the Afrikaner Nationalist party platform . Initially , the government applied separatist policies to the urban areas . To accomplish strict separation , a large number of Asians and coloured citizens were forced to relocate out of socalled white areas . Black Africans ( called Bantus by the government ) were removed beyond the borders of the cities into new townships leaving most cities to the whites . Almost all social relations are subject to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been victims of this policy by being assigned to separate homelands , rather than being treated as full citizens . Each of the black ( Bantu ) groups was to be assigned a homeland . About 14 percent of South Africa 's territory has been set aside for such homelands . The policy of separate development , used to justify the creation of the homelands , gives the cities and the major populated areas to the whites .  | may be treated as virtual aliens within South Africa . Movements of black Africans are carefully monitored through an elaborate pass system . African residence is regulated , employment is controlled , and blacks do not vote . The cynicism of this policy becomes evident when it is seen in practice . Third and fourth generation urban blacks are closely identified with their so-called homelands . All Africans living outside their homelands are subject to strict curfew and pass regulations , the violation of which results in prompt arrests . Much more could be said about apartheid and " separate development , " but both are clearly designed to perpetuate minority rule.36 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lives and tension.37 The ruling white minority is well entrenched , but growing restive after the collapse of the Portuguese colonies in Angola and Mozambique . The Dutch Reformed Churches , the Nationalist party , and the military have a firm grip on the country . Every prime minister since 1948 has been an Afrikaner Nationalist . Given the demographic situation , some modification of strict race separation has taken place . South Africa is no longer a racial despotism ; separate development has been questioned , although tentatively . The ruling whites have not hit upon a better formula for minority rule , but they are looking for one . Some form of pluralism or power sharing in which whites might still predominate would , possibly , be considered , although Afrikaner intellectuals are vague about the details . However , majority rule is out . No substantial body of white opinion exists to support a surrender of power to the majority . Minority rule will persist until events force a reconsideration of that most fundamental South African ruling principle . Federation of the Bantustans or confederation with them may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . White rule and ethnic exclusivity are the bases for life in South Africa today . Riots and brutal repression still seem able to suppress black African discontent . Blacks seem to want majority rule but they are prevented from organizing for it in a setting that dampens all non-Afrikaner political action.38 CONSTITUTIONAL MINORITY RULE : ZIMBABWE/RHODESIA Zimbabwe/Rhodesia is just north of the Republic of South Africa . A pure product of nineteenth century colonialism , Rhodesia was ruled for over eighty years by a small group of white settlers . Now , in the wake of black majoritarian drives that have triumphed elsewhere in Africa , the white elite is seeking to preserve some of its long-held privileges by means of constitutional arrangements . Minority rule has ended in Rhodesia , but the transition from minority rule to black dominance has not been easy . There is still the possibility that minority rule will persist until violently terminated , but the minority could he a black minority ainn , nni ni fhn klor ? 4 mninril.r  | White rule in Rhodesia succeeded a series of various black states which themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the white incursion into Rhodesia , a military state existed in the southwest of the territory occupied by the Ndebele , Mzilakazi , the king of this warrior group , had concluded a treaty of friendship with Britain as early as 1836 . The death of King Mzilakazi in 1868 coincided with European discoveries of gold in Southern Rhodesia , whetting the British appetite for more territory . The impulsive adventurer Cecil Rhodes fulfilled the British dream of a white dominance in South Africa by launching a series of invasions which toppled all of the black kingdoms that occupied the territory now know as Zimbabwe/Rhodesia . Rhodes and the British succeeded in the colonization of one of the last areas of Africa still under native rule . In 1870 less than one-tenth of Africa was under European rule . By 1890 , with the white invasion of Rhodesia , nine-tenths of Africa was placed under white rule . Moreover , Cecil Rhodes succeeded where the Portuguese had failed . The conquest of the various black kingdoms of Zimbabwe/Rhodesia by a millionaire white imperialist closed a chapter in European history . Rhodesia @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rhodes , while a member of the parliament of the Cape Colony , organized the British South Africa Company . In 1889 he received a charter from the British government for the private settlement and colonization of the region of Zimbabwe/Rhodesia . Leander Starr Jameson , an associate of Rhodes , led a column of whites deep into the interior , eventually defeating the Ndebele and occupying their territories . Rhodes , who had been politically discredited in South Africa , turned his attention to the development of the country that bore his name . The social and political attitudes of Cecil Rhodes helped entrench white minority rule in Rhodesia . Rhodes believed that the Anglo-Saxon race and the British Empire had a special destiny . The British government itself was reluctant to extend the Empire into the territory , but Rhode 's vision prevailed . Rhodes gained and retained the support of the British governing classes for his ventures . Even the looting of the defeated Ndebele and the theft of their lands was tolerated by a British government which at the time shared Rhodes 's view of white British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ white rule were in place . There was a legislative council with a minority of elected members . The franchise was limited by property and monetary qualifications that eliminated most Africans . The literacy requirement , in particular , had this effect . A Native Affairs Department was established to he responsible for governmental relations with Africans . Legislation was passed providing for the control of Africans in urban areas . Land  | reserves for Africans were created . All this was accomplished " at the time when Britain had a complete control of legislation . " 4 ? For eighty years the white settlers entrenched and strengthened their position . In form minority rule appeared to be democratic and nonracial . The franchise was based upon criteria of education and wealth . The voters ' roll was kept almost exclusively white between 1898 and 1969.41 In 1908 only 50 native voters were enrolled . In 1928 there were 62 African and 22,000 European voters . In 1939 there were 39 African voters , and in the 1948 election 136 Africans were registered . Even by 1969 , when Ian Smith @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there were fewer than 560 African enrolled voters . British rule supported a form of minority rule in Rhodesia . By the time of the 1961 Rhodesian Constitution , electoral reforms allowed 5,127 Africans to vote in an electorate of 88,820 . That was the best the British could do for Rhodesian democracy.42 Africans in British-ruled Rhodesia were not without a government . They were administered separately by a special government department . The Ministry of Internal Affairs ( formerly Native Affairs ) was entirely controlled by whites and responsible only to the white elected government . The Ministry made little pretense of being representative of the African majority . Minority rule was greatest in rural areas where whites were outnumbered eighty to one . Movement to industrial areas was tightly controlled by elaborate rules to restrict freedom for Africans . The franchise was the key issue in Rhodesian history . When the break with England finally came about in 1969 , the die was cast . There would be no majority rule in Rhodesia . All the efforts of the English to alter their traditional policy supporting minority rule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prospect of a gradual transition to African majority rule , the white settlers united behind Ian Smith and the Rhodesian Front and cut their ties with Britain and the Commonwealth . In 1953 Southern Rhodesia became a member of a new federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland , despite the objections of Africans to a new British-created , white-dominated federal structure . Only 429 Africans were eligible to vote in the referendum which created the short-lived federation . By 1964 the federation was dissolved , and Ian Smith was prime minister of Southern Rhodesia . African majority governments were formed in former Northern Rhodesia and in Nyasaland ( renamed Malawi ) . Ian Smith 's Rhodesian Front party swept the 1965 elections . The Smith government proclaimed a unilateral declaration of independence on November 11 , 1965 . Britain called the 1965 declaration an act of rebellion but refused to apply force to reestablish control . After the breakdown of negotiations in 1966 , Britain requested United Nations economic sanctions against  | Rhodesia . On March 2 , 1970 , Rhodesia became a self-proclaimed independent republic . Its Constitution provided for complete @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rule was preserved , in spite of belated British support for eventual majority rule , and independence was sought largely because of the issue . Britain continued to refuse to recognize Rhodesian independence until 1979 when , as a result of constitutional changes engineered by a conservative British government , a form of black majority rule had been translated into one of protected white minority rights . By 1979 the white-ruled Smith regime receded into history with the election of a black prime minister , Bishop Abel Muzorewa . Black majority rule was disputable because so many powers were reserved under the 1969 Constitution to white voters . Moreover , a protracted civil war was still under way when the 1979 elections were held . Black rebels contended that majority rule was a fraud and the Constitution a farce . The recent constitutional history of Rhodesia merits special attention . Under pressure , both diplomatic and military , the Ian Smith regime yielded its exclusive hold on governmental power in Rhodesia . The 1975 collapse of Portuguese rule in neighboring Mozambique seemed to produce a grudging white acceptance of the inevitability @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created to create some sort of transition away from strict minority rule . The 1961 Southern Rhodesian Constitution marked a first step toward encouraging the black majority , but minority rule was preserved . African representation in the legislature was guaranteed . In the 65-member legislature , 50 seats were elected from European constituencies and 15 from newly created African electoral districts . Thus , Southern Rhodesia conceded some representation to the previously unrepresented majority . The British government was committed to some form of representation for Africans . However , dissatisfaction with minority rule precipitated a violent reaction by some black leaders , while many Europeans also rejected the Constitution because they feared increased African nationalism . The white Rhodesians chose to write their own constitution in an independent , white-ruled Rhodesia . Constitutional disputes between Britain and her rebellious colony continued from 1965 until 1979 . Britain never accepted Rhodesian independence and regarded every Rhodesian self-proclaimed constitution as illegitimate . Prime Minister Harold Wilson pressed the Ian Smith regime for a better constitutional settlement that would move the country toward majority rule . In 1968 the Whaley Commission made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whites and blacks . However , the resultant 1969 Constitution of Rhodesia cleverly preserved the essence of minority rule while giving the appearance of equal black representation .  | The 1969 Constitution created a two-house legislature . The lower house , the House of Assembly , has much greater authority than the Senate , which has only a suspensory veto , which can be overridden in the Assembly . The 66-member Assembly had 50 European seats , ensuring white dominance . In the weak Senate blacks had a parity of representation . The 1969 Constitution provided for an increase in African representation in the House of Assembly amounting to eventual parity , but this was dependent upon an increase in income tax paid by Africans . The 1969 Constitution also seemed to permit racially discriminatory legislation when required in the interests of " harmonious relations " or for the " security of the state . " Britain , finding strong African objections to the 1969 Constitution , continued to withhold recognition of Rhodesian independence . Upon British insistence the Smith regime made some minor concessions by constitutional amendments in 1974 and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the radical Africans who turned to terrorist raids to unseat the Smith regime . Finally , after intervention by U.S Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and South African Prime Minister Vorster late in 1976 , the Smith regime proclaimed that it would accept majority rule in two years , conditional upon the dropping of sanctions and the end of terrorism . In 1977 Ian Smith again agreed to work toward majority rule , this time after joint British and American pressure . Finally , in 1978 the white leadership met with three internalist black nationalist groups and agreed to set up an interim government leading to black control . An agreement was signed on March 3 , 1978 , between Smith and three black leaders that provided the basic principles for a new constitution to be based upon majority rule . In 1979 such a constitution was prepared , although Zimbabwe/Rhodesia , as the nation was styled , was involved in open warfare , with radical blacks warring against the government . In 1979 the new constitution was approved . In the referendum for white voters , 85 percent voted in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 28 seats in the new parliament , and blacks held 72 seats . Although whites were overrepresented , the 1979 Constitution put them in the majority . Elections were held in wartime Zimbabwe/Rhodesia and black Bishop Abel Muzorewa led his party to a smashing electoral victory . Yet the black rebels abstained from voting , declaring the election a fraud and a sham . Britain was still not appeased and continued to press the new government , which came into office under Prime Minister Muzorewa on June 1 , 1979 . The 1979 Constitution created a facade of majority rule . Actually , the Constitution entrenched white privileges for at least 10 years . The police , the military , the judiciary and the civil service were effectively to be white controlled for that length of time.43 Furthermore , white  | interests were protected by entrenched provisions in the Constitution that were placed beyond the reach of the black majority.44 These and other features were offensive to Britain and the black rebels . In the fall of 1979 a constitutional conference was held in London at the behest of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rebel forces led by Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe met under the chairmanship of Lord Carrington . The British plan for an independent constitution was on the table . In spite of the opposition of former Prime Minister Ian Smith , the new independent constitution was agreed to by Bishop Muzorewa and the representatives of the rebel Patriotic Front . The new constitution restrained the ability of the white minority to frustrate the black majority , while still protecting the property interests of the whites.45 The army , the police , the judiciary , land , and the civil service were all opened up to Africans . However , many features of the Zimbabwe/Rhodesia Constitution were retained , so that the scope of white powers was ill-defined . Minority rule was effectively ended in Zimbabwe/Rhodesia . In 1980 a new government with black African leadership was elected into office . Robert Mugabe became prime minister in an uneasy cabinet coalition with his political adversary , Joshua Nkomo . The enmity between the two black leaders resulted in Nkomo 's 1982 expulsion from government . Zimbabwe attained black majority rule in 1980 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the plans of larger black tribes were placed in a subordinate position . This seems to be the significance of the expulsion of Joshua Nkomo . Nkomo had been the originator of the movement for black majority rule in the late 1940s when the nation , which was then called Rhodesia , was dominated by a white minority . In 1982 Nkomo and his party , the Zimbabwe African People 's Union ( ZAPU ) , were removed from a leadership position because of a suspected coup . Nkomo is chief of the minority Ndebele tribe based in southwestern Matabeleland Province . Nkomo went into exile in 1983 , and his tribe can anticipate continued repression from Prime Minister Robert Mugabe . Sadly , the end of white minority rule set the stage for black minority rights problems . In recent years new forms of minority rule have arisen . The most dramatic example is that of migrant workers in some of the Persian Gulf states . Curiously , some of the world 's richest nations have imported huge numbers of foreign workers to extract oil and natural gas . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in a majority population of strangers .  | In Qatar , with one of the world 's largest fields of natural gas , only onethird of the total population of 180,000 are citizens . In the United Arab Emirates noncitizens outnumber citizens by 600,000 to 250,000 . In these nations and soon in Saudi Arabia , the citizens are the minorities and the " guest worker " immigrants are the majorities . These majorities are essentially " helot classes employed to enable the citizens elite to live a life of pampered ease . " These worker immigrants are divided into many ethnic and racial groups , although Palestinians seem to enjoy more positions of trust and responsibility than do Egyptians , Syrians , Baluchis , Pakistanis , and Bengalis , while Indians are usually at the bottom of the heap , employed as road sweepers and unskilled laborers . Lebanese appear to be better off than most immigrants . The immigrant laborers do receive free medicine and , if they are government workers , free education , but most dwell in hovels and slums . To a large extent the labor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reside . Nonetheless , they are only temporary residents , to be expelled at will by the ruling minority . Their rights are limited and subject to capricious recall . The gap between the privileges of the ruling minority and the life prospects of the majority migrants is evident . Whether these small , fortunate minority-rule states will be able to continue their rule over the majority is questionable . Unless some formula for expansion of rights is found , these fragile regions run the risk of coups and rebellions . Where citizenship is the only access to social standing , it may be impossible to deny some form of citizenship to long resident workers when they are in the majority . This latest form of minority rule is not well known but is still significant as an example .  | THE emergence of minority rights and of group rights generally has been most notable in certain nations that , for various reasons , have attempted to accomodate minorities in their midst . While there are many pluralistic , multi-ethnic societies , there still has not been a formal recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are many examples of the failure of minority rights arrangements to satisfy the claims of the minorities . There are few prevalent examples of states that have successfully managed to provide extensive protections for minorities while also maintaining national stability . There are also two leading failures of minority rights arrangements that must be considered first in order to obtain a rounded view of minority rights . Two tiny nations only a few hundred miles apart in the eastern Mediterranean have long attempted to provide a peaceful , constitutional framework for the political and social protection of large population groups . Cyprus and Lebanon , each in their own way , experimented briefly and unhappily with a complex , well-defined set of constitutional and legal arrangements designed to deal with the conflicting claims of major groups . Today Cyprus is under Turkish domination , and Lebanon has recently been under Israeli and Syrian occupation . Both Cyprus and Lebanon have experienced bitterness , bloodshed , and open warfare among their major groups . Paper protections have proved insufficient . Lebanon 's population is half Muslim and half Christian , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sects was represented proportionally in the legislature . Until 1947 the Lebanese Constitution provided that Senate seats would be assigned to various religious groups as follows : five Maronites , three Sunnites , three Shiites , three Orthodox , one Catholic , one Druze , and one " minorities . " ' The provision was abrogated on November 9 , 1947.  | The abrogation of 1947 was also a violation of an unwritten agreement known as the National Pact , which had become a part of a far-reaching minority rights settlement . Under the terms of the agreement , the office of the president was reserved to a Maronite Christian , the prime minister would be a Sunni Muslim , the speaker or president of the Chamber , a Shiite Moslem , and the commander of the armed forces would be a Maronite . There were further understandings that would give the ministry of defense to a Druze and , perhaps , the foreign office to a member of the Greek Orthodox community . These specific allocations of public office were intended to reduce tension by providing some governmental roles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expanded to 99 , while maintaining a ratio of 6 Christians to every 5 Muslims . Membership in the parliament was assigned on the basis of religious groupings , so that Greek Orthodox , Greek Catholics , Protestants , Sunni Muslims , Shiite Muslims , and Druzes were all awarded seats in proportion to their populations . None of these arrangements sufficed to ward off political instability . After 1970 the additional presence of armed Palestinian resistance groups led to turmoil and eventual Israeli invasion . Civil war broke out in 1975 as the fragile Lebanese state collapsed . After widespread death and destruction , Syrian troops intervened to maintain order and to prop up the Lebanese government . In 1982 Israel invaded southern Lebanon again , but on a major scale . Lebanese independence is questionable , and , though the structure of the religious settlement still exists in the executive and legislative branches , the delicate balance of group rights has been jeopardized . Yet , in spite of all that has happened , the various government ministries are divided among the previously warring factions of Lebanon . Cyprus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Cyprus had an estimated population of 650,000 before the Turkish invasion of 1974 . At that time , the population was predominantly ( 80 percent ) Greek . Another 18 percent were ethnic Turks , with the remaining population being Armenians and Maronite Christians . Cyprus became independent in 1960 under a constitution that created entrenched guarantees for the Greek and Turkish communities . The Cypriot Constitution of 1960 was one of the most complex attempts to satisfy competing ethnic groups ever written . The Constitution recognized the separate existence of a Greek and a Turkish community , provided for separate communal institutions , separate holidays , separate seats in the legislature , separate ballots , and numerous other devices to ensure separate group development while providing political power to both major groups . Thr 1960 Constitution provided that the Cypriot president would be  | Representatives would be a Greek , the vice-president a Turk.4 The clerks of the House would be two Greeks and one Turk . Greek and Turkish representation upon parliamentary committees was assigned by the Constitution , and even the votes were to have been jointly counted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Cypriot Constitution provided for separate communal chambers with exclusive powers over religious matters , education , certain charitable organizations , and similar community matters.6 The civil service , the police , the armed forces , and the gendarmerie were all staffed according to ratios found in the Constitution . There were also separate systems of Greek-Cypriot and Turkish-Cypriot courts and separate law-enforcement machinery for each . The Council of Ministers was divided strictly between the Greek-Cypriots and the TurkishCypriots . To solidify these arrangements , the key constitutional provisions were made unamendable . In spite of the statistical overrepresentation of the Turkish-Cypriots , the constitutional arrangements irritated both the Turkish minority and the Greek majority . The Greeks sought to strengthen the national government , which they dominated ; the Turks sought to block government moves whenever they felt threatened . The result was a deadlock on many issues . Added to this growing antagonism was the outside interference by both Greece and Turkey . By 1963 open intercommunal fighting broke out . By 1964 a constitutional crisis had arisen , the first of a series of crises lasting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of the Greek ruling junta . Turkey invaded the island on July 20 , 1974 , rapidly occupying 40 percent of the northern portion of Cyprus . Over 200,000 Greek-Cypriots were made homeless and fled to the south . In 1975 a Turkish-Cypriot Federated State was proclaimed . The 1960 Constituton was a shambles . The sad fates of Lebanon and Cyprus suggest that extensive grants of minority rights can be a source for severe instability . Perhaps this is so , but both nations were short-lived as independent entities . Both lacked a sense of nationhood and of loyalty to a single state . Both were subject to outside interference and invasion . Doubtless , their minority rights guarantees were insufficient to maintain the integrity of these young countries , but the failures of Lebanon and Cyprus do not discredit all minority rights arrangements . The flawed constitutions of Lebanon and Cyprus contributed somehow to their downfall and did not cause that downfall . However , constitution drafters had best be alert to these two examples of inadequate or excessive minority rights provisions . Belgium , with 9 million @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the most densely populated countries in all of Europe . Belgium  | French-speaking group , a Dutch-speaking group , and a Germanspeaking group . For a variety of reasons linguistic differences have become increasingly salient in Belgium , compelling some major innovations in the development of group rights . The northern Belgian provinces of West-Vlaanderen , East-Vlaanderen , Antwerpen , and Lemberg are predominantly settled by Flemish speakers who are also mostly Protestants . Catholics tend to be concentrated in the southern Belgian provinces of Hainaut , Namur , Luxembourg , and the western portion of Liege . A German-speaking majority occupies the eastern portion of Liege . Brussels , the capital is bilingual , and the Province of Brabaut is divided between the Flemings and the Walloons ( French-speaking ) . These linguistic and cultural differences have always been reflected in the politics of Belgium , especially in a powerful Catholic party , which has often been dominant . The political and social life of Belgium has been much more violent and intense than most people realize . Riots and bitter political strife have marked much of Belgian history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional changes and many adjustments in the electoral laws in an attempt to settle differences between the Flemings and the Walloons . The composition of the legislature , the nature of the monarch , the rights of minorities , and many other fundamental issues have divided Belgium . The origins of Belgian discontent can be traced to the artificial union of its composite parts . At the Congress of Vienna in 1815 the great powers of Europe decided to unite seventeen Belgian provinces together with Holland to form a Kingdom of the Netherlands under the Dutch king . A series of constitutional manipulations by the Dutch king forced acceptance of the 1815 Fundamental Law of the United Provinces . A rebellion against Dutch rule broke out in 1830 and a provisional government proclaimed the existence of a state of Belgium . A Belgian Constitution of 1831 was produced by the National Congress . This remarkable document launched the troubled and complex consitutional history of Belgium . The 1831 Constitution ignored the existence of any linguistic and cultural regions . ' Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg , a Lutheran , accepted the throne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1832 marriage to Princess Louise of Orleans , he agreed that all children of the marriage would be brought up in the Catholic faith . In general , Catholic dominance of the nation prevailed in the period prior to World War I.8 In 1861 the Flemish party demanded official use of the Flemish language . Because of its similarity to Dutch , the Flemings had been politically inactive for fear of reviving memories of Dutch rule . The Flemish-speaking population , although 55 percent of the Belgian population , had been relegated to an inferior political and cultural status .  | Although Flemish could be used in Flemish judicial proceedings ( 1873 ) and in administration of Flemish provinces ( 1878 ) , these statutory concessions were insufficient to remove the Flemish perceptions of French domination of Belgian life . In 1893 a number of major constitutional amendments were made , most notably a new Article 47 , which provided for nearly universal male suffrage . However , the same article also provided for double voting for heads of families paying 5 francs habitation taxes and an additional vote for those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Catholic party , since Catholics were usually more prosperous and better educated . Equal voting rights for all were resisted by the Catholics , leading to a major strike just prior to World War I. The German invasion during World War I brought support for the Flemings . The German occupiers favored the Flemish language at the expense of the French . This resulted in a brief period of Flemish influence . After the war , a system of pure and simple universal suffrage was gradually introduced . Proportional representation was also put into effect . Universal male suffrage was finally placed on a constitutional plane by the new Article 47 of the Constitution promulgated in 1921 . At the same time , the Senate was reformed to make it more representative . Belgium remained a state of two divided nations throughout the interwar period . When the German invasion of 1940 again overran Belgium , a split occurred between the king , who remained in Belgium , and a Belgian government-in-exile composed of most of the king 's former ministers . Pro- and anti-Leopold forces struggled to redefine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950 , a vote was held on the question , " Are you of the opinion that King Leopold III should resume the exercise of his constitutional powers ? " the voting was polarized between Flemish ( 72 percent pro-Leopold ) and Walloon factions . The return of the king revived the animosity between Flemings and Walloons . The time had come to recognize the differences among the linguistic groups . In 1962 a new law was passed fixing certain linguistic boundaries by dividing Belgium into four regions : a Flemish-speaking region , a German-speaking region , the bilingual region of Brussels , and a Frenchspeaking region . The Constitution was to be revised to express these new conceptions . Drastic revision of the Constitution was mandated , but it took many years to reach agreement on the necessary changes . Finally , in 1970 and 1973 major changes were made in the Constitution recognizing the special rights of the cultural communities of Belgium . At the same time , the representational system was altered to provide legislative power for two language groups , Flemish and French , over their own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linguistic regions : the French , the Dutch , the German and the bilingual region of Brussels.9 Three cultural communities are recognized , each having certain powers vested in it by the Constitution.10 The Constitution also guarantees the rights and liberties of ideological and philosophical minorities.1 ' A linguistic group can make a motion to delay the passage and consideration of a proposed bill that , in the view of three-fourths of its members , is of such a nature as to have a serious effect on the relations between communities.12 This power is in addition to the powers of linguistic groups within the parliament to legislate for their linguistic region . One of the most important parts of the Constitution provides that for those cases prescribed in the constitution , the elected members of each house are divided into a French-language group and a Dutch-language group . " 13 A cultural council was created for the French cultural community " made up of members of the French linguistic group of both houses " of the legislature.14 A bill passed on a majority vote within each linguistic group must also have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the parliamentary business . But each cultural council is limited in the sphere of its activities to that kind of legislation which deals with cultural matters , education , the use of languages , and similar matters.15 There is also a cultural council for the German cultural community , although its composition is unspecified.16 The cultural councils exercise their competence by decrees that have the force of law in the respective linguistic regions to which they apply . Unfortunately , no special provision was made for the bilingual Brussels region . This representational arrangement of linguistic groups is a novel solution to an historic problem . The political arrangement goes beyond federalism and has been denoted a " consociation " by some scholars . " The linguistic and cultural cleavages of Belgium are now constitutionally permanent . Yet the significance of these cultural councils remains shrouded in doubt and ambiguity . The Brussels situation is especially ambiguous.18 The Cabinet must , " with the possible exception of the Prime Minister , " be comprised of an equal number of French- and Dutchspeaking members . Since budget bills are also subject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult to see how any major policies can be adopted by a government without the tacit consent of the two . largest language groups , the Flemings and the Walloons . In 1971 an act was passed refining the powers and structure of the linguistic groups . The act contains elaborate provisions for bilingual areas , especially Brussels . It provides formal voting procedures and even the form of main motions . Perhaps the most important portion of the act defines more clearly the cultural matters that fall under the jurisdiction of the l ; nouisfie t'Inims These arc amnnv others . nrotection of : the  | language , the arts , the national heritage , radio and television broadcasting , youth policy , education , leisure facilities , and travel.19 Nowhere else are linguistic and cultural group rights so specifically delineated and incorporated within a constitution . The Belgian Constitution is not noteworthy because of its treatment of women , races , or religious groups . Its claim on our attention rests upon the explicit recognition of group rights of a **26;1942;TOOLONG nature . Belgium is still experimenting with this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experiment well worth watching . Belgium 's constitutional changes " have created an exotic hybrid of a political system which is neither truly federalist nor as ferociously unitarist as before , " 20 a state for which a new political term has been coined , 1'etat communautaire , the " communitarian state . " The Belgium example , in spite of its endemic political instability , is a fascinating attempt to forge a new approach to minority rights . INDIA India is a crazy quilt and has a constitution to match . But are there any other alternatives ? India has produced the world 's longest constitution , but for good reason . Its population of 700 million speaks 24 languages and over 200 dialects . There are dozens of different major religious groupings and other ethnic groupings as well . Forty million or so people belong to tribal minorities with these divided into 450 or more entities . To make matters even more complicated , India has the additional problem of caste . At the very bottom of the caste ladder is an identifiable group , referred to constitutionally as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier constitutional laws and documents as the " depressed classes . " Mahatma Gandhi called them the harijans , or " children of God . " They are better known as the " untouchables . " The horrible fact is that India 's harijan population , now at 93 million , is greater than the total population of all but seven of the world 's countries.2 ' Finally , adding to all of these complications , are the twin facts that India is a federal republic and that the boundaries of her 22 states and nine union territories are drawn along linguistic lines . The configurations of India 's component states have been reshaped and renamed because of the pressures of various linguistic groups . During the early years following independence in 1947 , the Congress party leadership resisted linguistic divisions , fearing the disruptive effect on the admittedly fragile federation . Jawaharlal Nehru reluctantly conceded to demands for the separation of Andhra from Madras in 1953 and then approved the States Reorganization Act of 1956 , which resulted in a comprehensive reorganization of state boundaries on linguistic lines . Bilingual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; the Punjab was divided in 1966.  | What makes this type of linguistic division still more complicated is the fact that people do not necessarily arrange their places of residence to meet nationally prescribed linguistic boundaries . The States Reorganization Commission , charged with revising state political boundaries , concluded that there would be at least some linguistic minorities within even the most linguistically homogeneous state . How could it be otherwise when only fifteen languages ( four added by amendments ) are recognized in the Constitution 's Eighth Schedule ? Reading the Indian Constitution , without knowing its history and background , leaves the impression that the document is overly concerned with the protection and preservation of group rights . It is filled with institutional arrangements on behalf of its various groupings to adjust the political balance among them and to protect the weakest of them . But it was always so in India . As a matter of fact , the present Constitution , as adopted in 1948 , reflected a trend in the opposite direction . Institutional arrangements providing safeguards for the various communal minorities of India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the transfer of power in 1947 . And such safeguards have been part of all Indian constitution-making , going back to the Swaraj Bill of 1895 . In 1906 , the then-Aga Khan , as leader of Muslim elements , succeeded in obtaining the creation of separate electorates based on religious distinctions . England pursued this approach with its approval of the 1917 Montagu-Chelmsford Report , in which the authors visualized India as a sisterhood of States , self-governing in all matters of purely local or provincial interest , in some cases corresponding to existing provinces , in others perhaps modified in area according to the character and economic interests of their people . Over this congeries of States would preside a central government , increasingly representative of and responsible to the people of all of them ; dealing with matters , both internal and external , of common interest to the whole of India ; acting as arbiter in inter-State relations , and representing the interests of all India on equal terms with the self-governing units of the British Empire.22 By the time of the most important of all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1935 , it was agreed that representation through separate electorates would be given to Muslims , Europeans , Sikhs , Indian Christians , and Anglo-Indians . Seats were also reserved for the Marathas in selected general constituencies in Bombay . The depressed classes were given seats to be filled by election from special constituencies in which they alone could vote , though they were also entitled to vote in the general constituencies . Special seats were also allotted to women , labour , commerce , and industry , mining and planting , and landholders.2I  | In the face of the 1946 Resolutions to divide the country and to create two constitution-making bodies , one for Hindustan and one for Pakistan , the government , under the 1935 Act , expressed opposition : The Congress was totally opposed to the division of the country . It was , however , prepared for the maximum amount of local autonomy consistent with the maintenance of the unity of the country . Accordingly , it suggested that the future framework of the country 's Constitution be based on a federal structure with a limited number @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign affairs ; the federation would consist of autonomous Provinces in which would vest the residuary subjects . The Congress also suggested that there should be a list of " optional subjects " in respect of which any Province or group of Provinces would be free to accept federal executive and legislative jurisdiction . It was proposed that on the completion of the constitution-making process a Province could elect to stand out of the Constitution altogether , or federate on the essential minimum subjects , or federate on the essential as well as the optional subjects . Group rights safeguards for soon-to-be-independent India were hotly debated during the 28 months of constitutional draftsmanship that began in the summer of 1946.25 It is still not over . There have been changes giving still more protections to India 's minorities in the course of the 42 amendments promulgated to date . It should be pointed out , however , that certain constitutional amendments have reemphasized group rights . The best example is Article 15(4) , added by the First Amendment in 1951 . It must be compared with both Article 15(1) and Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this article or in clause ( 2 ) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes . 15(1) The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion , race , caste , sex , place of birth , or any of them . 29(2) No citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution maintained by the State or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only of religion , race , caste , language , or any of them . It is interesting to note that during the constitutional debates , the Constituent Assembly rejected the inclusion of a provision similar to 15(4) . Article 15(4) reflects the same spirit as Article 16(4) , which reads : Nothing in this article shall prevent the State from making any provision for the reservation of appointments or tx ) sts in favor of anv backward class of citizens  | which , in the opinion of the State , is not adequately represented @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that 16(4) should be read in connection with 16(1) , which provides that " There shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State . " The equality principle ? in economic terms ? is stated in Article 39(a) and ( d ) : " that the citizens , men and women equally , have the right to an adequate means to livelihood " ; and " that there is equal pay for equal work for both men and women . " However , there is also an important and basic principle of state policy set forth in Article 46 : The State shall promote with special care the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people ; and , in particular , the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes , and shall protect them from social injustice and all forms of exploitation . So , the Indian Constitution creates both principles of equal treatment and of special group preference . There is some inherent conflict between these principles but Indian jurists have managed to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's 93 million harijans , one starts with Article 17 of the Constitution . It reads : " untouchability " is abolished and its practice in any form is forbidden . The enforcement of any disability arising out of " Untouchability " shall be an offense punishable in accordance with law . That would appear to take care of the problem . Relevant also are such cases as Moosa v. State of Kerala . This held that a government order requisitioning land for the construction of a colony of harijans , previously held discriminatory under Article 15(1) , was now valid under Article 15(4) . There is also a law , first enacted in 1955 and then amended in 1976 , giving the untouchables the legal right to enter any temple , draw water from any well or tap , or use any public restaurant . While the origins of untouchability in India are obscure , there reference to a caste system existing since 1500 B.c . It is not a separatene based upon religion , since untouchables are also Hindus . It has been separateness manifested by regulations on possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have become lawyers a  | doctors , it is also true that all of the sweepers in the city of Bombay are untouchables . Whether the origin of untouchability was or was not based upon ethnic or racial differences more than three millennia ago is a moot question . What persists is the distinctiveness of a given group within society whose members have been forced to associate and mate with each other for this extended period of time . Both the Constitution and the laws ending discrimination against harijans are widely disregarded . The defeat of Indira Gandhi and her Congress Party , which had instituted a " 20-point program " pressing for distribution of land to untouchables , minimum wages for them , and abolition of bonded labor ( which has some 7 million in virtual lifetime slavery ) , has turned back the clock . Landlords in many areas are reported to have grabbed back the land formerly distributed to the harijans , and harassment is rising.27 There are many reports of the shooting of poor untouchables . Also reports have surfaced that the killing of wealthy landlords by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in several backward areas in India . There can be no better example than this of the inadequacies of constitutional safeguards in trying to solve the peculiar problems of discrimination against this ethnic or cultural group . The problems of the untouchables have resisted repeated governmental efforts to solve them , and new legislation continues to be produced to deal with the situation . Constitutional Safeguards and Their Alternatives in India As complicated as India 's multiracial society is today , it was even more complicated in the period prior to independence . At that time , the principal group right problem was the ever-present conflict between Hindu and Muslim . This was , of course , primarily a religious problem . It was also a language problem . Mahatma Gandhi had argued for the adoption of Hindustani as the language of the ethnic subcontinent ? a language which would combine both Hindi and Urdu . But Britain 's Empire of India was not to become a separate , independent state . What is now a subcontinent of more than 850 million was first broken up to create India and a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new nation of Bangladesh and to reconstitute the separate nation of Pakistan . The first separation was based on religious differences ? Pakistan was established as a Muslim nation . The second separation was based upon ethnic and cultural differences ? the Bengali Muslims of East Pakistan  | ( who speak Bengali ) differing in physiognomy , culture , and language from the people of West Pakistan ( who speak Urdu ) . The division of British India into two separate nation-states in 1947 resulted in the greatest human migration in history . Millions of Muslims left what was to become the Republic of India to go to Pakistan ; and millions of non-Muslims migrated in the opposite direction . But even after all of the migrations were over , there are today at least 10 million Hindus in Pakistan and Bangladesh , and 60 million Muslims in India . The migration lessened the severity of group conflict but made legal safeguard for the minority even more necessary . And it remains to be seen whether the constitutional safeguards preserving group rights will preserve the unity of today 's India @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if it comes , may occur over the question of language rights . The insistence of many northern Indians on the adoption of Hindi as the nation 's sole official language is bitterly opposed by the south and has led to separatist threats . The revolts of the Sikhs have become more and more ominous , raising the threat of separatism . But whatever occurs , the Indian experience must be studied and restudied , for it is here that group rights problems are most severe and it is here where the greatest efforts have been made to solve them in a legal context . Switzerland is a leading example of a constitutional design intended to cope with linguistic , cultural , and religious diversity . Protestants and Catholics who once struggled against each other have found a formula for a friendly relationship . Switzerland has four major linguistic groups , but these seem to have been accommodated . In fact , the Swiss Constitution is the centerpiece of Swiss social life . Doubtless , there are deeper explanations for the stability of the Swiss federal government , but the ingenuity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Swiss system . There is an important geographic noncoincidence of language , religious , and cultural boundaries . Cultural coexistence as well as religious coexistence is reinforced by the distinctly separate location of groups that pursue their own ways of life . Only a series of maps portraying these regions can heighten our awareness of this fortuitous condition . Nonetheless , the Constitution provides a sufficient amount of unity to contain this diversity and to protect minorities in regions where other majorities prevail . The Constitution of 1848 , which is still the Swiss Constitution of today , was essentially the creation of a twenty-three-man committee of the Swiss Diet . Most were the chiefs of their cantonal governments . In spite , of the fervent opposition of the small Catholic cantons , the Constitution  | was approved on September 12 , 1848 . The six and a half cantons that opposed the new Constitution included three cantons , Uri , Schwyz , and Unterwalden , the originators of the Swiss confederation.28 To achieve a stable federal state and in order to avoid the centralizing tendency of a single-house , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislature . Although the Swiss reluctantly adopted this American-style compromise , they also invented the unique system of a collegiate seven-man executive serving on a rotating leadership basis . This plural executive was intended to further weaken the tendency toward centralization and the domination of a single group or canton . The religious settlement is one of the main bases of Swiss federalism . Article 49 of the Swiss Constitution puts the central government in the position of actively defending groups and individuals against religious oppression . The old Swiss regime made Roman Catholicism unlawful in Protestant territories and vice versa . But Article 49 declares that " freedom of conscience and belief is inviolable " and also brings delicate religious matters directly under the law of the state . Primary education , marriage , holidays , oaths , and even church jurisdiction are all defined by law under the Constitution . The territorial principle is rejected in favor of a national solution to the problem of religious tolerance . Article 50 of the Constitution guarantees the free exercise of religion , compatible with public order and decency , and Article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to pay taxes to a religious group of which he or she is not a member . Yet the cantons are free to create a single state church . Most cantons have recognized the courts . Ecclesiastical courts are abolished by Article 4 , so that only secular courts can manage private disputes . The provisions of the Swiss Constitution regarding religion reveal generally anti-clerical attitudes based upon the experience of the 1848 drafters following periodic religious conflicts . The increase in anticlerical provisions by the revisions of 1874 were based on similar attitudes . Nonetheless , the decentralized structure of the federation , combined with the diversity of the religious distribution of the population , permits a great deal of local variation in the practical implementation of religious freedom . Equality before the law is declared by Article 4 of the federal Constitution . This formal equality is extended to the cantons by Article 60 , which says " every canton is obliged to accord citizens of other confederate states the same treatment it accords to its own citizens , as regards legislation and all that concerns judicial discrimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , cultural , or linguistic groups will not he the victims of discrimination within a canton dominated by members of another group .  | The Swiss Constitution specifically provides ( Article 116 ) that German , French , Italian , and Romansh are national languages and makes all but Romansh official languages . The three official languages are supposed to be represented in the federal tribunal ( Article 107 ) . Freedom of languages has been given unusual prominence in Swiss constitutional practice . In reality , Switzerland is treated as though the map of the country were divided into French , German , and Italian areas . Although Swiss citizens are entitled to speak their own languages , the territorial principle is regarded as superior to the personal principle . The language sovereignty of each canton is called Sprachenhoheit , and this extra constitutional concept fits in with the decentralization of the Swiss Federation by giving the canton the power to choose the language of school instruction and similar sensitive questions . The federal government , for its part , attempts to maintain equitable representation of linguistic groups through legislation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The position of Romansh speakers in Switzerland is interesting . Only .9 percent of the population ? approximately 50,000 of 5.35 million speak Romansh . But in 1938 the Constitution was amended by referendum to recognize Romansh as a national language . The petition was made by the executive of the Canton of Grisons , and the amendment received the support of 92 percent of the voters . This is a vivid example of Swiss public policy toward weaker language groups . The Swiss constitution also gives each canton the power to choose the state churches ( called National Churches ) . The cantonal governments support them by granting them subsidies , special tax funds , or other privileges . In order for taxes to support state churches and still conform to Article 49 of the Constitution , provisions are made for individuals to be relieved of these taxes by publicly and formally denying that they adhere to the state religion of the canton . Separation of church and state prevails in Geneva and Basle while several Catholic cantons , on the other hand , operate under a concordat system @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bishops . This enormous diversity is all consistent with the Swiss Constitution . Many of the former practices of the Catholic religion are curbed by specific constitutional provisions . Article 54 , inserted in the Constitution in 1874 , makes civil ceremonies the exclusive means of legal marriage . Similarly , cemeteries are placed in the care of civil authorities . No new Catholic bishoprics may be set up on Swiss territory without the consent of the federal authorities . Until 1973 the Constitution contained articles ( Article 54 , 1874 Amendments , in particular ) which expressly banned Jesuits and the foundation or ressurection of monasteries . This antiCatholic measure has been removed , although the provision concerning bishoprics remains .  | In general , the Swiss Constitution provides that " the Cantons are sovereign insofar as their sovereignty is not limited by the federal constitution , and , as such , they exercise all rights which are not transferred to the federal power . " 33 This provision is reinforced , as to language rights , by the fact that the seven man federal Council always provides some representation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ permits federal subsidies for education , which amounts to linguistic generosity to support instruction in cantonally dominant languages . But there is another larger minority in Switzerland that comprises a large segment of the work force , the " guest workers " ? foreigners whose labor is a mainstay of the economy . These foreign workers have few of the rights of Swiss citizens and after completing a period of work are required to return to their native countries . This unrepresented minority is an alien population of between 10 to 20 percent of the residents . But foreigners are not welcome to remain in Switzerland . In 1982 a plan to ease immigration laws to allow foreigners to remain in the country and to have the same rights to free speech and assembly that Swiss citizens enjoy was proposed by Parliament for popular referendum . The plan was defeated by 690,339 to 580,432 , reflecting a strong campaign by the National Action Movement , a Swiss group which contends that Switzerland is subject to too much foreign influence . Soviet Russia is one of the most interesting and important multinational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , languages , and ethnic groups , but even religion is displayed in numerous different ways in a state that is generally indifferent , if not opposed to religion . The treatment of women , too , is distinctive and important . Even if these considerations were not enough to merit our attention , there is the further significance of the Soviet constitutional examples for large numbers of nations in the world , even those which do not consider themselves to be communist or socialist . The dominant nationality group , the Great Russians , comprise about 53 percent of the population of the Soviet Union . This third largest nation in the world , with its population of 258 million , is populated by more than a hundred different nationalities.36 The Ukrainians , the second largest ethnic group , number 40.7 million or 17 percent of the population . There are 9 million Byelorussians . Estonians , Latvians , and Lithuanians also are linguistic , cultural groups of the Soviet Union , and each group enjoyed an independent history between the two world wars . The Georgians , with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and have an ancient culture and religion . Jews , Tatars , Moldavians , and Ukrainians are to he found in European Russia ;  | Armenians , Azerbaidzhanis , Kazakhs , Kirghis , Turkmens , Uzbeks , and Tadzhiks live in central and southern Asia . Mongols , Buryats , Yakuts , Chukchi , Evenks , and Chuvash dwell in northern and eastern Asia . Yet the Soviet Union is a unitary state , a self-avowed dictatorship , dominated by a single party . There is no doubt , in spite of all appearances , that the Soviet Union is faced with a definite nationality problem.37 However , Soviet treatment of national minorities varies enormously , ranging from tolerance to suppression.38 Religion , too , is a problem for the Soviet state . The Russian Orthodox Church remains as the largest and most widespread Christian confession in the USSR with a membership of between 30 and 50 million adherents . There are , in addition , smaller groupings of schismatic communities drawn from factions split off from the Russian Orthodox Church , some of which are not legally recognized . Being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were never numerous in old Russia . But in the Baltic states of Lithuania and Latvia , once independent nations , there are sizable Roman Catholic congregations . Protestantism is still rather small , with the Evangelical Christian-Baptists being the largest officially recognized group . Many of the central Asian minorities are Muslims , and much of east Asian Russia is Muslim . Armenians have their own Christian Church , with its world center in Soviet Armenia . The Jews of Russia settled in Eastern Europe even before the birth of Christ . The tsars were openly anti-Jewish . Massive pograms instituted by royal officials in 1881 , 1884 , and 1903 forced many Jews to flee Russia but many remained , and some were among the leaders of the Bolshevik Revolution . No one knows how many Jews there are in the Soviet Union , but there may be between two and three million . Although many Jews have been assimalated into Soviet culture , the existence of the state of Israel stirred a widespread demand for Jewish emigration . One of the earliest Soviet decrees , personally prepared by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and state.39 Ever since the proclamation of the first Soviet Constitution ( July 1918 ) , the religious question has been of great concern in a state committed to a political doctrine resting upon atheist principles . The first Soviet Constitution gave a right to religious and anti-religious propaganda , but subsequent constitutions wittled away religious rights , and religious communities became subordinated to the state ( officially and unofficially ) as the atheists gained dominance . The Stalin Constitution of 1936 made a fundamental change , permitting " freedom of religious worship and , freedom of anti-religious propaganda , " 40 but eliminating the former freedom of religious propaganda . The new Constitution of 1977 makes some interesting and perhaps significant changes in the freedom of religion . The new provision speaks of " the right to profess any religion  | and perform religious rites , " and it says that " incitement of hostility and hatred on religious grounds shall be prohibited . " These two new phrases suggest a broader amount of official protection of religion against atheistic repression . It also suggests that anti-Semitism and other forms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ language , at least , represents a return to original Leninist principles . Soviet constitutions have pioneered in the expression and recognition of women 's rights . They have set a model for much of the rest of the world , socialist and nonsocialist , in this regard . The 1977 Constitution continues the trend . To a considerable extent , this seems to have been a genuine ideal of the Soviet state , which has attempted in the most farreaching ways to improve the status of women . The Constitution declares that " in the USSR , women shall have equal rights with men . " It goes on to guarantee equal opportunities for education and professional training , for employment , remuneration , and promotion . It permits protective legislation for women , including paid leaves for mothers and state aid to unmarried mothers . The family is placed under the protection of the state , and the constitution explicitly recognizes the need for child-care institutions , family allowances , and maternity benefits . However , of all the unresolved internal problems of the Soviet Union , the nationalities @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ draws the most extensive constitutional treatment of all rights issues . Indeed , the Soviet Union is at least on paper an example of a society constitutionally committed to group rights . The preamble to the 1977 Constitution speaks of the " juridical and actual equality of all nations and nationalities of the Soviet Union . " The very first article speaks of a socialist state composed of the working class , the peasantry , and the intelligentsia , " of all the nations and nationalities in the country . " The unity of the nation and the single-party state is a constant Soviet theme , but the many group rights provisions for nationalities and ethnic and linguistic groups suggest the need to at least superficially accommodate the very numerous groups that make up the Soviet state . A comparison between the group rights provisions of the 1936 and the 1977 Soviet constitutions reveals a growing concern with these rights . The provisions of Article I of the 1977 Constitution mentioned above represent an added category for the nations and nationalities , a significant addition to the ideologically correct recognition of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Article 19 of the 1977 Constitution also adds new language , as it commits the Soviet state to " developing and drawing together all the nations and nationalities of the USSR . " Another provision says that " the state shall show concern for protecting and multiplying society 's cultural values . ' s  | Some changes in old articles are especially revealing . Old Article 123 , which guaranteed equality of rights , made no mention of language ; the new provision does.46 The most interesting change is the addition of a new article specifically conferring equal rights upon Soviet citizens of different nationalities and races.47 However , the same article also speaks ambiguously of " the policy of all-around development and drawing together of all nations and nationalities of the USSR " and of " education of citizens in the spirit of Soviet patriotism and socialist internationalism . " Apparently the Soviet recognition of group rights is half-hearted and perhaps a cause of deep concern to the party leaders who drafted the Constitution . Nonetheless , the same article extends " the opportunity for using the mother tongue and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Finally , compounding the ambiguity , the same article prohibits , on the one hand , restriction of the rights of citizens on the grounds of race and nationality , and on the other , " any advocacy of racial or national exclusivity . " The right to education in the mother tongue is retained in the current constitution from the 1936 Constitution.48 A new duty of citizenship is created by the 1977 Constitution . Now it is the duty of every citizen " to respect the national dignity of other citizens " in order " to fortify the friendship of the nations and nationalities of the Soviet multinational state . " This is the first constitutional reference to the multinational character of the Soviet Union . The state structure of the Soviet Union remains essentially unchanged . The federal system is virtually identical to the system of 1936 . The Soviet regime has not followed the Yugoslav example of modifications in the structure of government to accommodate its nations and nationalities . Yet , the new provision defining the structure of the state refers to " an integral federal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of nations . " 50 This second reference to a multinational is conditioned by the language of a succeeding paragraph that speaks of " the state unity of the Soviet people " and the bringing of " all the nations and nationalities together for the joint building of communism . " None of this language appears in the 1936 Constitution . There is an odd omission from the 1977 Constitution that deserves attention . Omitted as a right of a Union Republic is the maintenance of its own military . The intentions of the drafters of the 1977 Soviet Constitution are unknown to us . The document , as with past Soviet constitutions , is. intended principally as a propaganda instrument for internal and external use . But even if group rights in the Soviet Union are on an uncertain basis , there is a new and heightened sense of their importance . The 1977 Constitution recognizes , albeit tentatively , the separate needs of the various linguistic , ethnic , racial , and national entities of which the Soviet Union is composed . If in this model of a Communist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gain recognition , then group rights may , indeed , flourish almost anywhere . There is no apparent sign of a severe nationality crisis in the Soviet Union . Although suppression of minority sentiment was obvious in the 1930s and 1940s , there has been less evidence of direct discouragement of minority group activity in recent years . Major nationalities are confined to their republics , and cultural assimilation remains a distant goal of the national regime . Research " leads to the conclusion that there is evidence of both assimilative and colonial patterns in the Soviet society . " Doubtless some Baltic peoples , Ukrainians , and Georgians will continue their resistance to homogenization , and Muslim groups and Asian minorities generally will try to retain their distinctive cultures , but defiance is rare and violence even rarer . Minorities do enjoy some rights and protections in the Soviet Union . Perhaps the Soviet Union can be best understood as a leading vestige of the " 5,000 year old tradition of the multiethnic empire . "  | AFFIRMATIVE action , the conferring of special benefits upon individuals by virtue of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only in a few nations that have diverse racial , religious , and ethnic groups . As a compensatory extension of preferences to group members , affirmative action is a modern expansion of minority rights that has been misunderstood and sometimes bitterly attacked . But affirmative action programs ( sometimes called positive discrimination ) are a logical application of minority rights , especially when used on behalf of disadvantaged persons . However , such programs focus upon groups ; individuals may be accidental or even " undeserving " beneficiaries . The enhancement of minority group life is the goal . The repayment of past indignities and injustice is the motive . Nevertheless , few nations have actively adopted affirmative action policies . So-called affirmative action plans have become more and more common as remedies for American blacks who have been historically denied access to the professions and the skilled trades . While there is no single , acceptable definition that describes these programs , there are many examples of officially prescribed programs for preferential hiring and for preferential educational admissions for blacks and other minority groups. , There have also been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for blacks and other minorities . Unfortunately for advocates of affirmative action programs , the theoretical and legal underpinnings to support these programs are insecure , and the future development of preferential hiring , admissions , and other types of group favoritism are very much in doubt , especially in the light of vigorous opposition from other groups that maintain affirmative action programs as a form of reverse discrimination . Spore Americans contend that " preferential hiring favoring women and blacks represents a new form of discrimination against white males and hence is unjust . " z Such a criticism assumes , against the evidence ,  | that whites excluded by programs of preferential hiring or professional school admissions are as disadvantaged as traditional victims of racial and other forms of discrimination . The term " reverse discrimination " seems to equate the social position of majority whites with minority blacks , in spite of the fact that the self-esteem of whites and their social status is in no way endangered by affirmative action compensatory programs . It seems false to assert that " whatever good is accomplished by compensating members @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the corresponding denial of benefits to the group paying restitution . " 3 ( Favoritism programs , which are designed to aid minorities , do not necessarily impair the status of groups that are unfavored , ) nor is it correct to maintain that a majority individual " pays " the cost of a minority preference . ( To be denied a preference extended to a minority is not an act of discrimination unless there is some right to that preference . ) Nonetheless , critics of affirmative action in America contend that " the practice of rev.erse discrimination undermines the foundation of the very ideal in whose name it is advocated ; it destroys justice , law , equality , and citizenship itself and replaces them with power struggles and popularity contests. " 4 The vehemence of such criticism stems from a failure to understand the differences between anti-discrimination policies and affirmative action programs . Anti-discrimination programs are familiar parts of the American social system . Anti-discrimination programs are aimed at elimination of the barriers that inhibit the progress of members of victimized groups . However , it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negative restraints upon minority group members . To actually promote and prefer minority group members with positive rewards and incentives seems to many Americans to be outside the requirements of equal treatment . Affirmative action programs test the limits of American individualistic notions . Indeed , the primary justification for affirmative action probably rests upon the idea of collective rights , of group rights , a way of thinking still beyond the grasp of many Americans . The American Constitution makes no specific mention of group rights . Only the American Indians are referred to as a group in the constitutional text , and Indians do enjoy a special status under the Constitution . Yet the language of the rights sections of the Constitution does not refer to groups . Only the " equal protection of the laws " clause . of the Fourteenth Amendment , written primarily to assist newly freed slaves , could be regarded as a constitutional justification for affirmative action . However , whether equality of the laws justifies preferential treatment of particular groups and their members is the legal center of controversy in America . Thus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ constitutional issue . Inevitably the court will have to make the leap from individual to group rights or else invalidate affirmative action programs altogether . The few clues currently available suggest a judicial willingness to accept some forms of affirmative action but no acceptance of the rather un-American notion of group rights . In the most famous recent example of judicial scrutiny of affirmative action programs , the Bakke case , Justice Lewis Franklin Powell commented briefly upon the " intractable . . . difficulties entailed in varying the level of judicial review according to a perceived preferred status of a particular racial or ethnic majority , " saying that " the concepts of majority and minority necessarily reflect temporary arrangements and political judgments " and that " there is no principled basis for deciding which groups would merit heightened judicial solicitude and which would not . " Justice Powell 's vote in the Bakke case was critical to its outcome . Powell 's theory of equal protection of the laws is hostile to group preferences and deserves attention because of the potential barriers raised by his rationale to the further @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that " the.guar.anteeofequal . Protection can not mean one thing when applied to one . individual and something else when applied to a person of another color . If both are not accorded the same protection , then it is not equal . " This highly individualistic reading of the Fourteenth Amendment would deny the validity of group rights and subject affirmative action programs to the same kind of intense , strict judicial scrutiny reserved for racial and ethnic distinctions generally . If Powell is correct , affirmative action programs intended to benefit members of a minority race are " inherently suspect , " just as are other measures that are tainted with the suspicion of having discriminatory effects . Special treatment for disadvantaged groups has not been a favored American policy . After the Civil War Republican leader Thaddeus Stevens promised the newly freed slaves " forty acres and a mule , " but Congress did not approve of his proposition . Instead , segregationist , discriminatory Jim Crow laws were passed in the American South ; these kept blacks in a subordinate position for generations . Constitutional acceptance of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1940s . Legislation on behalf of blacks was blocked in the American Congress until the Supreme Court broke the logjam with its monumental school desegregation decisions.10 These 1954 and 1955 decisions unlocked the doors of opportunity that had been closed to American blacks . Discriminatory barriers in education , housing , voting , and public accommodations were rapidly removed by court decisions and legislation . Yet blacks still lagged behind whites in economic and  | social terms . The removal of most discriminatory practices was partial , at best , but even the removal of all barriers might still leave a yawning gap between most blacks and most whites.11 Affirmative action was aimed at closing the gap , but positive rewards and preferences seemed to irritate even liberal whites and to offend Supreme Court justices . Powell was willing to accept race as one of several admissions criteria , but the University of California 's preferential program was , in his view , fatally flawed by " its disregard of individual rights . " 12 One of the leading observers of American constitutional law has examined the Bakke case and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ merits is the obvious need to clarify our thinking on the concept of discrimination itself , and the emerging question of individual against group rights in our constitutional order . " 13 While the Bakke case did decide in favor of the complainant and against a particular plan of affirmative action , it left almost every affirmative action program in place , subject to the modifications hinted at in various opinions of various justices . So long as race is considered to be one of several criteria that bear upon admissions practices of public universities and so long as no obvious quota is established exclusively for members of a single racial group , affirmative action programs may be ( or perhaps may not be in future years ) constitutional . The fundamental issues of the constitutional rights of groups has not yet been confronted , merely postponed . The Supreme Court must ultimately confront the group rights issue . In tentative fashion the court did approach the issue in a 1977 decision which upheld a redistricting plan that denied Hasidic Jews representation which they had enjoyed in the congressional district in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the creation of a safe black representational district at the expense of the Jewish group by concluding that whites as a whole had adequate representation . While the result may not have been highly logical , the Court did , at least , recognize that group interests were at stake in the dispute . As more and more affirmative action cases come to the attention of the Supreme Court , this group approach to rights may become more familiar and more acceptable . If not , affirmative action is doomed in America . The hope for future development of affirmative action in America rests mostly upon the reasoning of Justices William Brennan , Byron White , Thurgood Marshall , and Harry Blackmun in the Bakke case . For these . jurists the " central meaning " of the opinion is as follows : " Government may take race into account when it acts not to demean or insult any racial group , but to remedy disadvantages cast on minorities by past racial prejudice , at least when appropriate findings have been made by judicial , legislative , or administrative bodies with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This group would not apply a strict scrutiny standard to affirmative action programs . Instead , " to justify racial classifications established for ostensibly benign purposes . . . an important and articulated purpose for their use must be shown . . . and any statute that stigmatizes any group or that singles out those least well represented in the political process to bear the brunt of a benign purpose . " 16 Under such a view some constitutional justification for recognition of group rights with which to uphold affirmative action programs may well be forged . There is substantial empirical evidence in America to demonstrate that blacks and women both lag behind the majority in terms of such critical indicators of social status as income , housing , and employment . Indeed , " most minority and female-headed households have only half the income that is available to majority households . " 17 Thus a Civil Rights Commission concludes that " women and minority men have not achieved equal status with majority males on a series of 21 measures of equality in the areas of education , income , employment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ If the equal protection of the law guaranteed by the Constitution does not require a greater inequality of social condition , then these statistics pose no constitutional problem . However , if antidiscrimination policy fails to give miorities more than mere formal equality before the law , this is insufficient as a social policy for minorities . Affirmative action may be the only way to make further progress toward equality . Congress has indicated little enthusiasm for affirmative action . The Supreme Court still has yet to flash a clear signal regarding the constitutional significance of affirmative action under the equal protection of the laws guarantee.19 At the national level Presidents Nixon , Ford , and Carter have led the way in developing affirmative action policies . First , by executive order monies were set aside to assure that certain portions of federal expenditures were used to benefit members of minority groups . Second , detailed regulations and procedures were established for nonfederal entities , such as school systems and private employers , which obliged them to make decisions in a race , ethnic , or sex-conscious way . President Carter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the federal civil service , and his Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs pressured private employers to hire women and minorities . Ronald Reagan reached the White House in 1980 standing on a Republican party platform which opposed " quotas , ratios , and numerical requirements . " Not surprisingly , he took gradual steps to dismantle much of the bureaucratic machinery that supports federal efforts toward affirmative action . While there is no flat ban of affirmative action , pressure on private businesses , government  | contractors , and even on the employment practices of federal and state governments has been reduced . Affirmative action in employment continues but is fading . Much of the American constitutional argument relating to affirmative action surrounds the rights of the majority , the so-called victims of reverse discrimination . The most effective argument of the critics of affirmative action has been that individuals who happen to belong to an ill-defined and unorganized majority ought not to suffer in order to benefit other individuals who , because of membership in protected groups , are incidental winners in a struggle in which individuals are mere @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " groups have become the basis for rights , and those who want to own certain rights must do so as members of an affected or protected class , " 20 then America may have entered onto a path that leads to increased group friction and unlimited group assertion of claims for preferential treatment . If blacks make such a claim , why not Polish-Americans ? So the argument goes . Apparently , many Americans do not perceive that some groups are much more highly disadvantaged , more unequal than others . By raising the spectre of group conflict , the policy of affirmative action may be discredited . Still , in the past courts have managed to monitor such issues , conferring suspect category status upon blacks while denying it to the poor and apparently to women . Indians have long been regarded as enjoying a special , protected status.21 Yet in spite of these observations , there is genuine fear that affirmative action policies may endanger the uneasy balance among groups in American society . This uneasiness largely explains the hesitancy of the Supreme Court to spell out the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action programs do include other American minorities . The Davis special admissions program for which Alan Bakke applied included Chicanos , Asians , and American Indians . These groups are seriously underrepresented in the professions , and many group members are disadvantaged . However , Japanese-Americans and Chinese-Americans have done relatively well in economic terms , raising an issue about the legitimacy of a group denoting Asians as beneficiaries of affirmative action . A legislature or an executive agency might rationally ( and constitutionally ) justify preferences for such groups on the ground that they are essentially racial and have been subjected to past discriminatory treatment as a group . This issue of the identity of groups qualified for preferences remains unresolved in America . The federal government has applied affirmative action programs to other groups , some of which are not minorities in the usual sense . Handicapped workers , disabled veterans , women , Spanish-surnamed individuals , and Orientals also benefit from various affirmative acti programs . All federal contractors and subcontractors are obliged to mak  | special efforts to hire handicapped individuals , although no specific hiring quotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ action obligations for contractors and subcontractors that require them to employ disabled veterans and veterans of the Vietnam War.24 Since 1972 all government contractors and subcontractors have been required to make special efforts to " recruit , employ , and promote qualified members of groups formerly excluded " from employment , " even if that exclusion can not be traced to particular discriminatory actions on the part of the employer " on the premise that the maintenance of " a benign neutrality in employment practices will tend to perpetuate the status quo ante . " 25 Affirmative action programs in employment currently include women , minorities , disabled veterans , and the handicapped . Some of these are self-conscious groups , but they still enjoy special treatment , if not always a specific preference . Affirmative action in America remains an ill-defined and constitutionally questionable set of programs . State , local , and national government agencies still promulgate orders in the name of affirmative action . In a few areas , such as employment , education , and housing , virtual minority quotas can be found , although these quotas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Meanwhile , controversy rages about the legitimacy of the concept of preferential treatment of minorities . Opponents of the concept are very prominent , especially since some of them are members of more fortunate minorities . The outlook for affirmative action in America will not improve until the concepts of group rights and of group deprivation is understood and accepted by opinion leaders and by the American Supreme Court.26 For many , affirmative action and preferential programs generally are offensive to the nondiscrimination principle . How can you create a preference without discriminating in favor of one group and against others ? The government of India has managed to do it . Although committed to the same kind of equal treatment as is required by the American Constitution , the Indian Constitution also embraces the ideal of uplifting and aiding less fortunate groups . Indian courts have learned to live with a constitutional policy that blends anti-discimination policy with affirmative action . The nation of India is the second most populous country in the world . Geographically it is seventh largest in the world and is located at a position @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact between diverse peoples and cultures . According to a linguistic survey , there are 179 languages and 544 dialects spoken in India . But linguistic groups do not generally correspond to religious groups . While Hinduism is the majority religion , there are many Muslims , Christians , Sikhs , Parsis , and  | other minority religious groups . In addition to these groups the Constitution of India recognizes the existence of " Anglo-Indians , " " castes , " " backward classes , " and " scheduled tribes . " Probably no other nation in the world has recognized as many minority groups as has India . The laws and the Constitution of India exemplify a highly developed sense of minority rights . Anti-discrimination policy has been a major concern of Indian governments since independence was gained in 1947 . At the Constituent Assembly of India , which met from 1948 until 1950 to frame the new Indian Constitution , the principle of religious group representation was firmly established . Communal representation apportioned seats for Muslims , Sikhs , and " general " ( the overwhelming majority ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " scheduled castes. " 27 The Constituent Assembly was guided by several committees , among which was a Joint Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights , Minority Rights and Administration of Tribal and Excluded Areas . This Joint Committee led the way in the creation of a national anti-discrimination policy as well as in the creation of nondiscrimination and affirmative-action-type policies . From the outset India has striven for and obtained a greater constitutional recognition of minority rights than prevailed in either the United States or the United Kingdom . The extreme diversity of its population and the consequent political problem of creating a unity out of that diversity led to a series of policies that are not merely negative in character but also positive . These policies secure for various minorities certain protections and privileges that enhance their progress toward equal rights with the majority . The prime right of all groups in India is the right to equality . The simplest statement of this principle is enunciated in Article 14 of the Indian Constitution , which asserts that " the state shall not deny to any person equality before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the territory of India . " This phraseology , though derived partly from the American Constitution and from British common law , is essentially the - same wording as is found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . The Indian courts have held that this phraseology does not require identical treatment for all groups and individuals . Instead , " what Article 14 prohibits is the unequal treatment of persons similarly situated . " Article 15 expands the concept of equal protection of the laws by stating among other things that " no citizen shall , on grounds only of religion , race , caste , sex , place of birth or any of them , be subject to any disability , liability , restriction , or condition with regard to access to shops , public restaurants , hotels , and places of public entertainment . " se This constitutional anti-discrimination provision resembles vario  | The principle of protective discrimination ( similar to affirmative action ) is also found enunciated in the same Article of the Indian CQnstitution . The Constitution provides that " nothing in this Article shall prevent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . " Special provisions " for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes " is also permitted . This latter provision was added by a 1951 amendment intended to reverse adverse court decisions that had banned the reservation of seats in educational institutions for backward classes . As one constitutional scholar has explained : " It is quite appropriate that the backward classes should look to the constitution for special favours to redress the wrongs done in the past by creating social disabilities . " Public employment is an area of constitutional concern in India . Antidiscrimination and protective discrimination both apply as policies . Equal opportunity in public employment is guaranteed all citizens , but " provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of any backward class of citizens " is permitted . Hardly any other constitution has combined anti-discrimination and discrimination in public employment together to secure minority rights . Voting in India is based upon the principle of universal adult suffrage . All citizens , male and female , are entitled to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Universal suffrage is the rule in all democratic societies . Nonetheless , the Indian Constitution makes an exception to this rule by reserving seats in Parliament and the state legislatures for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and for the Anglo-Indian community.35 This is a measure carrying forward the principle of protective discrimination , even though that principle may run counter to the general principle of universal suffrage for individuals.36 Still , there are no separate electorates for those communities and no separate electoral rolls . Of course , the practice of reserving seats is unknown in America and the United Kingdom . The special position of Indian linguistic , religious , and cultural minorities is amplified by specific provisions of the Constitution . The right to conserve " a distinct language , script or culture " is guaranteed to groups and individuals alike . This right includes the protection and preservation of religious views , moral beliefs , and cultural practices . The Indian judiciary has interpreted this right broadly so as to include the right to agitate for the protection of a particular language . Courts have also indicated that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This right applies to minorities based upon script and culture , but race , language , and religion are probably included . Another section of the Constitution protects the right of " all minorities , whether based on religion or language " to " establish and  | guarantee against state interference . Another allied provision ensures that the state will subsidize such institutions to some extent . Direct state subsidies to religious institutions are unconstitutional in America , but the Indian Constitution , based upon the principle of protective discrimination , encourages state aid to religious educational institutions . Indeed , in this respect the Indian Constitution goes beyond the state neutrality toward religion usually found in most constitutions . Linguistic minorities enjoy additional protections . There is a constitutional right to official recognition of the use of a language . This right begins with a demand by a group which may result in a presidential direction that the language be officially recognized within a state . Recognized minority languages may be used in the administration , if required by the Indian president . All that 's needed is that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population of a state desire the use of any language spoken by them to be recognized by the state . " Again , this provision is based upon the concept of protective discrimination , since it attempts to promote the interest of the minority , not merely protect it against instances of discrimination . There are other purposes to be served by this provision . In a multilingual society , important laws , regulations , and official correspondence should be in a language familiar to the local population if they are to comply with governmental policies . The national government retains the constitutional authority to prevent the linguistic domination of one group over another in a state by virtue of this provision , so in a broader sense the provision is a check upon potential linguistic discrimination . The protective discrimination features of linguistic policies were supplemented by constitutional amendment in 1950 . Now the Constitution requires state and local governments to " provide adequate facilities for instruction in the mother tongue at the primary stage of education to children belonging to linguistic minority groups . " The implementation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who may " issue such directions .... as he considers necessary or proper . " The president is also empowered to appoint a special officer for linguistic minorities who must " investigate all matters relating to the safeguards provided for linguistic minorities . " 44 No nation has gone to such great lengths on behalf of linguistic minorities save , perhaps , Yugoslavia . The potentially divisive character of linguistic rights appears not to have frightened the drafters of the Indian Constitution nor subsequent national governments . Indeed , the national government continually prevailed upon state governments to protect linguistic minorities , especially in the areas of education and public employment . One expert concludes , in a self-congratulatory manner , that for India " on the constitutional side there is nothing wanting for safeguarding the legal and reasonable rights of any linguistic minority . " ' " If true , this ,  | The constitutional treatment of India 's " backward classes " is also unique . Technically , the Constitution treats three categories of Indian peoples in a very special way . Untouchables , historic victims of caste @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ castes . There also are the scheduled tribes , consisting of largely aboriginal or primitive tribes ; and finally , certain other depressed and deprived classes who are deemed " backward . " India had suffered for centuries under the burden of a rigidly hierarchical and elitist social structure . Democratic , modern India repudiated that legacy , aiming to elevate these special and deprived groups toward equality of condition and treatment . Essentially , Parliament retains the power to include or exclude any caste , race , or tribe from these protective categories , but these groups now hold constitutional status.46 According to the 1971 Indian census , 80 million people , 14.5 percent of the Indian people , are members of the scheduled castes . The scheduled castes , the scheduled tribes , and other backward classes amount to more than 30 percent of the total population of India , comprising the world 's largest protected minority groups . Economic uplift is the main hope of these protected groups . The economic backwardness of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes has been largely due to the exploitation and oppression @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ point . Public employment is not guaranteed them , but their claims " shall be taken into consideration . . . in the making of appointments , " says the Constitution . Yet the backward classes may be entitled to the reservation of appointments or posts.49 Since government in India is the largest employer this issue is of great significance . Government service is much sought after , but it is not clear whether or not only the backward classes are entitled to special consideration in public employment . Education is guaranteed the scheduled castes , the scheduled tribes , and the backward classes . Free compulsory education is provided until age fourteen.50 The Constitution permits the state to make " any special provisions for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes . " 51 Special care may be taken by the state to promote " the educational and economic interests of the weaker sections of the people . " 52 In recognizing these departures from strict equality of treatment , the Indian Constitution has expressed an ideal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thus , special quotas and special educational admissions practices , though offensive to the majority and restrictive on the majority , are justifiable and appropriate objects of governmental policies under the Constitution . Some of these protective provisions are found among the Directive Principles of State Policy and may be subconstitutional in quality . " Nonetheless , they declare the nfsaflfarn nklinolinns n ( / . s . Indian Gals . In ffa I-t , nrflfs.a  | The greatest evil in Indian society is untouchability . This system of debasing human beings is a basic and unique feature of the Indian caste system . Untouchability involves innumerable practices of subtle and gross discrimination , victimizing the lowest rungs of the caste ladder . So far as the Constitution is concerned , untouchability is abolished and its practice is forbidden.54 Moreover , the enforcement of any disability arising out of untouchability is itself made punishable . Several statutes have been passed in an effort to stamp out untouchability . Yet the practice remains in more or less disguised form , serving the purpose of repressing the lowest castes , in spite of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other forms of forced labor are also prohibited.55 This provision of the Constitution has proven easier to enforce , since slavery is almost unknown . However , forced labor in some forms still persists in parts of India . The tribal peoples of India are given special protections . Many of them are illiterate animists with primitive cultures . India has set itself the task of elevating their status while , at the same time , preserving their way of life . Whether or not integration of these peoples into Indian society is possible , the Constitution permits Parliament to provide states with funds to promote the welfare of the tribes and to aid in their development.56 The governor of a state may be empowered to enact special legislation to protect the scheduled tribes from exploitation by moneylenders and real estate interests . Thus , the welfare of the tribes is a constitutional concern of the national and state governments . Special plans , projects , and schemes for the benefit of the scheduled tribes are contemplated by the Constitution . Exemptions from the ordinary laws of the land may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of uplift is offset by the risk of disruption of the harmony of tribal life . Religious minorities pose even greater obstacles to national unity . Tensions between Hindus and Muslims sometimes erupt into bloody riots . Sikhs outside the Punjab have claimed linguistic and cultural discrimination . But the Muslim-Hindu cleavage is a central problem of Indian social and political life . This cleavage continues to embitter Indian society . India has no state religion . Hinduism is not given any special place in the society . The Constitution assures " freedom of conscience and free profession , practice and propagation of religion . " 57 Apparently , the state can not aid one religion or give preference to one religion against another , . although it may support religious education . India 's neighbor , Pakistan , has declared itself an Islamic state . India resisted the temptation to declare itself a Hindu state . In spite of its salience in Indian life , religion is not given the protection accorded language , culture , caste , tribal , and backward status . Special protection and anti-discrimination policy are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minorities with different kinds of guarantees , sometimes in opposition to the interests of the majority . Equality and special preference are somehow blended together in a unique fashion . The Indian Constitution accords more protection to minorities than any other nation and deals with minority rights in greater detail.S8 Many of these rights are transitory , intended to disappear in the 1980s or at the end of the century . Equality is still the goal , but temporary inequality to help the disadvantaged is seen as a means of moving toward equality . Negative and positive rights are found side by side in constitutional provisions . The state is forbidden to act against certain minorities , while it is empowered to extend privileges to certain minorities . There is the danger that excessive regard for minority rights may lead to the slow disintegration of the Indian nation . Thus far , Indian anti-discrimination policy has continued its slow progress without a real separatist threat . Apparently , a sound anti-discrimination policy , coupled with protective provision , can work in a multicultural society . India 's chief problems stem from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems most enlightened , especially for a poor nation . Affirmative action in India is a controversial policy still , in spite of decades of experience in developing it . Numerous protests and political actions have been raised against affirmative action . In 1981 the reservation of 25 percent of the places in medical schools for untouchables set off riots in Gujarat State that lasted intermittently from January to April . Yet the government persists in its efforts to advance untouchables and other Indian minorities . India 's neighbor , Pakistan , also provides for affirmative action in education and religion . Its Constitution provides that " nothing . . . shall prevent any public authority from making provision for the advancement of any socially or educationally backward class of citizen . " 59 Malaysia , the Philippines , and Fiji have some sort of affirmative action principle on a constitutional basis . The most recent clear example of an affirmative action policy coupled with a commitment to nondiscrimination is found in the Constitution of Papua New Guinea , which declares , in one part that " all citizens have the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ race , tribe , place of origin , political opinion , color , creed , religion or sex , " but goes on to state that this provision " does not prevent the making of laws for the special benefit , welfare , protection or advancement of females , children and young persons , members of underdeveloped or less advanced areas . " Obviously , it is not impossible to blend the nondiscrimination ideal with an affirmative action policy . A few nations , most notably India , have managed to do so . Such a blend seems an appropriate solution to  | means of securing minority rights . However , the popularity of affirmative action is limited . In most nations sympathy for the plight of minorities is not great enough to provide a political base for affirmative action policies . This most advanced minority policy is difficult to implement and hard to justify politically .  | THE principle that minorities shall not be the victims of discriminatory treatment is now well established in the constitutions and laws of most nations , but it is no older than 120 or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be found in an 1856 communication of the Turkish Sultan to his European treaty partners in which he describes legislation that he has introduced mainly for the benefit of the Christian inhabitants of his empire . The Sultan 's legislation called for the equal treatment of his subjects , without distinction of religion or race . The European treaty partners , Austria , France , Great Britain , Prussia , and Sardinia commended " the value of this communication . " Although the 1856 Turkish legislation does not extend equality of treatment on grounds of nationality , language , culture , caste , or sex , it certainly was a forerunner of the full-fledged American antidiscrimination principle . The more famous equal protection of the laws clause of the American Fourteenth Amendment , while much more influential , was not much more extensive . This American amendment , which was ratified in 1868 , formids state governments from denying to any person " the equal protection of the laws . " The Fourteenth Amendment , ratified in 1870 , forbids the abridgement of citizen voting rights " on account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The United Nation 's Universal Declaration of Human Rights lists " race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status " as impermissible grounds for unfavorable treatment . Probably no nation fully supports the principle of equality of treatment to this extent , but much progress has been made in the legal elimination of discrimination in the past few decades . The principles of equality and nondiscrimination have been deemed an " absolute precondition " to the enjoyment of minority rights . ' Unequal treatment of minorities usually takes the form of discrimination  | against them . Laws to forbid unequal treatment are intended to restrain the majority ? to limit their freedom to discriminate . This negative approach to protection of minorities may not actually change the internal attitudes of members of the majority , but at least it is designed to prevent the obvious manifestation of those attitudes . The guiding ideal is that " no individual should be placed at a disadvantage merely because he is a member of a particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy is well-established in the constitutions and laws of most nations . Segregation and discrimination are official policy only in the Republic of South Africa . Instead , equality and nondiscrimination are proclaimed as official policy in virtually every other county of the world , even those that ignore informal discriminatory practices or those that enforce official policies indifferently . The Constitution of the Soviet Union declares that " any oppression of national minorities " is unlawful , while Switzerland and Belgium refer specifically to linguistic minority groups , but the principle of nondiscrimination is generally found in constitutional provisions emphasizing the principle of equal treatment of all citizens rather than specifically mentioning minority groups . Statutes describe many aspects of the nondiscrimination principle . A few countries have highly developed legislation intended to remove discriminatory barriers . Probably the leading examples of such legislation are the United States and the United Kingdom and these will be examined here as possible models for future expansion of antidiscrimination legislation . The highlights of these leading national examples will be emphasized.5 But it must be remembered that laws alone can not terminate discriminatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Even so , minority rights can not be expected to grow , let alone thrive , without an official anti-discrimination policy as an essential feature . The comparison of anti-discrimination policy in two leading nations will demonstrate the limits as well as the effectiveness of laws in regulating discriminatory attitudes and behavior . The obstacles to anti-discrimination policies in these two leading nations should prove instructive warnings to others moving in the same direction . American policy is strongly aimed at removing many of the barriers of race , religion , and sex . The law has only recently taken account of linguistic differences , while culture and caste have been generally overlooked . Government policy has been concerned primarily with official discrimination , but , to a limited extent , private discrimination also made unlawful . Both the state and federal governments hav established various types of anti-discrimination policies with mix success . The original Anmerican Constitution of 1789 countenanced slavery  | Slaves had no genuine civil rights , although they were counted for purposes of representation . The Supreme Court of the United States rarely inquired into the question @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Dred Scott case of 1856 , it was to overturn a political compromise that limited the extension of slavery into new territories . Chief Justice Roger Taney took the occasion to observe that " Negroes had no rights which the white man was bound to respect . " 6 The American Civil War was fought partly on the unresolved issue of black slavery . However , even though the North was free of slavery , it practiced racial segregation . American President Abraham Lincoln expressed doubts that Negroes could ever be accepted as the social equal of whites . But the Civil War terminated slavery . The victorious North imposed a new racial settlement upon the defeated South . The key elements of American anti-discrimination policy were created in the aftermath of the Civil War . The Thirteenth , Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution expressed a new arrangement of political ( perhaps social ) order in America . the Thirteenth Amendment barred slavery forever . The Fourteenth Amendment extended American citizenship to native-born blacks . At the same time the amendment prohibited any state from making or enforcing any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ citizens of the United States . " More significantly , states could not " deprive any person of life , liberty , or property , without due process of law ; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws . " This section is America 's greatest contribution to anti-discrimination policy making . The Congress of the post-Civil War years enacted sweeping antidiscrimination measures under the Fourteenth Amendment , perhaps the first such broad-gauge anti-discrimination statutes . ' Unfortunately , the Supreme Court of the day undermined the progressive work of the Congress , delaying racial progress by decades . The slow judicial shrinkage of the Civil War Amendments is a long story of late nineteenth century conservative jurisprudence . A series of Supreme Court decisions rendered some sections of the Thirteenth , Fourteenth , and Fifteenth Amendments meaningless . Political events made black rights less significant . Congress , the states , and the public lapsed into indifference . Three Supreme Court decisions helped limit the scope of black rights . The Slaughterhouse cases ( 1874 ) sharply curtailed the privileges and immunities clause @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to have been designed to vastly expand black rights against state action.8 In 1883 , the court held , in United States v. Harris , that the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment applied only to state discriminatory action.9 Other cases denied power to Congress to directly reach individual acts of discrimination.1 ) State segregation statutes abounded in this vacuum of anti- discrimination policy . The states had the power to restrict discrimination against blacks , and a few used it . But in the American South Jim Crow was born , meaning that southern states attempted to legalize white supremacy while disenfranchising blacks . ' 1 The courts limited the most outrageous efforts to disenfranchise blacks , but for the most part federal and state courts acquiesced to segregationist sentiment . By 1900 blacks were close to their pre-Civil War status , even though they were technically free . The pattern of official race segregation was approved by the Supreme Court in 1896 . The decision in the case of Plessy v. Ferguson was supposedly based upon the legal equality of the white and black " races " under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rested upon ill-disguised notions of black inferiority . As Justice Henry B. Brown saw it , in the majority opinion , legislation could not abolish " distinctions based upon physical difference . " The separation of the races was justified because " if one race be inferior to the other socially , the Constitution of the United States can not put them upon the same plane . " Slowly , but inevitably , the Supreme Court had to retreat from its racist views of 1896 , until in 1954 it disavowed them by overturning Plessy v. Ferguson . The " separate but equal " policy of racial segregation was gradually abandoned , but not without some hesitation by the Supreme Court , which steered anti-discrimination policy toward blacks in the mid-twentieth century . When it came , the Supreme Court decision of 1954 was a thunderbolt . Few expected such a strong disavowal of segregation . None could forsee that desegregation would become as complex and convoluted as it did become . Nonetheless , the decision in Brown v. Board of Education is a milestone in anti-discrimination policy . It changed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . The Brown decision concluded that " in the field of public education the doctrine of ' separate but equal ' has no place . " Plessy was implicitly overruled after 58 years of officially approved segregation . A unanimous , united Supreme Court decreed that no matter what the assertions in defense of racial separation , " separate educational facilities are inherently unequal . " This logic was swiftly extended to all public facilities . The implementation of racial desegregation in public schools was a task assigned to the lower federal courts . Desegregation proceeded in spite of initial resistance . President Eisenhower ordered out the federal troops to support Court-ordered desegregation.14 Defiant southern politicians retreated . Clever segregationists fought a holding action . Some closed down a public schools , while giving grants to white children to attend priva schools , but all this was to no avail . The Supreme Court struck do  | so-called freedom of choice plans , which maintained a dual school system for blacks and whites in 1963 and 1968.16 Finally , in 1969 the Court announced its impatience with delaying tactics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thrust of racial desegregation in public schools has slowed considerably in the past decade . While southern school systems are no longer segregated by law , the de facto segregation of housing patterns in other sections of the country pose important policy problems . Once school segregation laws were abolished ( for the most part ) , was there a constitutional need to compel public school integration ? The creation of a truly integrated public school system required concerted efforts by courts and legislatures alike . But the Supreme Court , now led by the more conservative chief justice , Warren Burger , no longer paved the way toward greater racial desegregation . The ambiguity that surrounds current American anti-discrimination policy is partly due to Supreme Court cautiousness and uncertainty . The Court is not trying to turn back the clock to before Brown , but it no longer provides the impetus for a clearly constitutional justification for antidiscrimination policy . While the federal Congress and the state legislatures have taken up some of the policy leadership , the Court has found itself placed in the position of restraining some of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recent years the Court has signalled displeasure with judicial activism aimed at more rapid school desegregation , and housing discrimination has been placed on the constitutional agenda . Two unresolved problems still plague the integration effort in the public schools : the constitutionality of undeliberate racial segregation and the viability of pursuing school integration in inner cities with huge black populations . Truly integrated education may or may not be required by the equal protection clause of the Constitution . If the Supreme Court had said that equal protection meant school integration , then the desegregation of nonsouthern school districts would have proceeded , accompanied , of course , by turmoil and short-term resistance or even by white flight from integrated school districts . But the Court drew a sharp distinction between de jure , legally created , and de facto , unintentional ( in a formal , legal sense only ) segregation ? a distinction which slowed progress toward greater school integration . Apparently , desegregation , not integration , is the basic policy of the Supreme Court with regard to schools and racial discrimination . There exists no positive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the playgrounds , on the job , or in homes . If Congress or the state legislatures wish to create such policies , the Supreme Court seems willing to sustain them , unless they go so far as to establish racial quotas that in themselves discriminate against other groups .  | It is possible to sketch the trends of the early Burger Court . In 1973 the Supreme Court did strike down a northern school district plan in which school authorities had clumped one-third of a city 's school children into a single black school.18 However , the Court in 1974 seemed to virtually close the door to integration efforts in the North , which required busing between a city and its surrounding suburbs , by holding that in the absence " of any inter-district violation " no metropolitan remedy could be ordered by a federal district court.19 The suburbs had not violated the constitutional requirements of equal protection of the laws merely because they were mostly white and the city of Detroit was mostly black . The Supreme Court continued to issue go-slow signals in 1976 , and 1977 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a district court judge who had ordered that students be reassigned annually in order to obtain his desired goal of no school in which a majority of the students were black.20 District courts could not order pupil reassignment when racial segregation had been in no way due to segregation policies of school officals . In 1977 the Court disapproved a lower court order for system-wide desegregation in Dayton , Ohio , on the ground that only if there has been a systemwide impact of earlier de jure , official , discrimination may there be a systemwide remedy . " 21 Other decisions during the same two years disapproved various courtordered busing schemes because of the absence of " segregative intent " on the part of school officials . Public anti-discrimination policy outside of education also tends to be shaped by U.S. Supreme Court holdings . The general rule is that the Fourteenth Amendment prohibits " state action " only , not private discrimination . Under Warren Burger the Court has held that discrimination by a private club does not become converted into . state action simply because the club holds @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facilities by segregated , private groups is permitted because the " mere use " does not amount to state action.23 The state may not shut down public schools to avoid desegregation , but it may close its swimming pools and recreational facilities , as long as it does n't provide aid to private facilities.24 The Court has not , however , tolerated state laws which forbid interracial marriage.25 Racial discrimination in housing has also been an area of judicial concern . Housing segregation is especially prevalent in the North . Rarely is housing segregation an official policy of federal , state , or local governments . When it has been , the Supreme Court has not hesitated to take a strong position . In 1976 the Supreme Court found that the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Chicago Housing Authority had joined together to promote racial segregation in public housing in Chicago.2 ' ' The Court has upheld both federal and state  | open housing legislation , even going so far as to sustain an ancient statute of 1866 that prohibits private discrimination in the sale or rental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , restrictive concern . Housing segregation is especially prevalent in the North . Rarely private owners from selling to members of unwanted groups . Such restrictive covenants are simply unenforceable in American courts.28 Perhaps the Supreme Court envisages a desegregated society being achieved through the elimination of discrimination in housing . That would be a long , arduous process requiring determined effort by lawmakers and bureaucrats . Employment discrimination has been largely managed by statutory rather than constitutional means . Congressional regulation of private employment discrimination has been upheld . Such discrimination is subject to the Act of 1866 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.29 Sex discrimination , as well as race discrimination , in employment falls under Title VII . Title VII makes it unlawful for an employer " to limit , segregate , or classify his employees in any way which would deprive any individual of employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect his status as an employee , because of such individual 's race , color , religion , sex , or national origin . " 30 The Supreme Court has interpreted this section in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination in employment to show : ( 1 ) that he belonged to a minority ; ( 2 ) that he applied for a job opening ; ( 3 ) that , despite his qualifications , he was rejected ; and ( 4 ) that after his rejection the job was kept open for later , similarly qualified applicants.31 Employers may use employment tests , but these must be job-related.32 The tests must be intended to demonstrate skills really necessary for the job for which the applicant is being considered.33 Still unclear in the Court 's decisions is the extent of the employer 's opportunity to prove a lack of discriminatory intent . Whether a policy is deemed explicitly designed to screen out minority group members or women and actually violates Title VII depends upon the factual setting and the inclination of the justices.34 Voting discrimination has been largely eliminated in the United States as a result of a long series of Supreme Court decisions under the Fifteenth Amendment and various strong federal Civil Rights Acts passed in the 1960s . Most significant is the Voting Rights Act of 1965 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ discrimination , state reapportionment plans be approved by the attorney general of the United States or a federal district court . This provision is intended to insure that a state apportionment plan does not " deny or abridge the right to vote on account of race or color . " In 1977 the Supreme Court held that the dilution of the voting strength of a Jewish group , caused by new district lines for the purpose of strengthening the influence of black voters , did not violate the Voting Rights Act of 1965.35 Apparently ,  | creating districts to benefit a racial group may not be a source of complaint by a white group inadvertently disadvantaged . The case is not clearly based on a theory of racial preference , but it does reveal that black voters are no longer neglected , and the Voting Rights Act may be a vehicle for the further enhancement of black voting power if legislatures are disposed to doing so . Race is regarded as a suspect category in American constitutional law because the Fourteenth Amendment was aimed at the elimination of official race discrimination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the equal protection clause and is held invalid unless shown to have been necessary to an overriding governmental purpose . Neither sex nor religion have been held to be suspect categories , although sex has come close to that status . This means that sex and religious discrimination are more constitutionally tolerable than racial discrimination . Older Supreme Court decisions upheld state protective legislation that established different and less harsh conditions of employment for women . Federal legislation expanded the concept of sex discrimination . The Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited employment discrimination on the basis of sex . Beginning in 1971 the Burger Court expanded the constitutional significance of sex by striking down an Idaho probate code provision which gave preference to men over women as administrators of estates . The case held that statutory sexual classifications were " subject to scrutiny under the Equal Protection clause . " In 1973 the court invalidated statutory provisions that allowed male members of the military to claim their wives as dependents while requiring female members to show that their husbands were actually dependent upon them in order to qualify . A @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age of majority at 21 for males and 18 for women . In 1976 an age distinction between women and men was stricken down.38 The offending statute allowed women to purchase 3.2 beers at age 18 but forbid men from doing so until age 21 . Now " classifications by gender must serve important governmental objectives and must be substantially related to achievement of those objectives . " Current controversy swirls around the " benevolent " classification of women that provides them rights not available to men . Perhaps only in America would such special treatment draw resistance . The significance of these cases may be greater than they seem , since they go beyond discrimination issues into the territory of positive benefits or special treatment , a claim not often recognized in American constitutional law . Kahn v. Shevin upheld a Florida statute that give widows , but not widowers , a property tax exemption . A later case upheld a feder policy that gave woolen naval officers an opportunity to remain  | active duty longer than men . Men who had been twice passed over for promotion were required @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on duty 13 years , often being passed over for promotion . Apparently , the justification for upholding these special benefits for women was to remedy a history of past disadvantageous conditions , a theory that could potentially be stretched to cover American minority groups as well . As if to stress this point for women , a 1977 decision sustained a statute that allowed women to calculate their retirement benefits more favorably than men . The justification was that the statute " operated directly to compensate women for past economic discrimination . " In fact , recent Supreme Court holdings make it difficult to establish that a governmental action that disadvantages a minority is unconstitutional . In the absence of rather clear proof of discriminatory intent , the Court has generally refused to find an act of unconstitutional racial discrimination . The Court has made it clear that proving a discriminatory purpose is very difficult and it will not be presumed merely from the statistical impact of a governmental policy.43 American has never admitted that its problems with minority groups and women require special legislative and administrative treatment , at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are tolerated between the treatment of men and women is based upon an American sense of compensation for past disadvantages . This is as far as American policy is able to go . As we shall observe , quotas and preferences in favor of minorities test the limits of American jurisprudence , even when based upon a theory of compensation for historical racism . Religious Discrimination in the United States Religious discrimination in America is also subject to a judicial refusal to decide among competing groups . America is predominately a Protestant nation . Catholics , Jews , nonbelievers and other sects do not acquire rights by virtue of their group membership . In fact , there has been different treatment of religious groups under the First Amendment of the Constitution , but this has never been officially acknowledged by the Supreme Court . Instead , the Court has insisted on the neutrality of the government toward religious groups . This position has not been consistently applied , but the theory remains intact . The Puritan colonists in Massachusetts Bay had an established church , as did every American colony prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , while Catholics , Jews , and sometimes Baptists and Methodists were actively discouraged . Because of the bitterness of religious group rivalry prior to the Revolution , prominent secularists such as Thomas Jefferson , James Madison , and  | George Mason urged a clear separation of church and state . This separation has been one of America 's major contributions to group relations , and even though Protestants , Catholics , and Jews still differ , religious discrimination is not as severe a problem in America as in most other nations . The First Amendment of the American Constitution simply provides that " Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . " The Supreme Court interpretation of this phraseology has varied a great deal over the years , but it means , at a minimum , that there is no established religion in America , and it also means that Congress ( actually , all governmental agencies ) is obliged to avoid interference with religious practices . The mass suicide of religious sect members in Jamestown , Guyana , shows that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also shows that the government will do little to restrain aberrant religious practices . The Constitution has nothing to say about religious discrimination , other than the provision which states that " no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the United States . " This clause made void a state law that required a declaration of belief in the existence of God as a qualification to hold office . Different religious groups have fared differently in American constitutional law . Mormons lost major constitutional tests when the court upheld legislation aimed at stamping out polygamy , a Mormon practice.46 Mormons have been disenfranchised in the past and church property has been taken away without offending the Constitution.47 On the other hand , since 1938 the Jehovah 's Witnesses have received constitutional protection for their beliefs and practices.48 One of these Jehovah 's Witness cases resulted in the 1940 holding that First Amendment provisions regarding religion were binding on states and local governments , as well as the national government , by virtue of interpretation of the Fourteenth Amendment.49 The propaganda efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sect 's refusal to - permit their children to salute the flag.50 The Jehovah 's Witness cases have gone a long way toward removing religious discrimination against the sect 's members , as well as incidentally benefitting all religious groups . Seventh Day Adventists and Jews have not done quite as well under Supreme Court interpretations of the Constitution . In 1977 the Court held that the 1964 Civil Rights Act did not require that an employer establish a four day work week for a Seventh Day Adventist or make diligent efforts to satisfy the Adventists 's religious practices. $ ' Jews have complained about the Sunday closing laws , which in many sections of the country result in a loss of an additional business day on the part of  | observant Jews . Yet , the Supreme Court has sustained Sunday closing laws , even if some state supreme courts have not . Education in religious schools is a matter of worldwide controversy . In American religious schools are constitutionally protected . The state may not force all children to attend secular schools . However , the question of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has vexed constitutional scholars for the past fifty years . Supreme Court decisions have supplied rationalizations for limited public support to religious schools . Religious instruction in public schools is clearly banned , although it is possible to have religious instruction off school grounds . The public school is a secular institution in America . Prayers or devotional readings in public schools violate the First Amendment.55 The constitutional requirement of public neutrality toward religion has the effect of protecting minority religious groups and nonbelievers , since it prevents a religious majority from using the schools to spread their beliefs or to injure other religions . Even the status of Christmas celebrations is in doubt in public schools , thus safeguarding minority group resistance to such holidays . Many American religious groups are active politically . Catholics have been active in pressing for aid to parochial education , tax exemption for church property , and censorship of sexual materials . They have also been actively opposed to legalized abortion . Protestants , although in a clear numerical majority , have not overtly pressed for legislation that discriminates against Catholics , Jews , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such groups as the so-called moral majority . Various statutes prohibit religious discrimination in employment and educational opportunity . Nonetheless , much relatively unregulated religious discrimination is prevalent at top management levels and in private life . On the whole , however , religious discrimination in America was widespread in the nineteenth century and prevalent up to World War II , but seems to be on the wane . American Indians Two other American groups have been historic victims of discrimination : American Indians and Spanish speakers ( including Puerto Ricans and Mexican-Americans ) . Indians of North America differ markedly from the dominant culture . These indigenous peoples lost most of their lands , and many were slaughtered in various wars against them . In the nineteenth century they were a subject people , and some tribes were virtually liquidated as a result of the actions of state and national officials . The Constitution is virtually silent about Indians . Early Supreme Court opinions did little to assist them.5B Now there are about 750,000 Indians living in the United States , 400,000 of them on reservations set aside by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was miserable and unhealthy until the past few years when Indian activism has led to reforms in the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs . In 1968 , Title II of the Civil Rights Act gave the reservation Indians most of the protections available to other Americans under the Constitution . For example , the First Amendment is incorporated word for word into the 1968 Act , except for the omission of the restriction on the establishment of religion , a concession to the theism of many Indian groups . Other portions of the Bill of Rights were also extended , with modifications , to the reservation Indians . Indian tribal courts remain in control of civil suits and minor criminal infractions . Major crimes are removed from the jurisdiction of tribal courts . Indian customary law may be enforced by tribal courts under certain conditions . Off-reservation Indians are frequent objects of discrimination . Neither the Civil Rights Act of 1968 nor the Constitution are much protection for them , since " terminated Indians , " as they are called , are legally nonIndians . Although nonreservation Indians have all the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ineligible for the educational , housing , and health-care benefits available to reservation Indians . Since reservation Indians have begun to receive better treatment , many Indians would prefer to remain on the reservation , but some have been compelled to leave the reservation . In general , Indian policy has not been a notable success for the advocates of equal treatment . Indians have been and are an example of the inadequacy of American anti-discrimination policy . American Indians on reservations still have only attained partial self-government . Indian groups have claimed the right to preserve their cultural and religious practices against the ordinary laws of the state and nation , but with limited success . Hispano-Americans Spanish is the native language of more than 8 million Americans . One and one half millions are Puerto Ricans ; five million are MexicanAmericans . The remainder are from Cuba and parts of Central and South America . Language rights are not recognized in the American Constitution . Yet discrimination against Spanish speakers is prevalent , partly based upon their skin color and partly on their poverty . Acceptance into the majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently has attention been directed to their plight . Since 1954 the U.S. Supreme Court has recognized " the ethnological and statistical identifiability of the Mexican-American classification . " b ? Yet Mexican-Americans and Puerto Ricans still receive inferior public education ; they rarely receive a higher education or enter the professions . As if to remedy these problems at the root , some state !  | began to require bilingual education in public school districts with large Spanish-speaking populations . While the Constitution does not guarantee education as a fundamental right , there appears to be a blossoming right to be instructed in a language that is appropriate to the population of a district.65 Under President Carter the Department of Education urged public school elementary instruction in the language familiar to the school children . In addition , the agency has urged affirmative action programs in employment which give greater opportunity to Spanish speakers , or at least those with Spanish surnames . However , there is a long distance to travel before Spanish speakers can be assimilated into the majority culture . The Reagan administration has seemed to withdraw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be the main purpose of American antidiscrimination policy . This goal is not pursued consistently or vigorously . The school integration effort seems to be the centerpiece of the anti-discrimination policy , at least for black Americans . The slackened pace of school integration , especially in the urban North , has signaled a slowdown in anti-discrimination efforts on other fronts . Doubtless , as new group protests arise , a reinvigorated antidiscrimination policy will emerge . No matter what specific legal changes may take place , there is little likelihood that separate development or group autonomy will be the goal . Officially , at least , the commitment is to an integrated society in which the minorities are gathered into the majority culture . The sources of English anti-discrimination policy are to be found in recent legislation and in commitments made to international organizations . In attempting to understand the distribution of rights in the United Kingdom there is no equivalent of the American Bill of Rights to provide a touchstone for minority rights policies . Instead one must grope around to locate the current appropriate legislation . Magna Carta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Rights are all part of the heritage of Western civilization from which our modern view of individual rights has , in many respects , been developed . But these ancient English documents do little to clarify contemporary rights policies . Until recently issues of minority rights were relatively rare in Great Britain . True , there were religious minorities : Catholics , Jews , and Protestants other than members of the Church of England . Linguistic minorities were nearly nonexistent , in spite of a Welch and Gaelic revival movement during the nineteenth and early twentieth century .  | Englishmen were not very aware of their group differences , although bias and prejudice were rampant . Anti-Semitic , anti-black and anti-Irish attitudes were and are widespread in English society . Yet the law had little to say about such things , presuming all Englishmen to be equal before the law . The myth of a homogenized , integrated , and harmonious society sustained the English in the nineteenth century , although class rivalries shook the foundations of English politics . Religious differences split England asunder for centuries . Catholics and Protestants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the country . Religious tolerance developed during the nineteenth century as Jews and Catholics attained political rights previously denied them . However , there still is one dominant , state-supported church , the Church of England , claiming almost 28 million members , a clear religious majority . There are about 5.4 million Roman Catholics and 450,000 Jews in England . There are fewer than 4 million Protestants of various denominations.66 There are no figures for the Sikh , Muslim , or Hindu religions , although many of their adherents live in the United Kingdom . The Anglican Church is part of the fabric of the country . Ever since the break with Rome in 1534 , when Henry VIII assumed the title of " Supreme Head of the Church in England , " the church lost its independence but gained political and social power . Twenty-six Anglican bishops have a right to sit in the House of Lords , and the Archbishop of Canterbury has the right to crown the king of England . The Anglican Church once actively persecuted Catholics , and before 1829 Catholic priests were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( non-Anglicans ) have been allowed to teach at Oxford and Cambridge only since 1871 . The sovereign and the lord chancellor must both be Anglicans , although a prime minister may be of any religion . However , the prime minister , as adviser to the king , appoints the bishops ( unless the prime minister is a Catholic ) . The Church of England is neither owned nor subsidized by the state . Its income comes from its own lands and capital , although some of this was acquired , in the past , by means of royal seizure of Catholic lands and properties . But the church does own 223,000 acres of land , making it the largest private landholder in the country.67 Its holdings of stocks and bonds are formidable factors in those markets . English law requires that state and private schools begin every day with collective worship . The Education Act does not stipulate which religion must be used as a basis of worship . Religious instruction must be according to an " agreed syllabus , " which is composed by representatives of churches in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction and morning prayers if they choose . Teachers have a right not to attend religious instruction . However , pupils have no  | right , other than their parents expressed desires , to withdraw from religious instruction or worship . So there is some , but very little , church-state separation in England , and there is nothing to forbid the official closing of a religious school or even of a church , although neither has happened in many years . Custom , not law , would seem to be protection against such an abuse of governmental power . After 1066 no other nation conquered the British Isles . Foreigners have come to England , but their presence did not give rise to concern about their rights . In general foreigners were tolerated . The Scots , the Irish , and the Welsh , though indigenous to the islands , were , and to some extent still are , treated as foreigners . The Irish seem to have been most oppressed and remained so until the arrival of immigrants from outside Europe . Non-European immigration hardly existed prior to World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chinese people to their seaports for centuries . Large scale non-European immigration did not begin until West Indians were attracted into the Royal Air Force to fight during World War II . Soon West Indians settled by the thousands in the larger cities and were packed into crowded living areas . Asians came later . Pakistanis and Indians , often expelled from newly independent African states , came to see England for the first time and to settle there , since there was no place for them in their home countries of India or Pakistan . The Asian immigrants brought new religions , new languages , and new customs to a country that had complacently considered itself enlightened and progressive . Color discrimination began almost immediately . The entry of new minorities into England aroused new forces and anxieties . No minorities policies had emerged in England simply because no minorities problems were perceived , apart from religious groups . Several hundred thousand immigrants from India , Pakistan , and the West Indies have arrived in England testing the tradition of English tolerance . The word " coloured " is usually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Middle East and native British born of nonwhite or mixed parentage . Certainly , " the expression of color consciousness has generally increased in Britain among whites and nonwhites during the past decade . " But the race situation is still unsettled , and there are no established traditions of formal or informal relationships among the various races . Officially sponsored segregation has not taken root , although private discrimination abounds . Color consciousness in England can not be separated from colonialism . The coloured population derives from parts of the Commonwealth that were formerly under direct British domination . Under the Empire the native populations were often stereotyped as backward and inferior . Now that their offspring are in England , old attitudes have resurfaced.  | As a defense mechanism , interest groups have emerged for each immigrant group , and each one is concerned with protecting group members from discrimination . Immigration policy and protective antidiscrimination legislation are the main concerns of these groups . Most of the groups are affiliated with the Campaign Against Racial Discrimination ( CARD ) , an umbrella group established in 1965 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . CARD had a hand in the enactment of the British Race Relations Act of 1965 . CARD agitated for better immigration laws . However , CARD finally collapsed as an interest group . By 1967 an official government study concluded that British society discriminated against coloured immigrants and against their children . The English government , responding to this kind of information , rapidly developed a race relations policy to deal with this new factor in English life . In the immigration field as well as in anti-discrimination legislation , the government was prepared to move . The evidence of racial discrimination became overwhelming . Beginning in 1965 the first tentative steps were taken , even before the evidence of discrimination had been assembled . The Race Relations Act of 1965 was the first legislation in Britain to establish the illegality of discrimination based on race , color , and ethnic or national origin . The Act may be regarded as a constitutional innovation in Britain . The first British Race Relations Act was passed by Parliament in 1965 . The act was a personal triumph for Fenner ( now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bill to Parliament on nine occasions , only to have it thrown out each time . The 1965 Act dealt with discrimination in public places and with color bar clauses in leases . The act also introduced a new criminal offense of incitement to racial hatred . This act did not cover the two main areas in which discrimination occured ? housing and employment . However , the act represents a constitutional innovation for England , a recognition of minority rights , and a bold new policy aimed at discrimination . In 1968 , after discovering the inadequacies of the 1955 Act , a second Race Relations Act was passed . Professor Harvey Street authored a Report on Anti-Discrimination Legislation that led directly to the 1968 Act . Street examined anti-discrimination policy in England and proposed stronger measures to deal with it . The 1968 Act dealt with discrimination on the grounds of color , race , and ethnic or national origin , but not nationality . This broader coverage included most of the area described here as minority-based . Discrimination was made unlawful in the provision of goods , services @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ property transactions . Enforcement was assigned to a Race Relations Board , which had the task of sifting through claims of rights violations in order  | to reconcile the parties and then going to the courts if no compromise could be reached . Access to the courts was placed exclusively in the hands of the board . The board had only limited powers of independent investigation and action . The 1968 Act also proved inadequate . Discrimination in housing and employment did not decline . The Race Relations Board proved ineffectual . The board did not enjoy the confidence of minority groups . The act also omitted mention of sex discrimination . Yet another tangible justification for disatisfaction with the act was widespread industrial strikes among Asian workers , who complained about discriminatory practices , especially in the hosiery industry . Trade unions also rebuffed Indian workers . Finally , reform of the 1968 Act became a political issue among minority groups , particularly black youths , the second generation of West Indian immigrants . In 1975 the government declared its policy intentions , stating that the " overwhelming majority of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ meant that there had to be a determined effort " to ensure fair and equal treatment for all our people , regardless of their race , colour , or national origins . " A better law would be drafted that would be more comprehensive in scope and which permitted easier access to the courts . A better machinery for uncovering discriminatory practices would be developed . A strategy for dealing with the root causes of disadvantage would be devised . Unfortunately , the new act could not live up to these noble aims . Moreover , the ' immigration laws remained based upon racialist assumptions . The immigration laws gave black and Asian immigrants an inferior status , making their residence in England dependent upon their acceptable behavior . The immigration laws seem to assume that blacks and Asians were a potential threat to the community . The immigration law remains as a restraint upon whatever positive benefits are created by the anti-discrimination policies of the 1976 Race Relations Act . The current Race Relations Act went into effect on November 22 , 1976.80 The act deals with three kinds of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ favorable treatment on grounds of color , race , nationality , and ethnic or national origins ; ( 2 ) indirect racial discrimination " in which a requirement or condition " is applied " such that the proportion of persons of the same racial group as that other who can comply with it is considerably smaller than the proportion of persons not of that racial group who can comply with it ; " and , ( 3 ) victimization of those who give evidence or information in connection with the act . This third category is intended to protect those who witness acts of discrimination . Interestingly , the term " racial group " is defined in the act to mean " a group of persons defined by reference to colour , race , nationality or  | ethnic or national origins . " Furthermore , the act states that " references to a person 's racial group refer to any racial group into which he falls . " The act is based upon a group rights approach , and comparisons of treatment accorded members of groups is the underlying basis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ group context by this statute . The law is also directed against segregation . " Segregating a person from other persons on racial grounds " is a violation of the act . Thus , the act prohibits separate treatment of individuals on " racial " grounds ( defining race in the broad fashion indicated above ) . Segregated rest rooms would be in violation of the act . Segregation is permitted whenever its purpose is to afford " persons of a particular racial group access to facilities or services to meet the special needs of persons of that group in regard to their education , training or welfare , or any ancillary benefits . " This kind of positive segregation is excepted because it bestows benefits upon the group . The status of some groups under the act is uncertain . Jews seem not to be covered by the act . Jewish quotas for admission to private schools are a common practice in England , yet they have not been held to violate the act because the act does not cover religious discrimination . Gypsies are another group that suffers as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that gypsies were not a race within the meaning of the 1965 statute . The Race Relations Board did tend to treat gypsies as a race , but since the board has been replaced by a Commission for Racial Equality , the exact status of gypsies is unclear . Genuine language discrimination is not covered by the statute . Unless the real grounds are racial , discrimination by reason of language is not a concern of English rights policy . In certain circumstances language discrimination might amount to indirect discrimination under the Race Relations Act , as when an employer 's language requirement is inappropriate to the employment activity . Discrimination in employment is the chief target of the Race Relations Act . The recruitment of employees , their pay , training , treatment , and dismissal all fall within the ambit of the act . Employment policies and practices of all businesses are open to the scrutiny of the Commission for Racial Equality . This commission has full powers to obtain company records and subpoena witnesses . The act is aimed at the elimination of discriminatory practices rather than punishment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for knowingly and recklessly misinforming an employment agency that a particular job is not covered by the provisions of the act . Unlike many other employment discrimination laws , the English law embraces trade unions as well as employers . This means that union officials can not refuse entry to a worker , expel him , or deny him benefits on racial grounds . However , shop stewards are not included in the act . Unions arc not held accountable for what shop stewards do .                     