@@773538

txt Educational Wastelands Back again , too , are the marvelous trivia into which the educationists throw themselves heart and soul . Ask the students , the report recommends , to " make studies of how the last war affected the dating pattern in our culture . " 44 Here we have " life-adjustment " education in a nutshell . 100 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists The anti-intellectualism of programs like " life-adjustment " education is so extreme that it refutes itself . The good sense of the American people can be trusted to repudiate it , once they grasp what it is about . In the long run , anti-intellectualism is bound to be self-defeating . But if powerful interests promote and sustain it , the run can be long and dangerous indeed . To destroy anti-intellectualism we need to do more than combat its arguments . We need to identify and expose the groups that are promoting it , so that we may check their disastrous influence upon policy-making . Where , then , did these preposterous educational notions come from ? Who originated them and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ideas of scientists , scholars , and professional men . The evidence that the public supports them is manufactured evidence . Under compulsion from their administrative superiors some public school teachers docilely indicate their approval , but 101 Educational Wastelands the ablest and most courageous of the classroom teachers are beginning to express a sense of outrage that is undoubtedly shared by vast numbers of their intimidated colleagues . None of these groups can be held responsible for the anti-intellectualism that is sapping public education . There is no mystery about the source of the proposals that I have been examining . By checking the list of authors and studying the roster of sponsoring committees one can fix responsibility clearly and unequivocally . The writers of these books and pamphlets , the members of these committees and commissions , the men and women actively engaged in questionnaire-making , curriculum-outlining , and propagandizing are drawn almost exclusively from three interrelated professional groups . First of all , there are professors of education in universities , colleges , and normal schools . Second , there are superintendents , principals , and other local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ officials , " experts , " and other bureaucrats in the state departments of public instruction and the federal Office of Education . These three groups , collectively known as professional educationists , have drawn together in recent years into what now amounts to an interlocking public school directorate . To make this clear we need to examine the composition of certain recent educational committees . The personnel of the Illinois Curriculum Program ( discussed in the preceding chapter ) is typical and illustrative . First of all , the list of " Problems of High School Youth , " central to the " Follow-Up Study , " was formulated by a single professor of education , a member of the faculty of the College of Education of the state university . He , in turn , acknowledged that his problems were derived from a list of " Basic Needs of High School Youth , " which was " prepared by the Committee on the Reorientation of the Secondary School Curriculum , a sub-committee of the Curriculum Committee of the Illinois Secondary School Principals ' Association . " 1 This committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education , two high school principals , two representatives of the State Department of Public Instruction , and the executive director of the Illinois Association of School Boards . ' The fundamental philosophy of the entire program , in other words , was determined by professional cdu-102 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists cationists , who occupied seven of the eight positions on the committee . The one other place was assigned to a citizen who was not a professional educationist , it is true , but who was closely associated with the administration of the school system . No scholar or scientist representing a basic intellectual discipline participated in the work of the committee , though its avowed purpose was " the reorientation of the secondary school curriculum . " The minority position assigned to citizens , scholars , and scientists is just as conspicuous in the large " steering committee " of approximately sixty which exercises general supervision over the Curriculum Program . Its membership has changed slightly over the years , but its basic composition has remained the same . Out of a membership ( in 1952 ) of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly connected with or employed by the public school system : twenty-seven superintendents , principals , professors of education , and representatives of the State Department of Public Instruction ; fifteen high school teachers of various subjects ; two other members of high school faculties ( a dean of girls and a librarian ) ; and the director of teachers ' welfare in the Illinois Education Association . Upon the minority of thirteen devolved the responsibility of representing both the public at large and the entire learned world outside the secondary schools . This minority comprised seven representatives of non-educational organizations , two college presidents , one head of a parochial school unit , and three college teachers.3 These figures reveal how inadequately the great intellectual disciplines have been represented in the process of curricular study and revision . A maximum of twenty members , out of fiftyeight , can be said to have stood in any way for the recognized fields of scholarship and science ? the three college professors , the two college presidents , and the fifteen high school teachers . Actually the number was considerably smaller , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other non-academic fields , and the college presidents were doubtless concerned primarily with administrative questions . The three college teachers came from geography , music , and speech ? hardly the central intellectual or scientific disciplines of modern life . ' That a " steering committee " so constituted would chart its course by any of the recognized beacons of science and scholarship is hardly to 103 Educational Wastelands be expected . Absurdities like " life-adjustment " education could never have gained a foothold in the secondary schools if scholars and scientists had played any real and continuing part in the making of American public school policy . How has it happened that scholars and scientists have lost all effective voice in public school curriculum-making ? And what is responsible for the creation of an educational directorate powerful enough to cut the schools loose from their natural ties with the recognized world of learning ? The present situation is clearly the product of historical forces . This does not mean that the development was inevitable . It certainly does not mean that the trend was desirable . Least of all does @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In this matter , indeed , we need to understand the course of past events because we need to recognize , as a step toward rectifying , the mistakes that have been made . Quantitatively speaking the American educational system of today is an enormous enterprise . In creating it we have necessarily brought into existence a vast administrative bureaucracy . Public school superintendents and principals direct the education of more than twenty-five million young Americans in the public schools . They control the expenditure of close to six billion dollars of public funds a year . They employ more than nine hundred thousand teachers.5 Theirs is a complex and responsible task , and on the material and managerial side they have conducted it honestly , efficiently , and well . The buildings and equipment of our schools , and the orderliness of their operation , are monuments to the skill and devotion of the educational bureaucracy . But the acumen that is necessary to manage the organizational details of such an enterprise successfully is not precisely the same as the knowledge and discernment that are necessary to determine the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school buildings . The public school administrator of today is practically never an active scholar or scientist ? how could he possibly find the time to be ? Despite the " Dr. " which often precedes his name , he has rarely been educated as a scholar . He has been trained as an.educational technician , and his degree is often an Ed.D. , not a Ph.D . Neither by training nor by occupation is he prepared to judge the kinds of intellectual skills that 104 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists are necessary to maintain the scientific , technological , and professional progress of the nation . The problems of the children under his care so engross his attention that he often comes to believe that schools exist primarily to meet the personal needs which these children feel , completely forgetting that the nation supports the schools in order to provide for many needs of society which children are quite incapable of comprehending . The school administrator requires , and has always required , guidance in curriculum-making from those who are in a better position than he to judge of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex society and that must therefore be developed in the lower schools . Until forty or fifty years ago that guidance was furnished by the men professionally engaged in the higher branches of science and scholarship . Much of this guidance was taken for granted . School administrators received their training in the recognized academic disciplines and accepted the postulates common to all the learned professions . The aims of education could be considered settled by common consent . Training in the basic intellectual skills and disciplines formed the unquestioned foundation . The arrangement and grading of subjects was more or less fixed by tradition . And at the top the known entrance requirements of the colleges provided a kind of ultimate directive . Under such circumstances the school administrator had clear standards to guide him in exercising his responsibility with respect to the curriculum . With the rise of the new American university in the last quarter of the nineteenth century , this guidance was placed on a more formal basis . University scholars served on commissions which , in co-operation with educational administrators , labored thoughtfully and effectively to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of study that would meet the criteria both of scholarly soundness and of pedagogical fitness . In 1894 appeared the Report of the Committee of Ten on Secondary School Studies , appointed by the National Education Association . Its chairman was President Charles W. Eliot of Harvard , and its membership included five college presidents , one college professor , one high school principal , the heads of two private preparatory schools , and the United States Commissioner of Education . Its recommendations on history , civil government , and political economy were drawn 105 Educational Wastelands up by a group which comprised six college professors , one college president , two high school principals , and one private school headmaster . " The same responsible scholarly participation characterized a long series of subsequent studies in the field , up to and including the report on The Study of History in Secondary Schools , published in 1911 by the Committee of Five of the American Historical Association . This promising form of co-operation petered out in the second decade of the twentieth century . In 1916 appeared a report of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Secondary Education of the National Education Association . The composition of this committee of twenty-one stood in the sharpest possible contrast with that of the Committee of Ten two decades earlier . Only four university professors were among its members , plus one teacher from Hampton Institute , and there were no representatives of preparatory schools . But there were ten high school teachers and principals , two superintendents of schools , one state high school inspector , two officials from the United States Bureau of Education , and one member of the faculty of a School of Pedagogy. ? This established a completely new pattern in curriculum making , and a pattern which has persisted . ' The old pattern of co-operation , indeed , has been emphatically repudiated by most present-day educationists . " Until about 1910 , " says a recent textbook , with obvious condescension to the backward past , " curriculum-making was largely in the hands of subject-matter specialists who were dominated by a philosophy of formal discipline , the sacredness of subject matter , and a worship of the past and the status quo @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves selves were partly ? 6 blame . Their responsibilities within their own fields ? in graduate instruction , in research , and in public service ? grew heavier , and the content of each field grew increasingly more complex . University professors tended to turn their backs upon elementary and secondary education . They are reaping today the whirlwind which their indifference helped to sow . In the long run , however , the negligence of scholars was less significant than another development , which promised to make co-operation even more effective but which actually impeded and destroyed it . This was the rise of pedagogy as an independent Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists subject in the university curriculum , with offerings even on the - ( graduate level . At the outset , this was a promising development . Research in pedagogical methods was to be conducted under university auspices by scientists and scholars educated in the recognized disciplines applicable to the problems involved . Many thoroughly trained psychologists , philosophers , historians , statisticians , linguists , and others accepted the title of professor of education , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ responsibilities were clear . Professors of education were to be mediators between the more advanced and the more elementary sectors of the educational world . As members of a university community they were supposed to grasp the growing complexity of intellectual life and to see its implications for secondary education . As teachers of teachers they were expected to translate these developments in science and scholarship into the language of the classroom . They were expected to make clear to school administrators the increasingly heavy intellectual requirements of modern life , and thus to encourage the development of public school curricula more thorough and rigorous than those of the slipshod past . The great responsibility of professors of education was to stimulate and encourage rising standards of disciplined intellectual training throughout the school system , using the prestige of their university position to advance the ideals of liberal education to which the university is dedicated . The men who undertook to deal with pedagogical problems at the university level in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries took these responsibilities seriously and acquitted themselves well . They have their true successors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arts , trained at the advanced level in one of the basic disciplines , and imbued with faith in the value of intellectual endeavor . These men I honor , and I am gratified that many of them have written me approving both the positive affirmations and the negative criticisms set forth in preceding chapters of this book . Such men , however , form but a small minority among professors of education at the present day . The pedagogical departments at most universities have developed in quite a different direction during the past half century . The change was the result of certain factors which were neither recognized nor foreseen at the outset . 107 Educational Wastelands University and graduate departments of education began as agencies of genuine interdisciplinary investigation and teaching . When , however , they began to recruit their faculties from young men trained by themselves , they gradually lost their original character . Several academic generations have now passed , and the overwhelming majority of present-day professors of education have received virtually all their advanced training in departments of education . Their knowledge of the disciplines @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most part elementary and secondhand . And this knowledge is being passed on , increasingly diluted and increasingly out-of-date , to new generations of professional educationists . John Dewey was himself a philosopher , and he brought philosophy to bear upon educational problems . Today , however , the so-called " philosophy of education " offered in most departments of pedagogy has lost touch with living philosophical thought , for it is taught mainly by men trained not in philosophy itself but merely in their predecessors ' courses in the philosophy of education . What began as the free and creative speculation of philosophic minds upon educational questions has congealed into educational dogma passed on from generation to generation by men who no longer speculate but merely expound . This has happened to each of the great disciplines that ought to be contributing to vital educational thinking . Educational psychologists maintain closer connections with the parent discipline than other educationists , perhaps , but the gap is wide and growing wider . The history of education and educational sociology are rarely taught by men trained as historians or sociologists . Professors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experts who study and teach public administration in general in departments of political science . Even the courses in the teaching of specific subjects ? mathematics , history , English , and the like ? are mainly in the hands of educationists , not mathematicians or historians or scholars in the field of English language and literature . Cross-fertilization , the original purpose of departments of education , has ceased , and we are up against the fact that the products of cross-fertilization ? the hybrids ? are frequently sterile . The quality of purpose has declined with the decline in the quality of staff . University and graduate departments of education 108 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists were founded with the idea of raising school-teaching from a vocation to a profession . This was to be accomplished ? it could only be accomplished ? by requiring a thorough training in the liberal arts before permitting a student to embark upon specialized training in pedagogy . But the founders of advanced departments of education failed to reckon with the fact that a large number of institutions and instructors had a vested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Normal schools were reluctant to give up what they had been doing . They expanded into colleges , but rarely sloughed off completely their narrow vocational approach to the problem of training teachers . The old-time specialists in normal-school pedagogy were insistent that they be recognized as full-fledged professors of education , and they began to migrate to the new university departments . As a result there occurred a rapid debasement of the original ideal . Instead of a new and genuinely professional approach to education there was a mere upgrading in the numbering of the old courses in pedagogical method . For most students these courses were apt to be piled , layers thick , upon an undergraduate major in pedagogy , not upon a major in one of the liberal arts . In the end , so-called graduate work in education tended to become merely a prolonged and attenuated program of vocational training . Another unforeseen factor leading to the deterioration of university departments of education was the tremendous influence that came to be exerted upon them by the administrative bureaucracy of the public schools . It was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from such pressures , since one of their major responsibilities was to examine , criticize , and judge with scholarly impartiality the programs that school administrators were carrying out . Their duty was to transmit to superintendents , principals , and teachers in the field the considered judgment on educational matters of the academic world . Such a pattern , however , never came into being . Instead , public school administrators and university departments of education drew together in a community of interest that was far stronger than any which developed between the department of education and the other faculties of the university . The direct consequence was that professors of education abandoned any pretence of being independent , academic critics of public school 109 Educational Wastelands development , and became hard-and-fast partners of the administrative bureaucracy in the making of public school policy . Their role thereafter could only be that of apologists , and rather indiscriminate apologists , for every new program introduced into the public schools . To the scholar from an established discipline , one of the most shocking facts about the field of education is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Among scientists and cholars , criticism of one another 's findings is regarded as a normal and necessary part of the process of advancing knowledge . But full and frank criticism of new educational proposals rarely comes from other professional educationists . The educational journals are almost devoid of critical reviews , which form an essential part of similar publications in other fields.10 The paean of praise that greets every novel program , the closing of ranks that occurs whenever a word of criticism is spoken from outside , is a symptom of the fact that independence of thought has ceased to be a virtue among professional educationists . This monolithic resistance to criticism reveals the existence and influence of what can only be described as an educational party-line ? a party-line that protects the vested interests of both school administrators and professors of education . Even in Parent-Teacher Associations ? admirable bodies in many respects ? free discussion of the basic educational philosophy of the public schools is tightly controlled through frequent invocation and strict interpretation of a national by-law which provides that the organization " shall not seek to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their policies . " 11 Communication thus becomes a one-way affair . The theories of professional educationists may be freely expounded in P.T.A . meetings . But program committees are often given to understand that they may not schedule speakers of opposite views , for this would constitute an attempt to interfere with the policies of the schools . The extreme unwillingness of professional educationists to submit their proposals to free public discussion and honest criticism frequently assumes the even uglier form of showering critics , no matter how upright and well-informed , with vituperation and personal abuse . A scientist or scholar who publishes a criticism of educational trends , even in a scientific journal , is liable to be 110 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists denounced by professional educationists in responsible positions who do not think it beneath their dignity to hurl at him such epithets as these : " a peripatetic hatchet man , " " a demagogue rather than a scholar , " and " a master of the pointed phrase rather than the finished thought . " 12 Other educationists shamelessly employ the doctrine of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certain criticisms made by responsible scholars have been utilized in the propaganda of reactionary opponents of public education , all alike are to be regarded as " enemies " of the public schools . Implicit in this kind of statement is the idea that no person can have an informed opinion on school matters save one who has been trained in pedagogy . A lifetime of teaching apparently can not make a scholar or scientist anything but a meddlesome amateur when public educational policy is up for discussion . Such notions tend to inspire among the lesser lights of the educationist world an arrogance such as one meets in no other profession and which occasionally erupts in an attempt even to suppress freedom of discussion on public educational questions.13 This hushing up of criticism is an attitude that belongs , not to a company of independent scholars , but to a bureaucracy , a party , a body united in defense of a vested interest Professors of education are too deeply involved in the current public school situation to be reliable and fearless critics of it . They have aided the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to science and scholarship . In return , the educational bureaucracy has aided the professors of education in gaining within the universities a position of power which has enabled them to defy the academic standards of other departments of the institution . The structure of power within the educationist profession has much more to do with the present state of the public schools and the teaching profession in America than citizens are apt to realize . The existence of what amounts to an interlocking directorate involving professors of education and school administrators is most clearly revealed in the policies governing the training of teachers . State educational officials exert control over such programs by the requirements they lay down for the certification of teachers , and these universally include substantial course work 111 Educational Wastelands in pedagogy.14 Public school superintendents and principals reinforce this emphasis by the criteria they use in employing and promoting teachers . The beneficiaries are the professors of education , who are thus assured of a steady flow of students through their courses . This elaborate and rigorous prescription of pedagogical courses is rather curiously at variance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ They wish as little as possible of the secondary school curriculum to be prescribed by outside authorities , and they vehemently assert that the colleges need not and should not insist upon any particular set of courses as a prerequisite for admission.16 But educationists are quite ready to invoke the coercive power of the state to compel every prospective teacher to take a specified number of courses in pedagogy . Another inconsistency is involved . If an historian asserts that a knowledge of history can contribute to intelligent citizenship , the educationist is apt to condemn him for believing in " transfer of training " and to insist that history must prove its right to a place in the curriculum by incontrovertible experimental evidence that its study does produce better citizens . But the educationist demands a state-imposed requirement in pedagogy without presenting any experimental evidence whatsoever that such course work produces better teachers . A professor of education informs me that nowhere in the literature of the " science " of education " can be found a single study , or controlled experiment , that establishes that a person is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Surely this is a primary question into which their research organizations ought to inquire , and the worth of courses in Education could be established easily by the use of control and experimental groups equated as to initial ability , if there is any worth there . Is it not a little curious that such elemental research has been avoided by them ? " I have called the statement to the attention of a number of educationists , and none has been able to point out to me a single study that would invalidate the generalization . " Justifiable or not , the state-enforced requirement in pedagogy is the taproot of the great educationist upas tree . The one inescapable prerequisite to a career in public school teaching and administration is course work in a department of education . Con-112 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists sequently this is the one department in which every student must enroll who wishes to teach or to be eligible to teach . The typical department of education knows very well how to extort every possible advantage from this strategic position . In most institutions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of teachers . It frequently undertakes to plan all teachers ' programs for them , regardless of their academic interests . It institutes programs of its own leading to a major or even a separate degree in education . It encourages its students to pile up course work in pedagogy far beyond the legal minimum . It frequently creates among its students the impression that they will be suitably rewarded for strict adherence in class to the educationist party line , and that too-vocal dissent will hurt their chances of future employment . Protected behind state requirements which no department but itself can satisfy , the department is able to defy , or even to wage aggressive warfare against , the academic standards of the university . It exerts almost continuous pressure to break down admissions requirements , particularly those that might affect the work of the high schools . It frequently works to eliminate general graduation requirements that specify work in foreign languages and mathematics . The department of education typically refuses to look upon the university as a community of scholars working to a common end , and attempts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to educational problems . It sets up courses of its own in the teaching of the various school subjects , and gradually withdraws all future teachers from courses . of this kind offered by the subject-matter departments . It generally refuses to entrust the teaching of educational psychology , , to independent departments of psychology , or the philosophy education to departments of philosophy . In its relationship with the university of which it is a part , the typical department of education shows no real interest in interdisciplinary co-operation and no sense of academic partnership . Instead its faculty manifest a desire to insulate the schools and their teachers from every possible contact with recognized academic disciplines . The abuse is even more appalling at the graduate level . The argument that pedagogical courses are necessary to prepare a novice for an unfamiliar vocation no longer has the slightest 113 Educational Wastelands relevance , for graduate students in education are , as a rule , teachers with considerable experience . But administrators and teachers have been so thoroughly indoctrinated with the view that course work in pedagogy is the one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ after year , or summer session after summer session , to thresh old straw in departments of education , completely overlooking the glaring inadequacies of their training in the disciplines they profess to teach . Such inadequacies are unavoidable in a beginning teacher , for he can not well know in advance what courses he may be assigned to handle outside the field of his major interest . If teacher certification requirements were designed for the benefit of the schools , however , instead of the benefit of professors of education , they would be phrased in such a way as to compel a teacher to bring his training in every subject he teaches up to a respectable minimum before embarking on additional courses in mere pedagogy . Certification standards and the various other requirements imposed upon teachers have far more to do with the power politics of the educational bureaucracy than with the welfare of the schools . The academic empires which can be built by such methods are observable in almost every large state university . The University of Illinois may serve as an example . The certification requirement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hours in education , yet the College of Education of the university offers no less than sixty-one distinct courses open to undergraduates , and it comprises a faculty of one hundred and twenty-four members with the rank of instructor or above , including thirty-three full professors.17 The inflation at the graduate level is even more preposterous , for seventy-four courses at the very highest graduate level are listed . In the same institution the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering has won recognition as one of the most distinguished in the country , but it carries on its complex and important work through only fortytwo courses at the highest graduate level , 18 and with a faculty totalling forty-two , of whom nineteen are full professors.10 The enslavement of the classroom teacher , not his advancement to a position of professional independence , is the conseuence of this system of teacher training . Any profession is degraded in proportion as its members fall under the domination , 114 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists in professional matters , of the kind of administrator who thinks of them as mere employees . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back as 1895 a school superintendent , addressing the National Education Association , summed up the Fiihrerprinzip that characterizes public school administration : " The whole law in a nutshell should be : Every teacher responsible to the superintendent alone ; the superintendent , and he alone , responsible for the schools . " 20 Such a conception of a well-run school can mean only one thing : Teachers are hired to do their jobs as their superiors tell them to . When curriculum revision is under way the teachers may be called in to work out the details , but it is not for them to question the general principles laid down by professors of education and by the public school directorate . Occasionally a professor of education on the defensive will assert that " every teacher , either as an individual or as a member of curriculum committees , is a curriculum maker . " 21 This is sheer mythology , true only in the sense that the laborer who spikes down the track is a railroad builder . Educational policy in institutions of higher learning is formulated according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the public schools . Even the practice , despite certain encroachments by college administrators , is markedly different . In colleges and universities administrative officers derive direct authority from the board of trustees only in supposedly non-academic spheres . In matters of educational policy they are theoretically responsible to the faculty . This is true in actual practice , as well as in theory , so far as course offerings are concerned , for departments and colleges are rarely subject to administrative pressure in these matters . Faculty committees , on paper at least , determine the policy of the university with respect to larger questions like admissions and requirements for degrees . It would be unrealistic to deny that administrators exercise considerable influence in these matters , but even so , no president or dean in a college of reputable standing could hope to succeed in imposing new and far-reaching academic policies upon his institution without the consultation and approval of his faculty . In opposing the encroachments of administrative authority upon the field of educational policy , the faculty of a college or 115 Educational Wastelands university derives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ordinarily from the ranks of the faculty . Heads of departments are always regular faculty members , still active in teaching and research , and in most instances their tour of duty as an administrative functionary is for a limited time only . Deans likewise are customarily appointed from among regular members of the faculty , and frequently continue to carry a partial teaching load . In the top levels of the academic hierarchy , it is true , there are many administrators whose previous participation in the intellectual life of a university has been exceedingly limited . There is likewise an alarming tendency for college administration to be viewed in certain quarters as a career in itself , distinct from college teaching and scholarly research . But at their very worst , these deleterious tendencies are not likely to produce in the near future a self-conscious caste of professional administrators comparable to those who domineer over the public schools . College faculties derive strength also from the active participation of individual professors in the learned societies pertaining to their respective fields . A scholar 's true standing in his profession @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same discipline , as represented in such associations , than upon the recognition he may gain , deservedly or undeservedly , from a local college administrator . Consequently the existence of strong ties among scholars through their learned societies is an important bulwark against the lowering of college standards through administrative influence and encroachment . In the affairs of the learned societies themselves , it should be noted , university administrators as such play a completely negligible role . Finally , the support which the faculty of one university can secure from outside in a legitimate battle over educational policy is a genuine source of strength . In part this results from an esprit de corps and a public opinion which recognize that the standing of the university itself is jeopardized if the faculty fails to maintain its authority over educational policy . To support their position , scholars and scientists as a group have their own organization devoted to the protection of academic standards , the American Association of University Professors . One of its functions is to investigate , and if necessary censure , the administra-116 Interlocking Directorate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an institution which fails to observe " the generally recognized principles of academic freedom and tenure . " Furthermore , unlike the organizations in the field of secondary education , the Association relegates to associate membership any active member " whose work becomes primarily administrative . " 22 The professional independence and responsibility of the scholar or scientist on a university faculty are the greatest of all guarantees of the integrity and standards of higher education . The lack of such professional independence and responsibility among high school teachers has done as much as anything else to lay our schools open to the virulent anti-intellectualism which we find in them today . Much of the blame rests upon the interlocking directorate of professional educationists , for they have done little to encourage and much to prevent the development of such intellectual independence among public school teachers . The greatest source of independence to any teacher , whether in school or college , is his sense of being a full-fledged member of a recognized profession that includes all those working in his field , the most eminent as well as the most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ run by the active members of the profession , not by those who may happen to be their employers . No educational association or teachers ' organization of the usual sort meets these vital tests . In the meetings of societies like these , the high school teacher does not associate with the college professor in the same field , though both , after all , are teachers of one discipline . In other words , he does not make the acquaintance of those who are dealing with the same problems on a different level and in a different context . He gains none of the intellectual stimulus and none of the sense of belonging to a mature profession which would come to him through participation in the work of a genuine learned society . Instead he finds himself , in a teachers ' association , classified merely as a member of an occupational group facing common vocational problems , not as a member of a profession united by common intellectual interests . Ile discovers , finally , that his administrative superiors , far from being relegated to a back seat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the year . The natural allies of a serious and competent teacher in the 117 Educational Wastelands high school are his colleagues in the same discipline on university and college faculties . The educational directorate has worked with vast ingenuity and almost complete success to prevent such an alliance from coming into being . A chemist or an historian , for example , who teaches in the public schools , is discouraged from thinking of himself in the terms I have just used . He must be careful to describe himself as a science teacher or a social studies teacher ? better still , as a high school teacher , pure and simple ? lest he be considered lukewarm in his devotion to " education . " His administrative superiors give him to understand that his proper affiliation is with the National Education Association not the American Chemical Society or the American Historical Association . He is expected to improve his mind by devising new pedagogical procedures , not by performing experiments or investigating historical problems . If he is found too often in the company of professional chemists or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of scientific or historical journals , he is liable to the charge of being that pedagogical pariah , a " subjectmatter specialist . " ( So completely has the field of education , so called , abandoned the ideals and standards of recognized scholarship , that extremists among professional educationists view an interest in intellectual , scientific , or scholarly matters as a positive liability in a public school teacher . Illuminating is the recent experience of a graduate student in English at a middle western state university . Having met all the requirements for teacher certification , she consulted the professor of education in charge of teacher placement about the possibilities of a teaching position in the public schools of the state . Here is her report of the interview : When he saw my scholastic record , he told me that I probably would not be a satisfactory teacher , because my grade average in English was too high . When I questioned this , he told me that prospective teachers of English who had straight-A averages or A-averages were very apt to become scholars rather than good teachers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him that I wanted very much to be a teacher and had met all requirements , he informed me that I probably would be unhappy and unsuccessful in the teaching profession . He stressed over-enthusiasm for subject matter , saying that good students seldom have the ability to understand people , because 118 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists they prefer to bury themselves in their books and become introverts . Emphasis on subject matter and knowledge of it , he implied , were out-dated , because " we do n't teach subject matter , we teach children " He advised me to get a master 's degree in Education to remedy this shortcoming . He also stressed " democracy in the classroom , " saying that because I had an extremely good record in my English courses , I was apt to be impatient and undemocratic with slow learners.23 The function of a master 's degree in education ? to destroy intellectual interest and to expunge knowledge ? has never been so clearly and frankly put . Low salaries are a handicap in attracting the ablest students " or into public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is 1 that many professional educationists seem not to want able , thoughtful , well-trained teachers . They apparently prefer docile ones , devoid of intellectual curiosity and independence , perhaps because these alone can be counted upon to give fanatical loyalty to the party-line that professors of education lay down . A teacher with intellectual interests is an ever-present menace to a curriculum that enthrones anti-intellectualism . In the past , fortunately , the stranglehold of the educational directorate upon the training of teachers has been less complete than it is now becoming . Thousands of exceedingly competent teachers , well-trained in the various branches of learning , and alive to the values that underlie sound education , have found their way into the public schools . Hundreds of superintendents and principals and professors of education are honored and respected in their communities because they uphold and exemplify the ancient ideals of accurate learning and disciplined intelligence . These teachers and administrators are the ones who , according to the complaint of the new professional educationists , are " enthusiastic about the subjects they teach . " They are the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the schools " continue doing the things they do well . " 24 They are the ones who have preserved American public schools from utter devastation at the hands of rampaging educational theorists and powerhungry educational politicians . We need more and more such teachers . We are going to get fewer and fewer , as the educational directorate tightens its system of control . Much of the work offered in departments of edu11.9 Educational Wastelands cation has already become so stultifying that able students do not willingly submit themselves to it . Even the then dean of one prominent College of Education has publicly conceded that " there is little value in most present courses and texts in education . " 25 College students are well aware of this fact . Good students , it is true , are dragooned into pedagogical courses by the operation of teacher certification laws . But among those who actually enroll as majors in education the level of ability is appallingly low . Of 97,800 college freshmen who took the draftdeferment tests recently , 53 per cent secured a passing grade . Taken by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tests , 64 per cent of those in physical science and mathematics , 59 per cent of those in biological science , and 57 per cent of those in the social sciences ? all above the average . Freshmen in the humanities fell just below the average , 52 per cent of them passing . But among students majoring in education only 27 per cent passed , the poorest showing of any category of students . This far-below-average standing characterized upperclass students in education as well as freshmen.26 Every professor is aware of students who , after struggling unsuccessfully with academic subjects , have re-enrolled as candidates for degrees in education . These statistics show that such happenings are not isolated events but symptoms of a trend . On every hand there is evidence of the debasement which the teaching profession is undergoing at the hands of the interlocking directorate of professional educationists . Forced to undergo the humiliation of piling up credits in sterile courses in pedagogy , virtually forbidden to align himself with scholars and scientists in his chosen field , ceaselessly indoctrinated in an " official " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a professional educational hierarchy , the public school teacher can not hope to resist administrative dictation or to secure a real voice in the formulation of educational policy . Though large numbers of able teachers oppose the anti-intellectual trend in education that is so obvious today , they are powerless to do anything about it . The educational directorate has seen to that . It does the hiring and firing , and it knows how to check thereby the expression of critical opinions.27 The organs by which teachers might bring their views to public attention ? the educational associations 120 Interlocking Directorate of Professional Educationists and the journals ? are under the throttling control of the directorate . The public has been led to believe that the educational philosophy now guiding the public schools is a philosophy to which the teachers and the scholars of the nation willingly subscribe . Actually , however , the voice which the citizen hears in favor of programs like " life-adjustment " education is the voice neither of the classroom teacher nor of the scholar . It is the voice of the professor of education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Across the educational world today stretches an iron curtain which the professional educationists are busily fashioning . Behind it , in slave-labor camps , are the classroom teachers , whose only hope of rescue is from without . On the hither side lies the free world of science and learning , menaced but not yet conquered . A division into two educational worlds is the great danger that faces us today . American intellectual life is threatened because the first twelve years of formal schooling in the United States are falling more and more completely under the policymaking control of a new breed of educator who has no real place in ? who does not respect and who is not respected by ? the world of scientists , scholars , and professional men . 121 8 First Steps in Educational Reform Unity of purpose is necessary for the success of any great undertaking . It is peculiarly essential for the success of a great national undertaking like American public education . Literally hundreds of thousands of different institutions ? from kindergartens to graduate schools ? are involved in the enterprise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pattern if the intellectual training of any given student is to be continuous and cumulative from the beginning of his schooling to the end . r " In simplest terms this means that there must be some measure of common agreement among those concerned with education ? that is to say , among college professors , school teachers , administrators , and citizens ? with respect both to the main objectives of education and to the kinds of training by which these can be attained . Teachers at every level , from the most elementary to the most advanced , must feel themselves bound together in a common endeavor . Unless they make substantially the same assumptions there can not be an educational system at all , but only a hodgepodge of schools . If teachers work at cross purposes to 122 First Steps in Educational Reform one another , they are bound to produce intellectual confusion instead of intellectual order . The world is deranged enough as it is , without allowing education , too , to become subject to the reign of Chaos and old Night . By and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and less extensive educational systems of earlier times . School teachers and professional scholars believed in and were guided by the same basic conceptions of education . The public ? at least such persons as concerned themselves with the matter ? understood and supported the objectives set forth unitedly by the learned world and the teaching profession . Needless to say , there were plentiful differences of opinion , of method , and of emphasis , but these differences were stimulating and healthful because subordinated to a common aim . Within the lifetime of the present adult generation this fundamental unity of educational purpose has been shattered . Elementary and secondary education have parted company with higher education and research . The resulting situation is dangerous in the extreme . Elementary and secondary schools are only part of our educational system . What goes on in them , however , affects every aspect of the intellectual life of the nation ? its scientific and technological progress , the professional skills that serve and protect it , the cultural activities that give dignity and meaning to its existence . All these rest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The aims of secondary education can be properly and safely defined only if all aspects of the life of the nation are taken into account . The yawning gap that exists today between those who are actually using intellectual training ? in the sciences and professions , in business and public life ? and those who are supposed to be laying its foundations in the public schools is , in my judgment , the fundamental cause of the unsatisfactory state of American public education today . Scholars and scientists must bear much of the blame for permitting this situation to develop . They should have exercised constant vigilance over developments in secondary education . They should have brought their views on public school policy forcefully to the attention of the public and the legislatures . They should have resisted the debasement of college entrance requirements and the seizure by departments of education of control 123 Educational Wastelands over the training of teachers . They should have provided , through their learned societies , continuous , organized leadership in the process of developing and strengthening the secondary school curriculum . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in matters pertaining to education at every level . It has not been furnished in the recent past . It must be furnished in the future . The first step , as I see it , must be for the learned world to create an agency entirely its own , through which it can state its views on public school policy independently and unitedly . It must be ready at all times to express a considered judgment concerning the intellectual soundness of the programs that are offered in the elementary and secondary schools . It must address the public directly , for they make the final decisions on educational policy . And it must speak with a voice unmistakably its own , not allowing its words to be smothered or twisted or censored by others . If scholars will create for themselves an organ through which they can expound their educational principles with clarity and force , I am confident that they will be listened to with respect . The basis for such unity indubitably exists . Within the learned world there are differences of opinion , of course , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their problems in quite different ways ; biologists and linguists may not completely understand each other 's objectives ; historians and sociologists may quarrel over questions of methodology . There will always be ? there must always be ? such differences , for they are the signs of intellectual vigor and of freedom . But scholars and scientists must never lose sight of the overarching fact that they are partners in a single great enterprise ? the greatest that engages the attention of mankind . They share a common purpose : the advancement of understanding and the augmentation of that intellectual power upon which mankind depends for its very existence . They share a common respect for knowledge , for the disciplined mind , for independent , objective , disinterested inquiry . Each of them , whatever his specialized interest , must recognize at all times that these common aims and values are far more significant than any points of difference . Each must remember that it is these common aims and values 124 First Steps in Educational Reform which anti-intellectualism is seeking to undermine . Should it triumph , no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This sense of common purpose must be embodied in an organization capable of effective action . It is idle to think that scholars and scientists , divided a hundred ways by professional ties within their specialized fields , can exert a real influence upon public educational policy until they present a united front on the matter . They have learned to do so in meeting other problems that confront them . They look to a single great organization , the American Association of University Professors , to safeguard the standards of the profession . They bring the collective wisdom of the learned world to bear upon the broad problems of research through the great federations of learned societies : the National Research Council , the American Council of Learned Societies , and the Social Science Research Council . Such agencies take account of the fact that scholars and scientists can spare little time from their own exacting tasks to undertake responsibilities of a general nature . These societies and councils are organized to function continuously with a permanent staff , and they require of each individual professional man only a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ An organization of this kind , I believe , should be created to represent scholarly opinion on public school questions . In the appendix to this volume I reprint the text of a proposal which I have made for a .. Permanent Scientific and Scholarly Commission on Secondary Education to perform this function . The commission should be established by the learned societies of the nation , and by them alone . The reason for keeping the commission independent of all political and economic pressure groups , and hence of all nonprofessional associations , is obvious . The exclusion of educational associations is more controversial . This exclusion , while deliberate , is not intended as a gesture of hostility . It is merely a recognition of two facts : that the professional educationists are already thoroughly organized and vocal , and that scholars clearly differ with them on many vital issues of public educational policy . I propose a separate organization of scholars and scientists , not as a repudiation of the ultimate ideal of co-operation between educationists and the learned world 125 Educational Wastelands in public school matters , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cooperation is likely to take place between two groups , one of which is well organized and the other not . If there is to be genuine agreement , each side must feel that its point of view has been clearly stated and consistently maintained throughout all discuscussions and negotiations . The professional educationists already have associations to present and defend their position . If scholars are to exert influence in favor of the things they believe in , they must be responsibly represented by men in whose judgment they have full confidence and they must back these men up in an organized way . Then a real meeting of minds with respect to public education can take place , with assurance that the decisions will be concurred in and supported on all sides . Collaboration , to be effective , must rest upon some such firm foundation as this . An agency of the kind proposed must make clear to the public the reasons why scholarly and scientific opinion ought to be taken into account in the making of public school policy . Educationists have so persistently emphasized the problems @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have caused the public almost to forget that the schools have an obligation not merely to the children actually enrolled in them , but to the nation as a whole and to all its mature citizens . Scholars must emphasize the latter obligation , and must point out the unsoundness of public school policies that jeopardize the rest of the nation 's educational , intellectual , and scientific activities . Once the importance of scholarly and scientific participation in curriculum-planning is made clear , the proposed commission must labor to make such participation a reality . During the past thirty or forty years , scientific and scholarly opinion has not been adequately represented on the bodies that have controlled public school policy ? that is to say , on local , state , and federal departments or boards of education , on publicly and privately sponsored advisory commissions , on the committees that have studied the curriculum and made recommendations concerning it , and on school surveys of various kinds . If scholars have been invited to take part at all , they have been given the role of " consultants @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the various curriculum and " steering " committees analyzed in the preceding chapter . Educationists have insisted that every branch of their 126 First Steps in Educational Reform profession be represented ? professors of education , school superintendents and principals , state and federal educational officials , classroom teachers , and specialists in such fields as guidance . They have then asked representatives of the learned world to sit with them , assigning to such representatives a role no greater than that granted to any one of the four or five sub-groups of educationists . This lopsided representation makes a mockery of all pretensions to co-operation . On matters affecting the curriculum and the general purposes of education there are basically three different points of view that must be taken into account if public school policy is to be soundly planned . The educationists have one point of view , the learned world another , and the public at large a third . The first group , comprising classroom teachers , administrators , and professors of education , are particularly concerned with the problems of giving instruction at the elementary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pedagogical feasibility of a proposed program . The second group , actively engaged in studying , advancing , and applying the fundamental intellectual disciplines , are best equipped to judge the scholarly and scientific soundness of the curriculum . The third group , comprising not merely parents : but also men and women in business , government , and the professions , have direct knowledge of the practical intellectual needs of modern life . They are the group best equipped to reconcile the divergent points of view of the other two groups , and to insist upon a program carefully balanced and in the national interest . These three groups ought to be represented , and equally represented , in all the agencies concerned with broad public educational policy , especially policy with respect to the content of the school curriculum . To give a specific example , a commission of fifteen members , appointed , let us assume , to study curricular problems ought to be composed somewhat as follows : ( 1 ) five educationists , say a professor of education , a school superintendent , a state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; ( 2 ) five representatives of the learned world , say a mathematician , an historian , a scientist , a professor of English , and a university specialist in one of the foreign languages ; ( 3 ) five representatives of the general public , say a busi-127 Educational Wastelands nessman , a housewife and mother , an engineer , a newspaper editor , and a government career man . Where bureaus , departments , boards , and committees can not actually include in their personnel such balanced representation as this , they ought to be furnished with expert advisory committees so constituted . The proposed Scientific and Scholarly Commission might well take the lead by urging Congress to set up such a balanced advisory board to oversee the work of the federal Office of Education . Once the point of view of the learned world on public educational policy is made clear to citizens at large , I am confident that they will give it general and effective support . The time will then have to come to effect a general revision of state legislation and state administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first tasks is to rectify the omission from many school codes of any clear statement concerning the basic content of the public school curriculum . Most school laws were drafted at a time when it was taken for granted that the fundamental intellectual disciplines would be the central core of all school instruction . It seemed unnecessary to enact the obvious , hence the clauses of the law pertaining to the curriculum were usually brief and general . One amendment after another , often pushed through by an organized pressure group , has required the schools to teach many absurdly specific things , while their central functions have remained vaguely defined . As a consequence , educationists have been able to subordinate the essentials of the curriculum to trivialities without actually violating the letter of the law . In the School Code of Illinois , for example , article 27 deals with " Courses of Study . " With its amendments ( through 1947 ) it consists of twenty-four sections . The last twenty-three of these constitute a mosaic of special courses and requirements that the legislature has from time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ section of article 27 deals with the course of study as a whole , and this in the most general terms : Branches of education to be taught . Every school established under this Act shall be for instruction in the branches of education prescribed in the qualifications for teachers and in such other branches , including vocal music and drawing , as the school board or the votes 128 First Steps in Educational Reform of the district at the annual election of school board members may prescribed1 The legislature obviously can not , and should not , work out in detail the course of study of the public schools . But it does have the responsibility of setting forth in the name of the people the aims and the general character of the schools which the people have established and are supporting . As in other matters , it ought to state clearly the guiding principles that are to be followed by the administrative authorities charged with working out the course of study in detail . At a public hearing on March 6 , 1952 , I suggested to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that it draft , and recommend to the Legislature , a revised form of article 27 , section 1 , prescribing that Every school established under this Act shall provide instruction , at the appropriate levels , in reading , writing , spelling , grammar , and English composition ; in arithmetic , algebra , geometry , trigonometry , and such higher branches of mathematics as shall be feasible ; in English and American literature , classical and modem ; in at least two foreign languages ( with at least two years of work to be offered in each ) ; in the natural sciences of physics , chemistry , and biology ; in the history of the United States , of Europe from antiquity to the present , and of the modern world ; in the principles of representative , constitutional government ; in the fine arts , including music ; in physical education and training ; in manual training or agriculture ; and in such other branches as the school board or the voters of the district at the annual election of school board members may prescribe ; provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruction in the branches prescribed in this section shall be deemed adequate ; and provided , further , that such additional subjects shall not replace those prescribed in this section.2 Such a clear-cut mandate would be difficult to evade , and something equivalent to it should form part of the school law of every state . The legislature would doubtless need to grant authority to smaller schools to omit temporarily certain of these branches , but it should strictly prohibit any new curricular ventures on their Part until the fundamental subjects are first restored . And if a school wished to experiment with " integrated " courses or " core curricula " the burden of proof should be upon the school authori-129 Educational Wastelands ties to demonstrate that these courses were in fact providing ( as in theory they are alleged to provide ) instruction equivalent to that afforded by courses in the separate subjects . Citizens must also join with scholars in urging state legislatures to review carefully and realistically the statutory requirements governing teacher training and certification . Many of these requirements were embodied in law at the behest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the powerful educational lobby will bitterly oppose any alteration in them . Nevertheless , a thoroughly informed citizenry should be able to force the repeal of special interest legislation and to secure the enactment of requirements that will protect the schools against incompetent teachers rather than the professors of pedagogy against losses in enrollment . The matter is a complicated one , and a somewhat extended discussion is necessary to indicate the reforms that are called for . The kind of preparation which a teacher must have is determined by the combined effect of requirements laid down in various ways and by various agencies . Above all , a teacher must possess a certificate from the state in which he or she intends to teach , and accordingly must satisfy requirements that are partly fixed by statute and partly spelled out by a board , commission , or designated officer . Many of these requirements are specific and mandatory , hence they can not possibly be ignored in planning any program for the training of teachers . In addition , the schools themselves are under the constant scrutiny of regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the qualifications of the teachers employed . The power to withhold accreditation or recognition is a very real one , for the standing of a school and even its legal position is affected . Consequently the criteria used by regional accrediting agencies exercise an influence upon teacher training almost as direct and positive as though they were embodied in law . Since a bachelor 's degree , at least , is ordinarily expected , the graduation requirements of universities , colleges , and normal schools also play a part in determining the things a future teacher studies . Finally , teachers are actually selected for given positions by local school authorities , whose views on the proper preparation of teachers thus have a cumula-130 First Steps in Educational Reform tive , if rather indirect , influence upon the programs of study which teachers pursue . On paper this appears to be a harmonious system of shared responsibility , which ought to result in well-balanced programs for the training of prospective teachers . In point of fact it is not . It is a system that results in distorted emphases of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that grossly exaggerates the importance of listening to classroom lectures in pedagogy , and that gives totally inadequate attention to the teacher 's knowledge of the subject he professes to teach . This , of course , represents the false emphasis of the educationists , which has been discussed in preceding chapters . The point here is that this false emphasis has been institutionalized . We need to change not only the attitude of mind but also the system that imposes and perpetuates it . As a prospective teacher looks out over his future career , one hard , inescapable fact stares him in the face . He must acquire a certain number of hours in " education . " State certification requirements demand it . Regional accrediting agencies check up on the matter . Local school authorities can not waive the requirement in his case ( save , possibly , in a temporary emergency ) . In the university itself the department of education will constantly remind him of the fact that there is no way to get a teaching certificate except by entering the classroom of a professor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it back to him on an examination . The question that is asked is not whether a man or woman is a good teacher , but whether he or she has course credits in pedagogy . Experience in teaching ? gained , let us say , in a private school ? will not satisfy the requirement . Though practice teaching may be one among the credits demanded , a certificate is never granted for brilliant performance in practice teaching alone . The credits earned in someone 's course in pedagogy must be down on the record . A local school board may know a candidate well and be certain of his capabilities as a teacher , but its hands are tied . A bureaucrat in the state capital must shuffle the papers and certify that the prescribed education courses have been taken . No one is permitted to demonstrate a knack for teaching and thus 131 Educational Wastelands slip through the pedagogical dragnet . Pestalozzi himself , after a lifetime of teaching , could not be regularly and permanently employed by the school board of the smallest hamlet in the nation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him ignorant of and incompetent in pedagogy . The state zealously enforces the requirement in pedagogy . Does it show equal zeal in seeing to it that the teacher knows something about the subject he is actually assigned to teach ? It does not . Requirements in pedagogy are explicit and mandatory for a teaching certificate in every one of the forty-eight states . On the other hand , the certification requirements of several states say nothing whatever about qualifications in subject matter ? the euphemism to describe this situation is that such states have " general certification " rather than " subject certification . " Other states specify teaching majors and minors in various subjects , but they permit the holder of a certificate to teach any course to which he is assigned , whether or not it is one of the subjects endorsed on his credentials . Various indirect controls may be exerted in the matter by certain states , but to the best of my knowledge no state forthrightly prohibits the local school authorities from assigning a teacher to a course in a subject which he has never @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; a great deal has to be left to discretion . One must point out , however , that state authorities do prohibit outright the employment of a teacher without course work in pedagogy . They allow wide discretion in one matter and none whatever in the other . Can there be any doubt as to which is thereby made the more important ? In point of fact , the present arrangement is completely topsyturvy . Authority is divided according to principles that are the precise opposite of those which logic and common sense would suggest . Local school authorities , who can interview teachers individually as well as examine their credentials , are in a far better position to judge a candidate 's personal pedagogical competence than a bureaucrat who works solely from records of courses taken . Conversely , an agency of the state is far better equipped than a local school board to determine a student 's competence in his chosen subject , for it can compare his academic record with hundreds of others , it can administer standardized examinations , and it can call upon specialists in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knowledge for advice and assistance . Under the existing system , , however , the responsibilities are completely reversed . The matters which local authorities are competent to determine for themselves are precisely the ones that the state educational bureaucracy insists on controlling from above ; and the kinds of minimum re-/ quirements which the state is in the best position to enforce are precisely the ones that are left largely to local discretion . The first step to reform in the matter is to clear the statute books of those provisions which specify a fixed number of hours in education ( that is , in pedagogy ) as a requirement for certification . This means simply dethroning those requirements from their privileged position and putting them on the same basis as requirements in subject matter . A careful study of the whole problem should next be made by a commission representing educationists , scholars , and citizens ? in other words , by a commission constituted on the principles stated earlier in this chapter . Its recommendations should ultimately be enacted into law . Such a commission , I believe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different elements in a teacher 's professional preparation . Some guiding principles should be laid down concerning the general , liberal education of the teacher , but these I shall pass over as belonging essentially to the discussion in a later chapter . Our present question is how to fix requirements which will give assurance that a certified teacher is both proficient in teaching and well prepared in the subjects he or she is to teach . Different certificates should deal with these different matters . One would testify to the individual 's proficiency in teaching . There ought to be several ways of earning this certificate . An experienced teacher ought to be granted it simply upon presentation of satisfactory evidence of a successful teaching career of a specified length of time . For a candidate without previous experience , successful completion of a period of practice teaching would be the principal requirement . The institution that supervises practice teaching usually specifies certain pedagogical courses as prerequisites , hence the state has no need to lay down pedagogical course requirements of its own in granting certificates of teaching proficiency . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ practice teaching to obtain tempo-133 Educational Wastelands rary certificates enabling them to offer instruction in specially designated schools , which would guarantee to give on-the-job training and special guidance and supervision to those without experience . Such programs might well be financed by the state , to aid in the recruitment of teachers , or they might be conducted by the extension departments of universities . After completing a specified period of teaching under such conditions , an instructor should be entitled to a permanent certificate of teaching proficiency . An arrangement of this kind would enable the schools to draw upon a large and brilliant group of liberal arts graduates who are at present excluded from public school employment by unjustifiably arbitrary pedagogical requirements . Once the basic certificate in teaching proficiency has been earned , further course work in pedagogy should be entirely optional with the individual teacher . Another certificate would cover each of the fundamental subjects of public school instruction . Ideally these certificates should be granted on the basis of state-administered comprehensive examinations in the various subjects , periodically offered to all persons who believe themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such examinations , one leading to limited , the second to advanced certification in the subject or discipline . Pending the development of such examinations , limited certification might be granted on the basis of fifteen or twenty semester hours of college work in the subject , advanced certification for thirty or forty hours . The certification should be in specific subjects rather than general areas . In other words there should be certificates in history , in political science , and in economics ; a teacher of social studies would be expected to possess at least limited certification in two or three of these subjects . A prospective teacher would be encouraged to meet certification requirements in as many subjects as possible during his undergraduate years . The teacher already in service who returned to the university for advanced work during summer sessions and regular terms would have a definite purpose in view : to bring his certification in the subjects he had been teaching from the limited to the advanced classification , or to secure certification in additional subjects . The recognition or accrediting standards applied to schools themselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Educational Reform of certification . The ideal school would be one in which every course was being conducted by a teacher possessing advanced certification in the subject or subjects covered by the course . Every deviation from this would lessen the standing of the school . Salary increments could likewise be effectively tied to this scheme . The term " professional growth " frequently appears among the criteria for the promotion and the advancement in salary of teachers . At present this is a vague phrase . It could easily be endowed with a definite meaning . Under the proposed system , a teacher would be giving tangible evidence of professional growth every time he raised his certification from limited to advanced in a given subject , and every time he acquired a limited certificate in a new field . Each such step might well entitle him to an increment in salary . Such a system would be far more effective in improving teaching than the present practice of granting such increments primarily for the acquisition of a university degree . A master 's degree or a doctorate may or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually doing . The present artificial emphasis on a degree , irrespective of what it represents , serves no useful purpose , and is already converting the M.A. from a genuine graduate degree into a mere diploma testifying to the completion of one additional year of college busy-work . Besides the certificate of teaching proficiency and the certificates in the various subjects , provision would have to be made for various types of special certificates . Elementary school teaching , for example , presents special problems . A certificate in Educational Psychology for Elementary School Teachers , in addition to the general certificate in teaching proficiency , might well be established . Care should be taken to make its requirements clear and specific . This certificate should not be granted for a mere potpourri of pedagogical courses , but only for a carefully designed program comprising extensive work in the regular academic department of psychology . Another certificate in Educational Administration should also be offered , to be obtained by specified work primarily in the departments of political science ( or public administration ) , economics , and law , with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clearly justifiable . The other special certificates ? and several will doubtless be needed ? should be set up on analogous principles . 135 Educational Wastelands A reorganization of teacher training and certification requirements along the lines here outlined would correct some of the gravest abuses in the present situation . It would bring to an end the aimless accumulation by experienced teachers of credits in pedagogical courses . It would restore to teacher training a realism and a clear sense of purpose that it has lost . It would , in fact , make teacher training " functional " once more . And it would end the preposterous overemphasis upon pedagogy that produces teachers who can talk glibly about how to teach , but who know too little about any given subject to teach it satisfactorily . 9 Reorganization of Teacher Training The training of teachers for the public schools is one of the most important functions of the American university . It ought always to be treated as a function of the university as a whole . In actuality it has not been so treated , thanks largely to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the repeal of the unwise legislation which has given to departments of education or pedagogy their stranglehold upon teacher training , the university must assume , in good faith and with a ready will , its full responsibility in the matter . This will require a change of heart by many departments and faculty members . Their past attitude , in fact , helped to create the present iniquitous system . Most faculties of liberal arts and sciences failed to take seriously the problem of devising sound and appropriate curricula for the education of teachers , and thus left -a vacuum into which the professional educationists moved . The latter set up programs and devoted time and effort to the task when others were too proud or too lazy to do so . Their programs will continue to prevail , and will diverge farther and farther 137 Educational Wastelands from the ideals of scientists and scholars , until the latter demonstrate a real intention of committing themselves wholeheartedly to preparing teachers properly and adequately for public school instruction . At the undergraduate level the education of the future teacher should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This ought to be self-evident . The ideal of liberal education is to produce men and women with disciplined minds , cultivated interests , and a wide range of fundamental knowledge . Who in our society needs these qualities more than the teacher ? We increasingly recognize that the doctor , the lawyer , and the engineer , if they are to achieve true professional eminence , must receive balanced training in many intellectual disciplines which are not directly related to their professions . How much more does a teacher need such an education ! For him the fundamental intellectual disciplines are not supplements to , but the very essence of , his professional stock in trade . The teacher never knows when he may be called upon to give instruction in any or all of them . The students whose work he directs have a right to expect of him a genuine and sympathetic understanding of their various intellectual interests and ambitions . The last profession in which narrow vocational considerations should be allowed to interfere with thorough and well-balanced undergraduate preparation in the liberal arts and sciences is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be provided through electives that are a normal complement of a college program of liberal education , but under no circumstances should the department of pedagogy be permitted to exercise any sort of control over the undergraduate programs of prospective teachers . Continued training in the fundamental intellectual disciplines is the recognized and proper purpose of graduate work . American universities have failed , and failed most miserably , to apply even rudimentary common sense to the problem of devising a sound and useful graduate program for public school teachers . We force the teacher to choose between a research program that is thorough and scholarly but too highly specialized for his needs , and a pedagogical program that is superficial and blatantly anti-intellec-138 Reorganization of Teacher Training tual and that solemnly and tediously re-instructs him in vocational skills he already possesses . The university ought not to compel the teacher to choose between such inacceptable alternatives . It should offer him a program that satisfies the highest academic standards and at the same time faces realistically the actual facts of secondary and elementary school teaching . A little imagination should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a truly advanced scholarly character and that will possess genuine relevance to the intellectual tasks which a public school teacher is called upon to perform . We must begin by considering the actual situation of the teacher . He is usually called upon to teach two or more distinct disciplines . Even in a single course he ought to be bringing to bear upon the subject in hand appropriate information from other fields . A wide range of accurate knowledge is his most useful asset , rather than an intensive knowledge of a limited but rapidly advancing segment of learning within which he may hope to make original contributions of his own . In simplest terms , the graduate work of a school teacher ought to be a prolongation and deepening of the liberal education which he received ( or should have received ) as an undergraduate . The university ought to provide him an opportunity to continue that liberal education for as long as he is willing to pursue it , and it ought to reward him with a suitable degree for conscientious and thoughtful work when rationally directed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ example . A student , let us assume , has received a four-year liberal education , in the course of which he has met the pedagogical requirements for teaching . He has majored , perhaps , in history , and has done a considerable amount of work in English . He has taken introductory courses in the sciences , economics , and political science , and has acquired a reading knowledge of one foreign language . According to the scheme of certification which I have proposed , he has earned a certificate in Teaching Proficiency and a limited certificate in history . A few more credits in history will entitle him to advanced certification in that field , and he is not far short of limited certificates in English and a foreign language . His first teaching assignment is to a course in the social studies , to a course in 139 Educational Wastelands English , and to one in algebra . He is to return for several summers to the university for advanced work . What should the university encourage him to do ? The university should permit him , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out his knowledge of the various fields of history and enable him to earn an advanced teaching certificate in history . For this purpose many undergraduate courses may be more appropriate than the graduate courses offered to research students . These he should be free to elect . When he has completed a sound program in history , he should be allowed to go back to the point at which he dropped mathematics in college , and to study that field systematically exactly as an undergraduate major in mathematics would do , ultimately bringing his command of the subject up to the . point where he can obtain a limited or advanced certificate in mathematics . So it should be with each of the fields in which he has done previous work , in which he is required to teach , or in which , perhaps , he develops an interest for the first time . The results of such study would be an exceptionally well-prepared teacher . More than that , the results would be a liberally educated man , with a far deeper and wider range of knowledge than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in such a way and to such ends is advanced study , no matter what parts of it may have been pursued in nominally undergraduate courses . It is the kind of education which a university should be proud to offer , and which it has a legitimate right to reward with an advanced degree . A student who pursues such a well-thought-out program for a full academic year beyond college graduation and who brings his command of two subjects up to certain pre-established standards should receive a master 's degree . A student who pursues it with distinction for three years beyond college graduation and who brings his command of five subjects up to the standards set should be entitled to a doctorate . Much careful thought must go into the establishment of these standards in each subject . In order to receive a degree , a student should be required to demonstrate , in each proffered subject , a comprehension at least equal to that which an able undergraduate might be expected to obtain through a strong major program in 140 Reorganization of Teacher Training the discipline . Course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ work . But the number of courses should not be the principal criterion . A comprehensive written examination in each of the subjects offered for the degree would be indispensable . In addition , an oral examination for the doctorate should cover all the five fields presented . A careful reading of certain basic works ? the classics of the discipline ? should be specifically required and tested . No thesis would be submitted for either degree , but a student should have been required to write at least one substantial original essay in each of his fields during the course of his studies , and these should be part of the record upon which his degree is awarded . The new programs would obviously be interdepartmental ones . A candidate for the master 's degree , for example , would be working in both history and English , or in both chemistry and mathematics . The doctoral program should probably be set up so that at least three of the fields would fall within the same general division ; thus the student might be a candidate for the degree in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social sciences . Special programs in educational psychology for elementary school teachers and in educational administration could be set up , corresponding to the state certificates in those fields , and a student might well be allowed to enroll in one of them in place of one of the subject-fields offered for a higher degree . As a matter of academic principle , one of the five fields presented by a doctoral candidate ought always to be a foreign language . The research program and the teaching program that I have just described should be considered parallel but distinct . Both should be under the administration of the graduate school of the university , but the degrees ought to be different . Corresponding to the traditional degrees of M.A. and Ph.D. , which would continue to be awarded in the research program , the university might make use of the degrees of Master and Doctor of Education ( M.Ed. and Ed.D. ) for the teaching program . These degrees , of course , already exist . The present proposal , however , would put them under the jurisdiction of the university @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pedagogy , and would permit a student to earn them by work in any regular department of liberal 141 Educational Wastelands arts or science in the university . The degrees in education would be discontinued as mere awards for the completion of narrowly specialized vocational training in pedagogy . Once faculties of liberal arts and sciences have conscientiously undertaken to offer sound graduate programs for teachers , the time will have come to open the valves and let some of the gas out of the over-inflated educational balloon . The university , in other words , should commence an orderly process of devolution with respect to many of the activities hitherto associated with departments and colleges of education . The university as a whole must reassert that fact that it , and not one department within it , is responsible for education . The department concerned with " the art , practice , or profession of teaching ; especially , systematized learning or instruction concerning principles and methods of teaching " must be compelled to resume its appropriate title of Department of Pedagogy , the quoted words being , in fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ re-established responsibilities in this wide realm , the university might well set up a distinct Faculty of Teacher Training , with its own committees and administrative officers . To this newly created faculty would belong all the members of all the departments offering work leading to the M.Ed. and Ed.D . In many universities a professor already belongs to two or more faculties ? to the Faculty of Liberal Arts and the Graduate Faculty , for example ? hence such an arrangement has ample precedent . Most of the administrative and public-relations functions of the old college or department of education would be transferred to the committees of the new Faculty of Teacher Training . These would not only approve curricula , but would also supervise teacher placement . Co-operation of the university in school surveys and in educational commissions of various sorts would be handled through the new faculty . The right to authorize the use of the label " Education " in the numbering of courses would be vested in it . Most of the old courses in education would be relabeled " Pedagogy , " but a few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " number . Courses in other departments besides pedagogy would also be allowed to use such a double listing . Thus the courses which could be used to satisfy state 142 Reorganization of Teacher Training requirements in " Education " would be under the full control of the Faculty of Teacher Training . In line with this reassertion of responsibility , the university as a whole , through the Faculty of Teacher Training , should assume direct authority over the curriculum in the demonstration and laboratory schools which it maintains . To the general public a university high school signifies an institution of secondary education devoted to the ideals of science and scholarship for which the university stands . It must be made precisely that . Its program should be determined by scholars , scientists , and educationists together , and it should concentrate its experimental work upon the problem of effectively teaching the basic intellectual disciplines , organized as they are in the real world of science and learning . As part of the contemplated reorganization , university courses in the teaching of the various school subjects would be placed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be dealt with by men who know , in the first place , what the discipline is about.l Courses in the teaching of mathematics , for example , would be given by the department of mathematics , with the co-operation , but not under the auspices , of the department of pedagogy . Though courses in the teaching of history would be offered in the department of history , interdepartmental courses in the teaching of the social studies might be set up by the departments of history , political science , economics , and sociology . Sound principles of academic responsibility are at present violated by many of the offerings in departments of education . These principles must be re-established in the course of the proposed reorganization . A university is a company of scholars , each aware of his limitations , each away e of the necessity for his students to tap resources of knowledge and specialized intellectual skill which his colleagues possess in greater measure than he . A physicist needs mathematics , and the department of physics sends its students to the department of mathematics to learn it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of education , however , has tended to set up courses of its own to deal with the other disciplines that it considers important for teachers . It believes , quite rightly , that a teacher should have 143 Educational Wastelands philosophic insight . But it does not call upon the specialist in philosophy . It sets up a course of its own in the philosophy of education , which , cut off as it is from philosophic thinking generally , produces not breadth but narrowness of mind . The educationist who teaches the course has a vocational ax to grind . His course is apt to become , not an open-minded and critical comparison of many different philosophical systems , but propaganda for a particular view . In one large university , for example , the course entitled " Philosophy of Education " and offered by the College of Education carries a description which begins : " Based on a careful and critical reading of selected chapters from John Dewey 's Democracy and Education . " 2 Not since the days of the mediaeval schoolmen , with their veneration of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find the sum of all truth in the pages of one book , written by one man , devoted to one highly controversial philosophic point of view . Surely it is one of the great ironies of history that John Dewey , the disbeliever in absolutes and the apostle of open-mindedness , should be the central figure in these strange rites ? at once the worshipped deity and the sacrificial lamb . This warping of the great intellectual disciplines to serve the narrow purposes of indoctrination and vocationalism characterizes other offerings of present-day departments of education . Teachers admittedly should know the historical forces which have shaped school systems , which have influenced the art of teaching , and which have determined the purposes of education itself . Historical forces are the particular subject of the historian 's investigations . But the college of education does not look to the historian . It sets up a course of its own in the history of education . Torn from its context of general historical change , the history of school systems becomes a chronicle almost devoid of meaning . Worse than @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history which presents the past as a mournful catalogue of errors , redeemed by some few feeble gropings toward that perfection of wisdom which the present generation ( and the instructor in particular ) alone possess . The process of reorganization which I am describing must bring these isolated fragments of the basic disciplines hack into the departments where they belong . The philosophy of educa-144 Reorganization of Teacher Training tion must be taught philosophically , the history of education historically . Educational psychology must no longer be severed from the discipline whose research techniques it employs . Courses in educational psychology belong in the department of psychology , because only thus can the university be sure that the conclusions taught are being subjected to continuous critical scrutiny by psychologists in all branches of the field . Courses in the administration of public education must be placed , along with other courses in public administration , in departments of political science , where they can be seen in the perspective of governmental responsibility generally , not from the narrow point of view of a single specialized bureaucracy . I have described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functions of present-day departments of education will devolve upon already existing departments . The end result will be a small undergraduate department of pedagogy , offering a few courses in the general principles of pedagogy , supervising practice teaching , and perhaps offering an enlarged extension program of on-the-job training for inexperienced teachers . The graduate work for teachers will be centered in the new M.Ed. and Ed.D. program , offered through the regular departments of liberal arts and sciences . What of advanced research in educational problems ? This is a field of service which the university must not abandon or neglect . At the outset of the discussion , the reader should be reminded that there are many areas in which the university sponsors important research and original investigation , but in which it does not offer a special program of instruction leading to a degree . Such a situation exists with respect to most interdisciplinary research programs . Projects of this kind may offer training to a considerable number of advanced students , but the regular work of such students is in established departments , and degrees are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is essentially interdisciplinary research . Psychologists , sociologists , and statisticians ought to collaborate in investigating various problems of teaching and learning . Historians , political scientists , and economists ought to co-operate in studying various aspects of educational administration . The university ought to provide the opportunity , the facilities , and the funds to bring these specialists together for 145 Educational Wastelands co-operative research , without detaching them permanently from the departments to which they belong . The university could do the job it is now doing in educational research , and could do it far better , by setting up an autonomous Institute of Educational Research . The department of pedagogy should have a hand in the planning and operation of such an Institute , but so should the several other departments whose research techniques are applicable to the problems under investigation . In the administrative scheme , the institute should be under the jurisdiction of the graduate school , as should all similar interdisciplinary research institutes . Besides developing projects of its own , it should offer its services in connection with public school surveys . Many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their training through the work of the institute , but they would take the Ph.D . in their own fields . They would be psychologists with a specialty in educational psychology , or political scientists with a specialty in school administration . Such an institute would presumably have no body of graduate students of its own , and it would obviously not be the place in which to offer advanced training to public school teachers as a group or even to practical public school administrators . These would receive the M.Ed. or the Ed.D. through the channels already described . Such a reorganization is bound to be painful , for it is a major surgical operation . For this reason it must be accomplished gradually . Many of the changes should await the retirement of the persons at present charged with responsibility . And in any case , the tenure of every individual concerned , and his reasonable prospects of promotion and advancement in salary , must be scrupulously respected . Professors should be transferred from the department of education to the department in which their courses are eventually to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ person involved and to the recipient department . Otherwise , matters should be left in statu qua , and arrangements worked out for a future transfer of functions whenever the opportunity arises . The university and its faculty , moreover , must give convincing evidence of sincerity . There must be a real guarantee that every department to which pedagogical functions are delegated will accept its new responsibilities seriously and wholeheartedly , treat-I4 ( Reorganization of Teacher Training ing the discharge of them as an obligation fully as binding as any other which it recognizes . During the transitional period , special authority should be vested in the university administration and the Faculty of Teacher Training to review the policies of individual departments with respect to these new functions , and , if necessary , to institute courses and make faculty appointments within any department which may prove indifferent or laggard . Such an extraordinary power of intervention , one may hope , would never be used , but it ought to exist as a pledge of the good faith of the university . A new curriculum for the education of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , rather than upon the mere vocational skills of pedagogy , will do more to restore the repute of the public schools than any other step that can be taken . Not only will teachers be adequately trained in the disciplines they undertake to teach , they will also be imbued with respect for those disciplines and will be prepared to resist the anti-intellectualism that currently threatens the schools . And when the tide begins to turn , young men and women of genuine intellectual interest and capacity will be attracted in increasing numbers into the profession of public school teaching . They will not be repelled at the outset by being asked to lay aside their intellectual interests and fritter away their time in the courses of the pedagogues . Under a well-ordered plan , the gateway to teaching will be the gateway of learning itself . 147 10 Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination Examinations are the universally recognized means of measuring the actual training and qualifications of a man or woman . Bar examinations , civil service examinations , and examinations in a host of different fields constitute part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the capabilities of individuals who lay claim to special competence . Only in the realm of education ? where examinations presumably originated and where they have a peculiar appropriateness ? has there been retreat from a rigorous examination system . Educational theorists had much to do with the abandonment of regular examinations throughout the educational system . The present disorganized state of public school and even college education is a practical demonstration that their reasoning was fallacious , and that the retreat from examinations was a disastrous mistake . College and university faculties must take the lead in re-establishing comprehensive , essay-type examinations as the basic means of evaluating educational preparation and measuring educational Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination achievement . The obvious place to start is in connection with admission to college , for an alarming decline in the standards of American higher education can be attributed to the gradual abandonment of searching and effective entrance examinations . Professional educationists seem to prefer aptitude tests to examinations which show how much a student knows and what he is capable of doing with his knowledge . But a college needs students @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is to be an institution of higher learning . It requires students who can write the English language clearly and effectively , not merely those with a potentiality for literary expression . It requires students who are prepared to solve mathematical problems , not merely those with a latent talent for mathematical abstraction . It requires students who can sit down and read a book in a foreign language , not merely those who would find it easy to learn a language if they had a chance . It requires students who have fundamental knowledge in history or chemistry , which can be built upon in advanced courses , not merely students who will prove apt at acquiring such knowledge when at last they are introduced to it . Professional educationists can be expected to object violently to the re-establishment of stringent college entrance examinations . They are certain to cite the so-called " eight-year study " and to insist that it has proved that admission requirements enforced by examinations are unnecessary and ineffective . Properly interpreted , that famous study proves nothing of the sort . Arguments purporting to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ frequently used by those opposed to the raising of academic standards in colleges and high schools , that some attention must be devoted here to the study itself and to the illegitimate inferences that have been drawn from it . The " eight-year study , " commenced in 1932 by the Commission on the Relation of School and College of the Progressive Education Association and published in 1942 , involved the careful study of the college achievements of 1,475 students who entered college in the years 1936-39 from a group of thirty secondary schools which were undertaking curricular experiments . ) By previous agreement the colleges which admitted these students freed them " from subject and credit prescription and in most 1.49 Educational Wastelands cases from entrance examinations . " 2 Various measurements were made of the academic and other achievements of these students in college , and the record of each was compared with the record of " another student in the same college who had taken the prescribed courses , had graduated from some school not participating in the Study , and had met the usual entrance requirements . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , race , scholastic aptitude scores , home and community background , interests , and probable future . " s The conclusion reached was that " the Thirty Schools graduates , as a group , have done a somewhat better job than the comparison group whether success is judged by college standards , by the students ' contemporaries , or by the individual students . " Eighteen specific points of superiority were listed , of which the following samples include those most relevant to the present dis-cussion : In the comparison of the 1475 matched pairs , the College Follow-up Staff found that the graduates of the Thirty Schools 1 . earned a slightly higher total grade average ; 2. earned higher grade averages in all subject fields except foreign language ; 3. specialized in the same academic fields as did the comparison students ; 4. did not differ from the comparison group in the number of times they were placed on probation ; 5. received slightly more academic honors in each year ; 6. were more often judged to possess a high degree of intellectual curiosity and drive ; 7. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and objective in their thinking . ... 5 There have been many criticisms of the techniques employed in the study , ' but these I shall not enter into . For the sake of the present argument it is not necessary to challenge the statistical reliability of the findings quoted above . The point I wish to make is that these findings , if true , do not support many of the conclusions that purport to be drawn from them . The grossest misuse of the eight-year study is the illegitimate application of its findings to educational experiments that are totally different from those undertaken by the thirty schools which participated in the eight-year study . " Life-adjustment " education 150 Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination was not even proposed until five years after the study was completed and published , and fifteen years after it began . Nevertheless the Illinois Life Adjustment Education Program blandly cites the eight-year study as evidence that students trained in " lifeadjustment " programs will be fitted for college as effectively as students in traditional programs. ? This is extrapolation of the most irresponsible kind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the eight-year study was concerned with . The study had its inception in 1930 and it was fully under way in 1933 . It was , in effect , testing the programs of progressive education that had been developed in the 1920 's ? a period during which , as I have said in a previous chapter , progressive education seems to me to have been definitely on the right track . Some deterioration had perhaps set in , but the extremes of regressive education were certainly never reached in the schools participating in the study . At the outset of the experiment , in fact , the commission set forth its " underlying ideas , " the set of principles that presumably guided the schools in their experimentation and that were part of the understanding with the colleges concerned . The seven numbered paragraphs of this statement are quite consistent with the concepts of disciplined intellectual training which I have been presenting here . The first two of the " underlying ideas " ? the crucial ones , in fact , ? include practically nothing which I should regard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : acquisition of such techniques as reading with speed and comprehension , observing accurately , organizing and summarizing information ; ability to work with many kinds of materials ; capacity to see facts in their relationships ; ability to state ideas clearly ; techniques essential as a foundation for later advanced study . B. More continuity of learning : the elimination , wherever advisable , of limited , brief assignments and courses ; a more coherent development of fields of study ; provision for more consecutive pursuit of a particular subject through several years ; encouragement . . . of the desire to investigate ; development of the power and impetus to pursue a subject beyond the school requirement , and stimulation of the desire to put ideas to use . ' There should be less emphasis on subjects and more on continuous , 151 Educational Wastelands unified sequence of subject matter . . . . Continuous courses in the sciences and social sciences would take the place of such fragments of subject matter as chemistry or modern European history . . . . Mathematics and foreign languages also , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ get a " long " view of these fields of subject matter.8 The least traditional paragraphs of the statement are a far cry from " life-adjustment " education and from the notion that the ability to read is no more to be expected of a high school student than the ability to play the violin . Accordingly , the first thing which the eight-year study proves , in my judgment , is that if the schools give clear-cut recognition to the importance of intellectual training , and sincerely attempt to advance it , their rational and considered experiments with the curriculum are likely to result in improvements in teaching the fundamental disciplines . This conclusion I gladly accept . The eight-year study , however , obviously proves nothing whatsoever about the probable college success of students trained in high schools where intellectual objectives are repudiated in favor of " life-adjustment . " A student 's success in college depends a great deal upon what the college expects of him . The results of the eight-year study are in reality an expose of the low standards actually maintained by American colleges and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on paper , requiring students to possess certain kinds of knowledge and certain intellectual skills , but in point of fact they were not requiring the use of those skills . They were not acting as institutions of higher learning at all , so far as freshmen and sophomores were concerned . An entering student could apparently get along just as well without a particular intellectual skill as with it . A foreign language might be required for admission , but the college had ceased to expect a student to use his skill to read a book in a foreign language as part of a freshman assignment . Mathematics was required , but if a student could not actually use mathematics , the college was willing to wait until he developed the necessary skill in the college preparatory courses which the college itself offered and for which it supinely permitted college credit to be given . The eight-year study proved , what most college professors knew in their hearts to be true , that 152 Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination the first two years of college constituted for most students not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a preparatory school in its first two years primarily because it had discovered that the high school courses for which college entrance credit was being given were so varied in quality and content that the college could not depend upon them to furnish a common basis of knowledge upon which advanced work could be built . The following statements in the report of the eight-year study are essentially correct : " The customary relations of school and college are unsound in that emphasis is placed upon outworn symbols ? units , grades , rankings , and diplomas . . . . The college is placed in the position of saying that certain subjects , grades , and units are essential when it knows that they are not . " 9 The college was , in truth , placing emphasis upon symbols that were outworn . They were outworn because they had ceased to signify a real command of the knowledge they were supposed to represent . The college was asking the student to give evidence of having passed a high school unit in mathematics , when it should have been requiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ And because it was not getting properly trained students , it had given up the attempt to build a freshman program involving the use of previously acquired intellectual skills . It was in the position of merely pretending to require these skills , and the eight-year study exposed the pretence . The most significant conclusion to be drawn from the eightyear study , in other words , was that the colleges were leaning upon a broken reed to the extent that they based admission upon the accumulation of course credits in high school , instead of upon rigorous examinations that would actually test the fully developed competency of the candidate in the intellectual disciplines he was expected to use . The commission which made the eight-year study did not , in fact , draw this inference . The inference follows , nevertheless , more logically from the evidence which the study presents than the opposite conclusion which the commission chose to draw , and which in fact was a mere obiter dictum , reflecting the bias of those who inaugurated the study . The commission 's own conclusion was this : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depends upon the study of 153 Educational Wastelands certain prescribed subjects in the secondary school is no longer tenable . " 10 This assumption was not proved untenable by the eight-year study . What was proved untenable was the assumption that credits and grades in high school courses were a reliable measure of the student 's ability to use the intellectual skills he was supposed to have received . These school-attested credits were actually a most unreliable criterion of the student 's developed mental capabilities , and the eight-year study proved this fact by showing that students who met these nominal requirements were no better prepared than those who did not . Rigorous entrance examinations in the basic intellectual disciplines are the proper answer to the paradox which the eightyear study revealed . Even the Commission that made the study was ready to assert the following : " No one questions the right of colleges to set up requirements for admission of students . Quite properly colleges desire only those students who are equipped to do the work the college expects . They may justly require evidence of the candidate 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in insisting that " it is the school 's responsibility to provide that evidence . " 12 This was a mere assertion , and it flew in the face of the study 's own findings , to wit , that the evidence hitherto provided by the schools had been quite unreliable , not to say worthless . The only proper conclusion is that the universtiy must itself determine a candidate 's fitness . The normal and recognized means of determining such fitness is through examination . To carry on advanced education effectively , a college or university needs to know that its students have acquired real command of certain definite techniques ? linguistic , literary , mathematical , logical , manipulatory ? and have come into full possession of certain essential bodies of information ? historical , scientific , cultural . It must make sure that they have done so by testing them . Properly designed college entrance examinations are no barrier to legitimate experimentation with teaching methods ( including curricular reorganizations ) in the high school . They rule out only illegitimate and anti-intellectual experimentation , and this they ought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to enable students to learn more rapidly and thoroughly , to think more cogently , and to express themselves more effectively , then 154 Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination thorough examinations at the end are no handicap . They provide , in fact , the only possible evidence that the improved methods are effective . A teacher genuinely interested in experimentation should welcome them as the proper vindication and proof of his accomplishment . Without examinations which will test the respective results of old and new pedagogical methods , the new must be taken entirely on faith . This , in fact , is the present situation . Three professors of education , writing in 1950 , summed up the evidence that might show the value of the experiments thus far made in altering the course of study . Though the authors were enthusiastic enough about " curriculum development " to devote an entire book to the subject , they were forced to admit the lack of validating evidence in the following bald words : " Yet the plain fact is that the curriculum worker still . . . does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inferior ? or superior ? to a pure-form activity curriculum , or to a pure-form core curriculum . " is Rigorous examinations for admission to college can not be imposed at a single stroke without disorganizing the entire educational system . To begin with , and perhaps permanently , they should be set up rather as matriculation than as entrance examinations . The system might well be as follows . Students would be admitted as at present , but they would remain in the status of nonmatriculated students until they had passed all the required examinations . Perhaps only a few students at the beginning would enter as fully matriculated students , but eventually most would do so . Many existing college courses would be reclassified as preparatory , and would carry no college credit . Non-matriculated students would be expected to elect their programs exclusively from these . Certain carefully guarded exceptions could be made to this general rule . Thus a student who had passed the matriculation examinations in mathematics might properly be permitted to take the appropriate college courses in that discipline , and the credits earned could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ examinations . No non-matriculated student , however , should be permitted in a regular college course until lie had passed at least some of the basic examinations , including all those in the general field to which the course itself belonged . ' liiis rule would apply to courses in subjects that are normally 1 55 Educational Wastelands commenced in college as well as those that are continued from secondary school . Thus a student might not enroll in sociology until he had passed the matriculation examinations in history , the particular social science for which such examinations are most likely to be set . Without a rule of this kind , the college courses in non-high-school subjects would be flooded with unprepared students , and the standards in them would break down at the very moment when the standards in other subjects were being re-established . Under this system all courses carrying college credit would start off with a homogeneous body of students , whose attainments would be known through examination . Unprepared students having been excluded , there would be an end to the present appalling waste of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report on General Education in School and College points out , " every lour wasted in school does double damage : the student loses time , and more important , he loses interest and momentum . " 14 With this momentum restored , the work toward the degree ( which would commence only with full matriculation ) would constitute genuine higher education . A college diploma would represent a degree of maturity far above that now expected ; or , should some acceleration seem desirable , the college program could be shortened to three years and yet permit a higher level of attainment than at present . The effects upon secondary education would be immediate and salutary . High school students would be permitted to take the matriculation examinations as soon as they were ready , and this would exert a continuing pressure upon school administrators to do their duty toward the abler students , whose interests are the most frequently sacrificed in our public schools today . Moreover , the amount of time which non-matriculated students would spend in preparatory courses after reaching college would be a vivid demonstration to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , of the shortcomings in secondary education which this book has pointed out . The public reaction would be of a sort that educationists could not disregard . Examinations at the point of college entrance or matriculation are not the only ones needed . In many universities a rather sharp break occurs between the first two years , when more general 156 Re-establishment of Standards Through Examination requirements are met , and the last two , when greater specialization begins . A series of examinations covering the fundamental fields of " lower division " work would be of great value in maintaining standards , particularly since this is the point at which many students transfer to the university from other institutions , including junior colleges.15 A basic examination for admission to graduate work is also badly needed . And even the highest of all examinations , that for the doctorate of philosophy , could be immensely strengthened if there were greater co-operation among different universities , perhaps through arrangements for an examiner from another institution to sit on every doctoral examining committee and to read the thesis submitted . The spread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be highly desirable . I have already suggested that teachers ' certificates in the various school subjects ought eventually to be based upon examinations rather than upon credits and grades in courses . Similarly , state-wide examinations in the fundamental disciplines , administered at the ends of certain crucial segments of the twelve-year public school program would have a most vitalizing effect . The Regents ' Examinations of New York provide a model that ought to be followed in every state . Competitive lowering of standards among different institutions is an ever-present danger . For this reason , and because strict comparability is to be wished for , as many of these examinations as possible should be standardized and made uniform among a large number of co-operating institutions . The College Entrance Examination Board and the Educational Testing Service are agencies with experience applicable to the problem . They , and organizations like them , should be given the resources and the support necessary to carry this work forward as rapidly as possible . Rigorous , comprehensive examinations , which test the power to think as well as to remember , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are not so expensive as the waste of educational and human resources that occurs without them , and they are not so tedious as is the process of pushing unprepared students through courses they are not equipped to handle . In a complex industrial process , every stage is controlled through the inspecting and testing of the materials that are undergoing trans-157 Educational Wastelands formation . Intellectual training is a vastly more complex and delicate matter than the smelting of iron or the brewing of beer . Education is too vital an enterprise for its various stages to be monitored merely by guesswork and wishful thinking . 1 58 11 The Structure of Liberal Education The four-year liberal arts college is a distinctive feature of the American and the English educational systems , and it has made a distinctive contribution to the public life of those two democracies . The nature of the liberal arts college ought to be better understood than it is , for we are in danger of losing a uniquely precious part of our educational heritage through sheer inattention to its essential characteristics . To compare @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ difficult task , and to offer generalizations concerning their theoretical ( let alone their actual ) structure is a rash proceeding . Nevertheless such a generalization must be hazarded here . The actual standards and performance of the educational systems of other countries need not be examined at this time . Our present concern is with the theoretical relationship between secondary and higher education , or , more accurately , the way in which responsibility for secondary and higher education is theoretically apportioned among institutions of different levels . And , for purposes of this discussion , we are interested only in the student who proceeds through all the levels . 159 Educational Wastelands Secondary education , for such a student , is conceived of in all countries ( if we except some of the American heresies that I have already discussed ) as rigorous training in the fundamentals of the various fields of learning ? languages , sciences , mathematics , history , and the rest . Secondary school instruction differs from higher education ( in the theory of most systems ) in that it is carried out methodically , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with relatively little expectation that the student will engage in independent , wide-ranging investigations of his own . At the opposite pole is the educational scheme of the Continental university , and of those portions of English and American universities that are not embraced within the undergraduate college . University work , in this sense , is highly specialized . It is concerned with training for research or for one of the learned professions . Independent reading and original investigation are generally more important than course work . Students are largely on their own . The schoolmaster is gone , and in his place is the professor , interested not in what the student does day by day , but in the results he can demonstrate at the end of his academic career through examinations and the writing of a thesis . Here are two diametrically opposed educational procedures . On the Continent of Europe the student proceeds directly from the first to the second . Secondary education ( in the Gymnasium or lycee ) is more prolonged than with us ; university work is from the beginning more independent and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is interpolated , as it were , into this scheme . It is a transitional institution , in the sense that it partakes of the qualities of both the secondary school and the university , and it covers the years that on the Continent are divided between the two . But the liberal arts college is a great deal more than a mere transitional institution . It has a unique character of its own . And its distinctive features have had much to do , I am convinced , with producing among the educated classes of the United States ( as also of England ) the kind of mutual understanding that underlies our success in maintaining national unity and harmony in the midst of social and political changes as drastic as those that have rent the societies of Continental Europe apart . 180                     