@@773571

txt // The National Liberals were nationalists in the sense that they emphasized the place of a strong military in Danish foreign policy and were among the Danes most willing to go to war with Prussia to retain Slesvig-Holstein . They were liberals in the sense that they pushed for the removal of guilds and other barriers to free internal and external trade . They were also liberals of the classical mold in their demand for constitutional government . By 1860 , they had largely achieved their economic as well as constitutional objective and therafter became defenders of the status quo in Danish politics.2 With the loss of Slesvig-Holstein in the 1864 DanoPrussian War , the National Liberals were discredited as a governing force . In search of new allies , the King turned to Denmark 's small class of great landowners , then about four hundred families . The landowners had previously stood aloof from politics , but were now anxious to participate in order to block the participation of the much larger class of independent , middle-class farmers . ' The landed elite , with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through the Rigsdag constitutional changes that narrowed the upperhouse franchise . This change insured the upper classes ' hold on the Landsting and thus their control of Danish governments for the balance of the century . The alliance of the urban and rural elites was symptomatic of the increasingly class-based nature of Danish politics and , in its constitutional aspect , provided the framework for a series of crises that were to be the main feature of Danish politics for the next forty-five years . The initial basis for the alliance of the landed and urban elites was provided by their shared tax-exempt status and by the demand of middle-class farmers , who were heavily taxed , that a national income tax be adopted . For middle-class farmers the question of taxation became closely tied to the demand for parliamentary government ? that is , a government responsible to a Folketing majority . Until the principle of parliamentary government was established , the King 's ministers would be able to continue to ignore the Folketing ? in which // the farmers were represented ? and survive on the support of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the upperclass rural and urban conservatives . In 1872 , the independent farmers and their middleclass urban allies achieved a majority in the Folketing , and for the next thirty years repeatedly sought to obstruct financial legislation and coupled this obstruction with demands for parliamentary reform . They were referred to broadly as the Venstre , the Left , or the Liberals . The conservative governments would routinely enact provisional budgets by decree and dissolve the Folketing . The Left would generally return somewhat strengthened after each election . In response , in 1876 , a conservative Prime Minister , J. B. Estrup , established the United Right , consisting of landowners and erstwhile National Liberals and some independents . This was largely a defensive move and was intended to resist demands for democratization and to support military expenditures . The United Right was the first party in the sense that it established a true national organizational structure down to the local level . ' Initially , Denmark 's military posture and foreign policy became lines of cleavage in the battle over parliamentary government because expenditures for fortifications around Copenhagen were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ enacted by decree . The farmers first opposed the fortifications because of their dubious constitutional validity . They later came to oppose the basic premise of the Right 's foreign policy . That premise was that , because it was beyond the capability of any government to provide for the defense of the entire nation , all efforts should be concentrated on defending Copenhagen . In the event of war , according to such a strategy , the rest of the country would be conceded while an all-out effort was made to hold Copenhagen . Simultaneously , attempts would be made to gain diplomatic and military assistance from a third country . ' The farmers objected to this strategy on several counts . In the first place , they did not live in Copenhagen , and so it was of little value to them . Second , it was expensive , and // change was a reflection of changes in the party system itself . By the first years of the twentieth century , the Rigsdag contained four distinct groups that were evolving into the four main parties in modern Denmark @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of representatives of the rural and industrial elite , but receiving support also from wealthier independent farmers , middle-class businessmen , higher civil servants , and urban professionals . The Right was committed to three goals : delaying the democratization of the upper house ; minimizing state intervention in the economy , although it did support limited social reforms to reduce the appeal of the Social Democrats ; and mobilizing popular support for defense expenditures . In 1915 , the Right would change its name to the Conservative party . The second group , called the Reform Liberals , represented middle-class farmers and had the largest Folketing delegation in the first decade of the century . The Reform Liberals would become known simply as the Liberals , or occasionally the Agrarian Liberals , following the expulsion in 1903 of the Radicals . Once the parliamentary principle was established and they had realized a series of longstanding programmatic demands during the first decade of the century , the Agrarian Liberals increasingly became defenders of the status quo in Danish society and concerned themselves almost exclusively with socioeconomic and agricultural issues . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agrarian Liberals in 1903.12 The split was precipitated by the Radicals ' greater commitment to social reforms ? in particular their commitment to the interests of the smallholders vis-a-vis the middle-class farmers ? and by their opposition to the parent party 's greater willingness to negotiate defense questions with the Right . The Agrarian Liberals , having won their parliamentary point , largely dropped their opposition to a modern Danish military . Those Liberals who continued to object on other grounds gravitated toward the Radical Liberals . The Radicals ' principal antagonist on the defense question was the Right , which maintained the preference of its National Liberal predecessor for a modern military posture . Denmark 15 5 The final Rigsdag group in the early years of the century was the Social Democratic party , established nominally in 1871 and gradually made into a modern national party over the next quarter of a century . The party was born reformist and committed to the parliamentary road to power . ' 3 In contrast to its counterparts in Norway and Sweden , it never needed to call into play implicit or explicit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was probably due to the comparative ease of access that the liberal franchise afforded the industrial working class in Denmark and to the availability of bourgeois parties with which it could cooperate . After the creation of the Radical Liberals , the two parties shared out seats until the introduction of proportional representation in 1915 , with the Social Democrats agreeing not to compete against the Radicals in rural Jutland , where the Agrarian Liberals were especially strong . In 1909 , the Radicals formed their first government and , from 1913 to 1924 , provided most governments and were supported by the Social Democrats . From 1929 to the outbreak of World War II , the Social Democrats and Radicals governed together . The Social Democrats shared the Radicals ' opposition to the Right 's military policy . Indeed , until the 1930s , the Social Democrats were more extreme in their opposition to a Danish military than were the Radicals . Whereas the Radicals carried forward the traditional Left demand for only a national militia , the Social Democrats ' preferences in this area were motivated not only by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modern military , but by opposition deriving from classical socialist views of warfare among capitalist states.14 It is paradoxical that a country with a party sometimes referred to as the Agrarian Liberal party would not have a consumer-producer cleavage . The paradox is reinforced when we note that as late as the early 1960s , 78 percent of farm owners voted for the Agrarian Liberals and 73 percent of bluecollar workers voted for the Social Democratic party.15 There can be no doubt that the Agrarian Liberal party is the party of - piddle- class farmers and that it attends carefully to the interests of Danish agriculture . But the party 's electoral support can // more readily be explained by historical patterns of party competition than by a consumer-producer cleavage . The Agrarian Liberals were able to capture the vote of the independent farm-owning class because no other party offered this class a credible alternative in the formative years of the party system . The Radical Liberals identified themselves in rural areas as advocates of the interests of smallholders against the interests of the agrarian middle class . The Social Democrats , too @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , never made a sustained effort to challenge the Agrarian Liberals in their Jutland stronghold . Indeed , in this competition the Social Democrats deferred to the Radicals until the introduction of proportional representation . And the Conservatives were , of course , historically the party of the independent farmers ' arch-antagonist , the large landowner . In consequence , middle-class farmers remained , largely by default , the preserve of the Agrarian Liberals , who themselves never made a serious effort to compete with the other parties for the urban and especially working-class vote . ' ' The absence of the intense consumer-producer conflict that appeared elsewhere in Scandinavia has been due to the historical prosperity and efficiency of Danish agriculture and to the vital role it played in inducing industrialization and later sustaining the export-oriented manufacturing sector . In the most critical years of the party system 's development , 1900 to 1914 , total net agricultural production rose by 57 percent . At the same time , the prices Danish farmers received rose more than the prices they paid , and their net real income more than doubled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function of the demand agriculture generated for various types of machinery and consumption goods . But in the absence of other circumstances , such industrialization in a small country would come up against the balance-of-payments constraints with which all Scandinavian countries ? including Denmark ? have had to struggle . And it was here that Danish agriculture played its most vital mitigating role in the economy through its booming exports , particularly so in view of // the sharp improvement in the terms of trade that such exports enjoyed after 1890 . By its international competitiveness , the sector played a central role as the earner of the foreign exchange that was vital to the modernization of Danish manufacturing . This was a role that agriculture in Norway , Sweden , and especially Finland was incapable of playing.18 In contrast to agriculture in the other Nordic countries , Danish agriculture did not until the 1960s require public subsidization . And when subsidization was required , it was not to maintain a sector that could not otherwise be price-competitive in international markets , but was due to overproduction throughout Europe.19 Nor has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tariff barriers that have artificially raised the price of food for urban consumers . The competitiveness of Danish agriculture has been due to many factors ? soil , climate , producer organization among them ? but especially to the agricultural reforms of the late eighteenth and early twentieth centuries . These reforms resulted in a severely rationalized sector composed largely of middle-sized farms and very few marginal units . The starkest contrast is with Finland , where postwar agrarian reform produced thousands of tiny units which could only provide farmers with a living if heavily subsidized and which could never compete on the international market . The four parties ? Radicals , Liberals , Social Democrats , and Conservatives ? are continuously represented in the Rigsdag in the twenty-year period of government formation that we will examine . I will discuss the parties that were formed during that twenty-year period when I examine the government formations . Two others parties that were also formed in the early years of the party system and were sporadically represented during the years of government formation merit a brief mention here . The first of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1919 as an amalgamation of far left groups that wished to adhere to the Third International . In the usual fashion , the party sought to defend working-class // interests , and was antidemocratic and pro-Soviet.20 The last party established during the early period was the Justice party , or Retsforbund . It , too , was formed in 1919 by a collection of groups advocating the adoption of a single tax on propertyvalue increases and the abolition of all other forms of taxation . In this , it drew its inspiration from the American economist Henry George . As well , the party demanded complete economic freedom.21 In sum , the democratic parties developed the following profiles : Agrarian Liberals , socioeconomic ; Conservatives , socioeconomic and foreign policy ; Radical Liberals , socioeconomic and foreign policy ; Social Democrats , socioeconomic and foreign policy ; Justice party , socioeconomic . The Communist party , of course , acquired socioeconomic and foreign policy profiles and , as well , an antidemocratic posture . The Governments , 1955 ? 1975 Since the constitutional changes of 1953 , Denmark has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every fourth year . As there were 175 party seats after the 1953 election , the majority requirement in the mid-fifties was 88 . Additionally , representatives from Greenland and the Faeroe Islands participated in the Folketing . Since these were territorial rather than party representatives and did not vote on party-divisive questions , they are not counted in the majority requirement . The following parties were represented after the 1953 election : the Social Democrats ( 74 seats ) , Radical Liberals ( 14 ) , Liberals ( 42 ) , Conservatives ( 30 ) , the Communist party ( 8 ) , the Justice party ( 6 ) , and the Slesvig party ( 1 ) .22 The Slesvig party , which disappeared from the Folketing at the 1964 election , never had more than a single seat and never obtained majority-relevance . The Justice party disappeared from the legislature as a result of the 1960 election ; it remained unrepresented until 1973 . The inclusion and exclu- // sion of the party from government can not be understood in terms of the theory of government formation because , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all : it has not enforced party discipline in parliamentary voting . The Danish Communist party , more a sect than a party in terms of its significance in Danish politics , disappeared from the Folketing at the 1960 election . The party has never been a candidate for inclusion in any government . Its dubious commitment to the constitutional order is sufficient to explain this isolation . The 1955 Social Democratic Government In the wake of then Prime Minister Hans Hedtoft 's death in January 1955 , the Social Democrats selected H. C. Hansen as Hedtoft 's successor . Hansen immediately opened government negotiations with the other parties . At this juncture , two issues overshadowed all others in Danish politics . The first was an economic one : how to respond to an anticipated half-billion-kroner and growing balance-of-payments deficit . The policies of the Social Democrats and Radicals were the same , but incompatible with those of the Liberals and Conservatives . The latter two parties wanted an end to state support for home construction ; a decoupling of the wage and price indices ; a freeze on several @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ taxes to dampen domestic consumption.23 The Social Democrats and Radicals , too , advocated higher indirect taxes . But they wanted the costs of these increases rebated for low-income families by means of greater cash assistance and child grants . Moreover , they both proposed a forced loan on all taxable incomes in excess of 4,000 kroner . The Conservatives and Liberals were opposed to the increased assistance and the forced loan . The Social Democrats and Radicals in turn rejected the decoupling of the wage and price indices and the termination of support for home construction.24 These differences were explicit ones , because the Liberals and Conservatives made their policies the price of their cooperation.25 // Foreign policy provided the second issue : whether to approve the Paris agreements on German rearmament and entry into NATO . The Social Democrats and Conservatives were in favor of approval . The Radicals , the third party with a relevant profile , were opposed . The Radicals wanted a referendum on the question . Since the major powers had already committed themselves to German rearmament and membership , any referendum would effectively have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Radicals were long-standing opponents of Danish participation in NATO . By requesting a referendum , they were offering the Social Democrats the opportunity to take the question out of the party system and were proposing an implicit compromise.26 The Social Democrats demurred . The Social Democrats , then , had divergent relationships with all of the other parties . As we would expect , the government that emerged from the negotiations was a minority Social Democratic administration . It remained in office until after the 1957 elections . The 1957 Social Democratic ? Radical  - -  Justice Party Government " A twelve day orgy in tactics , negotiations and compromise " is the way Herbert Tingsten characterized the formation of the 1957 government.27 It was among the more unlikely coalitions in postwar Danish politics . Its unlikeliness derived from the compromises it entailed . The Social Democrats now accepted an implicit compromise with the Radicals on NATO membership . Much more peculiar was the inclusion of the Justice party in the government , for the Justice leaders could not promise the Social Democrats that they would enforce parliamentary discipline . Moreover , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his party 's policies in negotiating entry into the coalition . On May 23 , 1957 , when serious negotiations were first initiated between the Social Democrats and the Radicals , the Prime Minister and Social Democratic leader , H. C. Hansen , // stated that his party would insist that the next government declare that foreign policy would remain unchanged.28 That is , the Radicals would have to accept NATO membership . The Radical leaders responded that they could accept this if their party was allowed to remain passive in certain situations . The " certain situations " were parliamentary votes related to NATO and the military budget . In other words , the " Radicals had clearly indicated that they were no longer going to let NATO policy be a barrier to cabinet participation , " but were looking to the Social Democrats for an implicit compromise to ease the abandonment of their long-standing opposition to NATO.29 The Justice party , also opposed to NATO , but with no foreign policy profile , joined the negotiations later in the day and simply accepted membership . These reversals occurred " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about half of the Justice parliamentary group to support the alliance policies of the previous Social Democratic government . " 3o The Radicals ' willingness to implicitly compromise the NATO question now , as earlier , derived from their recognition that membership was an accomplished fact and that continued opposition would only isolate them in government negotiations . The implicit compromise gave them an opportunity to accept membership without approving it . By 1957 , the need to do so was well understood within the party.31 For their part , the Social Democrats were now ready to accept a compromise they had previously rejected because , unlike a referendum , allowing the Radicals to abstain imposed no costs.32 Beyond NATO membership , the main issue at the time this government was formed was again the balance-of-payments deficit , which was now reaching crisis proportions . All parties except the Justice party agreed that import demand had to be rapidly reduced and saving and investment rapidly increased . The question of how to obtain these goals separated the Social Democrats and Radicals from the Liberals and Conservatives and all parties from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Viggo Kampmann , the Finance Minister in the outgoing government and , along // with Hansen , the primary Social Democratic negotiator . On the basis of the Kampmann formulations , the Social Democrats wanted a 27-million-dollar loan from the International Monetary Fund ; a 150-million-kroner reduction in state expenditures ; a 150-million-kroner increase in indirect taxes , designed to stem the demand for consumer imports ; the establishment of a tax exemption for the first 500 kroner in interest income for individuals with incomes below 15,000 kroner ; an increase in the marginal tax rates for individuals in upper-income brackets ; an increase in the capital gains tax ; and negotiations among the government , unions , and employers to avoid the cost-of-living increases that would otherwise come due in July as a result of the above measures ? in effect , a negotiated incomes policy . The final piece of the Social Democratic package called for the continued use of exchange controls.33 The Radicals shared all of these preferences and added several that were essentially elaborations of the Social Democratic proposals : the use of state guarantees in place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the rate of interest charged on state loans for public housing ; an increase in public housing rents ; an increase in the employers ' contribution to the unemployment fund of 15 million kroner per year . All of these were in line with the Social Democrats ' plans for reduced state spending.34 While the Liberals and Conservatives could endorse several of the Social Democratic proposals , their preferences were in direct conflict with the Social Democrats ' on several points . Specifically , they wanted tax exemptions on all interest income , and they wanted the exemptions available to taxpayers in all brackets ; no increase in capital gains taxes ; no increase in the marginal income tax rate for individuals in upper brackets ? instead , the introduction of a flat , proportional rate on all incomes ; and no government intervention in the labor market ? that is , no attempt to negotiate an incomes agreement.35 The Justice party had no policy to deal with the balance-of-payments deficit . It did , however , have an economic // program , and this was in conflict with Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ place , the party had for many years campaigned for the removal of all restrictions on currency exchange . It had also demanded the removal of all tariffs and import regulations . As well , it called for radical reductions in the income tax . It proposed , instead , that the state 's primary source of revenue should be the grundskyld ; that is , a tax on the increase in value of land and property . The enactment of such a system of taxation had been the party 's raison d'etre since its inception . The Social Democratic party had been for many years opposed to the adoption of the grundskyld . And it is plain that the Justice party 's other preferences were diametrically opposed to those of the Social Dernocrats.36 In sum , the Social Democrats had a divergentimplicit relationship with the Radicals on NATO membership ; a convergent relationship with the Radicals on economic policy ; a divergent relationship with the Liberals and Conservatives on economic policy ; and a divergent relationship with the Justice party on economic policy . As it happened , the Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their relationships from divergent-explicit to divergent-implicit by pledging the government to study the introduction of a " voluntary " grundskyld and the eventual removal of barriers to free imports . But on the establishment of free currency exchange and a general reduction in income taxes , the relationship remained divergent-explicit : the Justice party simply capitulated without any face-saving devices.37 So , overall , the Social Democratic ? Justice relationship must be classified as divergent-explicit . The final outcome was a coalition of the Social Democrats , Radicals , and Justice party . This is an outcome that clearly violates the expectations of the theory , which would have had us expect that the Social Democrats would be unwilling to arrange the implicit relationships that were made with the Radicals and Justice party and that these parties would themselves have been unwilling to accept such relationships . The motivations of the Radicals and Social Democrats in // arranging the implicit compromise on the NATO question have already been considered . Strictly speaking , we should not expect the theory of government formation to account for the Social Democratic ? Justice relationship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ party does not fit the definition of a party . Until this government was formed , the leaders of other parties dismissed the Justice party as an irresponsible oddity.38 This made sense given the party 's peculiar policies and lack of discipline . The sudden change of attitude by the Social Democrats was the result of a fear that , if the Justice party were not in government with them , it would join with the Liberals and Conservatives to form a government.39 If the outcome does not conform to our expectations , it remains the case that it does ultimately provide some indirect support for the general model of behavior : the decision to join the government so divided the Justice party that it disappeared from Danish politics at the next election . The decision to join was motivated by the personal desire of the party 's principal leader , Viggo Starcke , to serve in a government before he retired . This decision provoked bitter divisions within the party and Starcke was intensely criticized for it . Contemporary observers drew a direct connection between the conflicts the decision provoked @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at the next election.40 The 1960 Social Democratic ? Radical ? Justice Party and Social Democratic ? Radical Governments When H.C . Hansen died on February 19 , 1960 , Viggo Kampmann was elected party leader and Prime Minister designate . Kampmann held talks with the leaders of the other coalition parties , and afterward each party group in the Folketing voted to continue the coalition.41 The policy questions that surrounded this government formation were the same as those that existed six months later when Kampmann formed his second government in the wake of Folketing elections . Consequently , the two governments can be discussed together . // It is worth emphasizing that NATO and related questions were not significant issues when Kampmann formed his first government . In January 1960 , the five parties had succeeded in negotiating a long-term defense policy agreement that projected future expenditures and established principles of cooperation with the other alliance members in the areas of nuclear weapons and Baltic defense.42 Only the soon-to-disappear Danish Communist party opposed this . It was equally the case that the other major foreign policy decision in Danish politics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the European Free Trade Association . Membership was supported or accepted by all parties . Likewise , all parties supported the tariff reductions that were formulated by a Folketing committee in 1960 and were a requirement of membership . Only the Liberals did not endorse membership in the final Folketing vote . The party abstained because it preferred further tariff reductions and membership in the European Economic Community.43 Three issues were central to Danish politics throughout 1960 : tax reform , housing policy , and the balance of payments . The tax debate was framed by proposals advanced by the coalition government and by the Liberals and Conservatives . The governing parties proposed general reductions in income taxes that would preserve the progressive rate schedule for lower and upper incomes and introduce a flat proportional rate of 32 percent for middle-income taxpayers . The Liberals and Conservatives , with some differences of detail between them , proposed the abolition of progressive rates and the introduction of a flat 18 percent proportional rate on all incomes.44 The governing parties proposed to offset the revenues lost in reducing income taxes by taxing profits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by adding a surtax . The objective was not simply to make good a part of the lost revenue ; it was also to put pressure on escalating property prices that were rapidly raising the price of housing.45 The Liberals and Conservatives were opposed to the increased property taxes on the ground that they would distort the investment // market . Instead , they proposed to make up the lost revenue by canceling the Minister of Housing 's authority to issue lowinterest loans for public housing construction . The Social Democrats and Liberals attacked this as a threat to low-income families and the construction industry.46 The third point of debate among the parties involved the impact that the taxation and housing proposals would have on the balance of payments . The Social Democrats and Radicals contended that the Liberal and Conservative proposals would result in an insufficiently large budget surplus and would therefore generate a level of domestic demand for imports that would in turn put downward pressure on the value of the krone . The Liberals and Conservatives countered that their proposals would avoid this by increasing private investment to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ At heart , the issue was a strategic one : could balance-of-payments difficulties best be met by allowing the markets to make investment and consumption decisions ? Or would they best be met by allowing the state to make these decisions ? The Justice party , to the extent that it concerned itself with these matters , apparently found the tax , spending , and balance-of-payments policies of the Social Democrats and Radicals in line with its own preferences . All the evidence , however , shows that these questions were somewhat peripheral for the party at this time . The party was consumed by internal conflicts and well on the way to extinction in the Folketing . Within half a year it would lose all of its seats . It was , therefore , of no significance at all when Kampmann formed his second government later in the year . Indeed , even in the making of the first Kampmann government the party was essentially irrelevant . The preferences that had been identifiably products of the Justice party in 1957 no longer really existed after the capitulations of that year @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ begin with and now without clear policy preferences , it would be pointless to try to classify a relationship between Justice and the Social Democrats in 1960 . Several members of the Justice Folketing group continued to partici- // pate in the government when Kampmann reconstituted the coalition in 1960.47 Two parties appeared in the Folketing for the first time as a result of the 1960 elections . The first of these was the Socialist People 's party ( SPP ) , founded by Aksel Larsen , the erstwhile general secretary of the Communist party . During the 1950s , Larsen had grown increasingly disenchanted with the " steel hard militant sect " character of the Communist party and its slavish support of the Soviet Union . After the experience of the Twentieth Congress of the Communist Party , he openly called for the Danish party to " free itself from the tradition that it automatically support everything that comes from the socialist countries " and called for the transformation of the party into a mass-democratic party of the working class.48 In 1958 , the central committee of the party expelled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to create the SPP . The new party must be assigned profiles in the areas of socioeconomic and foreign policy , the latter having been half of the matter that precipitated the expulsion of the Larsenites from the Communist party . The other half was Larsen 's commitment to a parliamentary path.49 In the 1960 elections , the SPP acquired eleven Folketing seats and eliminated the representatives of the Communist party . The party was born opposed to Danish membership in NATO , and the demand for withdrawal formed the foreign policy centerpiece of its 1960 electoral campaign . In consequence , when Kampmann formed his second government , the Social Democrats and the SPP were in conflict on this point . The two parties also had divergent preferences on the economic questions : the SPP campaigned on demands for nationalization of large parts of the Danish economy , including the construction materials industry , private phone companies , and life insurance companies . As well , the party wanted the government to take over the National Bank , the semi-autonomous central hank . In the classic conflict between a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ state ownership and the latter advocated state control . ' // The second party to enter the Folketing at the 1960 election was the Independence party ( Uafhaengige ) . The party was founded in 1953 as an outgrowth of a leadership struggle in the Liberal party . As Prime Minister of a minority Liberal government that had come to office in 1945 , Knud Kristensen had worked openly for the incorporation of South Slesvig despite his government 's formal position of opposition to a change in the status of the territory . After the 1947 election brought in a Social Democratic government , Kristensen continued as leader of the Liberal party and continued to advocate the incorporation of South Sleswig . In January 1949 , he resigned his Folketing seat to express his opposition to the accepted Slesvig policy , and in September he stepped down as party leader . In September 1953 , he became head of a new party born in opposition to Slesvig policy and the 1953 constitution . Opposition to the constitution and accepted Slesvig policy eventually faded , but concern for Danish foreign policy generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be assigned a foreign policy profile as well as the usual socioeconomic profiles ' The demands for a return to the old two-chamber legislature and strong support for the Danish minority in South Slesvig that had been the focal points of the party 's earliest efforts had receded in importance by 1960 . They had been superseded by then by strong support for NATO membership , a complete state withdrawal from the housing market , and income tax reductions in line with those proposed by the Liberals and Conservatives.52 Only on NATO membership did the Social Democrats and Independents have convergent preferences in 1960 . The Independents were opposed to the Social Democrats ' use of a tax increase to slow the rise of real estate prices , were opposed to state loan guarantees for home construction , and wanted the removal of rent control.53 In sum , then , when Kampmann formed his first government , the Social Democrats had convergent relationships on all issues only with the Radical Liberals . The relationships with the Liberals and Conservatives were , on one or more issues , divergent . Again , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with only the Radicals that the Social Democrats had entirely convergent preferences . With the Socialist People 's party the preferences were divergent on NATO membership and economic policy ( nationalization and the status of the central bank ) ; with the Liberals and Conservatives they were divergent on taxation , housing , and the balance of payments ; with the Independents they were divergent on taxation and housing . In both instances , the government that emerged was a Social Democratic ? Liberal coalition . The first included ministers from the Justice Folketing group . Both governments , then , conform to the expectations of the theory . The second Kampmann government controlled eighty-eight Folketing seats , while a majority required control of eighty-nine seats . Kampmann acquired the eighty-ninth seat by offering a Greenland representative , Mikael Gam , the position of Minister of Greenland Affairs . By calling on an independent who had previously abstained in party votes , Kampmann was able to gain a majority . More telling is that Kampmann gave every indication that he would be unwilling to make the compromises required to bring a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gam 's vote been unavailable.54 The 1962 Social Democratic ? Radical Government In September 1962 , Kampmann resigned because of failing health . The Social Democratic Folketing group selected J. O. Krag to succeed Kampmann and lead the negotiations for a new government . Because extensive negotiations did occur , the change was more than a technical one of Prime Minister , and the next government is counted as a new one . Four issues dominated party conflict : NATO membership , possible membership in the European Economic Community , a tax agreement that had recently been negotiated among the four old parties , and the government 's price-control policies . The Socialist People 's party continued to make opposition to NATO membership a primary focus and , as well , had now positioned itself as the main opponent of Danish membership in the EEC . At this time , Danish politicians ex170 Four Types of Democracies pected Great Britain 's application for EEC membership to be accepted , and the Danish government was actively involved in negotiations to follow Britain , Denmark 's largest trading partner , into the community @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was also supported by the Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives.55 In June 1962 , the Social Democrats , Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives had negotiated a rather complex economic package designed to bolster the krone , reduce domestic consumption , and increase investment . Among other things , the package included the introduction of a wholesale tax of 9 percent , a reduction of land and income taxes , an increase in pensions and child maintenance payments , a commitment to a 500-million-kroner budget surplus for the current fiscal year , a 25 percent increase in the controlled rents on the pre-1939 housing stock , and the exclusion of the various tax increases from the price index used to calculate wage increases.56 This agreement was opposed by the Socialist People 's party , which instead proposed tax increases on tobacco and alcohol , cancellation of the rent increase and wholesale tax , and an increase in low-interest state construction loans.57 The package was equally opposed by the Independents , who called for a complete state withdrawal from housing and construction , cancellation of the wholesale tax , and cancellation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1962 , the Social Democrats proposed that the four-party economic agreement be supplemented by a grant of authority to the Monopoly Control Authority ( monopoltilsynet ) to investigate price increases and fix prices and profits . The Radicals found the basic principle acceptable . The Liberals , Conservatives , and Independents opposed any such grant of authority . The Socialist People 's party wanted instead an across-the-board wage and profits freeze , a proposal rejected by all other parties.59 On balance , then , it was again the case that the party of the formateurs , the Social Democrats , had convergent preferences only with the Radicals . With the Socialist People 's party , it had divergent relationships on NATO and EEC mem- // bership , on the four-party economic package , and on price controls . With the Liberals and Conservatives , the party had convergent relationships on the EEC and NATO and the four-party agreement , but divergent relationships on price controls . With the Independents , the Social Democrats had divergent relationships on the four-party agreement and price controls . When the government was formed , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as we would anticipate . And , as his predecessor had done , Krag secured a parliamentary majority of a single vote by including Mikael Gam in the cabinet . Again , the more significant point is that all the evidence indicates that had Gam 's vote not been available , Krag would not have made concessions to bring a third party into the government.60 The 1964 Social Democratic Government The Social Democratic ? Radical coalition lasted until the September 1964 Folketing election . In the wake of the election the Social Democratic party again had the formateurship , and Krag took the lead on behalf of the Social Democrats in negotiations to form a new government . The conflicts among the parties were straightforward , and Krag devoted less than two days to discussions with the other parties . At the end of the talks he formed a minority Social Democratic cabinet . The Socialist People 's party continued to challenge the Social Democrats to reverse their support for NATO membership . There is no evidence of interest in either party in an implicit compromise of the sort that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having rejected the British application for admission into the EEC , Danish membership in the community was no longer on the agenda when this government was formed . On the issue that the Social Democrats had sought to make the centerpiece of their party 's campaign , the establishment of a pay-as-you-earn income-tax system , the Socialist People 's party was in agreement with the Social Democrats.62 Indeed , the Socialist People 's party was the only other party to // support this policy . The Social Democrats ' former coalition partners , the Radicals , were now in disagreement with the Social Democrats about taxation-at-source and their own proposal for the use of a retail sales tax.63 The Liberals , Conservatives , and Independents , too , opposed taxation-at-source and campaigned for the termination of the double taxation of real estate profits that the Social Democrats had implemented in 1960 . The three parties also wanted rent control ended for units built before 1939.64 Both of these policies were contrary to Social Democratic policy . In each case of a divergent policy , neither of the parties indicated a willingness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ because none of the policy questions required immediate action . The establishment of a system of taxation-at-source , for instance , would have required at least two years of preparation , even if a majority favorable to it had existed in the Folketing . No such majority existed ; so it was going to be postponed regardless of the government formed . The Radicals ' proposal of a retail sales tax was likewise going to be deferred for lack of a legislative majority . The outcome fits the theory . In the absence of convergent policies , the government was limited to the Social Democrats . The 1966 Social Democratic Government The cabinet Krag formed in 1964 remained in office until the winter of 1966 , when Krag dissolved the Folketing and scheduled an election for November . The dissolution was precipitated by the inability of the four old parties to reach an agreement on a package of tax reforms . Anticipating that a campaign fought over the question of taxation-at-source would have a favorable outcome for his party , Krag allowed the negotiations among the four parties to proceed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ country.65 The election was a serious setback for the Social Democrats . Their Folketing group fell from seventy-six to sixty-nine members . The real winner was the Socialist People 's party , which doubled its // fraction from ten to twenty members . The Liberals and Conservatives lost three and two seats respectively . The Radicals , in spite of having risen from nineteen to twenty-three seats , lost their majority-relevance for the first time in decades . The Social Democrats retained the formateurship.66 The election campaign and subsequent negotiations were conditioned by two major agreements that had been reached in the first months of 1966 and by the failure to reach a third agreement on taxation . The first of these was the socalled " Big Party Housing Agreement , " concluded among the Social Democrats , Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives in January 1966 . One of the most comprehensive social policy agreements of the postwar era , it among other things established new mortgage and insurance arrangements and a state building fund , increased public housing construction , and provided for rent increases in rent-controlled units.67 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and included some tax increases and postponements and public spending cuts . Even though the Conservative and Socialist People 's parties were unwilling to endorse this agreement , the agreement had the effect of largely removing economic policy from the arena of party conflict during the election campaign.68 The housing agreement had exactly the opposite result and provided the focus for the domestic policy side of the Socialist People 's party 's 1966 campaign . The party had refused to sign the accord and bitterly attacked the Social Democrats for the rent increases , which fell mainly on lower-income workers . The party quite explicitly made cancellation of the housing agreement a quid pro quo of cooperation after the election.69 Whereas in 1964 the Social Democrats had advocated the substitution of a retail sales tax for the wholesale tax , the party had subsequently come to propose the substitution of a value added tax . This proposal was one of the three key pieces of the Social Democratic tax reform package , and the People 's party opposed it on grounds of alleged regressivity and was thus again in conflict with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Social Democratic tax package , the institution of taxation-at-source and the cancellation of a deduction that allowed taxpayers to set off the past year 's tax payments against current taxable income , were supported by the People 's party.70 The final line of conflict between the two parties again involved NATO membership , as the Socialist party continued to insist on a Danish withdrawal.71 Thus the two parties had divergent preferences on NATO , a value added tax , and housing policy . The relationship is an especially interesting one , because for the first time in Danish history an election had produced an absolute socialist majority in the Folketing . Had the two parties been willing to govern together , they would have been able to establish a majority socialist government . We would anticipate , then , that the temptation for each party to make sufficient concessions to form such a government would be especially acute at this time . And , indeed , the two party leaderships held extensive negotiations after the election . The negotiations were aimed at creating just such a government , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the theory , demanded that the other party adopt convergent preferences where its preferences had previously been divergent . Neither party was willing to compromise its preferences explicitly , or even implicitly . The parties preferred to end the negotiations by publishing a lengthy memorandum detailing all the points on which they agreed and all the points on which they disagreed . They attributed their inability to form a government specifically to NATO membership , housing policy , and the value added tax , the three issues on which they had divergent-explicit relations.72 Thus , we find that in an instance in which practice would be most likely to deviate from the theory , the theory is sustained . The other relationships were fairly simple . The Radicals opposed the Social Democratic proposal to introduce taxation-at-source , but supported the proposal to end the deduction of past taxes . The Liberals opposed taxation-at-source and wanted the deduction maintained . The Conservatives wanted // the deduction maintained and wanted the introduction of voluntary taxation-at-source , a proposal that reflected the conflict of interest between salaried employees and employers within the party.73 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at least one policy that was incompatible with the policies of the Social Democrats . Brief negotiations followed the elections , but none of the parties was willing to compromise . The final party in the Folketing was a new party , the Liberal Center , which won four mandates in the November election.74 It did not have majority-relevance and disappeared altogether in 1968 . The Independence party lost all of its seats in the election . The outcome , a minority Social Democratic government , fits the theory . No convergent relationships existed , and none of the parties was willing to raise the limit of tolerance . The 1968 Radical ? Liberal ? Conservative Government The formation of this coalition will be easier to understand if we review the resolution of issues and the rise of new ones during the two years before it was formed . The removal of two issues ? housing and taxation ? was crucial to the formation of the coalition . In January 1966 , the Social Democrats , Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives had reached a comprehensive eight-year agreement on housing policy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and was intensely critical of it . But the signators to the agreement remained committed to its implementation , and for them it greatly reduced the importance of housing as a political issue.75 Most important , it removed housing as a source of conflict among the Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives . In 1967 , the Social Democrats and Socialist People 's party negotiated a new housing accord on their own ; this established a 1.3-billion-kroner state construction fund , drawing on a billion-kroner state deposit in the National Bank and a 300-million-kroner appropriation . Just as the 1966 agreement had removed divisions among the three bourgeois parties , this agreement united them ? in opposition . They contended that it // would be inflationary and would give the state new and unacceptable control over investment decisions and the property market.76 All three parties demanded the cancellation of the agreement . The second important development in 1967 was the resolution of the tax reform question . At the time of the election in November 1966 , none of the parties had been in agreement on tax reform . In the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with only the Liberals refusing to participate ) . The result was a comprehensive agreement on tax reform that largely conformed to the original Social Democratic preferences : the past-tax deduction would be abolished , taxation-at-source would be introduced from January 1 , 1969 , and a value added tax would be substituted for the wholesale tax . Both the Radicals and the Conservatives had read the 1966 election as a repudiation of their tax proposals and had dropped their objections in principle to these reforms even before negotiations were begun . By the autumn of 1967 , even the Liberals , who had refused to participate in the tax negotiations , had come to accept the three reforms . " Thus , by the time of the next election , in January 1968 , tax reform was no longer on the table ; and most important , the three bourgeois parties were no longer divided by it . The deterioration of the Danish economy is equally critical to an understanding of the 1968 government . In 1967 , output growth became sluggish , inflation , unemployment , and interest rates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the year , economic policy was once again at the top of the political agenda . ' It was in this context that a devaluation of the British pound entered Danish politics in December 1967 . To general surprise and broad opposition , the Social Democratic government responded with a 7.9 percent devaluation of the Danish krone . To sustain the anticipated effects of the devaluation , the government then introduced legislation to effect a freeze on profits , a ceiling on cost-of-living increases , and a 3 percent increase in income taxes for tax- // payers in the upper brackets . When the proposals were put to a vote in the Folketing , the Socialist People 's party joined with the Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives in opposition and the Krag government lost the vote.79 It immediately resigned and called elections for the following month ? January 1968 . Two questions thus dominated Danish politics during the electoral campaign : the housing fund the socialist parties had created in 1967 , and how to respond to the rapidly deteriorating economy and the situation created by the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Radicals received the formateurship . The party had campaigned on a program of reducing the money supply , a 500- to 600-million-kroner reduction in state expenditures , a tax reduction on unearned income , and voluntary restraint in labor market negotiations.80 The Social Democrats had campaigned on the same program they had failed to get through the Folketing . In consequence , they had divergent-preference relationships with the Radicals on several points : in their advocacy of a freeze on profits and a ceiling on cost-of-living increases and their proposal for increased taxes on upper incomes to parallel the restraint on workers ' incomes . As well , the Social Democrats campaigned against any further tightening of the money supply and opposed special tax treatment for savings and investment . Finally , because the Radicals were committed to the cancellation of the housing fund , the two parties were in conflict on that question as well.81 The Socialist People 's party 's preferences paralleled those of the Social Democrats , except that the party opposed mandatory restraints on cost-of-living increases . In consequence , it , too , was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Liberals and Conservatives had campaigned on platforms virtually identical to the Radicals ' on the economic questions and , as mentioned , shared the Radicals ' commitment to cancellation of the housing fund.83 On the principal issues , then , the three parties had convergent preferences . Negotiations among the three focused on how much defense spending // would be cut ? with the Radicals favoring larger cuts than the Liberals and Conservatives ? and on the distribution of ministries among the parties.84 One new party made an appearance in the Folketing as a result of the 1968 election . The Left Socialist party , established by dissidents on the left of the Socialist People 's party , gained four seats . The party proposed a program of extensive nationalization and , not surprisingly , was not a serious candidate for inclusion in the Radical government.SS The Left Socialists lacked majority-relevance and disappeared at the next election . The outcome , then , is a three-party coalition premised on convergent preferences . This conforms to the hypothesis for the consensual system . The 1971 Social Democratic Government The coalition government formed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which time it decided to go to the country about fourteen months earlier than required by law , because it concluded that the rapidly declining economy would only make its electoral prospects worse as time passed . The upshot of the election was that the formateurship returned to the Social Democrats . Two issues were paramount in the election campaign that preceded the formation of this government : membership in the EEC and how to respond to a balance-of-payments deficit that was beginning to assume crisis proportions . The question of EEC membership returned to center stage in Danish politics when Britain again applied for membership . The Social Democrats , Liberals , Radicals , and Conservatives again supported membership for Denmark . And once again the Socialist People 's party opposed membership.86 The economic policy question was more complicated . In 1971 , the Danish economy was again in severe difficulty , with a balance-of-payments deficit approaching 3.5 billion kroner in the twelve months prior to the election and with rapidly rising prices . On the monetary side , the coalition gov- // ernment 's response had been one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the spring and summer of 1971 the coalition had instituted a comprehensive and mandatory two-year incomes policy , increased capital gains taxes , instituted strict controls on communal spending , removed tax exemptions on shipping investment , and adjusted the price index to equal 100 for January 1971 , which effectively prevented increases from setting in train previously negotiated cost-of-living increases.87 When the coalition parties campaigned in September 1971 , their basic premise was that however badly they had handled the economy in the past ? a view widely shared by even their supporters ? they now had in place the correct policies . Each of the three parties made a defense of these policies the centerpiece of its economic program.88 The Social Democrats had very different preferences . They rejected the incomes policy because , they argued , it would dampen wage increases for workers but have little impact on the incomes of salaried employees . In this , their view was shared by the Socialist People 's party . Both socialist parties opposed the coalition 's high-interest rates policy.89 They argued that the government 's efforts should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Given that Denmark had difficulty attracting foreign capital , it was thus the government 's responsibility to provide the necessary capital and direct its use . To this end , the Social Democrats proposed the creation of a National Capital Market Council that would include representatives from government , business , labor , and finance . The council would establish guidelines for and monitor the distribution of private bank credit . It would establish priorities and limit capital investment in low priority areas . The Socialist People 's party advanced proposals that were comparable to this and differed only in details.90 As a complement to the council , the Social Democrats wanted to establish a state-owned investment bank . The Socialist People 's party proposed the same thing.91 Finally , the Social Democrats insisted that the government intervene in the foreign exchange market to support the krone against the Ger180 Four Types of Democracies man mark . The Socialist People 's party had no well-articulated view on this question , but one must logically suppose they agreed . The Radicals also endorsed intervention . The Liberals and Conservatives wanted the krone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had divergent preference relationships with the Liberals , Radicals , and Conservatives on economic policy and with the Socialist People 's party on EEC membership . The Socialist People 's party continued , of course , to demand a withdrawal from NATO ; but in 1971 this preference was conspicuous for its marginality in the party 's campaign , which focused almost entirely on the EEC question . There is no indication that consideration was given on any side to concessions leading to a government based on divergentimplicit relationships . If this were to have occurred , it would have been most likely between the two socialist parties . Neither indicated an interest . And so , again , the outcome conforms to the expectations of the theory . In the absence of convergent relationships , a single-party government was formed . The 1973 Liberal Government The 1973 government was formed in the aftermath of the most destabilizing election in Danish history : the " protest election " of 1973 . The party system exploded : no less than five previously unrepresented parties gained seats in the Folketing . Each of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cases , devastating ? loss of seats . The Social Democratic fraction plunged from seventy to forty-six ; the Conservatives ' from thirty-one to sixteen . The Communist and Justice parties , which had last won seats in 1957 , reappeared and won six and five respectively . Three newly created parties won among them forty-nine seats . The most well known of these was Mogens Glistrup 's Progress party , which gained twenty-eight seats and overnight became the second largest party in the Folketing.93 The antecedents of this electoral earthquake can be inferred from the previous cases : rapidly rising prices , taxes and public expenditures accompanied by deteriorating foreign exchange reserves , and a faltering krone ; and , as always , prob- // lems in the housing market . The difficulties were accompanied by a palpable sense that none of the five established parties was capable of dealing effectively with the problems that confronted Denmark . Danish politicians were well aware of this sentiment in the year preceding the election , as one opinion poll after another showed growing support for the new parties and declining confidence in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which issues were framed by the parties in 1973 and also for the government-formation outcome itself . One consequence was that the new leader of the Social Democrats , Anker Jorgensen , sought to give his party a clearer identity by moving it distinctly to the left . Jorgensen centered this move to the left on a new program of economic democracy . This quickly became one of the most debated political questions of the year , and it created important divisions . The basic programmatic elements of Jorgensen 's economic democracy were ( 1 ) the establishment of a wage earners ' fund , into which all employers would pay a tax equivalent to a percentage of the annual payroll . The tax would rise from .5 percent in 1974 to 5 percent in 1983. ( 2 ) The fund would be administered by a board appointed by the national trade union organization ( LO ) and the Minister of Labor . ( 3 ) Every wage earner would receive a share of the fund , and the first regular dividend would be paid out in 1982 . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 60,000 kroner in 1991. ( 4 ) Employer contributions would be tax deductible . ( 5 ) Publicly owned companies would make two-thirds of their contribution in the form of equity . ( 6 ) In companies employing more than fifty workers , the workers would have the right to elect two of the company 's directors.95 Not surprisingly , the Radicals , Liberals , and Conservatives opposed this strenuously . They opposed the concentration of capital and economic power ; the extraordinary power it would give the LO ; the tax increases that would necessarily be required to make good the lost revenue ; and the reduction in the state 's ability to control the economy.96 Among the parties , only the Socialist People 's party had a convergent preference // with the Social Democrats ? for they favored establishment of such a program.97 The Social Democrats ' response to the economic deterioration was a series of large tax increases enacted and proposed in the autumn of 1973 to reduce consumption . Taxes on cigarettes , beer , auto registrations , gasoline , and other items were raised . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agricultural and fisheries industries . They also wanted special taxes on shipping , insurance , and industrial property . In all , the increased taxes amounted to about 1.2 billion kroner.98 Although there were differences among them , the Liberals , Conservatives , and Radicals were united in a commitment to tax reductions , not increases . They also wanted substantial public spending cuts . Poul Hartling , the Liberal party leader and soon-to-be Prime Minister , talked about three billion kroner in reductions . The Liberals further proposed the removal of all housing industry regulations ; the substitution of tax cuts for cost-of-living increases ; and the cancellation of credit market restrictions . The Radicals and Conservatives focused mainly on tax reductions , but did endorse these additional Liberal points.99 The first of the new or returned Folketing parties was the Danish Communist party , back after thirteen years but still regarded as a pariah by the democratic parties . The second was the small Christian People 's party , which won seven seats . ' ? ? The third was the resurrected Justice party . The fourth was Mogens @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and Progress parties rejected participation in a government of any composition . ' ? 2 The final new party was the Center Democratic party . The party was established only in the months before the election by a group of right-wing Social Democrats who opposed Jorgensen 's program of economic democracy and his tactical move to the left . Although supportive of NATO and the EEC , the party 's origins were strictly in socioeconomic conflicts . The new party sought to create a following among middle-class // suburbanites and developed policy preferences accordingly . It campaigned for a freeze on property taxes ; a cancellation of the recently enacted tax increases on gasoline and auto registrations ; a gradual removal of homes from taxation ; and a general reduction in income taxes . There was nothing in the party 's preferences that conflicted with Liberal preferences and much that was compatible.103 Let us now sum up the case . The Liberals had the formateurship and had divergent relationships with the Social Democrats and Socialist People 's party . None of the three sought to make these differences implicit and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Conservatives , and Center Democrats the Liberals clearly had convergent preferences . We can not speak of Liberal relationships with the Progress , Justice , and Christian People 's parties , because each rejected participation in principle . This leaves us expecting the Social Democrats and Socialist People 's party to be in opposition and the Radicals , Conservatives , and Center Democrats in government with the Liberals . In fact , the prediction fails . The Liberals formed a government by themselves . A coalition of the four parties was indeed the outcome thought most likely by contemporary observers ; and when the Liberals formed a government by themselves , the reaction among the media and other politicians was one of complete surprise . For discussions among the leaders of the four parties had proceeded smoothly and with the expectation that a four-party coalition would emerge . ' ? 4 How , then , do we explain the unexpected outcome ? The decision not to form the coalitionwas made by the leader of the Liberals , Poul Hartling . At the last moment Hartling unilaterally terminated the negotiations and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a minority Liberal government . The Folketing ( i.e. , the two socialist parties , the Radicals , Conservatives , and Center Democrats ) could either accept it or reject it . If they rejected it , they would have to assume responsibility for creating another government , and they would have to do it without the Liberals . Hartling could calculate that given // the difficulties this would pose and the overwhelming desire to avoid another early election , the mainstream parties would be willing to support a purely Liberal government . Hartling apparently also calculated that the support the next government would require would be easier to elicit if the government consisted of only one center party rather than a block of parties of either the left or right . This , in any case , is the most compelling and widely accepted explanation of the outcome.105 Most fundamentally , to be sure , the outcome was a result of the collapse of the old party system . Summary Between 1955 and 1974 , ten governments were formed in Denmark . The theory is successful in predicting eight of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the governments of 1957 and 1973 . The theory predicted that in 1957 the Radicals and the Justice party would be in opposition . In fact , they joined the government . The theory anticipated that in 1973 the Radicals , Conservatives , and Center Democrats would join the government . In fact , they remained in opposition . I will return to these two cases below . Among the ten governments , we have forty-five bargaining relationships . Of these forty-five relationships , thirtyseven lead to placements in the government or opposition that fit the theory . In three cases , the Justice , Progress , and Christian People 's parties in 1973 , the parties declined to participate in a government of any composition or policies . The other five cases of failure occurred in 1957 and 1973 and were referred to above . A corollary of the hypothesis for consensual democracies is that party leaders should be unwilling to make implicit compromises . Of the thirty-one divergent relationships that we have examined , in only three cases did party leaders indicate a willingness to compromise implicitly . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proposed , and the Social Democrats declined , to compromise their different policies toward NATO . The second instance occurred in 1957 and involved the same parties and the same issue . This time the Social Democrats accepted the compromise . The third occasion of implicit compromise was also in 1957 and involved the Social Democrats and the Justice party . In testing the proposition that implicit compromises should not occur , the 1955 , 1964 , 1966 , and 1971 outcomes are critical , because in each of these the government formed was a single-party minority government . If implicit compromises were to occur , they would have been most likely on these occasions , for larger governments would have required at least implicit compromises . Only in 1955 , when the Social Democrats rebuffed the Radicals ' offer , do we find some interest in an implicit compromise . On balance , then , the Danish cases appear to provide quite satisfactory empirical support for the theory 's predictive power . As well , they provide evidence of its explanatory power . There is no evidence of nonpolicy causation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when policies were decisive , they led to the expected results . CHAPTER SIX Finland Origins of the Party System When Finland was transferred from Sweden to Russia in 1809 , the Diet of the Four Estates ? the nobility , clergy , burghers , and peasantry ? convened to acknowledge the authority of the Czar . The Estates did not meet again until 1863 , when annual meetings were begun . It was with these regular meetings that the first lineages of the Finnish party system began to appear . Language and nationality provided the social bases for the early proto-parties that formed in the Estates during these years . The first of the early parties was the Finnish movement , which sought to make the majority language into an official and cultural language . In the 1870s , the movement acquired a majority position in the estates of the clergy and peasantry . In the late 1870s and early 1880s , a Swedish party came into being in reaction to the Finnish movement and , reflecting the Swedish language 's position as the language of the small socioeconomic elite @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nobility and burghers . Ethnolinguistic division remained the basic line of political conflict until the last years of the century . But the level of ' political participation remained quite low . Even after reforms // in the 1860s extended the voting rights of burghers , less than 10 percent of the adult population was eligible to vote . ' Indeed , little evidence of popular agitation for parliamentary reform and an extended suffrage appears until the final years of the century . Reflecting this , no parties in a modern sense yet existed . The parties that did exist were loose-knit groups formed around newspaper editors and individuals influential in the Estates . Agreement within the groups generally did not reach beyond ethnolinguistic questions.2 Only at the end of the century , under the multiple pressures of Russification , industrialization , and the commercialization of agriculture did new cleavages and modern parties begin to take shape in Finland . Until the end of the century , czarist governments had been content to permit Finland extensive internal autonomy . To strengthen a vulnerable flank , the Czar 's government thereafter began @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The Russification campaign included attempts to merge the Finnish army into the Imperial Army , the use of the Russian language in the civil service and schools , the free entrance of Russians into the civil service , and a general strengthening of the powers of the Russian Governor-General.3 This threat to Finnish autonomy produced divisions over the best means and tactics by which to resist it . The Swedish party advocated a policy of passive resistance to Russification . The issue produced a split in the Finnish movement , with a new group , called the Young Finns , also endorsing passive resistance . The rump group , the Old Finns , preferred a policy of accommodation in the hope that the Czar would abandon Russification . In the long-term , these tactical differences would be of no significance , as all of these parties would come to endorse Finnish independence . Indeed , they would fight a bloody civil war that was , in their view , a war of national liberation . The split in the Finnish movement , however , would remain and eventually culminate in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Resistance to Russification gradually became inextri- // cably linked to demands ? supported by all parties ? for home rule , abolition of the Estates , and extension of the franchise . The 1905 revolution in Russia provided the opportunity for a coup d'etat in Helsinki . The constitutionalists , in cooperation with the tiny labor movement , seized power , elected a provisional government , and passed reform proposals to the Czar as a fait accompli.4 At a stroke , the Estates was replaced by a unicameral legislature , the Eduskunta , elected on the basis of universal male and female suffrage . The beginning of modern party life in Finland dates from the changes caused by the electoral and parliamentary reforms of 1905-1906 . In the years preceding the reforms , there were already signs of party cohesion , but it was only the achievement of universal suffrage that turned the bourgeois groups into organizationally and programmatically modern parties around 1905-1908 . The enfranchisement of the whole adult population from the 1907 election established the main components , with the exception of the Communist party , of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ however , the possibility of parties leading political activity was still limited because the home government continued to be dominated by Russians . Especially during the world war , when the tempo of Russification and infringements of established Finnish rights increased , party activity was muted . In May 1906 , at a congress in Helsinki , the Swedish party was refounded . The new party , a continuation of the old Swedish party in the Estates , was to bring under one banner , irrespective of social classes , the entire Swedish-speaking population of Finland . In order to keep the party together , the concrete demands of the program were limited only to ethnolinguistic issues that were of importance to the entire language community . In fact , because Swedish Finns were a socioeconomic elite , and because the community 's elite was in control of the party , the party came down squarely on the nonsocialist side of the socioeconomic cleavage . Indeed , until after the Second World War , the party would be the most right-wing party in Finland . ' // In the earliest phase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rural laborers with farmers and a part of the urban elite in the name of linguistic and cultural solidarity . The movement broke apart , however , as other conflicts arose . The first of these , as mentioned , was the response to Russification that split the Old and Young Finns . Of more enduring significance was the difference between these two groups on the socioeconomic cleavage . Although both belonged to the nonsocialist camp , the Young Finns were committed to a course of social liberalism , while the Old Finns were opposed to almost all state intervention . Ultimately , the Young Finns would become the Finnish Liberal party and the Old Finns the Conservative party . The second crack in Finnish solidarity occurred with the establishment in 1906 ? 1908 of the Agrarian party . As was the case elsewhere in northern Europe , an agrarian party arose out of a sense that the original parties , urban-rural coalitions , were inherently incapable of adequately protecting agrarian interests . ' As Russification intensified after 1907 , and especially as the Czar sought to withdraw the concessions to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bourgeois parties united behind the cause of national independence . As far as they were concerned , the Bolshevik seizure of power in Petrograd simply made independence all the more urgent . In December 1917 , a nonsocialist government declared Finland 's unilateral independence . At this time , the Social Democratic party split in all but name . The center-right of the party favored independence , but insisted that it be negotiated rather than unilateral . The attitude of the Social Democratic left remains clouded and a subject of contention even to this day . ' Finnish society was disintegrating when independence was declared , with both the left and the right assembling paramilitary forces . The presence in Finland of a large number to radicalized and undisciplined Russian soldiers led the right to fear that the Bolsheviks would attempt to spread their revolution to the Finnish part of the empire . The left wing of the Social Democrats , in turn , apparently feared the establishment // of a right-wing authoritarian government . The left wing of the Social Democratic party attempted to seize power in Helsinki in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In the aftermath , right-wing historians would look upon the war as a war for national liberation ; left-wing historians would view it as a class war ; moderate Social Democrats , caught in the middle , would view it simply as national tragedy . The war ran through the spring months and was especially vicious , with battles fought not simply on urban streets , but on full-fledged military fronts . Some 7,000 men were killed in these battles . More than 1,500 were murdered during the " Red Terror " of the winter of 1917 ? 18 ; over 8,000 were executed in postwar settlements of account . Another 9,000 died in prison camps , into which the victorious Whites herded as many as 80,000 men during the summer of 1918.8 The object of the Reds , who were subsequently to be represented in Finnish society by the Communist party , was at the least to destroy the bourgeois state and ally Finland with the new Soviet Union . More likely , although the matter remains murky , the Reds would have incorporated Finland into the Soviet Union.9 The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cleavage of Finnish politics , and the line of cleavage has placed all bourgeois parties on one side and the Communist party on the other . The attitudes of the bourgeois parties were decided by the Russification campaigns and the Civil War . The Russophobia of these parties was simply reinforced by the Winter War ( 1939 ? 40 ) and the Continuation War ( 1941 ? 45 ) . The behavioral meaning of the parties ' attitudes has , of course , been radically conditioned by the European balance of power and has moved from open hostility in the interwar years to subdued and compliant neutrality since 1945.10 In December 1918 , the moderate Social Democrats , who had opposed the Reds ' attempt to seize power and had then largely sat out the Civil War , reconstituted the Social Democratic party . Having been caught in the middle between the Reds and the Whites , the Social Democrats always re192 Four Types of Democracies mained ambivalent toward the Soviet Union : they supported independence , but not unilateral independence ; they opposed the attempted seizure of power , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ national resistance during the Winter War , but were divided over the Finnish attack that launched the Continuation War and were subsequently the principal proponents of an early negotiated peace with the Soviet Union . " The surviving leaders of the defeated Reds regrouped in Moscow and established a Communist-party-in-exile . Those leaders who managed to remain free agents in Finland established a domestic Communist party in May 1920 . The party was quickly suppressed , but reformed and managed to obtain twenty-seven seats and 14.8 percent of the vote in the 1922 elections . ' In 1923 , the Kallio government imprisoned the entire Communist parliamentary party , and the party 's newspapers were suppressed . Large numbers of suspected Communists were arrested and imprisoned throughout the 1920s , and public activity by the Communists was suppressed completely in 1930 . Nonetheless , the party was able to dominate the labor movement throughout the interwar years and retained extensive mass support in the impoverished and isolated North and East . It was not until October 1944 ? and then due to the changed relationship with the Soviet Union ? that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ association in Finland.13 In 1900 , only about 12.5 percent of the Finnish population lived in urban areas . Such a Finnish working class as did exist prior to the end of the century consisted mainly of a rapidly growing rural proletariat . As world demand for timber rose in the second half of the nineteenth century , the Finnish forests became a kind of " green gold . " Money from the sale of timber and the demands of the small but growing urban market enabled the peasant farmer to move from the traditional self-sufficiency of his ancestors toward modern farming methods . The increase in the world timber prices and the commercialization of agriculture produced a rapid rise in land values and laid the basis for the modern Finnish economy . But the // newfound affluence of the freehold peasantry served to accentuate a growing gulf between the landowning minority and the impoverished majority of leaseholders and farm workers . The " green gold " brought wealth , but it also accelerated the disintegration of traditional rural society . In 1910 , roughly 40 percent of those engaged in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were required to seek part-time and seasonal work to survive ; an additional 40 percent were farm workers with little or no land.14 The main early beneficiary of the revolution in agricultural society was the socialist movement . The Social Democratic party was founded in 1899 , and by 1906 had a peak pre ? Civil War membership of nearly 100,000 , drawn mostly from the rural proletariat and recently arrived immigrants from the countryside.15 The party 's rural character was dealt a severe blow , however , by its ambivalent position in the Civil War . When the war came , the party 's former rural supporters either sided with the Whites , and subsequently supported the Agrarian party , or with the Reds , and thereafter remained loyal to the Communist party.16 The party 's deruralization was carried further by gradual migration to the cities , the growth of the Agrarian party , and land reforms in the 1920s that allowed leaseholders to become independent farmers . By 1930 , 90 percent of all rented farms and plots had been purchased by their tenants . " As these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the Agrarians . Leaseholders who could not buy land , and who continued to be heavily dependent on the seasonal labor market , gravitated toward the Communists , supported a series of smallholder protest parties that have been characteristic of Finnish politics since the 1920s or simply withdrew from political participation altogether.18 As a result , the Social Democratic party was gradually transformed into a classic urban working-class movement . Just as decisive for the party system as this transfor'nation was the fact that the Agrarian party 's supporters were not primarily well-to-do southern farmers , but the small , often // economically marginal , independent farmers in the North and East . The upshot was in the 1920s an increasingly bitter conflict between the Social Democats and Agrarians over the distribution of national resources between agriculture and industry . The Social Democratic party 's position of conflict with the Agrarian party on the consumer-producer dimension was accentuated by its opposition in the 1930s to the agricultural crisis support measures sponsored by the Agrarians and especially by its opposition to the postwar land settlement program , which it viewed as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The 1945 Land Act was intended to resettle the large number of refugees from Karelia , most of whom were farmers . The act created some 142,000 new land holdings out of 2.8 million hectares of often lowquality land . In consequence , the average size of a farm in 1959 was a minuscule 8.9 hectares ? even smaller than it had been before 1940.19 Whereas the Agrarian party was committed to preserving the agricultural sector and its central place in the Finnish economy and society , the Social Democratic party was committed to the most rapid industrialization possible ? and consequently a thoroughgoing rationalization of the agricultural sector.20 The Conservatives , too , came into constant conflict with the Agrarians and acquired a distinct consumer profile on the consumer-producer dimension . While the Agrarians wanted a massive state involvement to preserve the agricultural sector as it emerged from the postwar land settlement , and the Social Democrats wanted a state role to rationalize the sector , the Conservatives , who opposed the land settlement from the outset , wanted a drastic diminution of the state 's role and the introduction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of agriculture was dependent on the state for its existence , this was a position that guaranteed conflict with the Agrarians.2 ' The Conservative party was overwhelmingly the representative of the interests of industry.22 Withdrawal of the state from the agricultural sector would serve industrial interests in numerous ways : it would remove // a program of income redistribution from industry to agriculture ; it would accelerate migration from the countryside and contribute to an abundant supply of cheap labor for industry ; it would reduce the price of raw materials . We can speculate that the Conservatives in Finland , in contrast to their counterparts in Sweden , acquired a consumer profile just after World War II because Finland lacked a dominant Social Democratic party and united labor movement always ready and capable of defending consumer ( and therefore industrial ) interests . The Communist party , gaining half of the working-class vote , never assumed a distinct position on the cleavage , because much of its support was rural and agrarian . The Social Democrats could not become a dominant party because of the split in the labor movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Finland . Given its size and position on the left-right cleavage , it was virtually impossible to form a majority government without it , and it governed continuously from the 1930s to the 1970s . Given the dominance of the Agrarians and the weakness of the Social Democrats , the interests of industry probably compelled the Conservatives to acquire a profile in a way that was unnecessary in Sweden . The smaller bourgeois parties and the Communist party avoided a profile because , above all , their urban-rural heterogeneity discouraged them from seeking one.23 As the Agrarians became committed to the interests of ' farmers in the North and the Social Democrats and Conservatives to workers and industrialists in the South , the parties also came into conflict over the growing economic , social , and cultural disparities between the southern center and the northern periphery.24 The cleavage has been apparent since the earliest days of industrialization , but did not become a primary feature of the party system until the late 1960s and 1970s . Before that time , the cleavage was important mainly in reinforcing the consumer-producer conflict , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agriculture , in the North . Debates about agricultural support were , therefore , simultaneously debates about state assistance for the periphery . In the // late 1960s , the cleavage assumed a more distinct life of its own as debates over the distribution of social services , investment , and the loci of decision making became more prominent . The Social Democrats , committed to a development strategy aiming at the most rapid and efficient possible industrialization , necessarily premised their economic policy preferences on national rather than local criteria . And national criteria necessarily led to preferences that favored the South at the expense of the North . The Conservatives ' commitment to free market principles similarly resulted in preferences that necessarily favored the South , and they became de facto defenders of the center.25 The Communist party joined with the Agrarian party as the defender of the periphery . In many areas of the North and East , Finland has virtually a two-party system , with the Communists and Agrarians taking over 80 percent of the vote collectively . The origins of the Communists ' disproportionate strength in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the aftermath of the Civil War , it was much easier for Communists to operate in the remote and sparsely populated peripheral provinces , where the authority of the central government was much weaker . It was possible , in consequence , for the Communists to develop an organizational and cultural presence in the periphery that was much more difficult to establish in the Southwest . Moreover , the very remoteness of the area and the sparseness of its population discouraged other parties , in particular the Social Democrats , from seriously challenging the Communists.26 The high level of conflict in Finnish politics during the formative years of the party system resulted in a party system which contained a large number of cleavages . As we will see , the party system has , to a large degree , carried these conflicts forward to the contemporary era insofar as it has reinforced their sociological and psychological bases . To summarize , setting aside the socioeconomic dimension occupied by all parties : the Agrarians acquired profiles on the consumer-producer , ethnolinguistic , center-periphery , and foreign policy dimensions ; the Social Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the ethnolinguistic and foreign policy ; the Conservatives on the centerperiphery , ethnolinguistic , consumer-producer , and foreign policy ; the Swedish People 's party on the ethnolinguistic and foreign policy ; and the Communist party on the foreign policy and center-periphery . Among these , only the foreign policy cleavage has been muted in the postwar era . The Governments , 1955 ? 1965 The 1956 Social Democratic ? Agrarian ? Liberal Swedish Party Government This majority coalition was formed under the formateurship of the Social Democratic party on March 3 . The previous government , a coalition of the Agrarians and Social Democrats , resigned on January 27 , because it had been defeated in the Eduskunta on a piece of vital economic legislation.27 Each year since 1941 the Eduskunta had renewed emergency legislation granting the government very wideranging authority to regulate the economy . The constitution required that such exceptional grants of authority be enacted in one of two extraordinary ways . Under the more traditional procedure , such legislation would receive Eduskunta approval , followed by a general election , followed by a second Eduskunta approval @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be declared urgent by a vote of five-sixths of the Eduskunta . If then approved by a majority of two-thirds , it could become effective immediately.28 Because the annual grant of authority was to expire on January 1 , 1956 , the previous coalition had to be successful in obtaining legislative approval by the second route , if stability of ' economic policy was to be maintained . Neither the time nor the desire for an early election existed . But in December 1955 , the Conservatives , Swedish party , Liberals , and Communists joined together in the Eduskunta and prevented the existing // government from obtaining the five-sixths vote necessary to process the legislation . This effectively killed the legislation , and on January 1 , 1956 , most economic regulations ? including those controlling wages and prices ? expired.29 The immediate upshot was an explosion of prices in January and February . The Agrarian ? Social Democratic coalition resigned because the two parties no longer felt they could carry out the economic policy to which they had committed themselves when they formed the government.30 In December 1955 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 6 percent on a range of basic commodities . The trade unions then demanded a twelve-markper-hour wage increase to offset the price rises and threatened a general strike from March 1 if the Employers ' Association did not grant the increase . The farmers then threatened to withhold deliveries if their incomes were not maintained . On March 1 , the general strike commenced . A few days later , agricultural deliveries were halted . The general strike lasted until March 20 , and involved some violence , disruptions of critical supplies , and threats to shut off public heating . It was as the nation moved into this situation that the government was formed.31 Under the circumstances , the only issue of significance was whether the government 's authority to regulate wages and prices would be restored . The Agrarians and Social Democrats had been committed to maintenance of the authority in the previous government and remained so . The Liberals and the Swedish party had opposed the renewal of the authority in the Eduskunta in December , but reversed their positions and endorsed the renewal in January when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the Communists remained opposed.32 The government formed was a coalition of Social Democrats , Agrarians , Liberals , and the Swedish party . Social Democrats held the formateurship , and all members had a convergent relationship on the question of renewing economic regulation . The coalition had a majority of 133 out of 200 Eduskunta seats.33 The hypothesized limit of tolerance for conflictual // systems is the divergent-implicit relationship . In this case , we have no divergent-implicit relationships . We have only convergent and divergent-explicit relationships . So the case provides only a weak test of the hypothesis . Nonetheless , the formateurs , as we would expect , did include all parties with whom their party 's relationships were below the limit of tolerance . This is significant because it produced an oversized government . The two liberal parties controlled thirteen seats apiece . The Agrarians controlled fifty-three . With fifty-four seats of their own , the Social Democrats could have created a minimum-winning government simply by recreating a coalition with the Agrarians . The May 1957 Agrarian ? Liberal Swedish Party Government The critical conflicts when this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the Finnish economy was experiencing an annual inflation rate of 18 percent , unemployment had doubled in the past year , the balance-of-payments deficit was growing , and the state deficit was so large that the National Bank was threatening to cut off the government 's credit.34 In February 1957 , the parties in the then existing government had reached agreement on an economic stabilization plan . One of the key clauses in this agreement assured private sector workers of wage increases tied to the price index at a rate of .66 to 1 . The unions had been demanding full compensation . But the Social Democratic Premier was able to persuade them to accept the .66 rate . He then sought a statement from the coalition parties reiterating the government 's commitment to the .66 clause.35 At this point , the Agrarian , liberal , and Swedish parties reversed their positions on the clause . They refused to endorse it and decided that any wage index would be inflationary . After negotiations failed to bridge the impasse , the government resigned.36 President Kekkonen then asked the Agrarian parliamentary party @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ // negotiations between the Social Democrats and Agrarians were taken up immediately , but again came to naught on the wage indexation issue . The Social Democrats , Agrarians , Liberals , and Swedish party were in accord on the other elements of the outgoing government 's economic stabilization program . The basic components of this program were a licensing scheme to reduce imports to 70 to 75 percent of the previous year 's level ; an export tax to raise new revenues and pay off a 1953 loan from the National Bank ; new taxes on tobacco and other items ; increased pension and residence taxes.37 Like the Agrarians and the other nonsocialist parties , the Conservatives rejected wage indexation . But they also opposed any licensing scheme to limit imports , the tax on exports , and the increased pension contributions and residence taxes . Rather than measures to increase revenues , they wanted a policy premised on drastic reductions in public expenditures . The main target of the Conservatives ' reduction would be agricultural price supports . The party wanted to end the indexation of producer prices , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ government paid to farmers . Since the country was experiencing an agricultural surplus , an end to indexation and supports would place the burden on producers rather than consumers . The Agrarians were most opposed to this . ' The question of agricultural subsidies was pressing when Suskelainen formed his first government in May , because the state 's debt was nearing crisis proportions . While the parties were negotiating , the National Bank was threatening to end all further credit to the government unless the government introduced new measures to raise revenues or cut expenditures . The state 's short-term debt had reached thirteen billion Finnish marks in May ? equivalent to about 25 percent of the national money supply . The outgoing government had ? possibly unconstitutionally ? postponed payment of ten billion marks in past due debts.39 The members of the next government would thus be compelled to substantially increase revenues or reduce expenditures . The Agrarians , Social Democrats , Liberals , and // Swedish and Communist parties were all in agreement on the tax increases included in the outgoing government 's stabilization program . The Social @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form of reduced subsidies to farmers . These reductions would be obtained by reducing the support price . Thus , the reductions would not result in increased consumer prices . The Agrarians also wanted to reduce the state 's deficit by reducing the subsidies paid to farmers . But they did not want to reduce the support prices : the reduced subsidies would be passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices . Farmers ' incomes would be protected.4 ? Thus , the Agrarians had divergent relationships with the Social Democrats and Communists on wage indexation ; with the Social Democrats and Conservatives on producer subsidies ; and with the Conservatives on tax increases and import licensing . These must be classified as divergent-explicit relationships , because Social Democratic , Communist , and Conservative leaders all made their preferences the quid pro quo of their parties ' participation in government with the Agrarians . The Communists , of course , had the burden of their dubious commitment to the parliamentary order , and that would have been sufficient by itself to guarantee their exclusion in 1957 . With the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ preferences , for the former two shared the Agrarians ' opposition to wage indexation , endorsed the economic stabilization program developed by the previous government , and lacked a profile on the consumer-producer cleavage . The outcome , then , was a government based on convergent relationships ? a coalition of the Agrarians , Liberals , and Swedish party . The government formed was a minority government . Because no divergent-implicit relationships were available to the formateurs , the case does not provide an ideal test of the proposition that the limit of tolerance will be divergent-implicit relationships in conflictual systems . Nonetheless , it does provide partial confirmation of the hypothesis : the formateurs were unwilling to go beyond a divergent-implicit relationship to build a government on divergent-explicit relation202 Four Types of Democracies ships ? even when failure to do so meant the creation of a minority government . In the absence of a divergent-implicit relationship , the case does not fully confirm that the limit of tolerance is the divergent-implicit relationship ; but it does indicate that the formateurs were unwilling to go beyond the divergent-implicit relationship . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new government 's appearance it became apparent that the measures on which it was premised would not be sufficient to restrain the growth of the deficit and allow the government to meet its immediate obligations . The coalition was thus compelled to reduce expenditures or increase revenues still more . The parties in the coalition agreed that they would permanently defer payment of 25 percent of the trimonthly child support payments until the recipients were seventeen years of age . They also agreed to postpone all of the child support payments due at the end of the second quarter of 1957 . This postponement would reduce immediate obligations by five billion marks . The parties also agreed to a five-billion-mark reduction in agricultural subsidies ? to be passed on to consumers as higher prices.41 All of the opposition parties opposed postponement of the second-quarter support payments . The Social Democrats and Communists insisted that they be made within three months ; the Conservatives insisted that they be made at least to families with low incomes . The opposition parties , with a majority in the Eduskunta , were able to reject @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was forced to make the second-quarter payments immediately and found itself lacking the five billion marks due in this payment . The National Bank rejected the Finance Minister 's plea for a fivebillion-mark loan to cover the payments . Confronted with this situation , the coalition parties debated where to find the five billion marks . The Swedish party insisted that the government now postpone payment of the third-quarter support payments . The Agrarians and Liberals opposed this because they recog- // nized that the opposition in the Eduskunta would not permit it and because , in any event , it would not produce the immediately needed five billion marks . The Swedish party thereupon withdrew its ministers from the government.42 It is at this point ? early June 1957 ? that the second Sukselainen government appears . The Agrarians continued in coalition with the Liberals . The Swedish party ? having preferences convergent with the Agrarians on the other issues ? had a divergent-explicit relationship because it made postponement of the third-quarter payment the quid pro quo of its return to the coalition . The Conservatives remained opposed to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ import licensing scheme . They supported a reduction of agricultural subsidies , but opposed the increased consumer prices that were required to maintain farm incomes . They wanted incomes and prices determined by the market . The Social Democrats shared the Conservatives ' opposition to the increased consumer prices and continued to insist that the subsidies be reduced by reductions in farm incomes . Both the Conservatives and Social Democrats made their taxation and producer-subsidy preferences respectively prerequisites of governmental cooperation . And so the Agrarians ' relationships with these two parties were also divergent-explicit . Only the Liberals ? with convergent preferences ? remained available.43 The September 1957 Agrarian ? Liberal ? Social Democratic Opposition Government In early July , the Eduskunta adjourned for the summer holiday , and the new government had a month to formulate further economic initiatives . It paid what it could , when it could , of the child support payments . It wrote new proposals excluding single-child families from the benefit . It also proposed to accelerate the collection of sales tax receipts ; impose a surtax on incomes and wealth ; reduce public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other items . These proposals were presented to a special session of the Eduskunta that convened on August 6 . Except for the income and // wealth surtaxes , the proposals were acceptable to the opposition parties . The surtaxes became the latest focus of conflict . The opposition observed that the government 's income tax proposal would raise taxes on moderate and higher incomes and thus affect virtually all urban residents . The wealth tax , however , would only take effect after a taxpayer 's wealth had reached a very high level . Farmers , who had very low taxable incomes but substantial wealth ( their land ) , would thus largely escape the impact on the new taxes . The Social Democrats , Conservatives , and Communists now demanded that the proposals be rewritten to spread the burden more evenly across all groups.44 In August , the Agrarians negotiated with the opposition parties in an attempt to enlarge the base of the stillminority government . These negotiations largely failed . None of the opposition parties was willing to budge on the surtax question or the issues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agrarians and Social Democrats found themselves farther apart than ever on producer prices : the Social Democrats now demanded that the prices paid to agricultural producers be decoupled from the cost-of-living index . The Agrarians would not accept this.45 The negotiations were not , however , completely inconsequential . A group of dissident Social Democrats who had broken with the mother party over the summer and formed their own party ? the Social Democratic Opposition ? agreed to make a coalition with the Agrarians . In the spring of 1956 , the left wing of the Social Democratic party had gained control of the central committee at a special national party congress . The shift of power within the party and intense personal antagonisms led to the departure of some center-right dissidents and the creation of the new party . Policy differences per se were probably less important than personal conflicts . The new party carried forward the profiles of the mother party : socioeconomic , center-periphery , and consumer-producer.46 In contrast to the Social Democrats , Conservatives , Swedish party , and Communists , the Social Democratic Oppo- // sition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Agrarians . It opposed the Agrarians ' proposed surtax on incomes and wealth , but it was willing to disagree . So were the Agrarians ; the two parties agreed to study the matter . The two parties likewise agreed to study the question of agricultural subsidies , on which they also disagreed . The Liberals continued to have preferences that converged with those of the Agrarians and participated in the third government of 1957.47 The outcome was a minority coalition of the Agrarians ( still the formateurs ) , the Liberals , and the Social Democratic Opposition . Together , the three parties controlled 90 of the 200 Eduskunta seats.48 On the first occasion , then , that the formateurs ' party had the opportunity to make a coalition based on a divergent-implicit relationship , it exploited the opportunity . This is as the theory would have us expect ; and it is especially significant , because making use of the divergentimplicit relationship did not give the Agrarians a majority government . Such a government would have required that the party make explicit concessions to one of the other opposition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sake of a majority government . The coalition remained in office only until November 30 , 1957 , when it was replaced by a government of civil servants . This government was replaced by yet another government of civil servants on April 26 , 1958 . The second government remained in office until after the 1958 Eduskunta elections . Both of these governments were formed because policy conflicts among the parties were so intense that no party was both willing to govern and able to gain the tolerance of a majority of the Eduskunta . The conflicts that created this situation are discussed below . The 1958 Social Democratic ? Conservative ? Agrarian ? Liberal ? Swedish Party Government In the wake of the 1958 election , the formateurship passed from the Agrarians to the Social Democrats . The campaign and the subsequent negotiations were dominated by con206 Four Types of Democracies flicts over producer price supports , unemployment insurance , and state support for home construction and agricultural colonization . The economic and fiscal crises that had overwhelmed government formation in 1957 now receded in importance as the condition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period prior to this government 's formation was agricultural income policy . The heart of the dispute was whether agricultural incomes should be tied to a general price index or to an index of costs of agricultural production . The Agrarians had long insisted that agricultural incomes must remain tied to the general price index ; the Social Democrats demanded that the tie must be to an index of agricultural production costs . A tie to production costs would mean lower price increases for urban consumers ; a tie to the general price index would mean higher incomes for farmers . The Conservatives , the third party with a producerconsumer profile , shared with the Social Democrats the demand that incomes be tied to producer cost indices . The other democratic parties were sympathetic to this view , but lacked a relevant profile.50 The second question at this time involved who should pay the costs of a new system of unemployment insurance , which all parties were committed to introducing . The Conservatives , the Swedish party , the Liberals , and the Agrarians argued that the employers ' contribution should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the self-employed should pay only an employee 's premium . The Social Democrats and the Social Democratic Opposition wanted the employers ' contribution at .50 of 1 percent and wanted the self-employed to contribute as both employees and employers . It was the status of the self-employed rather than the amount of the employers ' contribution that provided the conflict of policy principle.51 The third question involved the conditions attached to state loans for home construction and agricultural colonization . The Conservatives demanded that the rate of interest on the loans be indexed rather than fixed . The Social Democrats , the Agrarians , and the Social Democratic Opposition insisted // that the rates remain fixed . Such loans were the state 's primary and least expensive means of generating employment.52 In sum , the Social Democrats , the party of the formateurs , had divergent relationships with each party except the Social Democratic Opposition . With the Agrarians , they were in conflict over producer pricing ; with the Conservatives , the Agrarians , the Swedish party , and the Liberals they were in conflict over the status of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Conservatives they were in conflict over the indexation of state loans for home construction and agricultural colonization . The Communist party 's antidemocratic status insured that it was never seriously considered for inclusion in any government . There remainedonly the Social Democratic Opposition , with which the Social Democrats had only convergent preferences on the salient conflicts of policy principles . Nonetheless , the Social Democrats formed a coalition with the Conservatives , Agrarians , Liberals , and Swedish party . On each of its points of disagreement with these parties , the parties agreed to disagree . They agreed to study alternative producer-pricing schemes ; to study the possible formulas on which the unemployment insurance system could be based ; and to defer the question of indexing state loans . In sum , the parties agreed across the board to make the divergent relationships implicit.53 Once again , majority considerations do not provide an explanation for this behavior : the government formed was well oversized , controlling 137 of the 200 Eduskunta seats.54 The Social Democrats could have had a majority without ( a ) the Swedish and Liberals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ c ) the Conservative and Swedish parties . The broad willingness to accept implicit relationships as the basis for cooperation derived from the classical concern of democratic parties in conflictual democracies : the defense of the democratic order . The 1958 election had produced substantial gains for the Communist party , which rose from forty-three to an all-time high of fifty Eduskunta seats and became the largest party . The cooperation among the demo208 Four Types of Democracies cratic parties was premised on their desire to isolate the Communists.55 The Communists aside , only the Social Democratic Opposition remained outside the government . The Opposition based its refusal to join on nonpolicy demands . It made the price of its participation a change in the membership of the central committee of the Social Democratic party . The Social Democratic leadership , not surprisingly , would not consider such a proposition.56 The new government served until December 3 , 1958 , when it resigned . It is impossible to know the full circumstances of its resignation , but several points are clear . Most important , the government resigned under the pressure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet-Finnish relations began to deteriorate sharply : the Soviet ambassador in Helsinki was recalled without replacement ; negotiations on an international canal and a new trade treaty ? essential to the Finnish economy ? came to a halt ; criticism of the government became conspicuous in the Soviet press . It was evident by the criticism that it was to the composition of the government rather than to its policies that the Soviets objected . In particular , the Soviets objected to Social Democratic participation as long as the party was under the leadership of Vainno Tanner and Vainno Leksinen , as it had been since the spring of 1957 . Tanner and Leksinen , the former especially , had a history of bitter anticommunism and anti-Sovietism stretching back to the prewar years . Presumably , the Soviets found a government that was explicitly anticommunist and that included such figures to be intolerable.57 It is possible that the Soviets demanded either the inclusion of the Communists or the exclusion of the TannerLeksinen Social Democrats . Since no Finnish politicians at this time were willing to bring the Communists into a government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Democrats . What we do know is that after December 1958 , President Kekkonen would not accept Social Democratic participation in a // government until its leadership had been changed . That this was due to the Soviets ' attitude was widely understood and accepted by Finnish politicians . " Indeed , in 1961 the matter was quite candidly debated in the Eduskunta.59 The short-term result of the Soviet intervention was that the coalition was replaced in January 1959 by a purely Agrarian government , which was apparently thought by Kekkonen and party leaders to be the most prudent outcome in the then very tense situation . Clearly this Agrarian government can not be explained by any normal theory of government formation ; for that reason I have omitted it.6 ? For the longer-term , the Social Democratic party was frozen out of government participation until it changed its leadership in the mid-1960s . In considering the intervening government formations , I will set aside the Social Democratic party , since its exclusion had nothing to do with the normal dynamics of government formation . ' The 1961 Agrarian Government The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ office until July 3 , 1961 , when it resigned because of a court ruling that implicated the Premier but had no consequences for the formation of the subsequent government . Except that the Social Democratic party remained barred from participation because of Soviet opposition , government formation now returned to the normal pattern of bargaining among the democratic parties . These negotiations proved fruitless , and on July 14 the Agrarians , with the formateurship , formed a single-party minority government.62 As was so often the case , the agricultural price law was a central issue . The existing law was scheduled to expire on September 1 . The basic issues were unchanged . The Agrarians wanted the existing law , which tied producer prices to a general price index , renewed . The Conservatives wanted the link with the index broken and market forces to take over . The Social Democratic Opposition wanted immediate revisions that // would make pricing decisions more favorable to consumers . The party 's proposals would have taken authority to set prices away from the government and given it to a commission appointed by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ index of producer costs . Finally , it wanted producers to pay a tax on milk that would be used to increase support for smallholders and to finance milk exports.63 The second issue involved the state 's authority to regulate housing prices in Helsinki and Tampere , which had expired on July 1 . The Agrarians , Swedish party , and Social Democratic Opposition wanted the authority extended and strengthened . The Conservatives and the Liberals demanded an end to the regulation.64 The Agrarians were also in conflict with the Conservatives , the Liberals , and the Social Democratic Opposition over state support for Finnish industry . Specifically , the Agrarians wanted the state to purchase seventy new locomotives from France and Germany for the state railroad . The other three parties wanted these orders placed with Finnish industry . It was not a small matter , because the orders would have generated thousands of jobs in an economy suffering high unemployment . The Agrarians , however , more concerned to improve a decrepit railroad system as quickly as possible and to improve service in isolated areas , wanted the locomotives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them abroad . " The final point of conflict involved the status of the Swedish language , which had not been a point of bitter party division for twenty years . The 1922 Language Law had stipulated that a commune would be considered bilingual when the minority language group constituted 10 or more percent of the communal population . Communes that were designated as bilingual on this basis would remain bilingual unless the minority group fell below 8 percent of the population . By 1961 , it was apparent that as a result of the immigration of Finnishspeakers and revised communal boundaries , the city of Turku would soon lose its bilingual status unless this percentage limit // was revised . The Swedish party proposed that the bilingual status of Turku , Helsinki , and Vaasa be preserved so long as the Swedish-speaking population remained above 5,000 . The advantage of such a proposal was that it would insure the bilingual status of the three cities without making towns that were currently only Swedish-speaking into bilingual towns . A general reduction in the 8 percent clause would have had this effect.66 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the outgoing government resigned , the four parties with profiles on the linguistic cleavage ? the Conservatives , Liberals , Agrarians , and Swedes ? were galvanized in defense of their language interests , and the debate was especially bitter . With the Social Democrats , the Social Democratic Opposition , and the Communists , none of which had relevant profiles , all ambivalent , neither side had a majority and the issue remained unresolved when the new government was formed.67 The Agrarians , then , had divergent relationships with every potential coalition partner . On none of the issues did any of the parties ' leaders express an interest in converting the divergent relationships into implicit relationships . With no convergent or tangential relationships available , the Agrarians would thus have been compelled to make explicit concessions to one or more parties to gain partners in the government . The Agrarian leaders preferred governing alone as a minority government . The 1962 Agrarian ? Liberal ? Conservative Swedish Party Government The minority Agrarian government remained in office until after the Eduskunta and presidential elections of February 1962 . The Eduskunta @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legislature to three seats and deprived it of relevance.68 A prospective budget dificit of 76.6 billion marks in the 480-billion-mark state budget provided by far the most pressing issue at the time the new government was negotiated . // The next government would face the prospect of a severe cash shortage in the autumn . The basic division among the parties pitted the Communists , Social Democrats , and Social Democratic Opposition , all of which favored a tax increase , against the Agrarians , Liberals , Conservatives , and Swedish party , all of which wanted expenditure reductions as well as tax increases . In their campaigns , none of the parties indentified which taxes they would increase or which expenditures they would cut . This reticence was in part from electoral calculations . In part , it also derived from the difficulties the bureaucracy was having in estimating month-to-month revenue flows and the uncertain capacity of the capital markets to sustain the heavy level of public borrowing . Even so , the basic division among the parties was clear.69 The issue of a special language law for Turku , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much alive . Final legislation had not yet passed the Eduskunta . The party positions remained unchanged.70 The agricultural price law , too , was again a point of conflict . The outgoing Agrarian government had succeeded in having the legislation that was set to expire in September 1961 extended for an additional year , because the parties were so divided that no alternative could gain a majority . Little had changed in the interval . The Agrarians continued to demand that the extension be followed by a permanent law that tied prices to a general inflation index . The Conservatives continued to want an end to indexation . The Social Democrats and the Social Democratic Opposition wanted producer prices indexed to producer costs . " A new issue between the parties involved the legislative introduction of a forty-hour workweek , which the trade unions and socialist parties were pressing for . The Agrarians were supportive ; so was the Swedish party . The Liberals and especially the Conservatives were opposed to such legislation.72 The course of the negotiations is telling in revealing the first tentative steps being taken by Finnish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ process , they were beginning Finland 's transformation into an uncon- // solidated democracy . The forty-hour week became central to the negotiations because the Agrarians wanted the government to include representatives of the National Labor Confederation and the Employers ' Association . The trade union leadership demanded the forty-hour week as the price of its cooperation . The Employers ' Association Insisted that it would not join any government that committed itself to such legislation . After extensive intervention by President Kekkonen , the Agrarian leaders did manage to bring both labor and management representatives into the government . The employers were represented by the Ministers of Industry and Commerce . Labor was represented by the Minister of Social Affairs and the Vice-Ministers of Finance and Communications.73 It was possible to reconcile the conflicts between the employers and labor and between the parties themselves by arranging an agreement to disagree . The Prime Minister designate , Karjalainen , was able to get everyone concerned to accept a statement that committed the government to support any policy which the two labor-market groups endorsed . Since the unions and employers were at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . But it served its purpose . And it was supplemented by a government commitment to establish a commission to study the question.74 The parties reached the same sort of accommodation on the language dispute . The Agrarians , Conservatives , and Swedish party embraced a statement committing the next government to " respect the special needs of the Swedish-speaking minority . " Each party could ? and did ? interpret this as it chose.75 The Agrarians and Conservatives reached the same kind of agreement on the agricultural price law issue . They agreed to study it.76 Thus , the government was formed entirely on divergent-implicit relationships . The Agrarians had such a relationship with the Conservatives on the forty-hour week and the new agricultural price law ; with the Liberals on the forty-hour week ; and with the Swedish party on the status of Turku , Helsinki , and Vaasa. // The 1964 Agrarian ? Conservative ? Liberal ? Swedish Party Government The four-party coalition formed in 1962 came to an end on December 17 , 1963 . The ministers were unable to reach agreement among themselves and among their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one-year surtax on incomes , wealth , and property . In the wake of the coalition 's resignation , none of the four parties in it was willing to form or serve in another government . With the Social Democrats still excluded by the Soviets , no party government was possible . After futile interventions by President Kekkonen , the result was a nonparty government of civil servants . This government , the Lehto ministry , took office on December 18 and served until September 1964.77 Much of significance occurred during the life of this administration . Not the least was that the four nonsocialist parties found themselves on several occasions during the spring Eduskunta compelled to support and preserve the Lehto ministry on some exceedingly unpopular measures , given their own unwillingness to form a government and the unwillingness of the Social Democrats to cooperate from their state of internal exile . This situation had the disadvantage of permitting the Communists and Social Democrats to blame the nonsocialist parties for the administration 's unpopular measures during the summer communal elections . Such an infelicitous position gave the four parties reason @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the sense that they were trapped , they renewed negotiations in the spring and again in the summer , but without success.78 When the Eduskunta reconvened in September , the Social Democrats and the Communists put forward an interpellation that , in the event , amounted to a motion of no-confidence against the Lehto administration . The administration had fifteen days in which to respond , and the nonsocialist parties had the same amount of time to decide whether to support the administration or replace it . They now had a // double incentive to form a government , because the measures the administration had put forward were extremely unpopular . It had administratively enacted sharp increases in the prices of basic foodstuffs ; administratively increased the rates of interest on state home construction and agricultural colonization loans ; and proposed to the Eduskunta a continuation into the next year of the " one-year " surtax on incomes , wealth , and property . The administration proposed the tax extensions because the next budget would otherwise be 150 billion marks in deficit.79 These circumstances notwithstanding , the parties remained reluctant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dissolve the Eduskunta and call early elections were required . Under such pressures the Agrarians were given the formateurship on September 8 and succeeded in forming a new four-party majority coalition on September 13.8 ? The four parties were all committed to rejection of the proposed surtax extension and thus had convergent relations on that point . The question of how to address the then pending 150-million-mark deficit remained . Each of the parties was committed to major spending cuts , but not necessarily the same ones . The Liberals , Agrarians , and Swedish party were all agreed on one thing : they refused to declare in advance where these cuts would be made . The Conservatives were less reticent : they demanded that the cuts be made mainly in agricultural subsidies , agricultural colonization support , and public works . These proposals struck at the core interests of the Agrarians ' constituents and were clearly unacceptable to the party ? which refused to embrace them . As it happened , the Agrarians and Conservatives agreed to disagree . They simply proclaimed their intention to seek major cuts in public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ announce that the matter would be studied.81 The September food price increases that the Lehto ministry enacted were the last that would occur under the extended Agricultural Incomes Law . A permanent law was // to day-to-day administration . They were appointed with the expectation that they would make major political decisions that the parties were unable to make . They routinely did so . Between 1955 and 1965 , such governments served for a total of eighteen months . They provided a relief valve of sorts for politicians by allowing them to escape coalition decisions that would have sorely tested the unity of their parties . These governments are the main reason that Finland has suffered less than Italy from party splits and debates about the " governing formula . " CHAPTER SEVEN Finland as an Unconsolidated Democracy , 1966 ? 1982 The unique feature of an unconsolidated democracy is that coalition outcomes are not systemically determined as they are in other democracies . Elsewhere , the systemic attributes of the democracy , in conjunction with the constant ambitions of party leaders and the variable constellation of bargaining relationships , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaders are inconsequential and are dominated by the ambitions inherent in their roles as party leaders . Moreover , there exist no leading politicians who are not party leaders and are therefore free of the constraints of the leadership role . The Sources of the Transformation The unconsolidated democracy is the exception to this . On the one hand , its very creation appears to require a powerful , autonomous politician ? former President Kekkonen , in the Finnish case ? capable of inducing and coercing a break in the practiced patterns of elite behavior . On the other hand , // the unconsolidated democracy is the only one of ' the four democracies in which the systemic attributes are indeterminant : corporatism encourages party collaboration ; polarization discourages it . These conflicting pressures have permitted the President ? who is not subject to the role requirements of a party leader ? to express decisively his personality in government formation in spite of opposition from party leaders . Precisely because the preferences of the President are so important , it is not possible to predict coalition outcomes . Finland became an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the Finnish economy . In this chapter 1 want to try to understand what caused this corporatization and the associated changes in the party system . 1 also want to try to understand the implications of unconsolidated democracy for government formation . Corporatization does not appear to have been brought about by economic change ? in Finland 's position in the international economy , in the level of development , in the mix of industries . None of these changes , so far as I can determine , explain why corporatization occurred when it did . Nor does corporatization seem to have been caused , at least directly , by changes in the party system . Theories of electoral change , embourgeoisement , postmaterialism , and so forth seem to have less resonance in Finland in the 1960s than in almost any European democracy . Taking change in party-system fractionalization as an indicator of party-system change reveals that between 1955 and 1965 ( the most critical period ) , only four of seventeen affluent democracies had more stable party systems . Between 1965 and 1975 , only five of seventeen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , electoral volatility , also suggests that nothing exceptional was occurring in the Finnish party system and electoral society in the years before corporatization . Between 1948 and 1959 , the volatility score for the Finnish electorate was half of the mean score for seventeen democracies . For the period 1960-69 , the score was slightly below the mean . For the period 1970-77 , the score was slightly above the mean . ' Increased volatility , then , seems to // have followed rather than caused the political and economic changes that interest us . Finland changed to an unconsolidated democracy because of the latent potential for change that was inherent in its political institutions . The system changed because of the transformation first of the Finnish presidency , which made possible ( but did not require ) a transformation of the economy and some changes in party relationships . Finnish politicians in the 1960s inherited a constitution that already included a potentially powerful presidency . The presidency had not previously been a powerful office because Presidents until the 1960s were dependent on parties for their election . A President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make greater use of his latent authority to goad the economic interest groups and political parties into greater cooperation . He could encourage the greater cooperation in the economy that made possible greater cooperation in the party system and vice-versa . It was this heightened presidential intervention in both spheres that ultimately provoked corporatization and the transition to an unconsolidated democracy . In the pages that follow , I will first review the transformation of the Finnish presidency during the tenure of Uhro Kekkonen and the impact of the more powerful presidency on the parties and the interest groups . I will then consider the implications of this for coalition making . Finally , I will return to the contention that the transition to an unconsolidated democracy required a powerful , nonparty politician and that it is only in such a democracy that any politician is able to forcefully express his personality in coalition making . Finnish presidents are selected indirectly by popular vote . Voters cast ballots for electors who are normally pledged to a candidate . Until Kekkonen established his political dominance in the 1960s , the multiparty @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Negotiations within the electoral college thus decided who would be President . When Kekkonen was first elected in 1956 , he received only 26.9 percent of ' the popular vote . He won on the thinnest possible majority in the electoral college after negotiations that stretched                     