@@773716

txt // as it were , for readers to mull over . Editorial comment framing some stories occasionally even hinted at their validity . When stories about the occult concerned electricians and their work , however , the editorial presumption was that supernatural explanations were impossible . Perhaps the most characteristic debunking stories were accounts in which exotic , gaudy , spectacular manifestations of spirits appeared before emotionally credulous audiences at scientific demonstrations . Consider this 1897 report from Popular Science News of a remarkable Paris performance : In a darkened room , a gigantic luminous hand passed over the heads of the spectators , followed by a flock of luminous violins , which we are to suppose were made of glass for the occasion . Then an immense globe descended from the ceiling like a ball of phosphorus , oscillating like the pendulum of a clock . A luminous bell appeared in front of this globe and made regular bows to it . We could see its fiery tongue moving while the globe waltzed around . Suddently at the four corners of the room the glasses appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lustres sparkled . A table loaded with cups and glasses was lighted up . Everything seemed on fire . The whole room , that was so dark an instant before , was aflame on all sides with phosphorescent light of a soft and bluish color . Then again all was darkness . Gradually a little light streamed in , and in a corner in front of a velvet portiere a human form appeared , at first vague and vaporous , hardly distinguishable . But soon its outlines became clear , and it advanced . The phantom advanced a few steps and then stopped . It was a tall woman . Her face had a greenish pallor ; and what an extraordinary face it was . There were no eyes . We could only see two black holes under the eyelids . The mouth was closed , the hair was phosphorescent . A long , luminous veil enveloped this animated statue , and in the folds of the veil little sparks shone like diamonds . She raised her right arm slowly and tossed flames from her hand . A gong sounded . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sight.122 Following this display , a large luminous bouquet appeared in the center of the room next to a blue band upon which the inscription " Xrays " appeared . Lights were turned on . The host of the spectacle rose to explain that nothing in the previous display had an occult or supernatural origin . The entire explanation lay not in sensible appearances but in the knowledge of X rays , " invisible to our eyes . " The special properties of X rays caused glass , porcelain , enamel , and diamond objects to shimmer as a beam passed through them in a dark room , while other objects remained concealed in darkness . Phosphorescent // sulfate applied to the face , but not the eyes , of a human figure dressed in fluorescent garments glowed in ghostly fashion when X rays were directed at her . The messages of this performance were several . It was clear that science could do magic better than magicians . But the deeper moral was that conclusions reached by untrained lay eyes , especially amid the distraction of mystery , spectacle , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ What could be trusted was detached scientific knowledge originating in considered texts , able to produce not only the effects of the old magic , but other effects that the old magic could never produce . Late-nineteenth-century electricians constituted a self-conscious class of technical experts seeking public acknowledgment , legitimation , and reward in the pursuit of their task . Their efforts to invent themselves as an elite justified in commanding high social status and power focused on their technological literacy , or special symbolic skills as experts . They distinguished themselves from mechanics and tinkerers , their predecessors , and from an enthusiastic but electrically unlettered public by elevating the theoretical over the practical , the textual over the manual , and science over craft . They sought to define insiders and outsiders in electrical culture , to enforce standards for professional training , and to arbitrate the use of technical languge . As late as 1911 an article in the London journal Engineering collected many of these themes into a discussion of the telephone , which was reprinted for a more general audience in Current Literature . The article @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States as a prologue to the day when the spoken word could be transmitted to any point on the globe . That this day would come , explained the editors of Current Literature , " is the firm belief of those best qualified to form an opinion as to the possibilities of electrical science . " 123 Engineering declared : The matter is one which must be left entirely to the experts . To the average individual the telephone ? like the telegraph , the phonograph , electric light , the steam-engine , and many of the other commonplaces of modern existence ? is still a mystery . We avail ourselves of the conveniences and facilities they afford ; but how much does the man in the street , to use a convenient term , know of the why and wherefore of the hundred and one scientific miracles which he employs as a matter of course in his daily life . Take this latest improvement in telephony ; what will it convey to the average man to tell him that it has been effected by putting coils of // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have the effect of setting up in the circuit an inductive action antagonistic to that already in the cable , or in the circuit ; that these two neutralize each other , and in consequence conversation is rendered possible over a longer distance ? . . . It is enough for him to know that the work of the electrical engineers will enable him to speak with his correspondent at Paris from Dublin or Glasgow or Edinburgh instead of from London to Liverpool.124 Experts also argued that the public , whose desire to share the privileges of electrical elites threatened to dilute their power and prestige , was misinformed and antitextual . Styling themselves as defenders of Western civilization , electrical experts caricatured and ridiculed the aspirations and electrical encounters of conventional scapegoat groups , including non-Europeans , Indians , blacks , women , criminals , and the poor . Deception and coercion were accepted sanctions against those who refused to recognize the authority of electrical expertise . The amount of deception considered proper was proportionate to the cultural strangeness of those against whom it was directed . Despite their willingness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , electrical experts were deeply suspicious of magicians and performers who competed with them for public attention and loyalty in the name of science . Their answer to this challenge was to produce even more impressive magic , some of which is explored in subsequent chapters . Community and Class Order Progress Close to Home " Is dis Miss Mandy Johnsing ? " asked the voice on the telephone . " Yas , dis is Miss Johnsing . " " Well , Miss Johnsing , I done called you to de telephone to inquire if you would marry me ? " " Marry you ? Marry you ? Ob course I 'll marry you . What made you all think I would n't marry you ? Ob course I 'll marry you . Who is dis tallcin ' , please ? " ? Telephony , 1906 Much of the literature on electricity in the late nineteenth century can be read as the wishful template of a world that electrical professionals believed they would create , given the opportunity . The world that looked most comfortable to them was less the egalitarian @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ moments than one in which the stability of familiar social and class structures would be preserved , with the important exception that other people would come to recognize the wisdom of professional electricians ' values , and might even think , look , and act very much like electricians themselves . With the more general application of electricity throughout society , electricians believed , the world could change only to their advantage . For them , electricity was the transformative agent of social possibility . Through their power over it , it would be a creator of social miracles . Electricity had the vitality of a natural force ; they had charge of its control and direction . Experts felt that society had yet to grant them the recognition appropriate to so weighty a social responsibility . 63 // They were also concerned about the possibility of this natural force 's getting out of control , particularly their control . Thus , at the same time that electrical professionals were confidently and proudly prophesying utopian accomplishments through the proper exercise of electrical knowledge , especially at the most abstract levels of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conducting an anxious , less publicized discussion about the possible social catastrophes of electrical metamorphosis . A metamorphosis it surely was , though in the early stages . While electric lights and trolley cars constituted the most visible proof of change in the urban environment , electric telephones had also diffused with impressive rapidity . Early telephone figures are difficult to find and often unreliable . Our best evidence probably reflects only orders of magnitude . Phone figures for the late nineteenth century are rarely broken down into residential and business telephones , or by region , although these were key factors in telephone density and distribution . It is difficult to be sure , after the Bell patents expired in 1893 and the telephone business temporarily opened up to a number of small competitors , how accurate was the reporting of independent telephones . It seems safe to say that by 1899 there were more than a million telephones in the United States . From a base of 3,000 telephones in 1876 , or one telephone per 10,000 persons , according to census figures , the number of phones had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and 1884 . The number of phones failed quite to double between 1884 and 1893 , when the Bell patents expired , by which time there were 266,000 phones , or just under 4 phones per 1,000 population . Passing the million mark in 1899 , the number of phones reported in 1900 was 1,356,000 , or 17.6 phones per 1,000 population . ' None of these figures , however , tells us the rate of residential growth , or urbanversus-rural increase . If this expansion meant progress in the introduction of electricity , it also threatened a delicately balanced order of private secrets and public knowledge , in particular that boundary between what was to be kept privileged and what could be shared between oneself and society , oneself and one 's family , parents , servants , spouse , or sweetheart . Electrical communication made families , courtships , class identities , and other arenas of interaction suddenly strange , with consequences that were tirelessly spun out in electrical literature . Because of the official commitment of experts to a future of limitless electrical improvement , whatever ambivalency they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expansive electrical rhetoric , and was // not always acknowledged even by electricians themselves . When speaking of electricity in official capacities and delivering opinions in public forums , electricians were loyal soldiers , laudatory , progressive , and faithful to the cause . In their journals , which monitored the official and unofficial worlds of electricity , and wherever they spoke to one another about what they observed in both realms , electricians gave anxious voice to the possible loss of a world they idealized , a world threatened by new modes of electrical communication and put at risk in the very act of their aspiring to it . These anxieties appeared mostly as anecdotal , occasional stories of the social order gone awry or threatened with breakdown at vulnerable points , rather than in forthright discussion . According to this textual strategy of indirection , disorder was not structural ; it surfaced in small , isolated incidents extracted for their peculiarity from the surface of social life , and appended at the margins of the professional and technical texts that were the central focus of these journals . Nevertheless @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as relentlessly systematic as it was the reassuring function of their anomalous format to deny . Two discussions ? one of electrical threat : fragmented , unsystematic , exceptional ; and another of electrical promise : systematic , integrated , a sensible model of the very world ? were thus carefully segregated from each other . Though occurring side by side , they were framed in different epistemological universes and expressed in different ways , so that their contradictory implications could be conveniently ignored . Whom Do You Know ? Central to all the good things that new technologies of communication would accomplish was the building of better , usually construed to mean more open and democratically accessible , communities . Listen to Scientific American 's glowing prediction in 1880 of the future of the telephone , for which it foresaw nothing less than a new organization of society ? a state of things in which every individual , however secluded , will have at call every other individual in the community , to the saving of no end of social and business complications , of needless goings to and fro @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of those great and little evils and annoyances which go so far under present conditions to make life laborious and unsatisfactory . ' // A decade later Judge Robert S. Taylor of Fort Wayne , Indiana , a prominent American patent attorney and for many years chief counsel for independent telephone interests , told an audience of inventors that the telephone had introduced the " epoch of neighborship without propinquity . " ' A favorite light sport in popular and professional journals was to detail ways in which timely and imaginative applications of new technologies would unravel social difficulties by opening up new avenues of information . These solutions were presented as though from an observant civic alertness on the part of journal editors , as gratis suggestions to aspiring inventors , and as more or less whimsical fantasies of the future . At the same time , electrical journals chronicled endless complications and disappointments brought about by these technologies , and rendered as new tilts in the world that might signal a social earthquake . Electrical experts worried among themselves , and reprinted the worries of others , that electricity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ social knowledge and habits of association , and the usual ways of keeping them under the control of the proper people . In some cases , technical devices would be able to create communities on the spot . " A phonograph is being made for use at the Exposition of 1900 , " wrote Invention in 1898 , " which is expected to be of sufficient dimensions to be heard by 10,000 persons . i4 Using railway figures , Answers estimated that in London , with an 1894 population of five million , every twelfth person " in the street , at church , or at the theatre , is a stranger . " ' In technologically modified communities , the stranger was not quite the person he had been before . Who he was remained to be discovered . The city , as Richard Sennett has observed , is a human settlement where strangers are likely to meet , and Michael Schudson has commented that in the nineteenth century , " living became more of a spectacle of watching strangers in the streets , reading about them in the newspapers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Not even the famous , those who are widely known but personally remote , were exempt from the reorganization of social geography that made socially distant persons seem accessible and familiar . In contrast to Scientific American 's utopian yearning for a future community where telephones made everyone available to everyone else was a businessman 's account , quoted in Western Electrician , of the telephone " maniacs " who plagued the governor of New York , " Chauncey Depew : " Every time they see anything about him in the newspapers , they call and tell // him what a fine letter he wrote ' or what a lovely speech he made , ' or ask if this or that report is true ; and all this from people who , if they came to his office , would probably never say more than Good morning . " ' 7 The new accessibility fostered by electric media had less than amusing consequences for those who found themselves trapped by the great new machines of publicity . In 1889 the Evening Sun related the story of a Cincinnati-to-Washington train ride made @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kilrain prizefight by Charles L. Buckingham , " the well-known patent lawyer of the Western Union Telegraph Company . " Though the patent lawyer left Cincinnati an " unassuming professional man , " by the time he arrived at Washington he had become a famous prizefighter hailed by crowds up and down the line . At Blairsville an eager fan had mistaken him for Sullivan , on account of his tall and muscular bearing , mustache , and " naturally black " eyes , and telegraphed ahead to every station on the line that the great Sullivan was aboard the train . The " unassuming " professional man was surprised , then unnerved , by the crowds that greeted him . At every stopping place great crowds had gathered to see Counsellor Buckingham , and even his fellow passengers were certain that he was the great Boston slugger . The latter fact became painfully apparent to the lawyer when , upon walking through one of the cars , he overheard a man remark in a stage whisper to his companion : " There he goes now . That man will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 8 In the fantasies of exalted professional men who had achieved their own niche ? to say that Buckingham was a " well-known " patent lawyer meant something quite different than to say that John L. Sullivan was a famous prizefighter ? perhaps worse than being forced to mix with hoi polloi would be to be mistaken for a drunken Irish brawler , even a famous one . Home and Family as a Communications Network : Boundaries of Domestic Intimacy In expert eyes , some of the most radical social transformations appeared to be brewing not around people at a distance , but around those close to home . Particular nervousness attached to protected areas of family life that might be exposed to public scrutiny by electrical coin68 WHEN OLD TECHNOLOGIES WERE NEW munication . That intimate family secrets would be displayed to the world by new instruments of communication was posed as a series of uncomfortable dilemmas . How would family members keep personal information to themselves ? How could the family structure remain intact ? What could be done about the effects of new forms of publicity on family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " lamented Harper 's in 1893 . " Public amusements increase in splendor and frequency , but private joys grow rare and difficult , and even the capacity for them seems to be withering . i9 Popular Science News offered an example of that nightmare come true in 1901 . In Detroit , moving-picture footage of the occupation of Peking showed a detachment of the Fourteenth U.S. Infantry entering the gates of the Chinese capital . As the last file of soldiers seemed literally stepping out of the frame on to the stage , there arose a scream from a woman who sat in front . " My God ! " she cried hysterically , " there is my dead brother Allen marching with the soldiers . " ' In the romantic fashion in which absent male protectors were often explained away , Allen McCaskill had mysteriously disappeared some years before . The War Department soon confirmed that the man " whose presentment she so strangely had been confronted with " was indeed her brother . The fascination of the story was not only its invitation to the reader to imagine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shock so unexpectedly , or to ponder the ease with which the distant could be made proximate , but also its vivid account of private emotion displayed before strangers in a public setting intended for vicarious entertainment . Feared above all for its potential to expose private family secrets was the telephone . In 1877 the New York Times discussed its " atrocious nature " in an account of how experimenters had stretched telephone wires across four miles of Providence , Rhode Island . With uneasy humor , it reported that the telephone men heard eloquent clergymen , melodious songs , midnight cats , and " other things which they did not venture to openly repeat , " including " the confidential conversations of hundreds of husbands and wives . " " It would be a " hazardous matter " for any resident of the city to accept nomination for office in light of these possibilities , the Times concluded . " We shall soon be nothing but transparent heaps of jelly to each other , " a London writer fretted in 1897 , after two more decades of telephone development.12 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as never before . // Elsewhere such presentiments were reality . Upon discovering that his residential telephone was engaged whenever he called home , a suspicious husband had the phone tapped and discovered that his wife was having a love affair . The telephone conversations between Mrs. Trowbridge and her paramour , Jonathan Ingersoll , were accepted as grounds for divorce in a New Haven court in 1889 . Following this case , the Connecticut Telephone Company asked for , and the Connecticut legislature passed , a law against wiretapping that imposed a five-hundred-dollar fine on violators . Two New York telegraph operators accused of tapping Western Union wires for racing information to secure a betting advantage over a New York turf commission house were brought to trial in the first case prosecuted under this law , in 1891.13 " The courts of justice can not and do not desire to ignore the great changes . . . which the introduction of the telegraph and telephone have accomplished , " declared Judge Shepard Barclay in Globe Printing Company v. Stahl , an 1886 case in Missouri involving the admissibility of telephone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the position that their dispatches were " privileged , like the confessions of a patient to his doctor or a parishioner to his priest , " or like the mails , and therefore not to be produced in court , or for any public consumption . The Electrical Review speculated on the dangers of abandoning this model of privileged communication : Would any rival have a right to tap the wires between two lovers in order to satisfy himself that the " other fellow , " and not himself , had been the fortunate wooer ? Suppose one business concern desired to learn the secrets of a competitor . Would it have the right to tap the wires and take advantage of the information thus acquired ? 15 Not everyone was so pessimistic . A standard line of argument held that divorce would decline with the resurrection of home life made possible by the electrical decentralization of industry and the electrical mechanization of domestic chores such as cooking . " ' Talk about your Roentgen rays , ' said one woman recently , " speaking for this segment of opinion in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would pay half as much attention to this cooking feature of electricity there would n't be so much talk about marriage being a failure . ' " 16 Nevertheless , the picture that emerges from less self-conscious accounts in the professional literature is one of the bourgeois family under attack . New forms of communication put communities like the family under stress by making contacts between its members and outsiders difficult to supervise . They permitted the circulation of intimate // secrets and fostered irregular association with little chance of community intervention . This meant that essential markers of social distance were in danger , and that critical class distinctions could become unenforceable unless new markers of privacy and publicity could be established . Energetic efforts were made , therefore , to limit opportunities for new instruments of communication to create new secrets , and to protect the old ones they put at risk . Irregular Courtship and Lightning-Struck Romance " The invention of new machinery , devices , and processes , " reflected Telephony in 1905 , " is continually bringing up new questions of law , puzzling judges , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ may be barred and a rejected suitor kept out , but how is the telephone to be guarded ? " ' 7 How indeed ? New forms of communication created unprecedented opportunities not only for courting and infidelity , but for romancing unacceptable persons outside one 's own class , and even one 's own race , in circumstances that went unobserved by the regular community . The potential for illicit sexual behavior had obvious and disquieting power to undermine accustomed centers of moral authority and social order . Other changes in the social conduct of love were not so ominous . Electrical professionals were often amused by electrical reconfigurations of romantic courtship , defined by them as the first exploratory step in the orderly initiation of new families . They played lightly on the theme of romantic awkwardness made more excruciating or magically banished by electric communication . Typical stories related young love betrayed by unaccustomed technology . Sometimes poor transmission made impassioned lovers ' speeches seem to issue from inebriated lips , as in the case of a student of elocution rejected by the lady of his dreams , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the poetic recitation her suitor intended , and " now declines to have anything to do " with the unfortunate young man . ' ' Another tale of frustrated courtship was set in Atlantic Highlands , New Jersey , a small resort village of " 500 souls . " During the summer of 1886 a " nice young man " from the city met " one of the rustic beauties of the place " and fell in love . They corresponded , and she invited him to visit . One day a telegram appeared with news of his impending arrival . Somehow ? nobody ever will know just how ? fifteen minutes after the message clicked into the office every person in town knew that young // Blake was coming to see Miss Trevette . Every young lady of the town made up her mind to catch a glimpse of this rash young man who sent telegrams , and every man determined to be there to see that everything went smoothly.19 When young Blake alighted from his carriage , full of the foreboding that marked him as a proper suitor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . They observed while he paid the driver , studied him as he asked directions to the young lady 's house , and followed his progress up the hill . Panicked by the approaching procession , Miss Trevette sent word of her absence , halting the romance at a blow . Observing every propriety , this couple had kindled their romance in person and developed it in a decorous written correspondence . Electric communication had set up the next stage of romantic involvement but , despite its glamor , proved too clumsy for the subtleties of courtship . Once launched , this story suggested , electric romance could not return to a slower and more innocent state . This tale also celebrated the triumph of tradition over youthful experiments with cherished community customs . The citizens of Atlantic Highlands were attached to the young lady in question by older and sturdier bonds than was her distant suitor , and were connected to one another by a practiced network of communication more efficacious than any technological marvel . Traditional courtship protected traditional young women from inappropriate advances by placing insurmountable obstacles in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Electrical communication threatened to shortcut the useful insulation of these customary barriers . Thus , the expert press viewed with uneasiness and fascination the new breed of women who were the cheerful beneficiaries of new possibilities for contact between the sexes . These women stood in sharp contrast to the Miss Trevettes of the world , who were unwilling to embrace changes in the rules too quickly . The new woman 's wider contact with the world made her brasher and more resilient . Her prototype was the telephone girl , the operator who dealt daily with the demands of male strangers . If she were an " all-night " telephone girl , her friends might be the inventive young college men who were night clerks in the " always-open drug stores . " 20 Moving in a larger community where personal acquaintance did not provide the usual safeguards , the telephone girls improvised ways to protect themselves from unwanted attentions of a kind they might not have otherwise encountered . They assumed , for example , the same // privileges as men in sharing compromising information about the liberties of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to confidentially give you some points concerning Brown , the young broker , who is considered a lady killer of the first water . Brown has bored several of the girls to death with his attentions . " 21 Not only telephone girls were tempted by new media to flout the conventions of obedient behavior generally expected of women . The " matinee girl , " a fin de siecle phenomenon , also symbolized the risks of letting young women loose in an artificially enlarged world of seductive messages for which their training and background had not prepared them . It was feared that their heads might be turned by the wrong sorts of men , men beyond the social boundaries of the community , men with superficial appeal but no substantial roots . Only in recent years has the privilege of attending theaters been allowed to young women unescorted by brother or father , or the creature known by the elastic and accommodating term " cousin . " This last decade of the nineteenth century has brought to girlhood the inestimable joy of going wherever her own sweet will dictates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important of all reasons for the girl 's fondness for the matinee is the fact that it affords the impressionable maiden from two to three hours of almost uninterrupted adoration of her hero , the leading man , the stage representation of all that is correct , all that is good form , all that is perfect . . . . The matinee girl is a creature of whims . Her very existence is nothing but a fad . Her heroes are only fads , and fleeting ones at that , for they change with every season , or , oftener , with every metropolitan success . . . . Her elastic heart is ever ready to shape itself to another ideal . Z2 In contrast to the challenge new channels of courtship offered to community custodianship of romantic custom were stories of romantic competition , where seizing a technological advantage in the fierce rivalry for female affections was a sign of masculine prowess . Harper 's Bazar related an encounter between two telegraphers and a newlywed couple traveling on the same train . By tapping their pocket knives in Morse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ telegraphers made ribald comments about the charms of the bride and the lack of them in the " chump " she had married . Escalating their outrageousness , one proposed to kiss the bride when the train reached the next tunnel , cuckolding her new husband in the way of a practical joke . // Their telegraphic conversation ceased here , for the bridegroom had taken out his pocket knife and commenced to tick off this passage on the arm of his seat : " When the train gets to the next tunnel , the chump proposes to reach over and hammer your heads together till your teeth drop out . See ! " 23 A frequent anecdotal character was the " enterprising " suitor who ran a modern courtship.24 The enterprising suitor offered his proposal of marriage by telephone at the same moment that his unsuspecting and less courageous rival waited anxiously in the parlor , only to discover , upon his hostess 's return , that her hand was taken . The electrical journals shed few tears for the old-fashioned suitor who relied on love 's gradual unfolding . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first proposal they received , the race was to him who pressed his electrical advantage . An obviously apocryphal but typical account from the New York Sun went as follows : The young man had been trying to tell her how madly he loved her for over an hour but could n't pluck up the courage . " Excuse me for a moment , Mr. Featherly , " she said , " I think I hear a ring at the phone . " And , in her queenly way , she swept into an adjoining room . Presently she returned and his mad passion found a voice . " I am sorry , Mr. Featherly , " she said , " to cause you pain , but I am already engaged . Mr. Sampson , learning that you were here , has urged his suit through the telephone . s25 Irregular courtship threatened the orderly exit of children from the family into approved relationships with the opposite sex . As often , however , as new media presented opportunities to stray from the family circle without detection , they provided @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One suspicious patriarch placed a phonograph under the sofa and recorded an intimate exchange between his daughter and her new beau , which he played to the family at breakfast , especially this choice excerpt : " Are we alone , dear ? " . . . " Yes , Cholly , but now do n't . " . . . " Oh , come on , now ; do n't be skittish , " and Sis 's voice says , " Now Cholly , quit . Someone 'll hear you . " Then they kept on . " You sha n't kiss me . " " Oh , yes , I shall . " // " No , you wo n't . " " Well , then , there , " and a kind of screechy noise , like a cab driver starting his horses , came out.26 In other stories , the escape from parental supervision made possible by new communications technologies carried great risks . This was the bitter lesson learned by George W. McCutcheon of Brooklyn , the father of twenty-year-old Maggie , who found himself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ threatening to blow her brains out . " When McCutcheon 's newsstand business prospered and he decided to expand his operation , he set up a local telegraph station in a corner of his store , with his daughter as its operator . He soon discovered that Maggie was " keeping up a flirtation " with a number of men on the wire , including one Frank Frisbie , an operator in the telegraph office of the Long Island Railroad . Maggie issued Frisbie a telegraphic invitation to call on her at home , which Frisbie accepted , also by wire . Maggie 's father forbade the visit , and Maggie began to see Frisbie , a married man with a family in Pennsylvania , on the sly . Hoping to thwart his daughter 's illicit suitor , Maggie 's father moved his store to a different location . This sacrifice was futile . With her expert skills , Maggie easily found work at another telegraph station and resumed the relationship . Her frustrated father pursued her to another rendezvous and threatened her with bodily harm . She had him arrested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chill the parental heart . It exposed once more the perils of training young women in the skills of new communications technologies . Maggie had flirted with strange men under her father 's very nose . Frank Frisbie was a railroad telegrapher of more than passing acquaintance with another community-shattering technology of the nineteenth century , transportation , which perhaps had facilitated his desertion of his own family . Telegraphy provided similar protection from conventional parental and community tests for dubious romantic involvement . In removing daughter and livelihood to a different location , Maggie 's father acted like any respectable paterfamilias who feared for his daughter 's reputation and future happiness . Equipped with the skills of independence , Maggie could outmaneuver her father and go where she pleased , however poor her judgment . In the end , the disruption of the family was complete . Father did not bring daughter to heel ; daughter brought father to the authorities in full and disgraceful public view . Another story of cross-class romance described how an " ardent Gentile suitor " wooed " a beauteous , blushing Jewess " against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to meet or correspond , the couple eloped after " spending hours and hours every day cooing to each other over a telephone line between the offices in which they worked , and by that means they had planned all in secret . " 2s Electrical World pondered the future of star-crossed love deprived of romantic obstacles : The serenading troubadour can now thrum his throbbing guitar before the transmitter undisturbed by apprehensions of shot guns and bull dogs . Romeo need no longer catch cold waiting at Juliet 's balcony , nor need Leander encounter the perils of the waves in seeking his Hero . But the new means of communication has its disadvantages , and must be used with caution . There will be the danger of a wrong " connection " at the Exchange , and there will be no letters to produce as evidence in a breachof-promise action.29 Letters there might not be , but alternatives could be improvised in telephone taps and phonograph recordings . Romantic overtures made in secret and , as an impetuous young man might imagine , without witnesses were no match for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of technology against irregular courtship practice , in this instance the seduction of the vulnerable by the cunning . The solution worked to the advantage of the truly cunning ? the class of literate , expert professionals . " Did I ever say all that ? " he asked despondently as she replaced the phonograph on the corner of the mantle-piece . " You did . " " And you can grind it out of that machine whenever you choose ? " " Certainly . " " And your father is a lawyer ? " " Yes . " " Mabel , when can I place the ring on your finger and call you my wife ? " 3 ? Comparing this account of phonographic enforcement of proper courtship practice to the story of " Cholly " and " Sis " also tells us something about perceived class differences in spoken and literate modes . The cues of colloquial speech label Sis 's family as lower class , and Sis 's father reasserts the limits of proper courting behavior through oral humiliation . The lawyer 's daughter , on the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complex legal procedures can bring an errant lover to heel . In one family , authority is spoken and personal , and the threat of exposure is limited to the family circle . The other family looks to the law , a literate , impersonal point of reference , and exposure is threatened before a professionally literate community of strangers who , learning of a young suitor 's misbehavior , could ruin him . For one couple , the issue is whether the behavior in question // departs from proper custom . For the other , it is whether the behavior has the status of a written contract . Protecting the Domestic Hearth Since electricity in the home was situated at the family 's private and vulnerable center , it was necessary to domesticate it . The electric light , for example , was praised for its positive , middle-class virtues of " beauty , purity , brightness , cleanliness , and safety " compared to other forms of domestic illumination.31 " Gas not only consumes and pollutes the air , " the Electrical Review explained , " but is very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and decorations of our homes . " Gas fumes blackened ceilings and cornices , and discolored wallpaper . Electricity created a brighter , cozier , safer , more intimate haven . Electrical journals argued that electricity would replace household servants by mechanizing domestic tasks , and touted it as the " key to the servant difficulty . " Electricity would free the mistress of the house from time-consuming chores and help settle once and for all the question of " woman 's sphere " ? though woman 's sphere was defined proximate to electricity with great reluctance by male experts .3 ' The residential telephone was rarely included in the litany of electrical devices that would replace servants , however . Instead , the telephone must have increased servant 's responsibilities for filtering communication between outsiders and householders , since servants often were buffers between importunate telephone callers and household members . Used mainly to talk with one 's own social set , residential telephones did not perform any job normally handled by servants . Outside the home , electrical communication might revolutionize the world ; inside , it should make @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been intended to work ? on a successful class model . Inside the home , the chief purpose of electrical communication was to improve the facility with which orders were given and received . Innovations in domestic communication were intended more closely to bind servants to masters , wives to husbands , and children to parents . Home was the protected place , carefully shielded from the world and its dangerous influences . New communications technologies were suspect precisely to the extent that they lessened the family 's control over what was admitted within its walls . Householders resisted both the symbolism of outside intrusion and its physical expression in wiring , a tangible violation of intact domesticity . Fin de siecle comparCommunity // isons of electrical progress between domestic and occupational settings remarked on the reluctance with which homeowners gave permission " to tear up the house to have the wires strung . " 33 Electric burglar alarms were regarded as an appealing domestic innovation , but any hint of technical complexity raised doubt and suspicion . " To surround the Englishman 's castle with a network of electrical wires @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arming of it with a battery of four-pounders , " wrote the Electrician.34 This was partly because it was not clear that he could understand them . Unlike the stigmatized classes whose ignorance of electricity made it easier to control them , the classes whose well-being new electrical devices were supposed to serve wanted them to be simple and reliable . It would not do for respectable householders to feel victimized by a technology they had adopted to increase their mastery of the world . Electrical devices must fit unobtrusively into the household routine . Alarm batteries must not be messy , and it must be possible to conceal them so that " the most fastidious of men may be satisfied . " Nothing of domestic life should warrant drastic adjustment as a result of electrifying it . Discussions of electricity as a staple of domestic routine emphasized the economically and morally self-sufficient household , a productive unit beholden to neither neighbors nor bosses , industriously and privately going about its own business . This was the image reflected in an anticipation of the future written by Henry Flad in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ far distant when we will have wagons driving around with casks and jars of stored electricity , just as we have milk and bread wagons at present . The house of the future will be constructed with the view of containing electric apparatus for lighting , power , and cooking purposes . The arrangements will be of such a character that houses can be supplied with enough stored electricity to last twenty-four hours . All that the man with the cask will have to do will be to drive up to the back door , detach the cask left the day before , replace it with a new one , and then go to the next house and do likewise . This very thing will soon be taking place in St. Louis.35 The author of this image had attached his intuition of a new order to the landmarks of a thoroughly familiar and archaic one , in this case door-to-door distribution by hand and horsepower of a commodity as perishable as milk or ice . This image of the inviolable container of the family was consistent with the grandest visions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its most lavish expression was the Greenwich , Connecticut , home of " electrical millionaire " E. H. Johnson , a successful Edison partner , whose country mansion on three acres was what every self-sufficient electric house aspired to be . Its most dramatic expression was visual ; at night it fairly glowed with electric light . The machines that supplied current to its many decorative and functional lamps also registered the temperature indoors and out , the force of the wind , the force of the electric current , and the pressure on the boilers . Electricity blew fresh air into the house , controlled its atmosphere with dampers and ventilators , and , of course , protected it from intruders . " Let any one try to open the gate to the park or seek an entrance to the mansion by door or window , and he will set the secret forces to blabbing loudly of his folly . " Soon electricity would " work the churns , make the ice for the household , drive the lawn-mower , and do a score of helpful things about the house @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ readers to describe their ideal homes . Featured in several issues under the title " Which One of These Suit You ? Ideal Houses with More Than the Latest Improvements " were eleven entries . Seven mentioned electric appliances , fittings , or communications devices . Only one described a system of electric communication with the outside world . 17 Typical was a romantic fantasy of a feudal fortress against the world , where aristocratic inhabitants effortlessly communicated with one another but not at all with out-siders : Something Like a Castle In outward appearance something like a castle , surmounted by a tower , walls 18 inches thick and covered with ivy and Virginia creeper , French-windows and plenty of them , doors and window frames of mahogany , floors oak . On the ground floor , ample hall with Roman archways , fire appliances handy ; library and drawing-room Early English style , the latter with small nooks to seat two or three , hung at the entrances with curtains , and lighted at night with fairy lamps ; dining-room and domestic offices , modern , smoke-room Oriental , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bijou theatre , Indian , billiard-room , gymnasium , laboratory . Upstairs ( one floor only ) , bedrooms and dressing-rooms , bathroom with plunge bath . In tower , barroom and nursery , observatory at top . Balcony around the building level with the upper floor , with five ladders ready for lowering ; speaking-tubes with electric bells all over the house ; hot-air warming apparatus throughout , also open grates . // Electric light with slightly tinted globes ; hot and cold water laid on to bed and dressing rooms , stabling , lawn , kitchen and flower garden , conservatory . The sole fantasy house with communications links to the outside was described as " What a Lady Wants . " Electric bells " throughout " provided internal communication . From the lady 's boudoir , telegraph wires were connected to the railroad station , and a telephone was connected to her husband 's office . Electric pushbuttons , phonographs , and telephones were all present in the most technologically elaborate house of all . Predictably , all telephones were for internal communication ; pushbuttons and phonographs mediated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ To let , a most desirable residence , standing in its own grounds . Large lake for rowing and swimming ; artificial ice on skating rink . The house fitted throughout with electricity , electric stoves in every room , improved electric cooking range in kitchen . All the stoves can be lighted by pressing a button at the bed-side . Doors and windows fitted with electric fastenings , phonographs for communicated messages fixed to front and back doors . Every room connected by telephone . Latest fire-escape appliance , namely , side of house swings out by electric power , and large watercistern , with fire-sprinklers , covers the whole roof . Grand promenade on top , reached by lifts both inside and out . For particulars , apply In this house callers ' messages were stored phonographically on an aural calling card . Whereas telephone subscribers entered into a continuous relationship with the outside world by their implicit agreement to endure inconvenient and unceremonious interruptions , phonographic messages were received entirely at the pleasure of the phonograph owner . The decorum of domestic sovereignty was preserved . The phonograph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of family life in a way that the less governable telephone was not . Nothing is more wonderful , nothing more fascinating than the exploits of a well-trained phonograph . Faithfully melodious , it reproduces again and again the strains sung or prose tit-bits recited in domestic circles ; and this sort of thing gives the phonograph a sentimental value that it is difficult to appraise . Appealing thus , to the deepest laid instincts in our nature , there can be no doubt that the phonograph ? well made , and put on the market at a price which is reasonable when considered in respect to the mechanical nature and detail of the instrument ? will come // into world-wide demand . No well-kept , intelligently cared for home will be considered complete without its phonograph.38 The desire for some tangible imprint of domesticity on media was metaphorically rendered in a speech by Emile Berliner to the American Institute of Electrical Engineers in 1890 . He looked forward to the day when sound recordings would be made from etched steel matrices , and possibly cast in glass : " We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which have gramophone records pressed in them and which will furnish the after-dinner entertainment when the repast is over . Gramophone plaques in the voices of eminent people will adorn our parlors and libraries . X39 Media were to adorn , not transform home life . Home was still the quiet place of culture where the routines of women would go on supporting men 's forays to less protected places . This social logic was suspicious of " aesthetic " contributions by the telephone to life around the domestic hearth , which Edward J. Hall , the new vice-president of the fledgling American Telephone and Telegraph Company , hinted at in 1890 : More wonderful still is a scheme which we now have on foot , which looks to providing music on tap at certain times every day , especially at meal times . The scheme is to have a fine band perform the choicest music , gather up the sound waves , and distribute them to any number of subscribers . Thus a family , club , or hotel may be regaled with the choicest airs from their favorite operas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be as real and enjoyable as though the performers were actually present in the apartment . We have perfected the distribution , and have over a hundred . . . persons who have certified to their anxiety to be subscribers.40 Hall admitted that a number of technical problems needed to be solved , since the telephone could not successfully distinguish among harp , piano , reed , wood , or brass tones . Some in his audience feared the success of this scheme far more than any imperfection of transmission technology . Electrical World objected : Fancy turning on the music at will and listening for an hour to the splendid performance of a famous orchestra . The idea is most luxurious and attractive , fit ornament of a symbolic age . And yet if we look further , beyond the mere outline of the suggestion there lies before us a vista of dreadful possibilities . For with the success of the first telephone musicale association there will spring into being rival organizations , the very names of which would make incipient deafness bliss . Imagine the awful devastation that could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ephonic Mutual , " with a drop-in-a-nickel slot attachment . Fancy the horrors of having one 's disposition wrecked by a " popular programme , " headed by a memorial to the late McGinty . And what new terrors would be added to that Juggernaut of the metropolis , the boarding-house , when " Sweet Violets " and other appetite-destroying tunes could be turned loose at feeding-time . . . . The probability of cut-rate competition and an orchestrion in every boarding-house is really too horrible for contemplation.41 What was exclusive and luxurious was domestically desirable . What was popular and Irish was not , and what was at stake was domestic peace at mealtime , one of the most stridently defended battlefields in the struggle of the middle-class family not to fragment into the rootless chaos of the boardinghouse . Other threats to the middle-class hearth were still more palpable . The Electrical Review related the story of a " wealthy , well-educated , and fashionable Chicago woman who resides in a handsome home on one of the aristocratic South Side Avenues , " in search of a housekeeper to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take care of a family emergency . A housekeeper in service to another family recuperating from scarlet fever was recommended to her , and she was urged to expedite arrangements by telephone . At first she was " aghast at the proposition , and was sure that there would be great danger of infection " by wire , her fears a metaphor for all the elements of the world beyond domestic control . After weighing the arguments of a knowledgeable friend , she concluded : " Well , I suppose I must risk it . I 'll have a servant call up the house and tell them be sure that the housekeeper changes her clothes and the sick children are n't in the room where the telephone is ; then I may feel justified under the circumstances in talking with her . X42 As late as 1894 , Electrical World reported that the editor of a prominent Philadelphia daily newspaper had cautioned his readers not to converse by phone with ill persons for fear of contracting contagious diseases.43 Communication Between Masters and Servants Outside the home , electrical communication was the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misguided or foolish woman strayed , and from which she had to be protected and now and then rescued . Within the home , the emphasis was on enhancing domestic tranquillity and improving the facility with which messages passed from masters to servants . Troubled by his maidservants ' inattention to the // bell that summoned them , a reader of Science Siftings , a weekly British periodical for lay readers interested in science , applied a " scientific turn of mind " to the problem for a " Queries and Answers " column that awarded prizes for submissions from readers . He proposed to put " Hertz-wave emitters " in his sitting room and bedroom . Each maid carried a small battery , a tiny electric bell , and a Hertz-wave " detector " in her pocket . Now , when I require my morning coffee , hot water , or what not other little convenience , I must but touch a button , sparking my bedroom wave emitter once , so that I may be almost instantly attended to by one or all of my domestics , from wherever @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Or if I were in my study and required any service , all that I should have to do would be to press the button , we will say twice , and have conferred upon me quite a little stream of blithe assistance from all quarters in my house . These are my views , as to what it may be possible for the luxuriously situated bachelor to accomplish.44 An innovation in the household of a wealthy ironmaster in northern England , " whose house and works are dazzlingly illuminated by the electric light , " was reported in the British Court Journal as a " grand invention " to keep track of servants . This consisted of cameras concealed throughout the rooms of the house , their purpose to " glean some information as to what goes on during his not infrequent absences from home . " Each hour shutters were silently opened by machinery and a photograph was taken of everything in the room . On each return home , the master enjoyed developing these pictures , to the occasional dismay of the servants : One clerk , who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know the reason why , was horrified when shown a photograph in which he was depicted lolling in an easy chair , with his feet upon the office desk , while the clock on the mantelpiece pointed to an hour at which he ought to have been at his busiest . The servants ' party in the best dining room furnished another thrilling scene.45 A more widely known innovation was the " talking clock , " or " phono-clock , " a phonograph recording triggered by clockwork , regarded as especially useful not for replacing the servants one had , but for monitoring them more successfully . It was said that the inventor of the talking clock " especially aims at getting lazy servants out of bed , and has constructed the clock 's vocal apparatus so that the purchaser 's voice can be imitated . X46 The task of the talking clock was // to rouse sleepers and get them to work without exception or forgiveness . Almost every account stressed the indignity and relentlessness of its ministrations.47 If recalcitrant victims did not respond to endless shouted commands , these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : At the recent Leipsic sic Fair an interesting early-rising appliance was exhibited . By means of a strong electric current the occupant of the bed is twice aroused by the ringing of the bell , after which a tablet with the words , " Time to get up ! " is thrust before the sleeper 's eyes , then his nightcap is pulled off his head , and last of all ? if not thoroughly awakened by this time ? he is pitched mechanically out of bed on to the floor.4S Much of the amusement occasioned by the clock lay in its target 's inability to dawdle , object , bargain , sulk , or argue with effect , that is , to negotiate with the perpetrator of his or her misery . In a certain sense , the phonographic clock was simply a domestic variation on other wellestablished strategies devised by middle-class householders to keep outsiders from addressing them . Its appeal derived from the ability not to render communication more effortless but to render others speechless and make discourse as difficult as possible . The range of applications @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answer back was very wide . On this topic Answers speculated : In the nursery the solemn timepiece could be made to say , " Children , it is time to get up ; dress quickly , and do not dawdle . " In the kitchen it would be ready with , " Breakfast at eight sharp , Mary ; do n't forget , " and in the dining-room , " You must start in ten minutes or you will lose your train . " . . . The dial of this clock of the future is , we are told , a human face , from whose uncanny mouth comes the announcement of the hours , as well as any directions which may be left with it.49 The serenity that the bourgeois household prized and that gave rise to strategies for sequestering the family from intrusive media was not a priority in managing the servants , who were the most acceptable targets of the raucous talking clock . Occasional efforts to move the talking clock up the social scale , therefore , changed its characteristics accordingly . " What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1899 . " The timekeeping phonograph retains easily first place among clock curios of the day . This phono-clock announces the time , in a restrained yet clear voice , every five minutes , so that it proves one of the most soothing ameliorations of the bedchamber . " so // The unaccommodating phono-clock contrasted sharply with the practice in some cities of having telephone operators awaken male subscribers . In an age when female telephone operators were viewed as a kind of personal servant to subscribers , the " hello girls " often acted as personal alarm clocks . While this service was presumably available to mistresses as well as masters in subscribing households , most stories depicted friendly , bordering on suggestive , relations exclusively between the telephone girl and her male customers . One exchange went as follows : " Hello , girlie , " he gurgles to the sweet voiced operator at the other end . " I want to get up at 6:30 to-morrow morning . Will you be so good as you sound and ring me up then ? If so , there will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the theater ? " That 's the way it begins . The telephone girls are an accommodating lot , but even if they were not there would be trouble if they failed to awake several thousand Bostonians every morning of the summer , for here it is a rule of the company that they accommodate patrons.51 The accommodating telephone girls were outsiders brought inside on a model of domestic servitude , that is , under the potential control of the rules of the bourgeois household . " The telephone girls may fairly boast of being connected with the best people of the city ? by wire , " punned the Boston Transcript in 1888 , with a finger on the telephone girl 's tricky and worrisome social status.52 It was necessary to present her as a socially competent performer , a smooth and knowledgeable broker of social relations between middle-class households , and to make clear at the same time that she was only a servant , not truly a member of the class to whose secrets she had access . Offering domestic servitude as a model for interpreting the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Telephone girls were definitely not within the household , but quite outside its rules in important ways . Unlike true domestic servants , they served more than one household . As young women earning a living independently of any household they served , they were not subject to the taboos or claims of loyalty binding those within its walls . They were often objects of fantasy , providing " little glimpses of life at other seasons forbidden . " " " One of the young ladies at the Central office has a singularly pleasing voice , and it is just possible that her features match it , " went a typical whimsy.54 The predictable problems arose . Jones , a Boston businessman , had solicited the services of the " sweet-voiced " operator while // his wife was on summer vacation . Mrs. Jones returned suddenly , and had a surprise waiting . The next morning the telephone rings . Horrified hubby sits up in bed in dazed surprise , while Mrs. Jones goes to the phone . " Hello , " says Mrs. Jones . " Hello , pet @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Hurry up and get up . I 've been ringing for you long enough . " 5s The triangle of husband , wife , and telephone girl , in which one or more of the parties was confused about the role of the telephone girl in the husband 's life , was what most of these stories were about . Usually they revolved around apparently innocent remarks made by the husband and misinterpreted ( but not entirely ) by the wife . In such stories , sexual decorum was usually restored by the wife , who asserted her distaff prerogative firmly . A story was told of " a gentleman who holds public office and . . . was talked of for mayor . " His clerk always spoke to Central , and never without a term of endearment . The discussion over the wires generally began with : " Is that you , dear ? " and wound up with " Good-bye , darling ! " In the absence of the clerk , the distinguished public man went to the telephone in person . Central promptly answered , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you , dear ? " " No , darling , " responded the distinguished public man , " it 's the other fellow . " It is the good fortune of some wives to make their appearance just in the nick of the most exasperating time . This is what happened in this instance . Behind the distinguished public man , when he said , " No , darling , it 's the other fellow , " stood his wife , who had concluded to visit her husband that morning . She startled him by exclaiming , " Well , I like that ! " Did she ? 56 Tension and Trust : Asymmetry and Class Consciousness Fears of new forms of communication were fears that exclusive communities would be overwhelmed by outsiders against whom there could be no defense . Class and family boundaries could be maintained only so long as inadmissible outsiders were effectively screened . Some stories in the electrical literature depicted outsiders as predators with evil , even criminal intent toward community members . Others portrayed them // as masqueraders lowering the tone of insider communities , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Asymmetries of dress , manner , and class that identified outsiders and were immediately obvious in face-to-face exchange were disturbingly invisible by telephone and telegraph , and therefore problematic and dangerous . Reliable cues for anchoring others to a social framework where familiar rules of transaction were organized around the relative status of the participants were subject to the tricks of concealment that new media made possible . Lower classes could crash barriers otherwise closed to them , and privileged classes could go slumming unobserved . Even when no deliberate effort was made to disguise class differences between two parties connected by telephone , that connection was still an unprecedented breach of the normal social insulation that protected higher classes from association with lower ones . These new social facts paved the way for debacles real and imagined . In 1889 , a man entered the long-distance telephone office in Syracuse , New York , to announce that he wished to speak to Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt , Jr. , and Mrs. Levi P. Morton and her daughters . He claimed to be on intimate terms with all of New York society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them frequently by telephone . He was locked up as demented , having been too insistent in his fantasies of familiarity with those who were socially taboo.57 Royalty , whose members stood behind the most impenetrable of class barriers , provided the most dramatic backdrop for stories about movement by members of different classes into and out of one another 's territory with the aid of electricity . When telephone wires were laid from Buckingham Palace to London theatres and concert halls in 1896 , the Electrical Review was moved to comment , " It will even be possible for the royal ears to hear the latest music-hall gags , and that , too , without compromising in the slightest degree queenly dignity . " 58 More intriguing than the prospect of a queen surreptitiously sampling the popular culture of her subjects were stories in which royal barriers were trespassed by technological interlopers , particularly brash Americans with no tradition of class deference . In 1905 , an official diplomatic letter of introduction failed to get a party of visiting Americans past the king 's stables and into Buckingham Palace @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The undaunted Americans insisted on having the palace telephone connected directly to King Edward , who was attending the races at Newmarket . This request astonished the functionaries at each of the well-padded levels of bureaucratic // protocol designed to protect the king , but its very exceptionalness left them without procedures for denying it . In a very short time , " by his majesty 's commands " the Americans were granted permission to " do " the palace , attended with all courtesies implied by the king 's personal permission . 59 Proprieties of Presence Doubts about the motive and station of the person with whom one was engaged over the telephone often focused on how to interpret remote or nonimmediate presence , that special form of interpersonal engagement peculiar to new media . Behaving as if new forms of presence were just the same as those they purported to extend invited serious confusion , since the social clues supplied by remote presence were less reliable than face-to-face encounters , especially when the accurate determination of personal identity or class membership was crucial to the transaction at hand . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professional experts , they , too , attached greater weight to the irreducible face-to-face encounter as a more trustworthy guarantor of integrity . The less immediately present telephonic voice took longer to win social confidence . New forms of presence muddied social distance . The most extreme fears were expressed as anecdotes in which protagonists who behaved as though full and attenuated presence could be treated as socially equivalent were promptly victimized by fast-talking , silvertongued predators who knew how to take advantage of the fact that they were not . More or less constant anxiety was also directed to the effects of new forms of presence on customary social exchange , especially the practiced amenities of daily life . " When a man tells you a story face to face , " said Horace C. Du Val , who is frequently annoyed by the telephone maniac , " he can see by the expression on your face , if he has the least knowledge of physiognomy , how the story strikes you , and it is an easy matter to cut a man off by a look or a gesture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 10 miles away ? He has you cornered and you must listen . X60 In the face of technological complexity , did the old proprieties apply , or did circumstances call for new ones to keep the social order intact ? " To the woman who knows how to do things correctly , " wrote Telephony in 1905 , " it is positively maddening to have invited guests // call her up ' at a late date and acknowledge the receipt of her invitation and either accept or regret it . Especially nerve-trying is when the call comes in the middle of the dinner to which the person was invited . X61 How properly intimate was a telephone ? What line demarcated the social circumstances in which it constituted sufficient presence and in which it did not ? Redefinitions of sufficient presence took a variety of forms . Some were simply procedural . At the annual meeting of the National Telephone Exchange Association in 1889 in St. Paul , Minnesota , a speaker related " how in Boston they managed to hold a directors ' meeting with the Chair in New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would carry on their meeting and the secretary would record the Chairman as being present . The important thing was the voice ; that being present they could hold a meeting . X62 Other redefinitions were legal and civic . Unable to appear before a police court in the matter of a breach of a bylaw , a Toronto citizen telephoned to court headquarters , admitted his guilt , and was fined a dollar and costs through the same medium.63 A more worrisome problem was how to defend social distances customarily enforced and maintained by face-to-face cues in the telephonic and telegraphic absence of these . Simply put , new media provided opportunities for the wrong people to be too familiar . Physicians were among those whose indignant complaints of telephone abuse received regular attention in electrical journals . According to a Chicago doctor : I give , every day , dollars and dollars worth of advice . If I sent a bill , the patient would probably faint , but she would be sure to call another doctor to bring her out of it and to attend her afterward . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then call us every day , often several times a day , and ask all the necessary questions for treatment . The telephone has become a really serious problem in the profession.64 Rules of presence were enforceable only when transgressors could be identified . The most disturbing assaults on social distance exploited telephonic anonymity . The Leavenworth ( Kansas ) Times reported that " disreputable " persons were nightly phoning " respectable " people and " using indecent , vile and vulgar language , and when asked where they are reply , at the Times office . " ' 65 " There is a rule in all well conducted telephone exchanges , " wrote Electrical World in the same vein in 1884 , that when a subscriber , or any other man , is found swearing through the wire , promising his wife " Hail , Columbia ! " if dinner is not on time // when he gets home , or otherwise abusing the facilities science affords him for abuse of somebody else at a safe from kicking or hair pulling distance , that subscriber is shut off at once @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the swindler.66 Claims that personal moral qualities were lacking in telephonic exchange , on closer examination , were complaints that missing and missed cues were those of class-based deference . " Who can not remember , " wrote the Electrical Review in 1889 , " when the telephone was put into commercial use , being sometimes addressed by an unseen , and often unknown speaker , in language such as a man would rarely use face to face with another man . " One could determine , the Review went on , who was a stranger to telephonic intercourse " by a certain relaxation in the common courtesies of speech , " as though the unseen connection allowed callers to take refuge from the rules of proper respect in personal invisibility , or remote presence . " There is an impersonality , " the Review continued , connected with the act of speaking by aid of a mechanism which has been lowering in its tendencies , for it is only by the personal presence of others that many men 's speech is kept in restraint . On the other hand , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the courteous and graceful language which he uses when at the transmitter.67 A related problem was whether long-standing rules of propriety that made it unthinkable for a gentleman to swear in the immediate presence of ladies entitled him to speak more freely in personal telephone conversation with male friends . According to polite opinion , the implied or actual presence of women , both the all-monitoring feminine " Central " and the equally strong feminine presence at the center of the family community increasingly served by the telephone , set the tone for every conversation . An Ohio telephone company enforced its rules against " improper or vulgar " language in phone communications by removing the instruments of subscribers who did not observe this rule of social presence . When a subscriber took the company to court on the issue , the judge ruled : " The telephone reaches into many family circles . . . . All communications should be in proper language . Moreover , in many cases the operators in the exchanges are refined ladies , and , even beyond this , all operators should be protected from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was part of a larger class of anxieties about how to speak properly in its presence , and what community of speakers was addressed in the reach of its wires . Popular periodicals encouraged readers to use the cautious good manners of // middle-class intimacy ? quiet voices , clearly enunciated words , dignified presentation . " You speak into a telephone loud and harsh and you get a jarring sound , you misunderstand yourself , " explained a speaker at the National Telephone Exchange Association convention in 1889 ; " but speak low and tender and you get a perfect communication of soul . " ' One writer felt that " something is gained in the cause of civilization that hundreds of thousands of persons all over the country are learning that tones sweet and low " were the most audible . " We have observed , " he continued , " . . . that those who use the telephone have very much bettered their articulation and enunciation of words . " Not only the diffusion of middle-class standards of speech was advertised as a happy consequence of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the habit of attention . " Subscribers , while connected , must be " all ears and memory . . . . The mind can not wander . s70 From a Globe-Democrat reporter who visited the operating room of the St. Louis telephone exchange , and was distressed at the way subscribers berated the " servants of the public , " came the following admonition : There is one way to talk through a telephone , and only one . . . . That way is to stand back just a little and talk in an ordinary tone , as if you were speaking to a man a couple of feet away instead of to one three or four miles away , over a wire . Do n't yell ; do n't whisper ; simply speak in an ordinary tone and distinctly . The words are carried by electricity , not by the force of your enunciation . The instrument is not to be compared to a deaf man , but , to the opposite , is exceedingly sensitive . ' These instructions for speaking to public " servants " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the normal markers for signaling them were present . In some communities , competing telephone exchanges were differentiated by the social groups to which their subscribers belonged . " Like everyone else in Tuxedo , when the telephone first came into vogue we used it continually as a method of conversation with our friends , " reported a society lady from New York in 1899 , her notion of " everyone " an index of the limits of her world.72 If some cues were unfortunately missing , others were in danger of being revealed . The same society lady related how the phone in her husband 's dressing room rang one night after she was in bed . Rushing to answer it , she fell in the dark into a half-full bathtub . The caller was a friend telephoning from " the club " with a large party of visiting friends . // " ' Charlie S wants to speak to you . ' Then I heard laughter and chaffing , and I could fancy them all in the gay clubroom in their smart dresses . In a minute , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A he began , and for fully 10 minutes I had to carry on a light conversation , first with one and then with another of the party , while I stood shivering in the dark in my damp and scanty garments . X73 The shame of not being publicly presentable , as though one were not actually invisible and safe at home , was the subject of uncomfortable humor . At a large dinner at a " Fifth Avenue palace " in 1899 , reported the New York Tribune , an absent-minded guest was missing . Her hostess telephoned impatiently . " We are waiting dinner for you , Amelia , " said the magnificently gowned woman at one end . " Good gracious , Margaret , is this the date I was to have dined with you ? " exclaimed Amelia , who was in a dressing gown and slippers , at the other end . " I am simply overwhelmed with mortification , but I entirely forgot that this was the night . " " Jump into a cab and come as you are , " urged the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if you could see me ! " 74 To those persons , usually men , whose rebellion against the social order took the form of distaste for rigid dress codes on public occasions , exemption from visual accountability in the invisibility of telephonic connection was welcome . Anticipating the " telephone banquet " of the future , a comic writer in Telephony asked , " Why has n't some one remarked that the new plan proposes to annihilate that abomination , the reception committee , of Prince Albert coats ? That is the sort of thing we mean by ' progress : " With a telephone in his room , an orator might " sit in dressing gown and slippers and talk at ease to comfortable minded listeners . . . . Not only does he evade ruining his digestion with countless banquets ' ? he also saves his temper by not having to shave . X75 The much larger number of stories that expressed fear of being seen over the telephone does give an indication of the way in which the psychological novelty of telephone conversation was layered uneasily over @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that accompanied so apparently trivial a readjustment of social thinking suggests how many more times that response was magnified in response to intrusions much closer to the heart of community identity . // Crimes of Confidence The association between sensational crime and new electric media was strong in popular and expert literature . Several sturdy crime anecdotes were part of an enduring popular tradition about the early social history of both telegraphy and wireless . Two stories in particular were credited with presenting these media to popular attention around the time of their introduction . In one , a description of John Tawell , who murdered his mistress in Slough in 1844 , was wired ahead of him as , disguised as a Quaker , he fled by rail to London , where the authorities soon spotted him . The device of his undoing was immediately and popularly labeled " the cords that hung John Tawell. " 76 In the other story , also British , Dr. Hawley Crippen murdered his wife in 1910 and buried her body in a coal cellar . He booked passage on the S. S. Montrose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was apprehended as a result of messages sent by wireless to Scotland Yard from the captain of the ship , who suspected Crippen of being the wanted man . " " lt is a well-known fact that no other section of the population avail themselves more readily and speedily of the latest triumphs of science than the criminal class , " explained Inspector Bonfield to a Chicago Herald reporter in 1888 . " The educated criminal skims the cream from every new invention , if he can make use of it . s78 The article went on to recount a telephone crime story , said to be entirely factual , that represented a substantial genre of stories about the use of the telephone by con men to deceive those accustomed to conducting their business and social affairs in person : A millionaire speculator at the Chicago Board of Trade had a phone line installed between his office and his home , one of the first such lines in the city . One day he answered a call from a man who claimed that he had bound and gagged the speculator 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The businessman was instructed to give twenty thousand dollars from an office safe to a confederate waiting at that moment outside his office ? or else . The ransom delivered , he rushed home to discover his wife serene and tranquil , the family hearth undisturbed . His gracious helpmeet had invited into the house a welldressed gentleman who asked to make a private business call to her husband . " He used the telephone but a couple of minutes and then came back into the parlor , thanked me for the favor I had done him and went away , saying the telephone was a very useful invention . " The use of new media to serve personal ambition , to achieve status , success , and social control , did not guarantee that the same powerful // tools could not be turned against one , and one 's family and oneself made desperately vulnerable in the bargain . If the lone woman at home seemed especially vulnerable to predators , she could also lift the telephone to sound the alarm , in many stories a device by which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and frustrated suitors.79 A housekeeper surprised by burglars in Bristol called " Central , " who advised the police , who soon had the burglar in custody . The incident occurred at the exchange of the Western Counties and South Wales Telephone Company , which published a circular advising " timid householders of either sex , fearing fire or thieves " to connect at once to the local exchange.80 Women were considered especially susceptible to male manipulators of electrical technology because of their less-worldly experience in gauging trustworthiness . Their experiences were assumed to be limited to intimate , orally based communities where close and constant association discouraged the kind of deception that was possible in electrically constructed communities where unknown parties could pretend a dangerous familiarity . Widows and lone women were particularly helpless . A Milwaukee widow met a confidence man representing himself as a grain broker from New York . Courting her by letter from St. Louis , he soon wrote that he had been summoned to Europe on business . As they would be unable to meet again before his departure , he proposed that they should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chicago lent his aid to the blasphemous travesty on wedlock , and the lovers were " married " by wire , the bride sending him , she said , " an electric kiss . " His reply came from England in the shape of a request for a speedy remittance of $2,000 to help him in a business transaction . This was sent him and was followed by another request for $1,000 , which sum was also sent , after which all trace of him was lost.81 Because her suitor followed impeccable social form in one mode and courted her by letter in the acceptable long-distance way , the Milwaukee widow assumed his behavior in another mode would be a faithful analogue . Perhaps , too , she was seduced by the romance of high technology ? not the first woman so deceived . The penalty : loss of love , loss of property , loss of face and reputation ? in short , loss of the principal credentials for membership in the social order to which she belonged . A more sensational example was the court-ordered annulment of the marriage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1883 . While a resident of Pittsburgh , the plaintiff , Mrs. Welch , answered a " personal " advertisement in the Cincinnati Enquirer and struck up a correspondence with the defendant . The two correspondents were duly married , not in the customary face-to-face way , but by telegraphic ceremony . When the new bride , from whose point of view the story was told , went to meet her husband , she found that he was " a colored man " and a barber.82 Since Sarah Welch had corresponded with her intended husband by mail as well as by wire , the printed medium had betrayed her no less than the electric , but public attention focused on the " telegraphic farce of wedlock . " This had too lightly replaced the oral sacrament whose minimum condition was the physical presence of the principals at the marriage ceremony , where each could observe the other and be observed by the community , whose order was at stake in every connubial alliance . An exception to the general social proscription against telegraphic wedlock , predictably , was romance within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ San Diego ( California ) Union featured the story of a telegraphic wedding between Clara E. Choate of San Diego and W. H. Storey , U.S. Signal Service operator at Camp Grant , Arizona.83 At the last minute , operator Storey was denied leave to go to San Diego for the appointed ceremony . There was , further , no qualified person within hundreds of miles to perform the nuptials at Camp Grant . Miss Choate went to Camp Grant anyway , and the services of the Reverend Jonathan L. Mann , pastor of the Methodist Episcopal Church of San Diego , were telegraphically secured . Lieutenant Phillip Reade , the officer in charge of government lines for California and Arizona , cleared the line for 650 miles from Camp Grant to San Diego for the unusual ceremony , and issued a general invitation up and down the division inviting all station managers and their guests to be telegraphically present . Each operator on the line accepted this novel invitation and with invited friends was present at his station as wedding guests . At 8:30 p.m. the father of the bride @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at Camp Grant : " Greetings to our friends at Camp Grant . We are ready to proceed with the ceremony . D. CHOATE AND PARTY " The answer at once came back : " We are ready . W. H. STOREY CLARA E. CHOATE " // As Mr. Mann read the ceremony , Chief Operator Blythe at San Diego transmitted it word for word to Camp Grant . The ceremony concluded , the chief operator wired the newlyweds that " the Silver Cornet band of San Diego is just outside the office , giving you and your bride a serenade . " In later years , it was not uncommon for the bridegroom to meet perfect strangers who would exclaim upon learning his name , " Storey ! Let me see , was n't you married by telegraph some years ago ? . . . Well , well , I was a guest at your wedding . I heard the whole ceremony at the telegraph office at Arizona . " This telegraphic wedding had what others lacked : participation by community members in good standing , both the regulars at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ professionals , all acquainted . Instead of narrowing the community of moral accountability , the telegraph had for a brief moment enlarged it . Dramas of wrongdoing that exploited ambiguous presence often turned on the subtle drama of proscribed relations between persons of unequal social status . Cases of telephone fraud were often most successful when their perpetrators pretended to rank high in the chain of social command . This was because any social inferior who challenged a legitimate claim of respect due a social superior risked heavy penalties for disregarding the rules of social distance . A clerk at the Ebbit House , a leading society hotel in Washington , D.C. , was deceived when a confidence man took advantage of the social insulation between the upper-crust clientele of the hotel and those in their service . The clerk received a call from someone who claimed to be " Major Peabody , a well-known permanent guest of the house , " who instructed the clerk to pay charges of $54.50 on a suit of clothes that was soon delivered as announced . The fraud was discovered when the real Major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gentleman fleeced a bartender for a gin fizz and an imported cigar by pretending to phone up a prominent local businessman to cancel an important appointment , " discovering " suddenly that he did not have enough cash for his refreshments , and promising to come back the following day to pay up . " The barkeeper did n't kick at all , the telephone conversation had fixed it , " and the successful con artist never returned.85 Because Erastus Wiman , owner of the ferry boat line between New York and Staten Island , occasionally called the pier with instructions to hold the last boat of an evening for his arrival , several enterprising young men tried phoning the pier and pretending to be Wiman in order to delay the boat until they could get to it themselves.86 Sometimes those lower on the social scale did mischief by a WHEN OLD TECHNOLOGIES WERE NEW propriating a communications technology their social superiors regarded as exclusively their own , and which they could not imagine those lower in the social order being clever or impudent enough to resort to ; or perhaps @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the telephone , since they assumed that such people would have no friends with telephones , and no one to talk to . William J. Brown , " a disgruntled laborer " discharged from the Brooklyn lumberyard of Alexander &; Ellis , did the unimaginable . He telephoned his former employers and ordered a large quantity of lumber in the name of a regular customer . Next , he intercepted the delivery and had the driver dump it in a vacant lot , in exchange for a forged receipt . This neatly sewed up the deception of his employers , who also trusted literate procedures . Finally , he carted off the lumber to sell it at a profit.87 In the conflict between high and low , high was not always right , however ? at least not altogether right . Comfort magazine printed a fiction story about John Drummond , an electrical stalwart against silkstocking crime , " supplementing his Tech ' education with a year of practical work . . . in the employ of one of the great electric companies . " In the course of repairing phone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a random dangling wire . Fate , manifested in unusual weather that caused mysterious electrical phenomena , rewarded John Drummond for performing his professional duties in a conscientious manner . He heard , conversing near an open telephone at the other end of the wire , an ungrateful son plotting to steal five thousand dollars from his wealthy father . This information was delivered to the father in a timely fashion , and the crime was aborted . The story celebrated the morality of the young professional in training who had so discreetly preserved the social order . The rich man kept his wealth and , as the story noted , nothing appeared in the papers . At no compromise of his principles , the electrician had proved indispensable to the maintenance of both public order and class structure.88 In urban environments , one could not be too careful with strangers who might falsely represent themselves as insiders . Familiar neighborhood circles could be infiltrated even by legitimate insiders with a false face . Typical was the 1907 tale of a suburban couple staying overnight with friends . While telephoning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they heard the click of another party lifting a receiver on the ten-party line . This " made no particular impression , as it was so common an occurrence . " When they returned home , howCommunity // ever , they found their house ransacked and robbed . According to the Baird Manufacturing Company , which claimed to have a system to protect householders against such invasions of home and privacy , police investigation had " developed the fact that a great many robberies had been planned and executed in the city from information obtained by listening in ' on party lines . X89 Further electrical duplicities were reported . A racing jockey in Guttenberg , New Jersey , concealed an electric battery in his silk jacket , connected to wires running down his legs to the spurs of his boots . By this means , he shocked his horse on to greater effort . He was discovered only because he weighed nine pounds extra as a result.90 The Lewiston , Maine , police found their liquor raids frustrated because a system of electric alarms operated by the saloons allowed outside @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the bartender inside of the arrival of the law.91 Chinese gambling dens in San Francisco protected themselves from police raids by concealed electric floor mats that set off special alarms at the approach of intruders , and by backroom electric alarms triggered by sentinels posted at front doors.92 Defending Nondemocratic Communication The conviction that new technologies of communication could help fight crime was no less popular than the idea that they would encourage it . There was no aspect of criminal surveillance or police intelligence to which their application was not suggested . Electric devices to foil or frighten criminals , gather evidence , or alert authorities to crimes in progress and citizens in need were the subject of elaborate and excited speculation . So were proposals to use secret photography to catch burglars in the act.93 Another invention that could be " pressed into the detective service and used as an unimpeachable witness " was the phonograph . " It will have but one story to tell , " explained Scientific American , " and cross examination can not confuse it . " 94 Machines that moved messages rapidly across @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centrally located authorities able to direct pursuit . In stories with a future dimension , wireless telegraphy was often enlisted . " The timid householder , " mused the popular British journal Answers in 1899 , " will henceforth keep a bottle of wireless telegraphy by his bedside , and flash a silent appeal for help to the nearest policestation when treated to a surprise visit by the ubiquitous and undesirable burglar . " 95 Police departments were one of the earliest groups of telephone // users . Boston police stations had been fitted with telephones by 1878.96 By 1888 Baltimore had established a system of 170 call boxes throughout the city to keep policemen on the beat in touch with headquarters . Each sergeant was required to telephone his station once an hour.97 A variety of electrical devices protected valuable property . Electric burglar alarms were considered a marvel of the age . Some included photographic devices to record suspicious activity . Others shocked intruders on the spot , or flooded the premises with light to scare them away . Special canes and umbrellas concealed electric devices to fend off @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Metropolitan Museum of Art were protected by an electric warning system connected to the director 's office.98 Electric protection of property was considered an indispensable aid to public order , but the moral force of the electrician 's calling was promoted more enthusiastically still in the idea that electricity provided the connecting links for a political order that sustained the economic one . " Suspend telegraphic communication for a day , and the uncertainty would spread distrust in financial circles , silence the fire alarm for a night and any one of our combustible cities might be known by its ashes alone , and extinguish the electric light while the sun is beneath the nadir , and crime would riot , " a prominent electrician declaimed to the New York Electric Club with characteristic rhetorical extravagance.99 Electricians and politicians instinctively reached out to one another , even though relations between them were not always smooth . Electricians recognized the state as a prospective ally and patron , and the state recognized the utility of electrical technology , especially electrical communication , for expansion and control . This was the thrust of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1888 in honor of a demonstration of the longest telegraphic circuit ever worked , an 8,100-mile connection from New York to London through Canada , the occasion for which was the commissioner 's visit to Vancouver : " Is not the click of this key ? heard in two hemispheres ? more eloquent than all the arguments of empire ever penned ? " ' ? ? National governments believed sufficiently in the value of electrical control to spend increasing amounts on it . The Electrical Review of London reported that the Chancellor of the Exchequer had put the total cost of telegrams from all government departments during 1884 at roughly ? 16,000 sterling . Subsidies amounting to ? 49,000 net had been paid by the Imperial Exchequer to submarine telegraph companies in the previous year . When the Eastern Telegraph Company laid // two cables to Australia , one was subsidized by the Australian colonies at ? 32,400 annually.101 hi 1896 , William Edward Hartpole Lecky wrote of the telegraph : It has brought the distant dependencies of the Empire into far closer connection with the mother country ; but it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Home Ministers of continually meddling with the details of their administration is a good thing . . . . The telegram , on the other hand , has greatly strengthened the central Government in repressing insurrections , protecting property , and punishing crime . It has , at least , modified the Irish difficulty by bringing Dublin within a few minutes ' communication of London.102 Prince Bismarck , wont to complain of the burden " of being kept incessantly on the alert by electrical communication , " was connected directly by wire with the foreign office at Vienna , and " with its assistance he controls Austro-Hungarian politics . " t03 " One of these days , " predicted Electrical World , " the office of the Secretary of State at Washington will be connected by wire with the foreign offices of Mexico and Nicaragua , for the better discharge of our duties of ' protectorate ' over those countries. , , 104 In their appointed task of approximating ideal cities , industrial expositions deployed electric communication as a form of efficient social control . Typical was the fire alarm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1885 World 's Exposition in New Orleans . " The buildings are constantly patrolled by thoroughly disciplined policemen , who on the slightest approximation to fire , undue heat or disturbance of any character anywhere , will immediately send the alarm.i105 During railroad strikes in 1892 at Buffalo , New York , the telegraph and telephone were " invaluable aids " in summoning military personnel from their homes , clubs , and vacations.106 " In view of the riots and unruly meetings of the unemployed which now take place every winter in the West End of London , " reported the Electrician in 1888 , the London police had connected all stations by a complete and independent telephone system . Additional direct lines connected high police officials and the fire brigade , the houses of Parliament , and the War Office . " It will be possible to collect a large force at any desired point , within a very short time . " 107 Electric control could also be exercised over underlings in the workplace . A British observer reporting on " daily practical " applications of electricity in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " to monitor night watchmen. // Keys are placed all over the building , to be depressed by the watchman when he goes his rounds ; this operates a registering pencil in a clock . The register-sheet , which is changed daily , and which is placed in the manager 's office , can not be got at by the watchman . The man 's whereabouts at any hour or minute is thus permanently registered , and can be checked in the morning . ' The most powerful demonstration of social control through electricity was no exercise in communication , however , but in ultimate , unanswerable force . The death penalty , Scientific American speculated in 1876 , would be a more effective deterrent if electricity were used to administer it , as " the peculiar death by lightning , which , among the ignorant of all nations and ages has been the subject of profound superstition , would , without doubt , through its very incomprehensibility and mystery imbue the uneducated masses with a deeper horror . " ' 09 Answers predicted a no less total but more subtle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ control whose characteristics of action at a distance were suggested by electricity and embroidered in a typically futuristic way : If any person is drunken , lazy , or diseased , he is immediately cited by hypnotic summons ? the telephone is now obsolete ? to the municipal laboratories to receive the proper microbes to make him a decent citizen . If he fails to attend , the operator ( a powerful hypnotizer ) brings his influence to bear upon him , and he then comes without any further difficulty . So policemen , gaols , workhouses , etc. , are all abolished . " 0 The choice of electricity to defend a despotic order of force over a democratic order of mutual communication suggests a system of political values dramatically at odds with public rhetoric about the socially harmonizing effects of electric communication , and with promises , albeit lofty and vague , to make it more democratic , and soon . This rhetoric created a dilemma for those in charge , or aspiring to be in charge , since a truly democratic communications network would cease to be an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a class community that cared very much for such distinctions . At different moments , electric communication was presented as a herald of democracy and as a superior means for controlling masses , criminals , primitives , servants , and whatever other underclasses might need restraint . The literature of egalitarian exhortation in behalf of a future of universal electrical consumption also printed subtle and not so subtle arguments as to why the telephone , the most sophisticated instrument of electrical communication , would never become truly democratic . // One line of argument presented the social telephone as a luxury plaything noxious to a domestic life of sober responsibility . This was the suggestion behind a statement attributed to a British aristocrat in Lightning in 1893 : The telephone was tried recently in a large country house as a brilliant idea to relieve the sombre function of entertaining Royalty , and succeeded passing well . But possibly , when the novelty has worn off , the amusement will vanish also . Personally , there are few things I dread more than using a telephone . " ' When the poor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ electric media , the sentiments attributed to them were often slyly framed by the suggestion that this was a world far beyond their conception . This joke from Electrical World , replete with the debased language that characterized the poor from the perspective of literate privilege , made that point : " Lectric wires , indade ! Arrah , they 'll make foine clothes lines for us poor folks when they rin ' em over these roofs ; they 're just clan and purty for it . " " Och ! bad cess to yes if yer tech wan o ' thim . Me ould man sez as how one ind on ' em 's fastened to the divil 's own tail and the ither rests in the furnace o ' hell . Yer 'd be half way through purgatory afore your washin ' was dry . " i ' 2 Arguments were made that the utility of the telephone could not be preserved without restricting its availability . Keeping British telephone service expensive and exclusive expressed political priorities about whose communications needs were important to the British government and whose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Morley to Parliament in 1895 : the telephone could not , and never would be an advantage which could be enjoyed by the large mass of the people . He would go further and say if in a town like London or Glasgow the telephone service was so inexpensive , that it could be placed in the houses of the people , it a large number of people using instruments they could not get prompt communication , and yet make the telephone service effective.13 Speaking to the Telephone Convention in Philadelphia in 1888 , Dr. S. M. Plush argued that misguided zeal in regulating telephone rates had induced those with " no real need for the facilities " to become // subscribers . Nothing , he felt , had disadvantaged telephone companies and their subscribers more than " cheap rates . " As a result : This lends a tone to their business , it is true , and serves in a measure as a card of respectability . Their place at once assumes an imaginary importance , and if there is any one thing that delights them more than another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a leading and substantial firm . This they manage to have at frequent intervals , thus taking the time and monopolizing the wires of others to their detriment and absolute loss.14 An exchange could be so large as to be worthless . In the interests of " busy houses , " a time might come when the price of an annual rental fee would be an insufficient method for weeding out undesirable subscribers , making it necessary to implement a method whereby suitable subscribers would be required to hold membership certificates that entitled them to service . The idea that the telephone was a general-purpose communications device instead of the exclusive property of a small group that used it for narrowly defined ends had to be invented and defended , and had to do battle in the course of its development with a far more limited notion of telephone possibilities . It happened that certain indignant New England subscribers gave up their phones after rates rose from $30 to $36 a year for residences and from $36 to $42 for businesses . In response , the editors of the New York @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has no more use for a telephone than is represented by an outlay of $42 per annum , he evidently does not need the telephone at all . " ' " Confrontations between the restricted elite telephone and the inclusive convenience telephone were sometimes dramatic . In Britain in 1889 , postal officials reprimanded a Leicester subscriber for using his phone to notify the fire brigade of a nearby conflagration . The fire was not on his premises , and his contract directed him to confine his telephone " to his own business and private affairs . " 16 The Leicester Town Council , Chamber of Commerce , and Trade Protection Society all appealed to the postmaster-general , who ruled that the use of the telephone to convey intelligence of fires and riots would be permitted thenceforth . The conflict between these two visions of the telephone was sharpest when the issue at stake could be identified as a critical public interest . A committee of the National Telephone Exchange Association discovered that local fire departments differed among themselves about whether // telephone alarms called in by the general public should @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the existence of more telephones than telegraph alarm boxes , the greater speed of telephonic communication , and the fact that telephones were already used to communicate between fire department headquarters and enginehouses . It had documented " hundreds " of cases in which telephone alarms had been effective . Still , " in almost every branch of business " there was concern that popular channels of communication could not be relied on for reporting emergencies . One fire superintendent feared that if subscribers could easily reach his office , " he would be constantly annoyed by false alarms and trivial questions and that his department would be burdened with a great amount of unnecessary work and damage . " " ' On the other hand , a case was reported to the committee in which a woman alone in her house called up headquarters and stated , very coolly and explicitly , that the house was on fire and that there was urgent need of the assistance of the fire department which she could not , without difficulty , reach in any other way . As this was not according @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give any alarm and remained quietly in his office for about ten minutes until the alarm was received from a . . . box , quite distant from the burning building , which , in consequence , was almost entirely destroyed at a loss of not less than fifty thousand dollars.ua Proposals to widen the reach of telephone service were often indignantly resisted . In 1884 a subscriber in Edinburgh was outraged to learn that his local phone company planned to put a number of telephones " where any person off the street may for a trifling payment ? a penny is suggested in some places ? ring up any subscriber , and insist on holding a conversation with him . " Against the plan , he argued that subscribers have the security at present that none but subscribers can address them in this way , and that these are equally interested in the telephone not becoming a nuisance . But if everybody who has a penny or threepence to spare can insist on being listened to by any of the leading business establishments of the city , we shall @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by paying less regard to all telephone communications . By an unusual logic , he concluded that more accessible telephone service would cause the number of subscribers to drop . The presence of // fewer subscribers would return the system to equilibrium and its previous state of inaccessibility , but with a different set of subscribers , doubtless of a less desirable complexion . Subscribers of social substance would find their special preserve oven-un . People like him would be forced to publish notices next to their telephone numbers advising that they received calls only at certain hours . Perhaps they would have to hire " telephonists " to sift verbal communications , just as secretaries weeded correspondence , 119 Such efforts to recover the exclusivity of a more restricted telephone service were doomed to fail . The only defense against the widening democracy of the telephone was to keep one 's name out of the directory , and by 1897 it was claimed that many busy men did this . ' 2 ? A similar plan was put into effect in Glasgow in 1888 with seventy-six automatic call boxes . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deposit three pennies or six , according to the distance called , for a three-minute connection , which was broken after the elapsed time.12 ' In Paris callers were issued fifty-centime ( ten-cent ) tickets to go to a post office for a five-minute conversation with any other telephone in the city . In addition , telephonic communication was established between drugstores and hospitals by the Society of Ambulances , for emergency use in case of accidents.122 In 1889 , the New York and New Jersey Telephone Company made plans to erect " slot-telephone machines " at elevated stations and other places of " public resort , " where for a nickel patrons could ring up Central to complete the connection.123 The accessibility of the telephone was an issue in a number of American court cases that tested whether subscribers whose friends or customers used their telephones were liable for more than the usual flat rate , or indeed could have their phones removed . As early as 1885 a subscriber sued the Southern Bell Telephone Company for five thousand dollars after the company cut his line as a penalty for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his phone . A jury in Charleston , South Carolina , found for the plaintiff , awarding one dollar and costs . The judge had instructed that nonsubscribers could not avail themselves of the plaintiff 's telephone by the terms of his contract , but added that the company could not cut the wire without having forbidden the practice in writing.124 In 1898 the electrical press picked up a story in which Mr. Danenhower , proprietor of the Fredonia Hotel in Washington , D.C. , secured an injunction against the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone // Company for attempting to remove the telephone that had graced his hotel lobby for eight years . Danenhower had repeatedly ignored company warnings against allowing hotel guests to use the instrument . " On January 14th , after I had used the telephone four times , a guest of the hotel used it , and when he had finished , Mr. Bryan called me up personally and told me if I did n't cease the illegitimate use of the telephone it would have to be removed . " 125 He was not even permitted to call @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thirteen years , to inquire about ill family members without paying a ten-cent charge for each call over and above the regular annual rental fee of $100 for his hotel phone , $120 for his warehouse phone. , In U.S. District Court , Justice Cox stipulated that Danenhower must observe the terms of his contract with the telephone company . Guests could not use the instrument for personal business . Use of the telephone must be limited to the " benefit and the accommodation of boarders , " which included sending for a wagon or carriage , but precluded calling up for stock reports or ordering theatre tickets . The judge ruled that the telephone company must serve all patrons on the same terms , and he suggested that the telegraph provided the relevant model . Though telegraph companies often placed instruments in hotels , hotel guests did not expect to use them personally . " It is very annoying , " he wrote , for a subscriber to call for a certain number and be told that the connection he wants is busy , that being due to the fact @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the telephone with which connection is desired . . . . The guest does not have his telegrams sent free of charge , nor does he secure the service of messengers and the use of carriages without pay . Why should he be allowed to use the telephone without paying for its use ? One of the telephone company 's objectives in the Danenhower case had been to create a demand for dime-in-the-slot telephones in hotels , drugstores , and police stations , where available phones were often treated as community message centers by nonsubscribers.126 This solution was arrived at after druggists , hotel proprietors , and others repeatedly resisted telephone company efforts to raise rates for commercial subscribers whose telephones were available to the public or their own clientele . in 1891 , for example , three hundred druggists in Baltimore signed a petition threatening to order their telephones removed from their stores in the event of a proposed increase in rates // for messages transmitted by anyone other than themselves as original renters. 127 The nature of the public demand for telephone services was varied . In 1888 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of messages he was expected to deliver daily . When the circus had come to town , for example , a gentleman had requested him to inform the gentleman 's mother , who lived two blocks away , at what hour the parade would pass his office . A young newlywed persuaded him to call up her husband at a downtown store . She took the receiver and launched into a lengthy and intimate lovers ' conversation . Another young woman asked him to deliver to a certain young man in the neighborhood the message that she had decided not to marry him and all the wedding presents would have to be returned . Another man had awakened him in the middle of the night begging him to telephone the police to report a lost child . Still another man had prevailed on him to call a physician who lived three or four blocks away . He resented this monopoly of his time without compensation , but conceded that drugstores had been providing such services for years , and the public now expected it.128 He paid $150 a year for his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ use , most did not.129 Employees at establishments with telephones were usually regarded as legitimate business users of those telephones , but the expansive temptations of the sociable telephone made narrow rules of conversation difficult to enforce , especially when the employees of the telephone company were wont to engage in a bit of sociable exchange . The Brooklyn Times described a kind of rule-bending that even the telephone company could not control : The joy of the all-night telephone girl , the one upon which her chief reliance is placed to help her cheat the long hours of weariness , is the sociable night clerks in the always-open drug stores . The latter entertain a sort of brotherly affection for the night operator , and evidently lose much sleep in inventing ways for her entertainment . The ways of the young drug clerk , fresh from college , are usually refreshing . As a general thing he can warble sweetly , and any knots that may be in his vocalization are toned down and smoothed out in transmission . His repertory is inexhaustive and includes everything in the song dealers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Just One Girl " to " Cavalleria Rusticana . " Then he tells such funny stories and is so unassuming . Besides , it is a poor drug store nowadays that does n't boast a music box , and this is frequently brought into requisition for the benefit of the all-night operators . " ' // Despite energetic efforts to limit nonsubscriber use by threatening to remove instruments , by installing pay telephones , and by issuing tickets to nonsubscribers , to be surrendered to rightful subscribers call by call , emerging networks of telephone sociability undermined every effort to make the telephone restrictive and inegalitarian . " It is surprising that the number of people who use a telephone and never pay is so large , " the Electrical Review mused . " The telephone is apparently looked upon as a public convenience , and quite often in the smaller cities a single telephone is expected to answer for an entire block . i 13 ' In 1900 the Western Electrician predicted that telephones would grace " every well-ordered household in the United States within the next decade . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its editors believed competition would provide . In the old days of the Bell patent monopoly ( 1879-97 ) , the Bell Company had had " no need to popularize the telephone ; it preferred a limited service at high prices to a widespread use of the telephone at rates within the reach of persons of moderate means . " ' Thomas Edison had given his opinion of an economically democratized telephone service to the Boston Herald in 1885 : " The tariff rates are now so high as to preclude the average householder from taking advantage of the service unless a number of subscribers are all connected with one wire . Of course , this is objectionable , as each subscriber on the wire hears whatever conversation is going on over it . Recent experiments have shown that all this may be obviated , and that one of a number of subscribers on the same wire may have his own words secure against eavesdropping . The perfecting of these experiments will lead to great extension of private house business , and the telephone will come within the means of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and other new media came relatively sudden and largely unanticipated possibilities of mixing heterogeneous social worlds ? a useful opportunity for some , a dreadful intrusion for others . New media took social risks by permitting outsiders to cross boundaries of race , gender , and class without penalty . They provided new ways to silence underclasses and to challenge authority by altering customary orders of secrecy and publicity , and customary proprieties of address and interaction . Well-insulated communities of pre-telephone days could not remain forever untouched by these developments , nor were telephone companies able to ensure that emerging telephone communities would keep within the bounds of social de108 WHEN OLD TECHNOLOGIES WERE NEW corum and work-related use . Somewhere between the expansive intentions of entrepreneurs and the practiced exclusivity of familiar social codes , the telephone and other new media introduced a permeable boundary at the vital center of class and family , where innovative experiments could take place in all social relations , from crime to courtship .                    @ 