@@774151

txt  | why : Only when a prophecy is believed , that is , only when it is seen as a fact that has , so to speak , already happened in the future , can it have a tangible effect on the present and thereby fulfill itself . Where this element of belief or conviction is absent , this effect will be absent as well . To inquire how the construction or acceptance of such a prophecy comes to be would go far beyond the scope of this essay . ( An extensive study of the social , psychological , and physiological effects of self-fulfilling prophecies was published in 1974 by Jones 14 . ) Too numerous and various are the factors involved ? from the realities one fabricates for oneself during the course of the so-called noncontingent reward experiments 27 mentioned on p. 13 , to such oddities as the ( perhaps unverified , but not improbable ) assertion that since Bernadette had a vision of the Virgin Mary in February of 1858 , only pilgrims , but not a single inhabitant of Lourdes , found @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ say , se non e vero , e ben trovato , since it helps to build a bridge from our previous , somewhat trivial reflections to manifestations of self-fulfilling prophecies that have a deeper human as well as scientific significance . The oracle had prophesied that Oedipus would kill his father and marry his mother . Horrified by this prediction , which he undoubtedly believed to be true , Oedipus tries to protect himself from the impending doom , but the precautionary measures themselves lead to the seemingly inescapable fulfillment of the oracle 's dictum . As is known , Freud used this myth as a metaphor for the incestuous attraction for the opposite sex inherent in every child , and the consequent fear of retaliation on the part of the parent of the same sex ; and he saw in this key constellation , the Oedipus conflict , the fundamental cause of later neurotic developments . In his autobiography 17 the philosopher Karl Popper refers back to a self-fulfilling prophecy that he had already described two decades earlier and which he called the Oedipus effect : One of the ideas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of a prediction upon the event predicted . I had called this the " Oedipus effect , " because the oracle played a most  | important role in the sequence of events which led to the fulfilment of its prophecy . ( It was also an allusion to the psychoanalysts , who had been strangely blind to this interesting fact , even though Freud himself admitted that the very dreams dreamt by patients were often coloured by the theories of their analysts ; Freud called them " obliging dreams . " ) Again we have the reversal of cause and effect , past and future ; but here it is all the more critical and decisive because psychoanalysis is a theory of human behavior that hinges on the assumption of a linear causality , in which the past determines the present . And Popper points to the significance of this reversal by explicating further : For a time I thought that the existence of the Oedipus effect distinguished the social from the natural sciences . But in biology too ? even in molecular biology ? expectations often play a role @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , referring to the effect of such " unscientific " factors as simple expectations and assumptions in the sciences , could be collated in abundance ? the book in hand is itself intended as such a contribution . In this connection one might recall , for instance , Einstein 's remark in a talk with Heisenberg : " It is the theory that determines what we can observe . " And in 1959 Heisenberg himself says , " We have to remember that what we observe is not nature in itself , but nature exposed to our method of questioning " 11 . And more radical still , the philosopher of science Feyerabend : " Not conservative , but anticipatory suppositions guide research " 7 . Some of the most carefully documented and elegant investigations of self-fulfilling prophecies in the area of human communication are associated with the name of the psychologist Robert Rosenthal of Harvard University . Of particular interest here is his book with the appropriate title Pygmalion in the Classroom 19 , in which he describes the results of his so-called Oak School experiments . They concerned a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The self-fulfilling prophecy was induced in the members of the  | faculty at the beginning of a certain school year by giving the students an intelligence test whereby the teachers were told that the test could not only determine intelligence quotients , but could also identify those 20% of the students who would make rapid and above-average intellectual progress in the coming school year . After the intelligence test had been administered , but before the teachers had met their new students for the first time , they received the names ( indiscriminately picked from the student list ) of those students who supposedly , on the basis of the test , could be expected with certainty to perform unusually well . The difference between these children and the others thus existed solely in the heads of their particular teacher . The same intelligence test was repeated at the end of the school year for all students and showed real above-average increases in the intelligence quotients and achievements of these " special " students , and the reports of the faculty proved furthermore that these children distinguished themselves from their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and so on . Saint Augustine thanked God that he was not responsible for his dreams . Nowadays we do not have this comfort . Rosenthal 's experiment is only one , although especially clear example of how deeply and incisively our fellow human beings are affected by our expectations , prejudices , superstitions , and wishful thinking ? all purely mental constructions , often without the slightest glimmer of actuality ? and how these discoveries erode our comfortable conviction of the surpassing importance of heredity and innate characteristics . For it hardly needs to be expressly emphasized that these constructions can have negative as well as positive effects . We are not only responsible for our dreams , but also for the reality created by our hopes and thoughts . It would , however , be a mistake to assume that self-fulfilling prophecies are restricted to human beings . Their effects reach deeper , into prehuman stages of development , and are in this sense even more alarming . Even before Rosenthal carried out his Oak School experiment , he reported in a book 18 published in 1966 a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many scholars in the follow-  | ing years . Twelve participants in a laboratory course in experimental psychology were given a lecture on certain studies that purported to prove that good or bad test achievements of rats ( for instance , in learning experiments in labyrinth cages ) can become innate by selective breeding . Six of the students then received thirty rats whose genetic constitution allegedly made them especially good , intelligent laboratory subjects , while the other six students were assigned thirty rats of whom they were told the opposite , namely , that they were animals whose hereditary factors made them unsuitable for experiments . In fact and truth , the sixty rats were all of the same kind , the one that has always been used for such purposes . All sixty animals were then trained for exactly the same learning experiment . The rats whose trainers believed them to be especially intelligent did not just do better from the very outset , but raised their achievements far above that of the " unintelligent " animals . At the end of the five-day experiment the trainers were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the noted results of the experiments . The students who " knew " that they were working with unintelligent animals expressed themselves accordingly , that is , negatively , in their reports , whereas their colleagues , who had experimented with rats of supposedly above-average talents , rated their charges as friendly , intelligent , ingenious , and the like , and mentioned furthermore that they had often touched the animals , petted them , and even played with them . When we consider the surpassing role rat experiments play in experimental psychology and especially in the psychology of learning , and how often inferences are drawn from them to human behavior , these inferences now seem somewhat questionable . Rats are known to be very intelligent animals , and the students ' reports suggest that in the way they handled their animals , they literally " handed " them their assumptions and expectations . But the results of another research project , reported in 1963 by the research team Cordaro and Ison 5 , suggest that it is not only a matter of such direct influence . In this project @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are of great interest for the student of evolu-  | tion and of behavior alike , in that they are the most primitive form of life possessing the rudiments of a brain . The supposition therefore suggested itself that these worms were capable of training of the simplest kind , as , for instance , a change in direction ( to the left or to the right ) upon arriving at the crossbeam of a T-shaped groove arrangement . Experiments of this kind began in several American universities in the late fifties . As in the rat experiments , Cordaro and Ison caused the experimenters to believe that they were working with especially intelligent or especially incapable worms , and even here , at this primitive stage of development ( which , moreover , left little room for emotional attachment ) , there grew from the conviction , once it was established , objectively discernible and statistically significant differences in the experimental behavior of the planaria.2 For the very reason that these experiments undermine our basic concepts , it is all too easy to shrug them off and return to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instance , test psychologists ignore these extremely disturbing results and continue to test people and animals with unmitigated tenacity and scientific " objectivity " is only a small example of the determination with which we defend ourselves when our world view is being threatened . The fact that we are responsible to the world in its entirety and to a much higher degree than is dreamed of in our philosophy is Footnote  | for the present almost unthinkable ; but it can penetrate our consciousness through a better understanding of the processes of human communication ? a study that will encompass many disciplines that heretofore have been either considered as being quite independent of each other or not considered at all . Rosenhan 's contribution to this book ( p. 117 ff. ) illuminates the alarming possibility that at least some so-called mental illnesses are nothing but constructions , and that the psychiatric institutions actually contribute to the constructions of those realities that are supposed to be treated therein . The chronic problem that still plagues modem psychiatry is that we have only the vaguest and most general concepts for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abnormal behavior there exist catalogs perfected to the last detail . Freud , for instance , used the concept of the ability to love and work as a basic criterion for mature emotional normalcy ( a definition that does not do justice to a Hitler , on the one hand , or to the proverbial eccentricities of men of genius , on the other ) . The other medical specialties work with definitions of pathology that refer to certain deviations from fairly well-known normal functions of the healthy organism . Quite irrationally , in psychiatry it is just the opposite . Here pathology is considered the known factor , whereas normalcy is seen as difficult to define , if it is definable at all . This opens the floodgates to self-fulfilling diagnoses . There is a great number of very definite patterns of behavior that in the terminology of psychiatry are so tightly associated with certain diagnostic categories ( again I refer to Rosenhan ) that they virtually function like Pavlovian buzzers , not only in the thinking of the psychiatrist but also in the family environment of the patient . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ take on the meaning of pathological manifestations on the basis of their cultural and societal significance , and how these manifestations in turn become self-fulfilling prophecies , would go beyond the scope of this essay . Of the already quite extensive literature on this topic , The Manufacture of Madness 26 by Thomas Szasz is particularly notable . Suffice it to say that an essential part of the self-fulfilling effect of psychiatric diagnoses is based on  | our unshakable conviction that everything that has a name must therefore actually exist . The materializations and actualizations of psychiatric diagnoses probably originate largely from this conviction . " Magic " diagnoses , in the actual sense of the word , have of course been known for a very long time . In his classic paper " Voodoo Death " 4 , the American physiologist Walter Cannon described a number of mysterious , sudden , and scientifically difficult to explain deaths that followed curses , evil spells , or the breaking of moral taboos . A Brazilian Indian , cursed by a medicine man , is helpless against his own emotional response to this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hunter unknowingly kills and eats an inviolably banned wild hen . When he discovers his crime , he is overcome with despair and dies within twenty-four hours . A medicine man in the Australian bush points a bone with magic properties at a man . Believing that nothing can save him , the man sinks into lethargy and prepares to die . He is saved only at the last moment , when other members of the tribe force the witch doctor to remove the spell . Cannon became convinced that voodoo death exists as a phenomenon , characteristically noted among aborigines ? among human beings so primitive , so superstitious , so ignorant , that they feel themselves bewildered strangers in a hostile world . Instead of knowledge , they have fertile and unrestricted imaginations which fill their environment with all manner of evil spirits capable of affecting their lives disastrously . At the time when Cannon wrote these lines , hundreds of thousands of human beings who were neither superstitious nor ignorant had every reason to see themselves as bewildered victims of an unimaginably hostile world . From the haunted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reports a phenomenon that corresponds to voodoo death : The prisoner who had lost faith in the future ? his future ? was doomed . With his loss of belief in the future , he also lost his  | spiritual hold ; he let himself decline and became subject to mental and physical decay . Usually this happened quite suddenly , in the form of a crisis , the symptoms of which were familiar to the experienced camp inmate . We all feared this moment ? not for ourselves , which would have been pointless , but for our friends . Usually it began with the prisoner refusing one morning to get dressed and wash or to go out on the parade grounds . No entreaties , no blows , no threats had any effect . He just lay there . One of Frankl 's fellow prisoners lost his will to live when his own prediction , seen in a dream , did not come true and thereby became a negative self-fulfillment . " I would like to tell you something , Doctor , " he said to Frankl , I @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that I could wish for something , that I should only say what I wanted to know , and all my questions would be answered . What do you think I asked ? That I would like to know when the war would be over for me . You know what I mean , Doctor ? for me ! I wanted to know when we , when our camp , would be liberated and our sufferings come to an end . . . . Furtively he whispered to me , " March thirtieth . " But when the day of the prophesied liberation was near and the Allied forces were still far from the camp , things took a fateful turn for Frankl 's fellow sufferer , the prisoner F. : On March twenty-ninth , F. suddenly became ill and ran a high temperature . On March thirtieth , the day his prophecy had told him that the war and suffering would be over for him , he became delirious and lost consciousness . On March thirty-first , he was dead . He had died of typhus . As a physician @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ liberation did not come and he was severely disappointed . This suddenly lowered his body 's resistance against the latent typhus infection . We admire human beings who face death calmly . Dying " decently , " in a composed manner , without wrangling with  | the inevitable , was and is considered in most cultures an expression of wisdom and unusual maturity . All the more surprising and sobering therefore are the results of modern cancer research , which suggest that the mortality rate is higher in those patients who prepare themselves for death in a mature , serene way or who , like the concentration camp prisoner F. , fall victim to a negative self-fulfilling prophecy . For those patients , however , who cling to life in a seemingly senseless , irrational , and immature way or who are convinced that they simply " can not " or " must not " die because they have important work to do or family members to take care of , the prognosis is considerably more favorable . To the American oncologist Carl Simonton , whose name is associated , above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ factors , now more and more recognized for their importance in the treatment of cancer , three things are of the utmost significance in this connection : the belief system of the patient , that of the patient 's family , and , third , that of the attending physician 21 . That each one of these belief systems can become a self-fulfilling prophecy seems credible in the light of what we have discussed so far . Furthermore , the studies and research reports about the susceptibility of the human immune system to mood swings , suggestions , and visual imagery 22,23 are increasing . How much can and should a physician tell his patients , not only about the gravity of their illnesses , but also about the dangers inherent in the treatment itself ? At least in certain countries this question is becoming more and more rhetorical . The risk of getting hit with a malpractice suit because a patient has not been informed about his disease and its treatment down to the last technical detail causes many doctors in the United States , for example , to protect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The protection consists in asking the patient for a written consent to treatment in which the most catastrophic possible consequences of the illness and of the measures deemed necessary by the doctor are listed in every detail . It is not hard to imagine that this creates a kind of self-fulfilling prophecy that has a paralyzing effect on the confidence and will to recover of even the  | most sanguine patient . Who has not read the description of even a seemingly harmless medication and then had the feeling of swallowing poison ? How does the layman ( or , presumably , even the professional ) know that he is not going to be the fourth of the three fatalities reported to date that were inexplicably caused by a medication so far used safely by millions ? But fiat justitia , pereat mundus . Since in the patient 's eye a doctor is a kind of mediator between life and death , his utterances can easily become selffulfilling prophecies . The astonishing degree to which this is possible is portrayed in a case reported ( but unfortunately not sufficiently documented ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here is that a misunderstanding shifted the prophecy from death to life : In a provincial Austrian hospital , a man lay gravely ill ? in fact , at death 's door . The medical staff had told him frankly that they could not diagnose his disease , but that if they knew the diagnosis they could probably cure him . They told him further that a famous diagnostician was soon to visit the hospital and that perhaps he could spot the trouble . Within a few days the diagnostician arrived and proceeded to make the rounds . Coming to this man 's bed , he merely glanced at the patient , murmured , " Moribundus , " and went on . Some years later , the patient called on the diagnostician and said , " I 've been wanting to thank you for your diagnosis . They told me that if you could diagnose me I 'd get well , and so the minute you said ' moribundus ' I knew I 'd recover " 1 . Knowledge of the healing effect of positive predictions is undoubtedly just as ancient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spells . Modern knowing use of positive suggestions and autosuggestions ranges from the " I will recover ; I feel better every day " of Emile Coue , through numerous forms of hypnotherapeutic interventions 10 , to influencing the course of an illness ? and not only cancer ? by positive imagery . The extent to which such imagery that a ( future ) event has already taken place can reach into the physical realm is suggested by several studies according to which it is possible to increase a woman 's chest measure-  | ment by an average of four to five centimeters through the use of certain self-hypnotic techniques 24,31 . I mention these " successes " with all due skepticism and simply as curiosities testifying to the towering importance of the female breast in the North American erotic ethos . Brief mention should also be made of the modern physiological and endocrinological studies that indicate more and more the possibility of stimulating the functions of the immune system of the human organism by certain experiences and that these functions are by no means completely autonomous ( that is , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recently . Medical research is likely to make astonishing discoveries in this field in the near future . For instance , it is now known that the organism itself produces a number of morphium-like substances ? the so-called endorphins 2 ? that are analgesic and whose production is stimulated by certain emotional processes . There is thus a wide-open , unexplored territory in which the phenomenon of self-fulfilling prophecies begins to achieve scientific respectability . Just as decisive as a doctor 's suggestive comments , expectations , and convictions are the measures he takes and the remedies he administers . Of special interest here are placebos3 3 , those chemically inert substances that resemble certain medicines in shape , taste , or color but which have no pharmaceutical effect . We must remember that until about 100 years ago nearly all medications were practically ineffective in the modern sense . They were only slightly more elegant tinctures and powders than the ground toads , the lizard blood , the " sacred oils , " or the pulverized horn of the rhinoceros of even earlier times . During my childhood , people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ necklace of garlic would protect them from the common cold , to say nothing about the well-known success of magic in the treatment of warts . Even in our time , old " tried and true " remedies or sensational new discoveries ( as , for example , Laetrile ) are always being unmasked as pharmaceutically ineffective . Footnote  | But that is not to say that they were or are functionally ineffective . " One should treat as many patients as possible with the new remedies , as long as these are still working , " reads the maxim of a famous physician , attributed to Trousseau , Osier , or Sydenham . Scientific interest in placebos is rapidly increasing . In his contribution to the history of the placebo effect Shapiro 20 points out that more articles on this topic were published in scientific journals between 1954 and 1957 alone than in the first fifty years of the twentieth century . Most of these reports discuss traditional pharmaceutical effectiveness studies , in which one group of patients receives the new medication while another takes a placebo . The purpose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ course of the illness of the " actually " treated patients is different from that of the placebo group . Only people whose world view is based on classical linear causal thinking ( for which there is only an " objective " relationship between cause and effect ) react with consternation when they realize that the patients " treated " with placebos often show a quite " inexplicable " improvement in their condition . In other words , the claim of the doctor who administers the placebo that it is an effective , newly developed medicine and the patient 's willingness to believe in its effectiveness create a reality in which the assumption actually becomes a fact . Enough examples . Self-fulfilling prophecies are phenomena that not only shake up our personal conception of reality , but which can also throw doubt on the world view of science . They all share the obviously reality-creating power of a firm belief in the " suchness " of things , a faith that can be a superstition as well as a seemingly strictly scientific theory derived from objective observation . Until recently it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to ascribe them to the inadequate reality adaptation of muddle-headed thinkers and romanticists , but we no longer have this convenient escape hatch open to us . What all this means can not yet be appraised with any certainty . The discovery that we create our own realities is comparable to the expulsion from the paradise of the presumed suchness of the world , a world in which we can certainly  | suffer , but for which we need only feel responsible in a very limited way 27 . And here lies the danger . The insights of constructivism may have the highly desirable advantage of allowing for new and more effective forms of therapy 28 , but like all remedies , they can also be abused . Advertising and propaganda are two especially repugnant examples : Both try quite deliberately to bring about attitudes , assumptions , prejudices , and the like , whose realization then seems to follow naturally and logically . Thanks to this brainwashing , the world is then seen as " thus " and therefore is " thus . " In the novel 1984 16 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explains that it " makes all other modes of thinking impossible . " In a recent review of a volume of essays published in London on censorship in the People 's Republic of Poland 25 , Daniel Weiss writes about this magic language : Compare for example the great number of adjectives , characteristic for Newspeak : Every development is nothing less than " dynamic , " every plenary session of the party " historic , " the masses always " proletarian workers . " A sober communication scientist will find nothing but redundance in this inflation of mechanized epithets , drained of meaning . But after listening repeatedly , this automation is felt to have the equality of an incantation : The spoken word is no longer used to carry information , it has become the instrument of magic 30 . And finally the world simply is thus . How it was made to be this way was well known to Joseph Goebbels , when he lectured the managers of German radio stations on March 25 , 1933 : This is the secret of propaganda : To totally saturate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with the ideas of the propaganda , without him even noticing that he is being saturated . Propaganda has of course a purpose , but this purpose must be disguised with such shrewdness and virtuosity that he who is supposed to be filled with this purpose never even knows what is happening 9.  | In the necessity of disguising the purpose , however , lies the possibility of overcoming it . As we have seen , the invented reality will become " actual " reality only if the invention is believed . Where the element of faith , of blind conviction , is absent , there will be no effect . With the better understanding of self-fulfilling prophecies our ability to transcend them grows . A prophecy that we know to be only a prophecy can no longer fulfill itself . The possibility of choosing differently ( of being a heretic ) and of disobeying always exists ; whether we see it and act on it is , of course , another question . An insight from the seemingly far-removed domain of the mathematical theory of games is of interest @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Foundations of Mathematics 32 that certain games can be won with a simple trick . As soon as someone calls our attention to the existence of this trick , we no longer have to continue playing naively ( and continue losing ) . Building on these reflections , the mathematician Howard formulated his existential axiom which maintains that " if a person becomes ' aware ' of a theory concerning his behavior , he is no longer bound by it but is free to disobey it " 12 . Elsewhere he also says that a conscious decision maker can always choose to disobey any theory predicting his behavior . We may say that he can always " transcend " such a theory . This indeed seems realistic . We suggest that among socio-economic theories , Marxian theory , for example , failed at least partly because certain ruling class members , when they became aware of the theory , saw that it was in their interest to disobey it 13 . And almost a hundred years before Howard , Dostoevski 's underground man writes in his Letters from the Underworld @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shall be discovered a formula which shall exactly express our wills and whims ; if ever there shall be discovered a formula which shall make it absolutely clear what those wills depend upon , and what laws they are governed by , and what means of diffusion they possess , and what tend-  | encies they follow under given circumstances ; if ever there shall be discovered a formula which shall be mathematical in its precision , well , gentlemen , whenever such a formula shall be found , man will have ceased to have a will of his own ? he will have ceased even to exist . Who would care to exercise his willpower according to a table of logarithms ? In such a case man would become , not a human being at all , but an organ-handle , or something of the kind 6 . But even if this kind of mathematical formulization of our lives could ever be achieved , it would in no way comprehend the complexity of our existence . The best theory is powerless in the face of an antitheory ; the fulfillment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ know about it beforehand . Dostoevski saw much more in the nature of man : Moreover , even if man were the keyboard of a piano , and could be convinced that the laws of nature and of mathematics had made him so , he would still decline to change . On the contrary , he would once more , out of sheer ingratitude , attempt the perpetration of something which would enable him to insist upon himself . . . . But if you were to tell me that all this could be set down in tables ? I mean the chaos , and the confusion , and the curses , and all the rest of it ? so that the possibility of computing everything might remain , and reason continue to rule the roost ? well , in that case , I believe , man would purposely become a lunatic , in order to become devoid of reason , and therefore able to insist upon himself . I believe this , and I am ready to vouch for this , simply for the reason that every human act arises @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove to his own satisfaction that he is a man and not an organ-handle 6 . However , even the evidence of the underground man is likely to be a self-fulfilling prophecy . Footnote  | IF SANITY AND insanity exist , how shall we know them ? The question is neither capricious nor itself insane . However much we may be personally convinced that we can tell the normal from the abnormal , the evidence is simply not compelling . It is commonplace , for example , to read about murder trials wherein eminent psychiatrists for the defense are contradicted by equally eminent psychiatrists for the prosecution on the matter of the defendant 's sanity . More generally , there are a great deal of conflicting data on the reliability , utility , and meaning of such terms as sanity , insanity , mental illness , and schizophrenia 3,5,9,25,26,33,39,41 . Finally , as early as 1934 , Benedict 8 suggested that normality and abnormality are not universal . What is viewed as normal in one culture may be seen as quite aberrant in another . Thus notions of normality and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they are . To raise questions regarding normality and abnormality is in no way to question the fact that some behaviors are deviant or odd . Murder is deviant . So , too , are hallucinations . Nor does raising such questions deny the existence of the personal anguish that is often associated with " mental illness . " Footnote  | Anxiety and depression exist . Psychological suffering exists . But normality and abnormality , sanity and insanity , and the diagnoses that flow from them may be less substantive than many believe them to be . At its heart , the question of whether the sane can be distinguished from the insane ( and whether degrees of insanity can be distinguished from each other ) is a simple matter : Do the salient characteristics that lead to diagnoses reside in the patients themselves or in the environments and contexts in which observers find them ? From Bleuler , through Kretschmer , through the formulators of the recently revised Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association , the belief has been strong that patients present symptoms , that those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the sane are distinguishable from the insane . More recently , however , this belief has been questioned . Based in part on theoretical and anthropological considerations , but also on philosophical , legal , and therapeutic ones , the view has grown that psychological categorization of mental illness is useless at best and downright harmful , misleading , and pejorative at worst . Psychiatric diagnoses , in this view , are in the minds of the observers and are not valid summaries of characteristics displayed by the observed 8 , **32;1038;TOOLONG . Gains can be made in deciding which of these is more nearly accurate by getting normal people ( that is , people who do not have and have never suffered symptoms of serious psychiatric disorders ) admitted to psychiatric hospitals and then determining whether they were discovered to be sane and , if so , how . If the sanity of such pseudopatients were always detected , there would be prima facie evidence that a sane individual can be distinguished from the insane context in which he is found . Normality ( and presumably abnormality ) is distinct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for it is carried within the person . If , on the other hand , the sanity of the pseudopatients were never discovered , serious difficulties would arise for those who support traditional modes of psychiatric diagnosis . Given that the hospital staff was not incompetent , that the pseudopatient  | had been behaving as sanely as he had been outside of the hospital , and that it had never been previously suggested that he belonged in a psychiatric hospital , such an unlikely outcome would support the view that psychiatric diagnosis betrays little about the patient , but much about the environment in which an observer finds him . This article describes such an experiment . Eight sane people gained secret admission to twelve different hospitals . ' Their diagnostic experiences constitute the data of the first part of this article ; the remainder is devoted to a description of their experiences in psychiatric institutions . Too few psychiatrists and psychologists , even those who have worked in such hospitals , know what the experience is like . They rarely talk about it with former patients , perhaps because they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have worked in psychiatric hospitals are likely to have adapted so thoroughly to the settings that they are insensitive to the impact of that experience . And while there have been occasional reports of researchers who submitted themselves to psychiatric hospitalization 4,7,13,211 , these researchers have commonly remained in the hospitals for short periods of time , often with the knowledge of the hospital staff . It is difficult to know the extent to which they were treated like patients or like research colleagues . Nevertheless , their reports about the inside of the psychiatric hospital have been valuable . This article extends those efforts . Pseudopatients and Their Settings The eight pseudopatients were a varied group . One was a psychology graduate student in his 20s . The remaining seven were older and " established . " Among them were three psychologists , a pediatrician , a psychiatrist , a painter , and a housewife . Three pseudopatients were women , five were Footnote  | men . All of them employed pseudonyms , lest their alleged diagnoses embarass them later . Those who were in mental health professions alleged another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be accorded by staff , as a matter of courtesy or caution , to ailing colleagues.2 With the exception of myself ( I was the first pseudopatient and my presence was known to the hospital administrator and chief psychologist and , so far as I can tell , to them alone ) , the presence of pseudopatients and the nature of the research program was not known to the hospital staffs.3 The settings were similarly varied . In order to generalize the findings , admission into a variety of hospitals was sought . The twelve hospitals in the sample were located in five different states on the East and West coasts . Some were old and shabby , some were quite new ; some were research oriented , others not ; some had good staff ? patient ratios , others were quite understaffed . Only one was a strictly private hospital ; all of the others were supported by state or federal funds or , in one instance , by university funds . After calling the hospital for an appointment , the pseudopatient arrived at the admissions office complaining that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he replied that they were often unclear , but as far as he could tell they said " empty , " " hollow , " and " thud . " The voices Footnote  | were unfamiliar and were of the same sex as the pseudopatient . The choice of these symptoms was occasioned by their apparent similarity to existential symptoms . Such symptoms are alleged to arise from painful concerns about the perceived meaninglessness of one 's life . It is as if the hallucinating person were saying , " My life is empty and hollow . " The choice of these symptoms was also determined by the absence of a single report of existential psychoses in the literature . Beyond alleging the symptoms and falsifying name , vocation , and employment , no further alterations of person , history , or circumstances were made . The significant events of the pseudopatient 's life history were presented as they had actually occurred . Relationships with parents and siblings , with spouse and children , with people at work and in school , consistent with the aforementioned exceptions , were described @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were described along with joys and satisfactions . These facts are important to remember . If anything , they strongly biased the subsequent results in favor of detecting sanity , since none of their histories or current behaviors were seriously pathological in any way . Immediately upon admission to the psychiatric ward , the pseudopatient ceased simulating any symptoms of abnormality . In some cases , there was a brief period of mild nervousness and anxiety , since none of the pseudopatients really believed that they would be admitted so easily . Indeed , their shared fear was that they would be immediately exposed as frauds and greatly embarrassed . Moreover , many of them had never visited a psychiatric ward ; even those who had nevertheless had some genuine fears about what might happen to them . Their nervousness , then , was quite appropriate to the novelty of the hospital setting , and it abated rapidly . Apart from that short-lived nervousness , the pseudopatient behaved on the ward as he " normally " behaved . The pseudopatient spoke to patients and staff as he might ordinarily . Because @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he attempted to engage others in conversation . When asked by staff how he was feeling , he indicated that he was fine , that he no longer experienced symptoms . He  | responded to instructions from attendants , to calls for medication ( which was not swallowed ) , and to dining-hall instructions . Beyond such activities as were available to him on the admissions ward , he spent his time writing down his observations about the ward , its patients , and the staff . Initially these notes were written " secretly , " but as it soon became clear that no one much cared , they were subsequently written on standard tablets of paper in such public places as the dayroom . No secret was made of these activities . The pseudopatient , very much as a true psychiatric patient , entered a hospital with no foreknowledge of when he would be discharged . Each was told that he would have to get out by his own devices , especially by convincing the staff that he was sane . The psychological stresses associated with hospitalization were considerable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be discharged almost immediately after being admitted . They were , therefore , motivated not only to behave sanely , but to be paragons of cooperation . That their behavior was in no way disruptive is confirmed by nursing reports , which have been obtained on most of the patients . These reports uniformly indicate that the patients were " friendly , " " cooperative , " and " exhibited no abnormal indications . " The Normal Are Not Detectably Sane Despite their public " show " of sanity , the pseudopatients were never detected . Admitted , except in one case , with a diagnosis of schizophrenia , 4 each was discharged with a diagnosis of schizophrenia " in remission . " The label in remission should in no way be dismissed as a formality , for at no time during any hospitalization had any question been Footnote  | raised about any pseudopatient 's simulation . Nor are there any indications in the hospital records that the pseudopatient 's status was suspect . Rather , the evidence is strong that , once labeled schizophrenic , the pseudopatient was struck with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he must naturally be " in remission " ; but he was not sane , nor , in the institution 's view , had he ever been sane . In this way an obvious human " reality " was constructed . The uniform failure to recognize sanity can not be attributed to the quality of the hospitals , for , although there were considerable variations among them , several are considered excellent . Nor can it be alleged that there was simply not enough time to observe the pseudopatients . Length of hospitalization ranged from 7 to 52 days , with an average of 19 days . The pseudopatients were not , in fact , carefully observed , but this failure clearly speaks more to traditions within psychiatric hospitals than to lack of opportunity . Finally , it can not be said that the failure to recognize the pseudopatients ' sanity was due to the fact that they were not behaving sanely . While there was clearly some tension present in all of them , their daily visitors could detect no serious behavioral consequences ? nor , indeed , could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to " detect " the pseudopatients ' sanity . During the first three hospitalizations , when accurate counts were kept , 35 of a total of 118 patients on the admissions ward voiced their suspicions , some vigorously . " You 're not crazy . You 're a journalist , or a professor referring to the continual note-taking . You 're checking up on the hospital . " While most of the patients were reassured by the pseudopatient 's insistence that he had been sick before he came in but was fine now , some continued to believe that the pseudopatient was sane throughout his hospitalization.5 The fact that the patients often recognized nor- Footnote  | mality when staff did not raises important questions . Failure to detect sanity during the course of hospitalization may be due to the fact that physicians operate with a strong bias toward what statisticians call the type 2 error 38 . This is to say that physicians are more inclined to call a healthy person sick ( a false positive , type 2 ) than a sick person healthy ( a false negative , type @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find : It is clearly more dangerous to misdiagnose illness than health . Better to err on the side of caution , to suspect illness even among the healthy . But what holds for medicine does not hold equally well for psychiatry . Medical illnesses , while unfortunate , are not commonly pejorative . Psychiatric diagnoses , on the contrary , carry with them personal , legal , and social stigmas 15 ? 17,24,28 . It was therefore important to see whether the tendency toward diagnosing the sane insane could be reversed . The following experiment was arranged at a research and teaching hospital whose staff had heard these findings but doubted that such an error could occur in their hospital . The staff was informed that at some time during the following three months , one or more pseudopatients would attempt to be admitted into the psychiatric hospital . Each staff member was asked to rate each patient who presented himself at admissions or on the ward according to the likelihood that the patient was a pseudopatient . A 10-point scale was used , with a 1 and 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Judgments were obtained on 193 patients who were admitted for psychiatric treatment . All staff who had had sustained contact with or primary responsibility for the patient ? attendants , nurses , psychiatrists , physicians , and psychologists ? were asked to make judgments . Forty-one patients were alleged , with high confidence , to be pseudopatients by at least one member of the staff ; twenty-three were considered suspect by at least one psychiatrist ; nineteen were suspected by one psychiatrist and one other staff member . Actually , no genuine pseudopatient ( at least from my group ) presented himself during this period . The experiment is instructive . It indicates that the ten-  | dency to designate sane people as insane can be reversed when the stakes ( in this case , prestige and diagnostic acumen ) are high . But what can be said of the nineteen people who were suspected of being " sane " by one psychiatrist and another staff member ? Were these people truly " sane " or was it rather the case that in the course of avoiding the type 2 error @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sort ? calling the crazy " sane " ? There is no way of knowing . But one thing is certain : Any diagnostic process that lends itself so readily to massive errors of this sort can not be a very reliable one . The Stickiness of Psychodiagnostic Labels Beyond the tendency to call the healthy sick ? a tendency that accounts better for diagnostic behavior on admission than it does for such behavior after a lengthy period of exposure ? the data speak to the massive role of labeling in psychiatric assessment . Having once been labeled schizophrenic , there is nothing the pseudopatient can do to overcome the tag . The tag profoundly colors others ' perceptions of him and his behavior . Again , in a very real sense , a specific " reality " is thus constructed . From one viewpoint , these data are hardly surprising , for it has long been known that elements are given meaning by the context in which they occur . Gestalt psychology made this point vigorously , and Asch 1 demonstrated that there are " central " personality traits ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which are so powerful that they markedly color the meaning of other information in forming an impression of a given personality 11,12,14,46 . " Insane , " " schizophrenic , " " manic depressive , " and " crazy " are probably among the most powerful of such central traits . Once a person is designated abnormal , all of his other behaviors and characteristics are colored by that label . Indeed , that label is so powerful that many of the pseudopatients ' normal behaviors were overlooked entirely or profoundly misinterpreted to make them fit into the assumed reality . Some examples may clarify this issue .  | Earlier I indicated that there were no changes in the pseudopatient 's personal history and current status beyond those of name , employment , and , where necessary , vocation . Otherwise , a veridical description of personal history and circumstances was offered . Those circumstances were not psychotic . How were they made consonant with the diagnosis of psychosis ? Or were those diagnoses modified in such a way as to bring them into accord with the circumstances of the pseudopatient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I can determine , diagnoses were in no way affected by the relative health of the circumstances of a pseudopatient 's life ; rather , the reverse occurred : The perception of his circumstances was shaped entirely by the diagnosis . A clear example of such a mechanism of reality construction is found in the case of a pseudopatiernt who had had a close relationship with his mother but was rather remote from his father during his early childhood . During adolescence and beyond , however , his father became a close friend , while his relationship with his mother cooled . His present relationship with his wife was characteristically close and warm . Apart from occasional angry exchanges , friction was minimal . The children had rarely been spanked . Surely there is nothing especially pathological about such a history . Indeed , many readers may see a similar pattern in their own experiences , with no markedly deleterious consequences . Observe , however , how such a history was translated in the psychopathological context , this from the case summary prepared after the patient was discharged . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of considerable ambivalence in close relationships , which begins in early childhood . A warm relationship with his mother cools during his adolescence . A distant relationship to his father is described as becoming very intense . Affective stability is absent . His attempts to control emotionality with his wife and children are punctuated by angry outbursts and , in the case of the children , spankings . And while he says that he has several good friends , one senses considerable ambivalence embedded in those relationships also .  | The facts of the case were unintentionally distorted by the staff to achieve consistency with a popular theory of the dynamics of a schizophrenic reaction.6 Nothing of an ambivalent nature had been described in relations with parents , spouse , or friends . To the extent that ambivalence could be inferred , it was probably not greater than is found in all human relationships . It is true the pseudopatient 's relationships with his parents changed over time , but in the ordinary context that would hardly be remarkable ? indeed , it might very well be expected . Clearly , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ambivalence , affective instability ) was determined by the diagnosis : schizophrenia . An entirely different meaning would have been ascribed if it were known that the man was " normal . " All pseudopatients took extensive notes publicly . Under ordinary circumstances , such behavior would have raised questions in the minds of observers , as , in fact , it did among patients . Indeed , it seemed so certain that the notes would elicit suspicion that elaborate precautions were taken to remove them from the ward each day . But the precautions proved needless . The closest any staff member came to questioning these notes occurred when one pseudopatient asked his physician what kind of medication he was receiving and began to write down the response . " You need n't write it , " he was told gently . " If you have trouble remembering , just ask me again . " If no questions were asked of the pseudopatients , how was their writing interpreted ? Nursing records for three patients indicate that the writing was seen as an aspect of their pathological behavior . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comment on one of the pseudopatients who was never questioned about his writing . Given that the patient is in the hospital , he must be psychologically disturbed . And given that he is disturbed , continuous writing must be a behavioral manifestation of that disturbance , Footnote  | perhaps a subset of the compulsive behaviors that are sometimes correlated with schizophrenia . One tacit characteristic of psychiatric diagnosis is that it locates the sources of aberration within the individual and only rarely within the complex of stimuli that surrounds him . Consequently , behaviors that are stimulated by the environment are commonly misattributed to the patient 's disorder . For example , one kindly nurse found a pseudopatient pacing the long hospital corridors . " Nervous , Mr. X ? " she asked . " No , bored , " he said . The notes kept by pseudopatients are full of patient behaviors that were misinterpreted by well-intentioned staff . Often enough , a patient would go " berserk " because he had , wittingly or unwittingly , been mistreated by , say , an attendant . A nurse coming @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environmental stimuli of the patient 's behavior ; rather , she assumed that his upset derived from his pathology , not from his present interactions with other staff members . Occasionally , the staff might assume that the patient 's family ( especially when they had recently visited ) or other patients had stimulated the outburst . But never were the staff found to assume that one of themselves or the structure of the hospital had anything to do with a patient 's behavior . One psychiatrist pointed to a group of patients who were sitting outside the cafeteria entrance half an hour before lunchtime . To a group of young residents he indicated that such behavior was characteristic of the oral-acquisitive nature of the syndrome . It seemed not to occur to him that there were very few things to anticipate in a psychiatric hospital besides eating . A psychiatric label produces its own reality and with it its own effect . Once the impression has been formed that the patient is schizophrenic , the expectation is that he will continue to be schizophrenic . When a sufficient amount of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nothing bizarre , he is considered to be in remission and available for discharge . But the label endures beyond discharge , with the unconfirmed expectation that he will behave as a schizophrenic again . Such labels , conferred by mental health pro-  | fessionals , are as influential on the patient as they are on his relatives and friends , and it should not surprise anyone that the diagnosis acts on all of them as a self-fulfilling prophecy . Eventually , the patient himself accepts the diagnosis , with all of its surplus meanings and expectations , and behaves accordingly 38 . As soon as he does this , he has adapted himself to this construction of an interpersonal " reality . " The inferences to be made from these matters are quite simple . Much as Zigler and Phillips have demonstrated that there is enormous overlap in the symptoms presented by patients who have been variously diagnosed 18,47 , so there is an enormous overlap in the behaviors of the sane and the insane . The sane are not " sane " all of the time . We lose @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are occasionally depressed or anxious , again for no good reason . And we may find it difficult to get along with one or another person ? again for no reason that we can specify . Similarly , the insane are not always insane . Indeed , it was the impression of the pseudopatients while living with them that they were sane for long periods of time ? that the bizarre behaviors upon which their diagnoses were allegedly predicated constituted only a small fraction of their total behavior . If it makes no sense to label ourselves permanently depressed on the basis of an occasional depression , then it takes better evidence than is presently available to label all patients insane or schizophrenic on the basis of bizarre behaviors or cognitions . It seems more useful , as Mischel 30 has pointed out to limit our discussions to behaviors , the stimuli that provoke them , and their correlates . It is not known why powerful impressions of personality traits , such as " crazy " or " insane , " arise . Conceivably , when the origins of and stimuli @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or when the behavior strikes us as immutable , trait labels regarding the behaver arise . When , on the other hand , the origins and stimuli are known and available , discourse is limited to the behavior itself . Thus I may hallucinate because I am sleeping or I may hallucinate because I have ingested a peculiar drug . These are termed  | sleep-induced hallucinations , or dreams , and drug-induced hallucinations , respectively . But when the stimuli to my hallucinations are unknown , that is called craziness , or schizophrenia ? as if that inference were somehow as illuminating as the others . The Experience of Psychiatric Hospitalization The term mental illness is of recent origin . It was coined by people who were humane in their inclinations and who wanted very much to raise the station of ( and the public 's sympathies toward ) the psychologically disturbed from that of witches and " crazies " to one that was akin to the physically ill . And they were at least partially successful , for the treatment of the mentally ill has improved considerably over the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doubtful that people really regard the mentally ill in the same way that they view the physically ill . A broken leg is something one recovers from , but mental illness allegedly endures forever . ' A broken leg does not threaten the observer , but a crazy schizophrenic ? There is by now a host of evidence that attitudes toward the mentally ill are characterized by fear , hostility , aloofness , suspicion , and dread 36,37 . The mentally ill are society 's lepers . That such attitudes infect the general population is perhaps not surprising , only upsetting . But that they affect the professionals ? attendants , nurses , physicians , psychologists , and social workers ? who treat and deal with the mentally ill is more disconcerting , both because such attitudes are self-evidently pernicious and because they are unwitting . Most mental health professionals would insist that they are sympathetic toward the mentally ill , that they are neither avoidant nor hostile . But it is more likely that an exquisite ambivalence characterizes their relations with psychiatric patients , such that their avowed impulses are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there too and can Footnote  | easily be detected . Such attitudes should not surprise us . They are the natural offspring of the labels patients wear and the places in which they are found . Consider the structure of the typical psychiatric hospital . Staff and patients are strictly segregated . Staff have their own living space , including their dining facilities , bathrooms , and assembly places . The glassed quarters that contain the professional staff , which the pseudopatients came to call " the cage , " sit out on every dayroom . The staff emerge primarily for caretaking purposes ? to give medication , to conduct a therapy or group meeting , to instruct or reprimand a patient . Otherwise , staff keep to themselves , almost as if the disorder that afflicts their charges is somehow catching . So much is patient ? staff segregation the rule that , for four public hospitals in which an attempt was made to measure the degree to which staff and patients mingle , it was necessary to use " time out of the staff cage " as the operational @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time spent out of the cage was spent mingling with patients ( attendants , for example , would occasionally emerge to watch television in the dayroom ) , it was the only way in which one could gather reliable data on time for measuring . The average amount of time spent by attendants outside of the cage was 11.3 percent ( range , 3 ? 52 percent ) . This figure does not represent only time spent mingling with patients , but also includes time spent on such chores as folding laundry , supervising patients while they shave , directing ward cleanup , and sending patients to off-ward activities . It was the relatively rare attendant who spent time talking with patients or playing games with them . It proved impossible to obtain a " percent mingling time " for nurses , since the amount of time they spent out of the cage was too brief . Rather , we counted instances of emergence from the cage . On the average , daytime nurses emerged from the cage 11.5 times per shift , including instances when they left the ward entirely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ afternoon and night nurses were even less available , emerging on the average 9.4 times per shift ( range , 4 41 times ) . Data on early morning nurses , who arrived usually after midnight and departed at 8 A.M. ,  | are not available because patients were asleep during most of this period . Physicians , especially psychiatrists , were even less available . They were rarely seen on the wards . Quite commonly , they would be seen only when they arrived and departed , with the remaining time being spent in their offices or in the cage . On the average , physicians emerged on the ward 6.7 times per day ( range , 1 ? 17 times ) . It proved difficult to make an accurate estimate in this regard , since physicians often maintained hours that allowed them to come and go at different times . The hierarchical organization of the psychiatric hospital has been commented on before 42 , but the latent meaning of that kind of organization is worth noting again . Those with the most power have least to do with patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with them . Recall , however , that the acquisition of role-appropriate behaviors occurs mainly through the observation of others , with the most powerful having the most influence . Consequently , it , is understandable that attendants not only spend more time with patients than do any other members of the staff ? that is required by their station in the hierarchy ? but also , insofar as they learn from their superiors ' behavior , spend as little time with patients as they can . Attendants are seen mainly in the cage , which is where the models , the action , and the power are . I turn now to a different set of studies , these dealing with staff response to patient-initiated contact . It has long been known that the amount of time a person spends with you can be an index of your significance to him . If he initiates and maintains eye contact , there is reason to believe that he is considering your requests and needs . If he pauses to chat or actually stops and talks , there is added reason to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the pseudopatient approached the staff member with a request that took the following form : " Pardon me , Mr. or Dr. or Mrs. X , could you tell me when I will be eligible for grounds privileges ? " ( or " when I will be presented at the staff meeting ? " or " when I am likely to be discharged ? " ) . While the content of the  | question varied according to the appropriateness of the target and the pseudopatient 's ( apparent ) current needs the form was always a courteous and relevant request for information . Care was taken never to approach a particular member of the staff more than once a day , lest the staff member become suspicious or irritated . In examining these data , remember that the behavior of the pseudopatients was neither bizarre nor disruptive . One could indeed engage in good conversation with them . The data for these experiments are shown in Table 1 , separately for physicians ( column 1 ) and for nurses and attendants ( column 2 ) . Minor differences between these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoided continuing contacts that patients had initiated . By far , their most common response consisted of either a brief response to the question , offered while they were " on the move " and with head averted , or no response at all . The encounter frequently took the following bizarre form : ( Pseudopatient ) " Pardon me , Dr. X. Could you tell me when I am eligible for grounds privileges ? " ( Physician ) " Good morning , Dave . How are you today ? " ( Moves off without waiting for a response . ) It is instructive to compare these data with data recently obtained at Stanford University . It has been alleged that large and eminent universities are characterized by faculty who are so busy that they have no time for students . For this comparison , a young lady approached individual faculty members who seemed to be walking purposefully to some meeting or teaching engagement and asked them the following six questions . 1 . " Pardon me , could you direct me to Encina Hall ? " ( at the medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Center ? " ) . 2 . " Do you know where Fish Annex is ? " ( there is no Fish Annex at Stanford ) . 3 . " Do you teach here ? " 4 . " How does one apply for admission to the college ? " ( at the medical school : " . . . to the medical school ? " ) . 5 . " Is it difficult to get in ? " 6 . " Is there financial aid ? "  | Without exception , as can be seen in Table 1 ( column 3 ) , all of the questions were answered . No matter how rushed they were , all respondents not only maintained eye contact , but stopped to talk . Indeed , many of the respondents went out of their way to direct or take the questioner to the office she was seeking , to try to locate " Fish Annex , " or to discuss with her the possibilities of being admitted to the university . Similar data , also shown in Table 1 ( columns 4 , 5 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here too , the young lady came prepared with six questions . After the first question , however , she remarked to 18 of her respondents ( column 4 ) , " I 'm looking for a psychiatrist , " and to 15 others ( column 5 ) , " I 'm looking for an internist . " Ten other respondents received no inserted comment ( column 6 ) . The general degree of cooperative responses is considerably higher for these university groups than it was for pseudopatients in psychiatric hospitals . Even so , differences are apparent within the medical school setting . Once having indicated that she was looking for a psychiatrist , the degree of cooperation elicited was less than when she sought an internist . Powerlessness and Depersonalization Eye contact and verbal contact reflect concern and individuation ; their absence , avoidance and depersonalization . The data I have presented do not do justice to the rich daily encounters that grew up around matters of depersonalization and avoidance . I have records of patients who were beaten by staff for the sin of having initiated verbal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one patient was beaten in the presence of other patients for having approached an attendant and told him , " I like you . " Occasionally , punishment meted out to patients for misdemeanors seemed so excessive that it could not be justified by the most radical interpretations of psychiatric canon . Nevertheless , they appeared to go unquestioned . Tempers were often short . A patient who had not heard a call for medication would be roundly excoriated , and the morning attendants would often  | wake patients with , " Come on , you m ? fs , out of bed ! " Neither anecdotal nor " hard " data can convey the overwhelming sense of powerlessness which invades the individual as he is continually exposed to the depersonalization of the psychiatric hospital . It hardly matters which psychiatric hospital ? the excellent public ones and the very plush private hospital were better than the rural and shabby ones in this regard , but , again , the features that psychiatric hospitals had in common overwhelmed by far their apparent differences . Powerlessness was evident everywhere . The patient @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of his psychiatric commitment 45 . He is shorn of credibility by virtue of his psychiatric label . His freedom of movement is restricted . He can not initiate contact with the staff , but may only respond to such overtures as they make . Personal privacy is minimal . Patient quarters and possessions can be entered and examined by any staff member , for whatever reason . His personal history and anguish is available to any staff member ( often including the " gray lady " and " candy striper " volunteer ) who chooses to read his folder , regardless of their therapeutic relationship to him . His personal hygiene and waste evacuation are often monitored . The water closets may have no doors . At times , depersonalization reached such proportions that pseudopatients had the sense that they were invisible , or at least unworthy of account . Upon being admitted , I and other pseudopatients took the initial physical examinations in a semipublic room , where staff members went about their own business as if we were not there . On the ward , attendants delivered verbal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of other observing patients , some of whom ( the pseudopatients ) were writing it all down . Abusive behavior , on the other hand , terminated quite abruptly when other staff members were known to be coming . Staff are credible witnesses , patients are not .  | A nurse unbuttoned her uniform to adjust her brassiere in the presence of an entire ward of viewing men . One did not have the sense that she was being seductive , rather , she did n't notice us . A group of staff persons might point to a patient in the dayroom and discuss him animatedly , as if he were not there . One illuminating instance of depersonalization and invisibility occurred with regard to medications . All told , the pseudopatients were administered nearly 2,100 pills , including Elavil , Stelazine , Compazine , and Thorazine , to name but a few . ( That such a variety of medications should have been administered to patients presenting identical symptoms is itself worthy of note . ) Only two were swallowed . The rest were either pocketed or deposited in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Although I have no precise records on how many patients rejected their medications , the pseudopatients frequently found the medications of other patients in the toilet before they deposited their own . As long as they were cooperative , their behavior and the pseudopatients ' own in this matter , as in other important matters , went unnoticed throughout . Reactions to such depersonalization among pseudopatients were intense . Although they had come to the hospital as participant observers and were fully aware that they did not " belong , " they nevertheless found themselves caught up in and fighting the process of depersonalization . Some examples : A graduate student in psychology asked his wife to bring his textbooks to the hospital so he could " catch up on his homework " ? this despite the elaborate precautions taken to conceal his professional association . The same student , who had trained for quite some time to get into the hospital , and who had looked forward to the experience , " remembered " some drag races that he had wanted to see on the weekend and insisted that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ romance with a nurse . Subsequently , he informed the staff that he was applying for admission to graduate school in psychology and was very likely to be admitted , since a graduate professor was one of  | his regular hospital visitors . The same person began to engage in psychotherapy with other patients ? all of this as a way of becoming a person in an impersonal reality . The Sources of Depersonalization What are the origins of depersonalization ? I have already mentioned two . First are attitudes held by all of us toward the mentally ill ? including those who treat them ? attitudes characterized by fear , distrust , and horrible expectations on the one hand , and benevolent intentions on the other . Our ambivalence leads , in this instance as in others , to avoidance . Second , and not entirely separate , the hierarchical structure of the psychiatric hospital facilitates depersonalization . Those who are at the top have least to do with patients , and their behavior inspires the rest of the staff . Average daily contact with psychiatrists , psychologists , residents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with an overall mean of 6.8 ( six pseudopatients over a total of 129 days of hospitalization ) . Included in this average are time spent in the admissions interview , ward meetings in the presence of a senior staff member , group and individual psychotherapy contacts , case presentation conferences , and discharge meetings . Clearly , patients do not spend much time in interpersonal contact with doctoral staff , and doctoral staff serve as models for nurses and attendants . There are probably other sources . Psychiatric installations are presently in serious financial straits . Staff shortages are pervasive , staff time at a premium . Something has to give , and that something is patient contact . Yet , while financial stresses are realities , too much can be made of them . I have the impression that the psychological forces that result in depersonalization are much stronger than the fiscal ones and that the addition of more staff would not correspondingly improve patient care in this regard . The incidence of staff meetings and the enormous amount of record keeping on patients , for example , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Priorities exist , even during hard times .  | Patient contact is not a significant priority in the traditional psychiatric hospital , and fiscal pressures do not account for this . Avoidance and depersonalization may . Heavy reliance upon psychotropic medication tacitly contributes to depersonalization by convincing staff that treatment is indeed being conducted and that further patient contact may not be necessary . Even here , however , caution needs to be exercised in understanding the role of psychotropic drugs . If patients were powerful rather than powerless , if they were viewed as interesting individuals rather than diagnostic entities , if they were socially significant rather than social lepers , if their anguish truly and wholly compelled our sympathies and concerns , would we not seek contact with them , despite the availability of medications ? Perhaps for the pleasure of it all ? The Consequences of Labeling and Depersonalization Whenever the ratio of what is known to what needs to be known approaches zero , we tend to invent " knowledge " and assume that we understand more than we actually do . We seem unable to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for diagnosis and remediation of behavioral and emotional problems are enormous . But rather than acknowledge that we are just embarking on understanding , we continue to label patients " schizophrenic , " " manic depressive , " and " insane , " as if in those words we had captured the essence of understanding . The facts of the matter are that we have known for a long time that diagnoses are often not useful or reliable , but we have nevertheless continued to use them . We now know that we can not distinguish insanity from sanity . It is depressing to consider how that information will be used . Not merely depressing , but frightening . How many people , one wonders , are sane but not recognized as such in our psychiatric institutions ? How many have been needlessly stripped of their privileges of citizenship , from the right to vote and drive to that of handling their own accounts ? How  | many have feigned insanity in order to avoid the criminal consequences of their behavior , and , conversely , how many would rather stand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are wrongly thought to be mentally ill ? How many have been stigmatized by well-intentioned but nevertheless erroneous , diagnoses ? On the last point , recall again that a " type 2 error " in psychiatric diagnosis does not have the same consequences it does in medical diagnosis . A diagnosis of cancer that has been found to be in error is cause for celebration . But psychiatric diagnoses are rarely found to be in error . The label sticks , a mark of inadequacy forever . Finally , how many patients might be " sane " outside the psychiatric hospital but seem insane in it ? not because craziness resides in them , as it were , but because they are responding to a bizarre setting , one that may be unique one to institutions which harbor nether people ? Goffman 19 calls the process of socialization to such institutions " mortification " ? an apt metaphor that includes the processes of depersonalization which have been described here . And while it is impossible to know whether the pseudopatients ' responses to these processes are characteristic of all inmates @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? it is difficult to believe that these processes of socialization to a psychiatric hospital provide useful attitudes or habits of response for living in the " real world . " Summary and Conclusions It is clear that we can not distinguish the sane from the insane in psychiatric hospitals . The hospital creates a reality of its own in which the meanings of behavior can then easily be misunderstood . The consequences to patients hospitalized in such an environment ? the powerlessness , depersonalization , segregation , mortification , and self-labeling ? seem undoubtedly countertherapeutic . I do not , even now , understand this problem well enough to perceive solutions , but two matters seem to have some promise . The first concerns the proliferation of community mental health facilities , of crisis intervention centers , of the  | human potential movement , and of behavior therapies that , for all of their own problems , tend to avoid psychiatric labels , to focus on specific problems and behaviors , and to retain the individual in a relatively nonpejorative environment . Clearly , to the extent that we refrain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them are less likely to be distorted . ( The risk of distorted perceptions , it seems to me , is always present , since we are much more sensitive to an individual 's behaviors and verbalizations than we are to the subtle contextual stimuli that often promote them . At issue here is a matter of magnitude . And , as I have shown , the magnitude of distortion is exceedingly high in the extreme context that is a psychiatric hospital . ) The second matter that might prove promising speaks to the need to increase the sensitivity of mental health workers and researchers to the Catch 22 position of psychiatric patients . Simply reading materials in this area will be of help to some such workers and researchers . For others , directly experiencing the impact of psychiatric hospitalization will be of enormous use . Clearly , further research into the social psychology of such total institutions will both facilitate treatment and deepen understanding . I and the other pseudopatients in the psychiatric setting had distinctly negative reactions . We do not pretend to describe the subjective experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , particularly with the passage of time and the necessary process of adaptation to one 's environment . But we can and do speak to the relatively more objective indices of treatment within the hospital . It could be a mistake , and a very unfortunate one , to consider that what happened to us derived from malice or stupidity on the part of the staff . Quite the contrary , our overwhelming impression of them was of people who really cared , who were committed and who were uncommonly intelligent . Where they failed , as they sometimes did painfully , it would be more accurate to attribute those failures to the environment in which they , too , found themselves than to personal callousness . Their perceptions and behavior were controlled by the situation , rather than being motivated by a malicious dis-  | position . In a more benign environment , one that was less attached to global diagnosis , their behaviors and judgments might have been more benign and effective . Footnote  | IT WOULD SEEM reasonable , indeed almost self-evident , that a volume with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ literature , for literature is certainly a primary example of what is meant by " fiction , " " fictitious " and by " invention . " We have only to examine the word poet , which in Greek means " maker , " " inventor , " or " creator , " to establish how ancient the awareness of this fact is . Such a self-evident truth , however , can not be the basic aim of constructivism , since the world that is described or presented in a literary work of art is by definition and through the process of composition fictive . Fictitiousness belongs to literature in the same way that singing belongs to opera and is inherent in the logic of this art form , so that it is self-evident and uninterpretable : Lohengrin is not amazed that Elsa should " sing " to him ; her singing has the same ontological status as the spoken word in a play . Thus when the constructivists state that the given " objectivity " of the world is only apparent and that it is incorrect to assume that biologists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represent it through description or formalism , when they stress that these scientists and , furthermore , all of us ? in and Footnote  | by means of our prescientific efforts at description and explanation ? rather create reality or , at the very least , structure and modify it , then obviously they mean something beyond the literary theorist 's truism that fictional texts represent a fictitious reality . What , then , is the equivalent in opera of singing , where singing " belongs , " to singing in drama , where it is " singing " ? We have to go one level higher , and the result would be " metasinging , " the singing of singing . Something similar is true of literature . If the world presented in literature is by its very nature fictitious , and if , in addition and according to constructivism , the " real " world is also invented , then the resulting reality presented in literature must be doubly fictive , and the kind of literature that would coincide with the level of constructivist insight would be a literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in other words , a self-reflexive literature . In the following , taking as a point of departure the constructivist concept of self-referentiality , I will thus attempt to consider the problem of self-reflexivity , which has become so important in modern literature . In other words , I shall attempt to discuss the phenomenon of metaliterature , a literature that , above all , is concerned with itself , that reflects the conditions which make possible its own composition , that treats in general of the possibility of fictional speech , or that questions the basis of the fictional contract between the work and the reader . This attempt concurs with a suggestion in an essay by Heinz von Foerster 10 , where , from the fact that there can be no objective perception as such , in other words , no objects without observers , the conclusion is drawn that we need , above all , a theory of the observer or the " describer . " Von Foerster continues that since only living organisms are possible candidates for observers , the construction of such a theory must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the latter also is a living creature , he must not only take account of himself in his theory , but must also include the theorybuilding process itself in the theory . This is , in fact , the situation of many writers in the twentieth century who no longer Self-Reflexivity in Literature 147 desire to lustily tell stories but have found , just as scientists and philosophers in other fields have found , that their medium language , together with all the traditional processes of writing , has , after a period of optimism , become problematic . Thus they have found themselves forced to reflect on the process of writing itself .  | Self-reflexivity in literature has actually existed for a long time and in all genres . As far as poetry is concerned , what springs to mind is above all the so-called " poetological " poem , in other words , the poem whose theme is that of poetry writing or even the process of writing the actual poem itself.l Self-reflexivity often appears , however , in a more hidden form , for instance , in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be landscape poetry , but which on closer analysis reveal themselves to be about the process of writing . As an example I could mention S. T. Coleridge 's " Kubla Khan . " In drama there are various ways of demonstrating that the apparent reality of the events on the stage is artificial , is an " invented reality . " 2 Above all , in comedy , and again and again since classical times , passages can be found in which the level of representation is interrupted by references to the spectators or to the fictive nature of the play . At the same time those logical foundations are undermined on which the ? illusionary ? assumption is based that a self-contained independent world is presented . One could mention , for example , Aristophanes ' The Clouds or The Wasps , but also the " epic theater " with its emphasis on the fact that the seriousness of the play is after all only the seriousness of a play ( " alienation effect " ) . One could mention here authors such as Bert Brecht or Thornton Wilder @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many plays is the so-called " play within Footnote  | the play , " 3 in other words , scenes such as that in Hamlet in which Hamlet makes the actors perform a play that presents , with a few minor differences , exactly those events to which , as Hamlet fears , his father has fallen a victim , or such as that in A Midsummer Night 's Dream , where the story of Pyramus and Thisby is performed . Such a device is self-reflexive to the extent that it draws attention to the play element that is part of every , even the most serious , play . The play within the play draws attention to the nature of play inherent in the theater and this mirrors the nature of play inherent in the world . ' It is modern narrative literature , however , that is the true home of self-reflexivity . Prose fiction is distinguishable from drama by the presence of a narrator , and it is the narrator as organizing consciousness of the text who most freely allows for the introduction and integration of reflexive structures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many German romantics spring to mind in this connection . Nevertheless , although many more examples could be cited , up to Romanticism it was a question of isolated voices , and the majority of such self-reflexive moments tended to appear in a comical context . It is only from around the year 1900 onward that one can begin to speak of self-reflexive literature as opposed to self-reflexivity in literature . Mentionable in this context would be Marcel Proust 's Remembrance of Things Past , Andre Gide 's The Counterfeiters , a whole series of works by Samuel Beckett , the American so-called " postmodernists , " 5 but also the French nouveau roman.6 Rather than remaining , however , with simply a list of names and titles , I would like to present more precisely the procedures of the writers and the significance of their activ- Footnote  | ity on the basis of one example , namely , that of Beckett 's novel trilogy Molloy , Malone Dies , and The Unnamable , written in 1948 and 1949 in French and then translated , mainly by the author himself , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of self-reflexivity touches upon a decisive feature of the work itself ; on the other hand , the whole artistic tradition can be exemplified on the basis of this work . However , before discussing Beckett , I would like to glance briefly at that particular work , which like no other stands at the beginning of twentieth century novel writing , above all with regard to the theme of self-reflexivity and its realization as metaliterature . Marcel Proust 's Remembrance of Things Past , together with James Joyce 's Ulysses , is certainly the most influential novel of the century and , in relation to the problem of self-reflexivity is fundamental in the same way that Luigi Pirandello 's play Six Characters in Search of an Author is fundamental in the field of drama . The reflexive nature of the 3,000-page mammoth work is characterized by the fact that the first-person narrator is finally ready at the end to write the novel that he has prepared over many years in his head and in all his senses , the novel which the reader has just at this moment finished reading @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first person narrator Marcel , who wants to write a novel , can find no subject matter for his work because the truth ? as he himself recognizes ? does not reside in objects : These , events as well as people , are always accidental . If Marcel described this reality , it would be as equally arbitrary as if he were to invent persons and stories that he could also invent in a totally different way . In the face of such a situation , an art form that deserves this title must not so much deal with events , with friends , with women , since these can be replaced by others and are in the last analysis of little importance ; it must , rather , disclose the structure of life . The appropriate subject matter for a work of art of this level of awareness is the discovery of this insight , in other words , a Footnote  | metasubject . Marcel Proust thus takes the insight of his first person narrator to its logical conclusion and makes the search for the subject matter of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who knew Proust 's Remembrance of Things Past very well , 10 took this problematic position as his point of departure and then radicalized it , as will be specified in more detail in the following . The works of Samuel Beckett 's middle period , which extends from the four Stories up to How It Is and covers the years from 1945 until 1960 , are characterized by two elements : One is the literary motif of the quest " and the other , both as theme and as form , the mixing of level and metalevel , 12 in the process of which the two elements are very closely interrelated , as will be demonstrated in the following.13 Above all , the three novels Molloy , Malone Dies , and The Unnamable , which Beckett later published in a single volume , thus identifying them as a trilogy , can be understood , perhaps can only be understood , from this double viewpoint . Here we are confronted with the peak ? and , given the Footnote  | consistency and radical nature of the effort , the final word @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the first novel of the trilogy , is divided into two parts . In the first part the first-person narrator Molloy gives an account of his search for his mother , although , unfortunately , he neither knows exactly where she is living nor is he particularly concerned about his own specific location . The possibility of a successful outcome to this search is made more improbable by his progressive physical deterioration . At the end we see Molloy , paralyzed in both legs , crawling painfully through the wood until he comes to a halt , lying in a ditch at the edge of the wood , and in front of the town where perhaps his mother is living . The second part is the story of Jacques Moran , a detective , who , via a messenger called Gaber , is commissioned by a certain Youdi to find Molloy . Moran , too , does not know where he should really begin to look for the object of his search and he experiences the same sort of progressive physical deterioration as Molloy . As he is lying with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Bally , the messenger Gaber appears once again in order to inform him of Youdi ' s order to return home immediately . With difficulty , Moran drags himself home . A summary of the content is even less useful here than is usual in literary texts ; we shall see that the content of the story makes way to the writing situation itself . Nevertheless , the action , rudimentary though it may be , demonstrates clearly the double quest structure of this novel . Since , however , in both cases the goal of the quest is not reached and since both " heroes " in the process endure greater and greater physical deterioration , one could speak here , to a certain extent , of the inversion or perversion of a novel of education or a novel of development to which tradition Molloy , nevertheless , clearly belongs . The first part is a kind of parody of the Homeric Odyssey . It is possible to discern the faint outline of a Nausicaa episode ; the goal of the classical journey ? home and spouse ? is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds her counterpart in Madame Lousse , whose attractiveness in comparison to the mythological ideal is as clearly run down  | as is the total sexual and general indifference of the miserable old tramp Molloy in contrast to the kind of active involvement with the world found in the typological Greek hero . After Molloy has torn himself away from the sour charms of the gaunt , old , masculine Madame Lousse and continues his journey on foot ( up to that point he had been using a bicycle , which he must now leave behind ) , his other leg goes stiff ( the first had gone stiff before his departure ) . His progress through a wood and a swamp toward the town where he suspects his mother might be finally becomes slower and slower . In the end he can only crawl forward on his stomach : Flat on my belly , using my crutches like grapnels , I plunged them ahead of me into the undergrowth , and when I felt they had a hold , I pulled myself forward , with an effort of the wrists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ compared to others , I mean those I have tried , is this , that when you want to rest you stop and rest , without further ado p. 89 . With the town in view he remains lying there ( presumably it is the same town as that described in the second part of the novel ) . Later , however , he must have reached his goal , perhaps in an ambulance , since at the very beginning of his narrative , even before he begins to tell the story of his search , he has said in the present tense that he is in his mother 's room.14 Nevertheless , Molloy would not be a true Beckett protagonist if he had really reached the goal of his search . In reality , his mother has died before or at the very least upon his arrival . Notwithstanding , he assumes her place , has almost become identical with her , as he says at the beginning . Also the second part of the novel , Moran ' s search for Molloy , is an explicit quest , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is a quest of the second degree . This quest , too , is circular The first-person narrator is supposed to find Molloy without knowing where he Footnote  | is actually staying or what to do with him should he find him . Moran is as little able to find Molloy as Molloy was to find his mother . Moran , just like Molloy , loses his capacity to move in the course of the journey . Like Molloy , he uses a bicycle for part of the journey . Both commit a murder in the wood , well known as a place of adventure and personal trial from untold numbers of fairy tales and quest novels . Finally , like Molloy before him , Moran remains lying with the town in view , before Youdi via Gaber orders him back . The circle of Moran 's journey closes as he returns home exactly a year after his departure , exactly at the same time ( midnight ) . Both parts , therefore , of the novel complement each other as a double circle ( " bi-cycle " ! @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parts of the novel is the situation in which the writing takes place . Each part consists of a report prepared by the respective narrator for someone who has commissioned it . Both begin with a short description of the fictive present , in other words , the situation in which the " I " begins writing down the events of the quest . The most important parallelism , however , lies in the fusion of both protagonists to a single identity . At first sight such a thesis might seem , perhaps , implausible : Molloy is an isolated , dissolute , forgetful , blaspheming vagabond ; Moran , on the other hand , has a house and a profession , lives with his son and a housekeeper , is pedantic about order and propriety , goes to church , and receives the sacrament regularly . For all this , a large number of critics have successfully shown that there are similarities between both narrator-heroes , whereby in general it is assumed that Moran develops in the direction of Molloy . Moran seems to be Molloy at an earlier stage @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented in the novel , discloses the pedantic , petty bourgeois character as a thin veneer over the threatening chaos that is present beneath the surface . If , however , Moran is an earlier version of Molloy , why should his quest appear later in the novel ? To begin with , this is certainly because it would otherwise not be possible to represent the extent to which Molloy is already part of Moran . To do this it is necessary to  | show the later state first . More importantly , however , it would seem that the regressive nature of the personal development of both heroes is shown also in the form of the novel . The chronology of the persons is : ( mother  --  ) Moran ? Molloy ? union with the mother . Insofar that the novel begins with the mother 's death ( death as a new beginning ) and then procedes via Molloy to Moran , it reflects the regression in its inverted structure . Above all , what must be mentioned in connection with this is the parallelism , which has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the end of the second part . This section of the novel begins with the following sentences : It is midnight . The rain is beating on the windows . I am calm . All is sleeping . Nevertheless I get up and go to my desk . I ca n't sleep . My lamp sheds a soft steady light . I have trimmed it . It will last till morning . I hear the eagle-owl . What a terrible battlecry ! Once I listened to it unmoved . My son is sleeping . Let him sleep . The night will come when he too , unable to sleep , will get up and go to his desk . I shall be forgotten . My report will be long . Perhaps I shall not finish it p. 92 . As the tenses indicate , narration time and narrated time are identical . Then the actual story , " the report , " begins . As it is closed with Moran 's return home from his unsuccessful search , we find the following : I have spoken of a voice telling me @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the report p. 176 . One is reminded of Proust 's novel , the actual writing of which also began at that moment when the narration of the prehistory was over . Beckett , however , turns the situation into something negative , emphasizing the fictive nature of the fictional process . Moran thus continues : Then I went back into the house and wrote , It is midnight . The rain is beating on the windows . It was not midnight . It was not raining p. 162.  | And that is the end of the novel . The end , however , refers back to the beginning : It is the beginning , although at the same time it revokes the beginning and thus discloses the whole for what it is , namely , invented reality . The fictitious report contains its own disclosure as a fictitious report . The reader , however , has been prepared for this in a number of ways . This begins immediately at the beginning with Molloy 's description of the situation in which he himself is writing ( see p. 7 ff. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ comments by Molloy about his report that suggest that the report is perhaps not always true ( see p. 9 ) or that it is badly written ( p. 16 ) , and it ends with the general silliness and incoherence of the story , which was once the pride of earlier authors , indeed the center of their art . The same is true of Moran 's description of the situation in which he is writing ( seep. 92 ) , of his commentary on his own scribble ( see , e.g. , pp. 100 , 132 , and 133 ) , of the " constructed " nature of his own story ( see p. 138 ) , which perhaps has only been " dictated " to him by that voice which , after his return from his interrupted search , he hears more and more clearly ( see pp. 170 and 176 ) . Just as earlier writers believed that they were " inspired " and thus saw themselves as the mouthpiece of ( divine ) truth , so Beckett , with the characteristic gesture of the writer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inspiration : It is hallucination ; any other interpretation is a lie or self-deception . To this extent , then , Molloy 's and Moran 's experiences are arbitrary , are merely an artistic device . The spatial quests of both the protagonists are simply images , " material . " The actual quest in this double novel is contained in the act of writing , in the attempts by Molloy and Moran to render accountable their futile efforts , to follow the changes in their bodies and in their personalities , and to preserve their identity and , indeed , to understand it in the transmutation . Footnote  | In Malone Dies the situation is intensified or , rather ( since Beckett does not proceed in an arbitrary fashion ) , it has become more radical ; the situation left by Molloy is taken to its logical conclusion . The protagonist 's external movements have come to a standstill . Malone lies in bed and awaits his death . Until this comes he will pass the time by telling stories . To begin with , however , he talks about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to push the food bowl and the chamber pot backward and forward with his arms , with the help of a stick , and to rummage through his belongings . The first story is about a man called Saposcat , later called Macman . Nevertheless , it is constantly interrupted by sections in which the narrator talks about himself . When Malone is about to deliver the promised inventory of his belongings , he finds to his astonishment that he has lost his stick . Then we hear once again of Macman , who is now living in an asylum . His nurse is Moll , later , after her death , Lemuel . Lemuel and Macman , together with some other inmates , go on a boat trip , the course of which becomes more and more fantastic until finally the disintegration of the narrator 's speech signals his death ( and the death of his characters ) . The association of death and a journey by boat is a motif that reminds the reader once more , at the end of Malone Dies , of the quest character of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the authors of adventure , travel , and peregrinatio novels that have had their characters reach the realm of the dead by crossing a river , lake , or sea . The radicalization on the thematic level in Malone Dies in contrast to Molloy may best be seen in the fact that the movement toward the mother has become the journey toward death . Like many other Beckett protagonists , Molloy , a run-down , aging man , tries , in his return to the mother ? to his mother 's room ( and the word " room " rhymes with " womb " ) ? to take back , as it were , his own birth , to wipe out the sin of being born ( a concept of Calderon often quoted by Beckett ) . Malone , who as many details indicate , is a further stage in Molloy 's decay , imagines his own death , which he immediately mentions in the first sentence of the novel // ( " I shall soon be quite dead at last in spite of all " ; p. 179 ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end of the novel ? in other words , shortly before the notes in his notebook break off ? he actually , " finally " lies in the throes of death , he describes this as a birth , whereby the room becomes a womb :  | I am swelling . What if I should burst ? The ceiling rises and falls , rises and falls , rhythmically , as when I was a foetus . . . . I am being given , if I may venture the expression , birth to into death , such is my impression . The feet are clear already , of the great cunt of existence . Favourable presentation I trust . My head will be the last to die . . . . That is the end of me . I shall say I no more p. 285 . Malone Dies also goes further than Molloy in the mixture of narrative and account of the narrative ; in other words , in the mixture of text and metatext . Whereas in Molloy the account of the act of writing is limited mainly to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupies much more space and the story is essentially composed of different ( and only partly realized ) stories , the fictive character of which is clearly emphasized . The constant interruption of the narrative process by reflections upon it is so obvious ? recognizable by the constant switch from the " narrative " past tense to the present tense representing the present in which Malone is a narrator ? that a detailed explanation can be dispensed with . Two passages are quoted here as representative , the first because the refinement is taken to its limit here , insofar that the process of writing is described in the most literal sense possible , and the second because of the extent to which it makes the two levels of the text explicit : My little finger glides before my pencil across the page and gives warning , falling over the edge , that the end of the line is near p. 227 ... . I fear I must have fallen asleep again . In vain I grope , I can not find my exercise-book . But I still have the pencil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ day to break . God knows what I am going to do till then . I have just written , I fear I must have fallen , etc. p. 209.  | In addition to these self-reflexive passages one could quote dozens of comments in which Malone denigrates the stories he is telling ( himself ) as boring ( see pp. 187 , 189 , 216 , and 218 ) or awful ( see p. 191 ) or suddenly interrupts the flow of the narrative : " no , that wo n't do " ( p. 190 ) , " no , I ca n't do it " ( p. 196 ) , " I pause to record that I feel in extraordinary form . Delirium perhaps " ( p. 258 ) . Of course , nowadays a novel such as this , in which text and metatext are mixed , in which the fictional character is not only emphasized but where this emphasis becomes itself an integral part of the artistic aim , can no longer be considered exceptional . On the contrary ; this self-reflexivity , the paradoxes of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gag that is available whenever needed . In this connection one only needs to think of the so-called " postmodernists " above all in the U.S.A. 11,12,17 . Authors such as John Barth , Donald Barthelme , Robert Coover , or Ronald Sukenik appear to me , in contrast to the earlier Samuel Beckett , only to have added certain nuances , whereas it seems to me justifiable to see Beckett 's trilogy as the logical conclusion to metaliterature , even though the work belongs , rather , to the very earliest that represented not simply self-reflexivity in literature but self-reflexive literature . In the meantime this procedure has become so ubiquitous that not only have exceptional authors such as Tom Stoppard been seduced by this theme , 16 but self-reflexivity has actually permeated through to the daily round of German television17 and to sophisticated children 's literature ( see Ende 8 ) . In the face of such an inflated proliferation of metaliterature , the involved enthusiast might well become impatient , just as Hegel in his time saw " romantic irony " as , in the last analysis , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when it becomes a fixed gesture , so the novel of self-reflexivity is subject , more than other literature , to a process of erosion . However , Beckett 's method , thirty-five years ago , was not Footnote  | only original : This is true of an artist like Maurits Cornelius Escher , too , and yet one would hardly want to compare him with Beckett . It appears to me that the reason for this is the fact that games of this sort do not exhaust a novel such as Malone Dies : It is much richer . Above all , Beckett 's method is the result of a process of derivation : What for later authors has become a readily available device , which can be used for the fun of it , at any time and without difficulty , was something Beckett had to work out , invent , something bound up with the very essence of his existence as an artist . I will return to this in the following . Malone Dies is thus a novel in which the traditional fable firstly is only present @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ every point as invented , and , thirdly , is constantly being interrupted by the first-person narrator 's commentary about the writing situation . This commentary , however , is authentic : In it and in the underlying living situation of Malone Beckett demonstrates the seriousness and the tenacity of his art . One only need consider the end , as Malone 's prose disintegrates , obviously as a result of the onset of the process of dying . When he feels his end approaching , Malone has the nurse , Lemuel , use his axe to kill the protagonists , whereupon the apparent story is , as it were , " suspended . " Then finally Lemuel is in charge , he raises his hatchet on which the blood will never dry , but not to hit anyone , he will not hit anyone , he will not hit anyone any more , he will not touch anyone any more , either with it or with it or with it or with or or with it or with his hammer or with his stick or with his fist or in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with his pencil or with his stick or or light light I mean never there he will never never anything there any more p. 289 It is clear from the association of the axe with the stick and pencil that Malone identifies himself to a certain degree with Lemuel . He kills his inventions after he has brought them  | into being . The presumption of the writers who as " makers , " " creators , " in other words , as " poets " have often compared themselves with God is retracted ; at the very least it is unmasked . However , is it not the case that Beckett has perpetuated the lie insofar that he has actually written yet another novel ? Has Beckett 's unmasking in his own work been radical enough ? Has he not , regardless of the thoroughness with which he discloses the fictional-fictive procedures of all art , nevertheless comfortably kept himself out of it ? Beckett decides to write a continuation : It still was not enough ; the self-investment was still not total , since the attempt to resolve the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ invented reality had resulted once more in a search , had produced a new novel . These paradoxes are the points of departure for The Unnamable . The first-person narrator , nameless , outside of time and place , speaks , mainly in the present tense , about himself , rejecting any fictional procedure . Nevertheless , occasionally he relapses into storytelling . The protagonist who crops up sporadically is called Basilius , later renamed Mahood . From what can be made out , it seems that , after years of wandering , Mahood , now reduced to a trunk , is on display in a large earthenware jar in the street , opposite a ' restaurant . The proprietress of the latter looks after him and covers him with a tarpaulin when it snows . Another figure appears , called Worm , who is almost without any real substance and not always unambiguously distinguishable from the narrator 's voice . In the second half of the novel the Unnamable , a further development of Malone , speaks more and more about his " quest , " his attempt to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : " Ah yes , all lies , God and man , . . . all invented . . . . There will be no more about them " ( p. 306 ) . . The language is without paragraphs , toward the end almost without sentences ( full stops occur only every other page ) , and I will not conceal the fact that the structure becomes opaque , that the whole contains little " human interest , " does without the black comedy , and the ? for Beckett ? grim and acid humor that is usually character-  | istic . The author pursues his point with logical consistency , but perhaps with a certain barrenness and pedantry . However , perhaps it must look like this , the novel of necessity , the novel of having to talk in order finally to be able to be silent and to be allowed to be silent : I think I 'll soon be dead , I hope I find it a change . I should have liked to go silent first , there were moments I thought that would be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to enter living into silence , so as to be able to enjoy it , no , I wo n't know why p. 400 . Moran wrote a report because he was ordered to do so by his employer . Molloy began a report because he was to be paid for it , but he did so of his own free will . Malone " invented " only for himself . The Unnamable writes ( from the style of the language , rather speaks ) simply in order to be freed from the visions that afflict him , from the voices that he hears ( see , e.g. , p. 311 or 397 ) . The Unnamable must speak , and the structure of his monologue betrays the nature of the torrent of words as a kind of logorrhea . The novel as genre has come to an end : fable , plot , place , time , characters , structure , imagery , the whole inventory of the narrative art has disappeared , or in any case has been reduced to the point of unrecognizability . Beckett the artist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( a motif that plays a role in many of Beckett 's works ) and every effort is made to establish the identity of the first person narrator as the author . In no other work are so many references made to earlier protagonists of other Beckett novels ? and in the last analysis these are Beckett 's creations and not the Unnamable 's . The novel has become a discourse on the novel , and , more precisely , since it is a negative goal , the novel is a discourse on the termination of novel writing , a logical conclusion , no doubt , to the principle of self-reflexivity in literature . IV Finally , an attempt will be made to establish Beckett 's position in literary history and at the same time his relation-  | ship to the topic of this collection of essays . It is true that literature has always been very much concerned with itself ? the theater , for example , with the stage and acting situation ; poetry with the process of inspiration ; the novel , for example , with the conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more than , for example , leading articles have concerned themselves with leading articles , quiz programs with quiz programs , biological studies with biological studies , or legal texts with legal texts . The reason for this is the fact that in the case of literature ? as with art in general ? vision is at least as important as the object viewed , the representation at least as important as what is represented . Since fictional texts are concerned with an invented reality , with " constructions , " and not with factual descriptions or texts relating to a reality outside of themselves , the " structure " must necessarily be as interesting as the reality that is seemingly described . Whole literary genres , for instance , parody or travesty , draw their strength from this situation . Don Quixote by Miguel de Cervantes , for example , is just as much a novel about other novels as a story about an anachronistic knight . In particular , it ridicules those romances in which sixteenth century knight-errants still travel the land , liberating virgins from the claws of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real and spiritual background that had given the romances of the medieval courts their meaning had long since disappeared , Spain being subject to emigration and inflation and early bourgeois capitalism producing its first successes . There are three recognizable peaks in the history of selfreflexive literature : The first is about 1600 , the second about 1800 , and the third since the end of the First World War . As even a mere sketch of the historical development is beyond the scope of this discussion , I will confine myself to a few comments on the literature of the twentieth century . The theory of self-reflexive literature must be developed within the framework of the more comprehensive history and theory of the modern ego , of bourgeois subjectivity . Rene Descartes is surely one of the first to be named here : The subject derives his reality from the general certainty of his  | thinking ( or doubting ) ( " cogito ergo sum " ) . After English philosophers such as John Locke and George Berkeley , German idealism took Descartes ' thesis a stage further : The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought and reality ; reflexion is essentially self-reflexion . Later the problematic tendencies inherent in these theses by J. G. Fichte and G. W. F. Hegel became radicalized as so-called solipsism : What began as the inclusion by Kant of the subject in the process of cognition became the exclusion of the world from the cognitive process . The unbearable rift between the ego and the world is overcome insofar that the subject is declared to be the sole object of the subject . In this way the old unity of life is restored , though at the expense of excluding the world from cognition . Of course , the theory of cognition is to a large degree a reflex of material and social changes , of an individualism that on the whole can be seen to have been growing continually since the Renaissance . This can only be suggested here . Without doubt , literary developments must also be seen within this framework . To give a brief synopsis , Beckett 's three novels are , from a formal viewpoint , several giant monologues ( more precisely , " monographs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than speak ) and stand at the end of the tradition of the stream-of-consciousness novel as developed by James Joyce and Virginia Woolf and where the subject with his inner life is made the main object . However , Beckett goes further . Consider the following sentence from Fichte : Knowledge has now been found and stands in front of us as an eye resting on itself and closed . It sees nothing outside of itself , but it sees itself 9 . Beckett 's trilogy can be seen as an attempt to exhaust the inherent problems and the impasse involved in this approach . In The Unnamable the writing moves in the direction of Fichte 's point of departure , but this time as an end point . The narrator , presumably echoing the eye metaphor just quoted , says ,  | my body , whose very eyes can no longer close . . . to rest me from seeing , to rest me from waking , to darken me to sleep , and no longer look away , or down , or up open to heaven , but must @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ them where there is nothing to be seen , ninety-nine per cent of the time . They must be as red as live coals . I sometimes wonder if the two retinae are not facing each other p. 303 . Here the two eyes a human being has serve as a metaphor for the split into subject and object , which nevertheless must both be identical insofar that the object is also the subject . Complete and perfect self-knowledge is , however , impossible , since knowing more about oneself extends what it is that one wants to know more about and indeed to exactly the same extent that the ego discovers more about itself . To this extent the solipsistic position is not only fruitless , but also bound to fail as a strategy . Beckett recognizes this at the end of the trilogy : The final words are you must go on , I ca n't go on , I 'll go on p. 418 . Beckett has continued writing ? even if it seemed to him for a time as if he had written himself into an impasse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the last fifteen years has found his way to a new form of literature . This is a highly concentrated form of short plays and short novels in which he represents very seriously and with great sympathy the solitude , loss of ego , and the fears of modern man . The phase of self-reflexivity ? apparently over and done with for Beckett personally ? is correlated to the loss , which had long since taken place in other disciplines , of the belief that there is an objective reality and one that is objectively accessible to us . After a period of naive optimism it is now understood in physics that the mathematical formulas with which the researcher works so successfully represent much less reality itself than our understanding of reality . ( For other areas see the contributions in this collection of essays . ) Something similar must be the case with many writers in our century : After a period of interest in storytelling ( one can think of Sir Walter Scott , Charles Dickens , and the mass pro-  | duction of three-volume novels toward the end @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sue , Karl May , and similar phenomena ) they no longer trusted the justification for or the possibility of a naive storytelling , in other words , of the description of an apparently unproblematic , positive , and given reality . This can perhaps , among other things , help to explain why Beckett 's texts are so difficult to read , why in fact they must be like this if they are not to remain behind their time . That is not to say that after Beckett one can only write in an ever more complicated fashion , that art in our time and in the future , like atomic physics or set theory , can only be accessible to a small elite . It is enough to bear in mind that with Beckett a particular kind of art reached a peak that seems hardly possible to surpass . ( Beckett himself has become thematically more naive in his works since about the middle of the sixties . ) What , however , are the artistic reasons for self-reflexive literature as represented in Beckett ? 18 One reason is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ story . When Cervantes , as early as in the sixteenth century , produced an antiromance in reaction to the hack writers of his time , when Laurence Sterne in reaction to the self-complacent eighteenth-century novel produced an antinovel , how much more must a writer in our times suffer from the inflation of fiction , detective stories , comics , science fiction , soap operas on television , and so on . If all the stories have been told , why should yet another one be invented ? And if it is a question of inventions anyway , why should it have to be precisely this story ? ( Compare the paragraph above on Proust . ) In addition to this , there is also the general state of doubt about language , not only from a philosophical viewpoint , as expressed in the oft-quoted formulation of Ludwig Wittgenstein , when he said , " Philosophy is the fight against the bewitchment of our understanding through our language " 26 , but also from a literary viewpoint , for example , in the sense in which Hugo von Hofmannsthal 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but arrived at from a different standpoint , see Theodor W. Adorno 2.  | speaks of it in an equally well-known passage in Ein Brief when he says that the words decay in his mouth " like mouldy fungus " 13 . Thus it is simply a matter of consistency on the part of writers when in their writings they should be even more concerned with the conditions , potentialities , and limits of their work than would be required of them anyway by a form of communication in which form is as important as content . Watzlawick et al . 22 have described how , in the case of whatever kind of human interaction one cares to examine , the importance of the definition of the relationship , in other words , the communication about the communication , increases in proportion to the extent of conflict between two partners in a communication ( see p. 52 ) . The position is familiar from problematic personal relationships , which can often be characterized by the fact that those involved scarcely communicate real content but , rather , spend most of their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each other ( and probably no less to themselves ) what they think about the way they communicate with each other . Communication is suffocated by metacommunication ( and even when they are it quarreling about real content , for example , about money or the washing up , these are only pretexts for conflicts in the relationship ? in the last analysis they are not quarreling about money , etc . ) . Literature is unlikely to behave any differently . In a time when naive storytelling , when the construction of well-made plays , when trust in the instrument of language altogether had become problematic for the more sensitive artists , when trust in the old forms , trust in the relationship with the public had vanished , when the understanding with the reading public ? alternatively , theater audience ? that was known to the writer and easy to keep in perspective was lost ( this was the result of a complete regrouping of this public , loss of confidence on the part of the artist , and the advent of the new media film and television : @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fictional texts who found himself in the midst of such disintegration could ? at least so it seemed for some time ? only write about writing or , more precisely , could only write about the impossibility of writing and thus hope in this paradoxical manner to continue his profession . Beckett  | was also theoretically aware of this position . In the three dialogues that he had in 1949 ( in the period when he was working on the novel-trilogy ) with Georges Duthuit , he said , with reference to the painters of the " Informel , " but without doubt also referring to himself , I speak of an art turning from it the plane of the feasible in disgust , weary of puny exploits , weary of pretending to be able , of being able , of doing a little better the same old thing , of going a little further along the dreary road . And in answer to Duthuit 's question of what the artist should prefer , he continued 4 , The expression that there is nothing to express , nothing with which to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to express , no desire to express , together with the obligation to express p. 1031.19 Footnote PART 3 The Imperfect Perfection PAUL WATZLAWICK To think that I will no longer think of you is still thinking of you . Let me then try not to think that I will no longer think of you .  | These words , attributed to a Zen master , summarize the essence of the third part of this book . In a world based on classical linear causality , two properties emerge with seeming logic and necessity : the split between observer ( subject ) and observed ( object ) and the all-inclusive ordering of that world into pairs of opposites , an order for which common sense manages to find confirmation everywhere ? causeeffect , inside ? outside , day ? night , life ? death , good ? evil , body ? soul , past future , health illness ; the list could go on for pages . The reality thus constructed reverberates from the violent clash of these opposites . No matter how long and how furiously the struggle has been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hand . This , of course , does not exclude the possibility that the losses and the suffering may at times reach horrifying proportions . Does the power of one 's own attack lend special force to the attacked , and is there something in the nature of defense , rejection , and negation that increases the strength of the opponent ? The question is rhetorical . Heraclitus already knew : To exist , everything needs its opposite . Long before the constructions of the Manichaeans and the Gnostics , Lao Tsu lucidly traced the course of this development in his Tao Te Ching , especially in Chapters 2 and 18 :  | Under heaven all can see beauty as beauty only because there is ugliness , All can know good only because there is evil . and When the great Tao is forgotten , Kindness and morality arise . When wisdom and intelligence are born , The great pretense begins . When there is no peace in the family , Filial pity and devotion arise . When the country is confused and in chaos , Loyal ministers appear 4 . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world into pairs of opposites is thus the loss of Tao ; for the ancient Greeks it was man 's falling out of the state of pleroma ; in the Kabbalah it is the " breaking of the vessels " ; for Christianity , the eating of the forbidden fruit . In modern science it is the strict separation of the observing subject and the observed object ; a separation whose hopeless absurdity was noted by Heisenberg , who stated that a truly objective world , totally devoid of all subjectivity , would for this very reason be unobservable . Modern man has increasing reason to suspect that there is something in the nature of attempted perfection that leads to imperfection . This realization , however , typically does not lead to a radical reexamination of this quest for perfection , but only to the conclusion that the attempted perfection is not yet the perfect one and that it is therefore necessary to do more of the same striving for perfection 6 . Hence our bewildered amazement when we discover that both scientific and social constructions produce realities that are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to contribute to illness 2 ; ever more highly specialized schools produce increasing mediocrity ; " communication training " makes people mentally deaf and dumb ; ever more rapid means of transportation and other time-saving devices leave us with less and less leisure 1 ; increasingly comprehensive welfare pro-  | grams contribute to the mounting incompetence of the average citizen 5 ; justice and the penal system seem to supply us with additional criminals ; and every further social progress appears to precipitate further erosion of individual liberties 7 . In our inner , private world , the situation is not much different , as the Zen quotation points out . He who wants to forget remembers even more painfully ; he who tries to force himself to fall asleep stays awake ; he who wants to be specially witty is boring ; and he who tells himself to have neither right nor reason to be sad sinks into depression . A state of perfection presupposes the eradication of everything imperfect . But in attempting this , the striving for perfection entangles itself in the strange snares and paradoxes of negation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One may reject an idea ( or assumption , ideology , belief , etc. ) either because one holds the opposite view or because one adheres neither to the idea nor to its negation ( opposite ) . In the latter case one is not caught in the conflict between assertion and negation ; in other words , one is neither for nor against , one stands outside this pair of opposites , one is autonomous.1 However , in taking this autonomous position , one still runs afoul of the apparently all-embracing , definitive Manichaean separation of the world into pairs of opposites . For since one is not for , one is ( by this horrible simplification ) still against . Tertium non datur ? a third possibility exists neither in Mani 's nor in Aristotle 's worlds . But there is an escape ; it becomes possible as soon as we understand that the negation of the opposite ( which , after all , requires its recognition ) and the standing outside that pair of opposites are two fundamentally different forms of negation . We begin to see that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the frame of a world constructed out of the primitive yes no thinking did the two forms of negation appear to be identical . We then also become Footnote  | aware of the inhumanity of this construction that reaches far into our everyday lives , and , finally , we wonder how we managed to keep ourselves blind to this and accepted it as an apparent given of the real world . This world is the subject of the first contribution to part 3 . In it the Norwegian philosopher Jon Elster shows the need for a strict separation of the concepts of active and passive negation , and describes the consequences of their uncritical confusion . The reader who is unfamiliar with symbolic logic should not allow himself to be deterred by the very few paragraphs dealing with formal logic : He will be richly rewarded , for not only does Elster 's essay provide an analysis of unusual clarity , but its raw material , so to speak , is the novels of the Soviet dissident Alexander Zinoviev , which speak for themselves and presuppose no professional specialization . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created a literary genre for which he is himself the only example . " In grasping the essence of the " Ivanian regime , " the reader experiences what Kuhn 3 has called a paradigmatic change . The second contribution to this part attempts to show the stereotypical characteristics of the reality that emerges as the result of the conviction that the final , true explanation of the world has been found . In its claim to perfection , any such utopian construction plunges into the paradoxes of self-reflexivity ; no system can prove its own truth from within itself . But since the primitive , Manichaean thinking of ideologies can not afford to see its unavoidable , innate imperfection as the direct , self-reflexive consequence of its claim to perfection , this paradox becomes the concrete ( and not only metaphorical ) stumbling block to all ideologies.  | JON ELSTER Active and Passive Negation An Essay in Ibanskian Sociology* LOGICIAN BY PROFESSION , novelist and sociologist by vocation , Alexander Zinoviev1 has created a literary genre whose only example is his own . In order to have an idea of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ferocity of Swift , the burlesque of Rabelais , the paradoxes of Lewis Carroll ( like Zinoviev , a logician ) , the moral height of Sol-Footnote  | zhenitsyn , and the sociological intuition of Simmel . But a description by juxtaposition is perforce inadequate . In order to summarize the work of Zinoviev , I would use , rather , a comparison that would perhaps not be to the author 's liking ( but who knows ? ) : He does for Soviet communism what Marx did for the capitalism of his time . Like Marx , who strove to demonstrate the mechanisms of capitalistic irrationality , Zinoviev has us enter an hallucinatory world that is , however , not a chaotic one , but one ruled by principles as irrational as they are intelligible . Understanding the irrational : such is the task that Zinoviev proposes . The irrational object is Soviet society ; the method used to study it derives in great part from formal logic . It will be seen that Zinoviev takes a place not only in the tradition of formal logic , but also @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that includes Hegel , Marx , and Sartre . In his analysis , Soviet irrationality is not produced , as under capitalism , by the shock of incompatible and uncoordinated intentions ; we are reminded , rather , of the snake that bites its own tail , of the right hand that steals from the left , of the dog that chases its shadow , or of the man who verifies the news in a newspaper by buying a second copy of the same newspaper . From the very first page of YH , the reader understands what it is all about : " The objective of the measure was to discover those elements which did not approve of putting it into practice " ( YH , p. 9 ) . On the one hand , this idea suggests a political system stripped of content , or whose content would be its form itself ; on the other hand , it is characteristic of the logical paradoxes that have upset formal logic in our cen- Footnote  | tury.3 In its theoretical version , the paradigm of such a paradox is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ suggests a more practical version : " One has to obey this order , under penalty of death . " Which order ? The self-reference and the infinite regression bring about a feeling of vertigo , no doubt analogous to the vague feelings of guilt that hover permanently over every citizen of Ibansk , mythic locale of YH . We could quote other examples of the same type , 4 but the essence of Zinoviev 's idea is not there . Central to his analysis is a logical distinction between what I will call active negation and passive negation , a distinction going back as far as Kant , and that later assumed an importance crucial to modern psychiatry and psychology . Zinoviev makes a double usage of it . On the one hand , he sees in the confusion of the two forms a fundamental aspect of the irrationality of the regime ; on the other hand , he uses the distinction as a conceptual tool important for the analysis of Soviet institutions . As for the first usage , we could put forth the definition that the negligence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abstraction of all other connotations that this discredited term has had in the past.5 Whatever the fecundity of this notion might be , we shall see that , starting with the tendency to confuse the two negations , the analysis of the irrational is called for in several cases . Footnote  | Starting with logical analysis , we will trace the history of the thought and arrive finally at Zinoviev . Consider the following propositions : I. Person A believes statement p to be true abbreviated : A believes p . II . It is not the case that A believes p abbreviated : Not ( A believes p ) . III . A believes the contrary of p abbreviated : A believes not ? p . Proposition II is the passive negation of I ; proposition III is its active negation . In general , the negation of formal logic is passive negation . For example , the laws of thought always invoke that form of negation . Thus the principle of contradiction " Not ( I and not ? I ) " is to be understood as " Not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the excluded middle " I or not ? I " understood as " I or II . " The first characteristic of a primitive mentality would be , then , to accept these principles for both active negation and passive negation . Therefore one would be faced with the impossibility of simultaneously having two contradictory opinions or , in a more general sense , having an ensemble of opinions from which one can deduce a contradiction . This conclusion ? as attractive as it is fallacious ? is found in several recent books6 and even in Aristotle . ' In an analogous manner , the primitive mentality would deny the distinction between atheism , active negation of God , and agnosticism , the passive negation.8 Who would n't recognize Footnote  | here the , " Either you 're for me or against me ! " of everyday Manichaeism ? The example just given is a specific case of a larger group of problems studied in modal logic.9 In the classic paradigm of this theory , Np represents the necessity of proposition p , and Mp its possibility . The passive negation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of M ( Not ? p ) ; the active negation is N ( Not ? p ) . Now the operatives N and M lend themselves to other interpretations , namely , the following . In deontological logic Np is read as , " It is mandatory to do p , " and Mp as , " It is permitted to do p " ; the distinction between active and passive shown here is important and will be taken up later on . Then there are several versions of epistemological logic : In the logic of knowledge we read Np as " A knows p , " in the logic of opinion as " A believes p , " Mp being understood as NotN ( not ? p ) in both cases . Notice that the logic of opinion is an axiomatization of the rational opinion , which implies a principle of contradiction even for the active negation . On the other hand , there is no principle of the excluded middle for active negation . Among the modal systems , we can mention temporal logic and logic of intention @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to make the distinction between the desire to not do x and the absence of desire to do x . We will come back to this . We can point out two other distinctions closely linked to those in the preceding paragraph . Firstly , there is the distinction between the negation of a conjunction and the conjunction of negations . In the primitive mentality , 10 to deny the conjunction of the propositions p , q , ... , r is the equivalent of denying each of them ; consequently a system of thoughts or a political platform is to be abandoned or taken Footnote  | as a whole . In a Norwegian fairy tale , ss we can see this style of primitive thinking in its purest form . Two girls , one nice and angelic , the other bad and wicked , have to go through a series of obstacles arranged in such a manner that the final outcome depends on success with each and every obstacle . The good girl , of course , overcomes all the obstacles , and the bad girl fails in them all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assure a final failure . In traditional societies , it is difficult to imagine that excellence can come in degrees , that it can be ranked , that there can be multiple scales of superiority.12 In general , the recourse to stereotypes simplifies life and provides an inner peace.13 Undoubtedly the units of a denied conjunction are often linked to each other in a cause ? effect relation , justifying their treatment as a whole , but it is in the nature of the primitive mentality to go beyond experience and fall into preconception . The second distinction comes under the heading of an esoteric problem of logic : how to render in formal language definite description , that is to say , expressions beginning with the definite article the . In a new famous articles ' Bertrand Russell demonstrated that these expressions are only subject to analysis when in the context of a proposition . Thus , " The King of France is bald " asserts ( 1 ) there exists an object x , such that x possesses the quality " to be King of France " ; ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ x ; and ( 3 ) that the object x is bald . Read in 1982 , this proposition is simply false , since the first of the three constituents of the proposition is false . Footnote  | Now , how do we evaluate its negation , " The King of France is not bald " ? The passive negation is the true proposition that denies the conjunction ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , and ( 3 ) ; the active negation is the false proposition which asserts ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) while denying ( 3 ) . Faced with the question , Is the King of France bald ? we sense that both yes and no are equally inadequate responses , since each presupposes the inadmissible fact of a King of France whose baldness alone is in question . And what about the trap question , Do you still beat your wife ? 15 Ibansk joins the universe of Catch 22 on the list of places where all questions are similarly rigged . The primitive mentality is not only the one that falls into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ all the time not knowing that the dilemma posed is not really a dilemma at all . We can even say that the primitive mentality does a good job of setting traps , deliberate manipulations being in general less efficacious than complicity in the absurd . We will return to this point below . In his short precritical treatise " Versuch , den Begriff der negativen Grbssen in die Weltweisheit einzufizhren , " Kant introduces the distinction between active and passive negation . The text is obscure , being part of a physicophilosophical controversy that no longer concerns us16 ; nevertheless , we can profitably consider the examples Kant puts forth in order to explain the distinction . ( 1 ) The passive negation of movement is repose , the active negation being movement in the opposite direction . ( 2 ) The passive negation of wealth is poverty , the active negation indebtedness. ( 3 ) The passive negation of pleasure is either indifference or equilibrium , corresponding to the absence of causes of pleasure and of displeasure and to the presence of causes that are suppressed in their effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The pas-Footnote  | sive negation of virtue is not the sin of omission that , no less than the sin of commission , constitutes an active negation of virtue ; only the deficiency in a saint or the mistake of a noble person would represent passive negation . ( 5 ) The passive negation of attention is indifference , the active negation is abstraction ; in other words , the absence of consciousness of x is something other than the consciousness of the absence of x. ( 6 ) The passive negation of obligation is nonobligation , and the active negation is interdiction. ( 7 ) The passive negation of desire is , again , indifference , the active negation disgust ; we could say that the absence of desire in x is something other than the desire for the absence of x . As we can see , these examples fall into two categories : In one are cases ( 5 ) ? ( 7 ) , which correspond to the modal distinction between Not(Np) and N ( not ? p ) ; in the other are the examples ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be classified using that distinction . In other words , strictly speaking , negation is an operation attaching itself only to propositions : To speak of the negation of a movement , of a pleasure , or of a virtue makes no sense . Kant obviously had in mind the idea of a movement , action , or sensation that in some way would nullify an initial disposition , a notion that is understood for movement in space , but which loses all meaning in the domain of morality . One could be pardoned for a wrong action ; one would not know how to act as though it had never happened . We can add that one can be pardoned in more than one way , so that it is difficult to speak of the negation that reestablishes equilibrium . Having said this , we can see that Kant 's idea remains stimulating even in these less rigorous cases . We will see that Zinoviev himself uses it in the strict sense and , at the same time , in the larger sense.17 Footnote  | In the desire for the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ absence of x , x is at the same time absent and present , present as intentional object of the desire of absence . In Hegel this observation , made by Kant only in passing , is the object of a systematic development . We note , in particular , Chapter IV of Phenomenology of Mind , where the consciousness is initially presented as desire whose fundamental goal is to dominate the exterior world ( and to assert itself ) by consuming it . Now the resultant satisfaction turns out to be fragile : In this state of satisfaction , however , the consciousness of oneself has experience of the independence of its object . Desire and the certainty of its self obtained in the gratification of desire are conditioned by the object ; for the certainty exists in cancelling this other . In order that this cancelling may be effected , there must be this other . Self-consciousness is thus unable by its negative relation to the object to abolish it ; because of that relation it rather produces it again , as well as the desire.18 In the sentence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ terms the paradox of active negation . This paradox , whose independence requires the destruction of an exterior object , actually depends on it in its very being and could never , without contradiction , desire the destruction of that exterior object . Two hundred years earlier John Donne had already written the following in The Prohibition : Take heed of hating me , Or too much triumph in the victory Not that I shall be mine own officer , And hate with hate again retaliate : But thou wilt lose the style of conqueror , If I , thy conquest , perish by thy hate . Then , lest my being nothing lessen thee , If thou hate me , take heed of hating me . On reflection , it is a question of an omnipresent phenomenon . Thus militant atheism would never be able to exist Footnote  | without the believers it opposes , just as a certain form of communism lives in symbiotic union with private property19 : We can also mention the anticommunist whose world would collapse if one day he succeeded in destroying " the God @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinct paradoxes arise : On the one hand , there is the already mentioned difficulty of accepting the distinction between atheism and agnosticism , a distinction too sophisticated for the primitive mentality ; on the other hand , there is the negative belief of the atheist who is as bound to God as is the believer ( or even more so ) .20 In fact , the two paradoxes are linked , for the inefficacy of atheism comes about precisely because it wants to achieve the impossible : to establish , by active negation , a state of passive negation . Rather than stop here to discuss the prolongation of these ideas in Sartre , by way of Koyre and Kojeve , we will conclude this historical glimpse with remarks on their importance in contemporary psychiatry . According to the so-called Palo Alto group , 21 an important element of the etiology of certain pathological family situations is the contradictory injunction , an order whose overt content contradicts its pragmatic presuppositions . Hence the order , " Do n't be so obedient " ? corresponding to the Sartrian idea of love @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ order to obey , he has to not obey . In a like manner , the injunction , " Be spontaneous , " asks for a deliberate effort to achieve a state whose essence is nondeliberation . Bad emperors of classical antiquity commanded , " Adore me " 22 ; American slave traders demanded recognition from their slaves , 23 propositions as incoherent as they are impossible . A last example , the most Footnote  | important for this context , concerns a mother who commands her daughter , " Remember that you must not even think of that forbidden thing , " which is the same as telling her to give it much thought so that she wo n't think about it . Consider this passage of Emily Dickinson ( Complete Poems , . Thomas H. Johnson , ed. , Faber and Faber , London , 1970 ) : The Heart can not forget Unless it contemplate What it declines The will to forget is an example of what has been called " to want what could n't be wanted , " 24 an impossibility , since it relies on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or indifference , is a passive negation ? simply the absence of consciousness of x ? while the will to forget requires the consciousness of the absence of x . Wanting to forget is like deciding to create obscurity from light . Just like forgetfulness , or indifference , states of mind like sincerity , spontaneity , innocence , or faith could never be created by an act of intentional will . In order to get at the importance of these distinctions in Zinoviev 's works , we will first look at his analysis of the Ibanskian regime , then at the relations of the regime to its opposition ( interior and exterior ) , and finally at the internal structure of the interior opposition . Out of this will come an initial conclusion as to the profound impotence of the regime , permitting us ultimately to distinguish two meanings for the notion " negation of the negation " as a form of historical evaluation . The tragiburlesque air of YH comes about because Zinoviev submits to sociological analysis phenomena such as denunciation and " arrivism " ( ladder climbing , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the whole . Indeed , " a farce which is regularly repeated is actually a tragedy " ( YH , p. 468 ) , for " trivialities come and go , but the system of trivia stays in place " ( YH , p. 374 ) , to which it can be added Footnote  | that history repeats itself " the first time as tragedy , the second as catastrophe " ( YH , p. 710 ) . As for denunciation , a constituent phenomenon of every social group in Ibansk , it tends to be the substitute for information : " Information is a mass of lies , in that it is a public and official phenomenon , and it is quickly transformed into denunciation , in that it is a secret phenomenon " ( YH , p. 107 ) . One could naively surmise that in every totalitarian regime there must be a branch within the Interior Minister 's office that would have complete and reliable information at its disposal , if only to make oppression more efficient , but , according to Zinoviev , this is hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ interest to tell the truth . We have to consider Zinoviev as the founder of the sociology of arrivism , a fundamental and universal trait in Ibansk . In RF the author-protagonist shares with us his reflections on this phenomenon , beginning with its most intelligible form , one characterized by cynicism , the total absence of moral consciousness , and skill in the game of personal interactions . But there is more : But Agafonov has confused all my ideas about Soviet careerism . He is a handsome enough lad , although not exactly a film star . You ca n't say that he is particularly bright , but neither is he stupid . He wo n't say no to a drink . He 's not malicious . He is good natured . Idle . A bit sleepy . And he has no family connections . No one to protect him in the way than Kanareikin has protected me . He 's published a couple of down-market pamphlets on philosophy ( philosophy for housewives and mental deficients , as they were described by such outstanding degenerates as Kanareikin and Petin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for no particular reason . He was suddenly included in the editorial board of a leading journal , given a professorship , appointed editor and elected a corresponding member all before my very eyes p. 143 . Equally mysteriously is the awarding of a literary prize to an author who not only lacks any trace of talent , which goes without saying , but who has not rendered service either to the state or to the party ( RE , p. 235 ff ) . It is in YH that we find the key to this second type of arrivism , in the observation that Stalin was not an arrivist of great talent but , rather ,  | someone extraordinarily mediocre ( YH , p. 398 ) . To be a talented arrivist implies the possession of outstanding negative qualities ; to be extraordinarily mediocre implies an outstanding lack of qualities . In Ibanskian society , the greatest success belongs to the latter : " The most able careerist ( arrivist ) is the one with the least talent as a careerist " ( YH , p. 398 ) ; or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in Ibanskian conditions , and this is certainly the method chosen by that undoubtedly talented careerist Claimant , gives enormous advantage to the un-talented careerist . Even the Boss himself i.e. , Stalin seized power and established his own system of power not because he was a genius at his own filthy business , but exclusively because even in that very business he was a total nonentity . He was completely fitted to that business as a person . The leader of rats can not be a lion p. 214 . From this we get the " impression . . . of being up against an extraordinarily insignificant force which , by virtue of this very fact , is invincible " ( YH p. 399 ) . It would be out of the question to oppose an absence ; it is much more preferable to have the presence of a negative that would serve as an object of opposition . Here Zinoviev takes up the theme of the triviality of evil , transposing it from the individual to the societal level . According to Yeats , the most dreaded situation is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the worst are full of passionate intensity " ; for Tocqueville the crisis in religion would be to have only " lukewarm friends and ardent adversaries " 25 ; and according to the early Marx , the danger for freedom of the press in Germany resided in having platonic friends and fervent enemies.26 In a sense , they are right , but to exist as an object of negation is still a form of existence more preferable to the total absence of consciousness in men . Evil triumphs only when it has become the passive and banal negation of Good . In order to explain the success of mediocrity , we can invoke Footnote  | the following general principle : Certain conducts are efficacious only when they do n't have efficiency as an end.27 Intention always does a poor job of hiding itself ; " man merkt die Absicht and wird verstimmt . " One could neither shock the bourgeois in wanting to shock the bourgeois , 28 nor always profit from a love that one inspires , 29 nor engender in a systematic manner random numbers.30 We all know @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out to write a best seller in order to earn a living . The result will invariably be either too good or too bad ; to find the right tone , he would have to share , and not exploit , the narrow vision and prejudices of the general public ; " The better you do your work , the more trouble it gets you into . And if you do it poorly , you 'll only be ruined that much more because , when it comes to botched up work , they know much more about it than you do " ( RF , p. 102 ) . But this analysis of the Ibanskian man would seem to contradict the view revealed in the following passage : An outstanding intelligence is regarded here as an abnormality , and outstanding stupidity as outstanding intelligence . Highly moral people are regarded as amoral villains , and the most abject nonentities as models of virtue . What is in question here is not the absence of one quality , but the presence of another . As a result a strangely negative type of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same way as the electron to the positron ( or vice versa ) . Just as the presence of a negative charge is not the absence of a positive , and of a positive charge is not the absence of a negative , so in the given case , I repeat , a negative type of personality is a personality which has certain specific attributes YH , p. 102 . Is the Ibanskian man the active negation of the moral and rational man , as the preceding passage seems to suggest , or Footnote  | the passive negation of the Agafanov type ? We have to think that passive negation is the most highly developed form of the Ibanskian personality , even if the active negation of it is the most striking by virtue of its specific attributes . This interpretation is supported by Zinoviev 's insistence on the normality of the universe he describes : There is no question of trying to effect a cure , for it is perfectly normal and healthy ( RF , p. 191 ) . The universe is not inhabited by evil and immoral people @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ amorality . It is true that " moral consciousness has declined , just like the classical types predicted " ( RF , p. 134 ) , but the result is on this side of morality , rather than beyond it.31 If moral behavior is the negation of blindly reckless behavior , then Ibansk represents the negation of negation ? but in the logical sense rather than in the dialectical sense . Contradiction dominates every aspect of Ibanskian life , be it economic planning , education , or the struggle against criminality . The following general principle can be posited : instead of looking for efficient solutions for real problems , it is necessary to look for a problem which corresponds to possible or desired solutions . ( Note the procedure in mathematical economics that looks for those conditions permitting the demonstration of a theorem judged to be important ? for example , the existence of general economic equilibrium ? rather than the theorems which follow from conditions judged to be plausible . ) A grotesque example : To reduce the percentage of unpunished crimes , the number of ficticious crimes can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ crimes , m as the number of real crimes punished , and a as the number of ficticious crimes attributed to innocent people punished , authorities have an interest in making a as large as possible since the percentage ( m +a ) I ( n +a ) is an increasing function of a , the only problem being that " they need to reconcile objectives that are in dialectical contradiction : there should Footnote  | be no crimes committed in any unit ; it has to be demonstrated to higher authorities that any crimes committed are successfully uncovered " ( YH , p. 72 ) . The synthesis that suppresses the contradiction would be to " destroy the criminals before they manage to commit their crime " ( YH , p. 819 ) , a ludicrous idea that finds , however , an important analogy in the struggle against speculators and other crooks who " try to overhaul the monetary system " : To suppress them , it would suffice to stop the " production of goods which are the object of speculation " ( YH , p. 804 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the brilliant passage where Zinoviev explains the necessity for being relatively hypocritical in order to escape the frankly hypocritical practices in Ibansk : " I become more and more convinced that the critical literature of the recent past has done a great deal of harm by attacking wordly hypocrisy . It 's been based on a very banal principle , that a man who behaves decently towards others ( smiles , says he 's pleased to see you , sympathises when things go wrong , and so on ) thinks something else privately ? ( that he looks down on you , envies you , is pleased with your failures , upset by your successes , and so on ) . This was seen as hypocrisy . It was considered that people who were of little worth were passing themselves off as decent and good . But that is n't only ( or always ) hypocrisy . It can also be the result of good education , which is one of the social means of self-defence that people use against their own selves . It 's the ability to control oneself @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this good education life becomes a nightmare . Without it , it 's virtually impossible to meet anyone . We can not talk of man as if he possessed something secret and genuine which developed a mask to suit any given situation . A man 's character includes what he is at home and what he is at work , and what he is among his friends and acquaintances , and what he thinks and what he says . " " Yes , but there 's more than a lack of wordly education here , " said Chatterer . " You 'd have to talk more about anti-wordly education . To ignore and trample underfoot everything that is outstanding and to hold up mediocrity for praise is a particular kind of education , not a void . Hypocrisy that takes the form of a negation of hypocrisy is hypocrisy squared " YH , pp. 350-351.  | Therefore , the Ibanskian citizen is inwardly the passive negation of the moral and rational man , but he is the product of an education that is the active negation of a rational and moral @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at first , on reflection this conclusion is affirmed , because the systematic absence of outstanding traits ? be they positive or negative ? could never be realized in the absence of a systematic education . The mere lack of education would produce all sorts of men , which would be incompatible with the Ibanskian standard of mediocrity . Even if I had no way of producing a state of negation within myself , by an act of active negation , 32 nothing prevents me from achieving this result in another . Even if I could n't make up my mind to forget , I could induce a state of forgetfulness in others . I now take up the relation of the regime to the opposition by beginning with the question of Ibanskian law , whose fundamental given is the confusion of nonobligation and interdiction . In a rational society " a distinction must be drawn between the absence of a standard and the existence of a negation-standard " ( YH , p. 618 ) , but in Ibansk the absence of an obligation implies the presence of an interdiction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are cases , too , when it is not enough to have no ban on an action , but official permission has to be sought as well . Sometimes even that it not enough , and a rule is needed to prevent the obstruction of acts which are permitted or at any rate not prohibited " ( YH , pp. 78 and 179 ) . We will see below how this confusion even looms over the attempts to dispel it . We can , however , first point out two other contrasts between rational law and Ibanskian law . The right to emigrate is a fundamental principle of human rights , as is the absence of a governmental right to exile , 33 but in Footnote  | Ibansk people live in an upside-down world34 : The government reserves for itself the right to exile whomever they choose , denies the right of emigration , considers the desire to emigrate a crime whose seriousness can lead to expulsion , but nevertheless refuses requests to emigrate . We have only to consider the stunning passage where Zinoviev sums up the Ibanskian mechanism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not allow that . They even want to fulfill their own will as regards me despite my own will " ( YH , p. 541 ) . The world of Catch 22 comes immediately to mind35 ; this association is reinforced by the following passage : The Patriot had been sentenced to ten days for requesting to be sent to the front , but that he could see no logic in this , since fifty cadets were being dispatched to the front without the slightest desire to go . Deviationist observed that this merely demonstrated the iron logic of the social laws since , according to these laws , Patriot 's destiny was at the whim of his superiors and not under his own control , and by putting in a request for transfer to the front , he had offended against the social laws by evincing a wish to control his own fate by his own will ? so he had got everything he deserved YH , p. 64 . Another crucial problem concerns the rapport between the letter and the spirit of the law . It is generally @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of laws , fearing that corrupt people would invoke the letter of the law against its spirit.36 On the other hand , the Western notion of law Footnote  | permits the possibility ? and even the inevitability37 ? of unwanted interpretations of the law and prescribes that in such cases one must change the letter of the law rather than invoke its spirit . In the Western world , people are not found guilty of libel for having said , " If I told my opinion , I would be found guilty " ; in Ibansk the letter of the law is ignored , and they go directly to its spirit : What matters above all is not whether a law is bad or good . What matters is whether or not the law exists . A bad law is nevertheless a law . Good illegality is nevertheless illegal . I shall take it upon myself to prove the mathematical theorem that any society with a rule of law , no matter how bad that law may be , allows the existence of an opposition . The very existence of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . And the absence of an opposition is an indication that a society is lawless . But let us look more closely at the question . Let us take a certain text A. Let there be a legal system B , according to which this text is assessed to be hostile to the given society ( as an " anti " text ) . Consequently the author of A is prosecuted . And if , for example , I say " N asserts that A , " I am not asserting A , I am asserting that N asserts A. What then , from the point of view of society B , is the nature of a text of the type " N asserts that A " ? Is that an " anti " text ? Fine , but how will the prosecutor look , when in court he accuses me of asserting the text " N asserts that A " ? Will he Footnote  | be seen as a man pronouncing an " anti " text ? No ? But why ? Where is the formal criterion which lets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ word " asserts " once , and the prosecutor has used it twice . But if such a law is adopted , all I have to do is pronounce in advance the following text : " M asserts that N asserts A. " I have only cited one logical progression . But there are many more . Construct for me a code B of laws which permit texts to be assessed as " anti " , and I will undertake , for any text which is so assessed , to construct a text which can not be assessed according to code B , but which all the same will be understood as an opposition text . Every rigorous law is ' a priori ' a possibility of opposition YH , p. 306 . The relation of the regime to the opposition can be defined in the mode of either passive or active negation : silence or condemnation . This choice poses the following dilemma : " It was time , it was necessary to make a high-level response to that individual . But on the other hand , that would attract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ we keep silent , people will think that they are right " ( RF , p. 230 ) . In other words , to condemn is to recognize and to make known , even if it also means to point out a threat . Therefore , from a certain point of view , the opposition sees the movement from silence to condemnation as a step forward ; accordingly , in criticizing modernist painters , their works have to be reproduced and consequently made known ( RF , p. 134 ) , from which we get the stronghold of the opposition : " Condemn me . " Actually the silence of the regime is not an active negation in the complete sense ; it is a desired silence that differs from simple indifference . It is an effort toward active negation hidden behind the appearance of passive negation . Now the distinction between desired and true indifference can be easily made , by virtue of the exclusively systematic form of the former . Here , again , attention is too lightly veiled ; never speaking of a person whose existence one can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ obsession as can be nonstop discussion of that person : Any husband knowing that his wife cheats on him knows this ; the Ibanskian dissidents do n't ignore it either :  | It 's not only the attacks that are frightening , said Chatterer . Persecution amounts to official recognition . It 's the deliberate indifference to everything you do . And the more important your work is , and the better its results , the greater the indifference becomes . I 'm not talking about indifference as a mere lack of interest , but an active indifference . That 's something positive YH , p. 745 . As one would expect from an expert in many-valued logic , 38 Zinoviev makes here a distinction between three types of negation ; it seems possible , however , to reduce them to two basic forms . Active indifference is , as stated previously , active negation hiding behind passive appearance . One could undoubtedly imagine an endless stream of such appearances , each more complex than the preceding one and capable of deceiving a great number of people ; nevertheless , they @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ negation . By affecting indifference ? from the first to the nth degree ? one will never become indifferent , like Pascal 's believer who would become a believer by pretending to be one . Aside from interior opposition , there is exterior opposition ? the West . In Zinoviev 's works there are constant references to trips abroad , notably to scientific meetings . For the Ibanskian , the foreigner is fascinating , provided that he rejects Ibanskian ways : Ibanskians adore foreigners and are prepared to give them their last shirt . If the foreigner does n't take the shirt , he 's called a swine . And quite rightly . Take what you 're given , without wanting to get yourself thumped . So take it , damn you , if you do n't want a thick ear . There 's no need to play hard-to-get . They 're being goodhearted , showing good feelings . So go on , make the most of it , they 're not like this every day , and if you do n't . . . . But if the foreigner accepts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ doing , he 's still called a swine . And that 's only right . He could 've refused it . But if he accepts , he ought to abide by the rules . We 've acted with the best intentions , with open generosity . But as for Footnote  | him . . . . It 's no use looking for gratitude . They 're swine , and that 's all there is to it . But if the foreigner takes the shirt and behaves like a proper Ibanskian , then he 's an even bigger swine , because then he 's clearly one of our own people , and with our own people there 's no need to stand on ceremony YH , p. 460 . As Groucho Marx said , " I 'd never belong to a club that would accept me as a member . " This is a case of the effect of contamination : If the foreigner were really stupid enough to recognize us , we would be even more stupid to recognize him.39 It is also an ironic variation on the " Timeo Danaos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ when they are bearing gifts.40 Khrushchev occupies a special place in the Ibanskian world . He symbolizes the inability of the regime to effect change or to change itself : Even if they suddenly were to wish to stop being oppressors they could not desist from oppression , since their lack of will to oppress could only be realised in the form of oppression , which would entail nothing more than a change in the aspect and sphere of application of oppression YH , p. 582 . We have to recall the deceptively liberating command : Do n't be so obedient . Khrushchev 's failure can be summed up in his project of de-Stalinization . There was too rapid a passage from the permission to no longer quote Stalin to the recommendation to not quote him ( RF , p. 58 ) , as if the for-Footnote  | mer state of passive negation were too fragile to last . Therefore Stalin triumphed , even in defeat . The method used to renounce him was based on the same confusion that exists between nonobligation and interdiction ; this is , incidentally , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and passive negation serves also to explain why Khrushchev 's plan could never be successful : Half-measures in such situations always end in defeat . You say that he would n't have been allowed to ? That he would have been toppled ? They would have had no chance ! Before they could have got themselves together , he could have done so much that it would have been far too late to have taken any steps against him . The further he had gone , the stronger his position . It is true that he could not deal a really heavy blow . But not because he understood the objective impossibility of a heavy blow , but because he did not understand the subjective possibilities before him YH , p. 188 . " He was not able to " is a key expression that can be looked at further . Khrushchev was in his way powerless , as one can be in the two other ways explained in the following passage : " How do you know what 's senseless and what 's not ? " asked Panicker . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ you mean by that ? " asked Humorist . " Do you mean that they acted the best way they could in conditions over which they had no control ? Or that they acted as they did because that was in their nature ? That 's very far from being the same thing . The former example presupposes intelligence and a rational approach . The latter , not " YH , p. 417 . If every action is conceived as the final result of two successive filters , the first of which is made up of the structural constraints of the situation and the second by the mode of choosing an action in the ensemble of actions that simultaneously satisfies all constraints , it is indeed possible to deny the rational choice in two different ways41 : Either the structural constraints are so strong and the ensemble of possible Footnote  | actions so confined that there is no place for choice , rational or not , or the mode of choice is something besides rational , dictated by tradition , chance , an obsessive idea . This is approximately the distinction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also the distinction Joel Feinberg makes between the exterior constraints ( positive or negative ) and the positive interior constraints.42 On the other hand , the distinction between understanding the impossibility and not understanding the possibility ? between active and passive negation ? amounts to a distinction between exterior constraints and negative interior constraints . As Sartre would put it , nothing prevented Khrushchev from waging a victorious struggle against Stalinism , this nothing being passive negation or lack of knowledge . His blindness was undoubtedly not fortuitous , but there is no reason to think that it was desired . But acting with an undesired lack of knowledge is less irrational than acting with an obsessive desire . Opposition is itself affected by the confusion of active with passive negation . Thus a dissident said previously that he did n't want to submit himself to the ballot , but he was proposed , and he signed the papers . And he was accused of inconsistency . Now was he inconsistent ? When I came here today , I did n't want a drink . You offered me one , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have to distinguish between the absence of desire to do something , and the presence of a positive inclination to do it YH , p. 104 . If other dissidents did not recognize this now familiar distinction , it is because they bear the stamp of the society in which ? and not only against which ? they struggle : " It is impossible to live in a society and remain free from it " ( YH , p. 561 ) , or better , Footnote  | " as a man overcomes these resistances he gradually assumes an ever closer resemblance to that society 's Mr. Average . If he fails to do so , he will not be able to penetrate the fissures in the obstacles he faces . It may seem to him that he has preserved his creative individuality and is bringing his ideas to fruition ; but in fact he is increasingly conforming to the standard " YH , p. 761 . This remark is particularly applicable to the sculptor Dauber , an ambiguous main character in The Yawning Heights who is transformed before our eyes from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ himself . When he mentions that the tombstone he sculpted for Khruschev is an uncompromising work , a friend remarks , " That 's true , if the lack of any demand for compromise can be regarded as uncompromising " YH , p. 467 . It is possible to arrive at a compromise without seeking it ; we have only to recall the distinction made between the two types of arrivists . We now come to the question of power : Ibanskian power is both omnipotent and impotent . It is omnipotent in the negative sense that it can do any evil it likes and remain unpunished . It is impotent in the positive sense that any good it may do remains unrewarded . It has a huge destructive force , and a wholly insignificant power of creation YH , p. 483 . Indeed , the notion of power is doubly fraudulent ; it implies that we can attain goals whatever they might be and whatever the goals of others might be.43 Ibanskian authorities fit the second part of this definition , but not the first . For Tocqueville , centralized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 44 ; " it Footnote  | rarely forces to act , but it is always opposed to action ; it destroys nothing ; it prevents birth " .45 We see that Zinoviev goes much further , by attributing to the regime an immense destructive power ; perhaps we should see in that a difference between an authoritarian regime and a totalitarian one . Whatever the case might be , the asymmetry of doing and undoing does not come about simply because " it is easier to destroy than to construct " ( YH , p. 484 ) . Above and beyond that universal obstacle that the second law of thermodynamics poses for any plan creating order , certain specifically Ibanskian obstacles arise . Let us list them : ( 1 ) the already mentioned tendency of information to deteriorate into denunciation ; ( 2 ) the tendency to evaluate solutions according to their ideological rather than their technical efficiency , looking for " a correct social solution for an insoluble economic problem ( YH , p. 683 ) ; ( 3 ) the omnipresence of contradictory plans , such as the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leadership role of the leadership cadres and to activate an initiative from below " ( YH , p. 179 ) ; ( 4 ) the systematic creation of mediocre personalities that are at the most capable of hindering others ' plans ; ( 5 ) " the effect of social relationships is such that any important problem is regarded as being gnostically difficult " ( YH , p. 572 ) , which presents obstacles for every simple and efficient solution ; and ( 6 ) " an amoral society wastes a huge amount of energy because of its very lack of a high enough level of morality " ( YH , p. 800 ) , since men " expect the worst " ( RF , p. 187 ) and take their precautions , thereby contributing to the realization of the worst that they fear . We can now state the first fundamental law of Ibanskian life , " the well-known rule whereby people who want to make a change never change anything , while changes are only effected by people who had no intention of doing so " ( YH , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the ensemble of political possibilities is a void.46 ' Not that there can never be changes Footnote  | and even profound transformations ; it is only that they could never be brought about in a desired and intended manner . A distinction has to be made between a solution and a result of the search for a solution ( YH , p. 749 ) , just as it is necessary " to make a distinction between what is the product of time and what is the product of the new social system ( YH , p. 530 ) . Since " any decisions taken by the leadership about a particular problem have one and the same result " ( YH , p. 154 ) , it can be seen that " directives are a result , not a cause " ( YH , p. 338 ) . In Ibansk , it is understood in advance that all attempts to undertake whatever action sets off a counteraction that will nullify it : I was in no way surprised to learn that two diametrically opposed meetings had been held virtually simultaneously , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the other . That 's in the normal run of things , and I have been used to that for a long time . For example , Stupak 's father in one and the same day received the Order of Lenin and was expelled from the party ( he was arrested later that night ) RF , p. 581 . In Ibansk guilt takes the place of causality . A second fundamental law states that " successes achieved under any leadership must be successes achieved by that leadership " ( YH , p. 156 ) . " The leadership attributes for itself everything positive and calculates its actions so as to never be held responsible for failures and any negative phenomena " ( YH , p. 410 ) . Expressing this differently , from the scientific point of view . . . one must talk of the causes of certain manifestations . But from the official point of view , such a statement of the problem is unacceptable . In any situation , the official consciousness always poses the question : " Where does the fault lie ? " And as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since only conscious beings can be accused , and not inanimate nature or dumb beasts , the problem is posed even more sharply : " Who is responsible for this ? " From the official point of view , even natural disasters like earthquakes , droughts and floods , must be the responsibility of specific people YH , pp. 99-100.  | Thus we arrive at the third fundamental law : For every disaster one can find a guilty person outside the leadership . In a sense , this attitude has existed for ages : The ruler is " the source of good but not responsible for the bad " , 47 even though a leader is sometimes overthrown if it rains too much during his administration . But in Ibansk , no one really believes that : The second and third laws do not reflect the spontaneous attitude of the people but , rather , principles of bureaucratic promotion . The regime , therefore , takes credit for the good it is incapable of doing and washes its hands of the bad that it alone can do . We finally arrive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ presented and better developed in The Radiant Future than in The Yawning Heights . Actually , it is only in a short sentence ( RF , p. 71 ) , penned in passing , that we learn of Zinoviev 's logical acceptation of the notion , according to which the negation of the negation merely reestablishes the point of departure . Both Marx and Zinoviev see the Communist Revolution as negation of the negation , the former in the dialectical sense , the latter in the logical sense.48 The dialectical is , of course , poorly defined ; it has even been said that it does n't exist and that the negation of the negation forms part of those conceptual tools that are too powerful , since they exclude nothing.49 But it is possible to encompass ? in a fairly rigorous definition ? the essence of classical examples . I put forth that a method p ? q ? r follows the outline of the negation of the negation when ( 1 ) any pair of elements among ( p , q , r ) are mutually incompatible , ( 2 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 3 ) the passage q ? p is impossible , and ( 4 ) there is no q ' ( q q ' ) making the passage p ? q ' ? r possible . Therefore one could never pass directly from feudalism to communism ; one could never go back from capitalism to feudalism ? only Footnote  | capitalism can constitute the indispensable intermediate step . For Zinoviev the negation of the negation can only be understood in its logical acceptation , which implies the rejection of the third condition : ' In Russia , ' said Rebrov , ' a traditional way of life has been preserved despite everything . Just as in China . In the last century Russia instituted a movement towards the Western way of life . But nothing came of it . The Revolution threw us back into a state of serfdom , back to the squalid , gory origins of our imperial history . How many victims will there have to be , and what quagmires will we have to plunge into before the abolition of serfdom becomes a real issue again ? ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ revolution and counter-revolution are asymmetrical , despite their verbal likeness . The revolution against the revolution against x gives something other than x , and for good reasons , well expressed by Giscard d'Estaing : " There is certainly no question of returning to a pre-1968 situation , first and foremost because that pre-1968 situation includes the very elements that caused 1968. " 50 The goal of counter-revolutionists is most assuredly not to create a situation where revolution would again be possible ; Eduard Frei should have realized that he could never have assumed power after Allende . Now the preceding remarks reflect the supposition that revolutionary and counter-revolutionary methods are intentional and intelligent actions . Given the Soviet regime 's inability to transform society in a deliberate and desired manner , it is only left with purely causal transformations , whose end products no one desires or , if desired , they come about by an unwanted or misdirected process.51 It is only by this route that one could conceive of the reestablishment of a precommunist order , but , still , the active negation52 of communism is not a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ do n't want to put the clock back . I want to go on going forward , accepting what has happened in the past as an indisputable fact . Criticism of communism on communism 's home ground is not a battle against communism . It can not in principle lead to the restoration of the pre-communist order . It 's rather the opposite ; , it is precisely the suppression of the criticism of communism which tends towards such a restoration , or in the extreme case it tends to a metamorphosis of communism within the spirit of such a restoration RF , p. 273 . Thanks to an unrelenting process of indifferent degradation , one can set in place a third servitude impossible to create deliberately . In a like manner , only a causal process capable of wiping out its own memory could engender states like faith , innocence , sincerity , and forgetfulness.53 " History leaves no traces . It only leaves consequences which have nothing in common with the circumstances that gave rise to them " ( YH , pp. 31 and 632 ) . In a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either in the form of a memory of the past or in an objectified form where its origin is hidden.54 Only a society keeping alive the memory of the past is capable of controlling the processes that form the future . Zinoviev has demonstrated in a most striking manner that formal logic and dialectical analysis are not only not incompatible , but that the latter is understood only through the former.55 This is not to say that this methodological demonstration is his most important feature . In the field of political science Footnote  |p205205  Zinoviev 's work opens entirely new perspectives , by treating a previously neglected phenomenon political irrationality . But Zinoviev 's undeniable accomplishment is especially the creation of a fictitious , hallucinatory , detailed , and convincing world where even false teeth go bad ( YH , p. 771 ) and even artificial flowers fade ( YH , p. 780 ) , a world similar to nothing ? except to reality .  | PAUL WATZLAWICK Components of Ideological " Realities " THE TERM ideology permits a multitude of definitions , but two elements are common to most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " doctrine " ) explains the world in its suchness , and , second , the fundamental , allencompassing ( and therefore generally binding ) character of ideology . This study will examine what kind of a " reality " is constructed when one assumes one has found such an ultimate way of viewing the world . Furthermore , the various components of this construction will be defined abstractly ( the passages in italics ) and then substantiated with reference to their manifestations and with examples of their characteristic symptoms . These references are not intended as proof but , rather , as anecdotal , metaphorical , or anthological illustrations of the given effects ; thus they are compiled from the most varied disciplines and sources without any claim to completeness . Let us set out the thesis itself : The actual content of the given ideology is of no consequence in regard to the reality created by acceptance of that ideology . It may completely contradict the content of another ideology . The results , however , are of a terrifying stereotypy . For the ideologue ? as we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ call the founder or champion of an ideology ? this thesis is absurd . And he appears to be right . According to content , there are hardly more irreconcilable differences than between the faith of a Torquemada , the Myth of the 20th Century , the ultimate , " scientific " interpretation of social reality by Marx and Engels , and the convictions of the Baader-Meinhof gang . Yet the praxis of the Inquisition , the concentration camps , the Gulag Archipelago , or the terrorist scene is of an undeniable , terrible isomorphy . Whether the victim is murdered by Pinochet 's henchmen or the Irish Republican Army , the act does not permit a claim to eternal worth for either ideology . The British historian Norman Cohn mentions this phenomenon in his book The Pursuit of the Millenium : In the history of social behavior there certainly are some patterns which in their main outlines recur again and again , revealing as they do so similarities which become ever more recognisable . And this is nowhere more evident than in the case of highly emotional mass movements such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ happened countless times that people have grouped themselves in millennial movements of one kind or another . It has happened at many different periods of history , in many different parts of the world and in societies which have differed greatly in their technologies and institutions , values and beliefs . These movements have varied in tone from the most violent aggressiveness to the mildest pacifism and in aim from the most ethereal spirituality to the most earth-bound materialism ... but similarities can present themselves as well as differences ; and the more carefully one compares the outbreaks of militant social chiliasm during the later Middle Ages with modern totalitarian movements , the more remarkable the similarities appear . The old symbols and the old slogans have indeed disappeared , to be replaced by new ones ; but the structure of the basic phantasies seems to have changed scarcely at all 12 . The Pseudo-Divine Origins of Ideologies Because the cosmic order is incomprehensibel to the average man , an ideology is all the more convincing the more it relies upon an unusual , superhuman , or at least brillant originator @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that has been appealed to most frequently , is the word of the creator of the world . If He exists , one can rightfully assume that He knows the origin , meaning , course , and end of the world . But at the same time the question arises as to how He makes His knowledge and His will known . Then the idea of a mediator is necessary . As the history of mankind demonstrates , this mediator must be of divine and human origin ; demons , demiurges , interpreters of oracles , seers ? often physically blind prophets , and divine messengers , born from human mothers , appear and reveal His wisdom . But nontheological sources have also appeared , presenting ultimate interpretations of the world : philosophical systems , the genius or clairvoyance of certain individuals , the supreme axiomatic significance of reason , of " common sense , " or of some simplistic chauvinism , each defined in a very specific way . These are portrayed as the highest authority . Then again , in our day we attribute particularly radical infallibility and finality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there are uncritically accepted prejudices , the whole domain of tradition , superstition , and the phenomenon of rumors . " When a whole city says the same thing , there must be something to it , " was the answer a team of sociologists received while researching the origin and wild spreading of a rumor in Orleans 43 . " Pure " truth is indeed axiomatic , not probabilistic . Doubts are not desirable . Answering the question why Cuba does not allow the International Red Cross to visit its prisons , Fidel Castro told the American television reporter Barbara Walters simply , We fulfill our norms , our principles . What we say is always the truth . If someone wants to doubt this truth , he should do so , but we will never allow someone to try to test our realities or to refute our truths 11 . Another possibility for avoiding refutation or even discussion lies in representing the truth so cryptically or replacing it with a formalism void of meaning so that ? in nebulous brilliance , as it were ? it appears both bombastic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is Michael Alexandrovitch Bakunin 's definition of freedom . This prophet of terrorism , one of freedom 's gravediggers , states in his Revolutionary Catechism , It is not true that the freedom of one man is limited by that of other men . Man is really free to the extent that his freedom , fully acknowledged and mirrored by the free consent of his fellowmen , finds confirmation and expansion in their liberty 3 . ( Pseudo-profound babble , nowadays known under the unkind rubric " Party Chinese . " ) The Assumed Psychological Necessity of Ideology It is perhaps a waste of time to say anything at all about why an ultimate world view is so crucially important to us . We human beings and ? as the modern study of primates demonstrates ? the other higher mammals appear to be psychologically unable to survive in a universe without meaning and order . Thus it follows that there is a need to fill the vacuum , for this vacuum in its more diluted form can drive us to boredom , and in its most concentrated form to psychosis or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the interpretation of the world must be invulnerable and must not leave any questions unanswered . Gabriel Marcel sees life as a fight against nothingness . Viktor Frankl 's life work gives a wealth of examples about how human beings can fall ill because of a lack of meaning and , on the other hand , how the person who has a reason for living can bear almost any conditions ( Nietzsche ) . Does it then follow that being threatened personally by hunger , illness , or general insecurity makes an individual particularly susceptible to ideologies ? In a similar way , do times of political or social upheaval bring about collective susceptibility ? Not necessarily . Orwell writes in his Essays , The leading writers of the twenties were predominantly pessimistic . Was it not because after all these people were writing in // an exceptionally comfortable epoch ? It is just in such times that " cosmic despair " can flourish . People with empty bellies never despair of the universe , nor even think about it , for that matter 45.  | As we shall later show @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a symptom of affluent society . It can not be denied that resignation can cause a life-endangering situation . Moreover , one can hardly dispute that real misery is a breeding ground for desperate attempts to change the existing injustices by means of violence . But , as Lenin recognized , these spontaneous outbursts are not an expression of an already extant revolutionary awareness but , rather , " much more an expression of desperation and revenge than a battle " 34 . The urge for utopia seems to feed itself much more from sources that have little or nothing to do with material misery . For instance , the American hippies ' protest , according to the sociologist Walter Holstein , was a movement that was lived out by young people who were able to take advantage of all the privileges and benefits of the system . It was not jealousy and ambition which led to the flower children 's revolt , but rather abundance and the desire for something different 23 . The Paradoxes of Eternal Values Every ideology 's claim to finality unavoidably leads to a paradox that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ paradox , however , enables the conceptual system to resolve even the greatest contradictions with no apparent effort . It concerns the introduction of zero or infinity into mathematical equations and its results . The problems of the negligent use of these two values are traditionally portrayed by means of Zeno 's descriptions , which , although almost 2,500 years old , illuminate the paradoxes . For example , there is the story of fleet-foot Achilles , who ? contrary to all human quotidian experience ? " must " lose a race with the tortoise . Since those days long ago the paradoxes of the infinite ( the term goes back to Bernhard Bol-  | zano 8 ) have not ceased moving the human spirit to ever new and fascinating variations , such as the one Arthur Schnitzler describes in his story Flight into Darkness : He remembered an idea that Leinbach once , years ago , had expounded to a large gathering , quite seriously , in fact with a certain impressiveness . Leinbach had discovered a proof that there really is no death . It is beyond question , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but all the dying , live over again their whole past lives in the last moment , with a rapidity inconceivable to the rest of us . This remembered life must also have a last moment , and this last moment its own last moment , and so on ; hence dying was itself Eternity : in accordance with the theory of limits one approached death but never got there 54 . In 1940 Arthur Koestler published his famous novel Darkness at Noon 27 . The book 's French version appeared under the title Le Zero et l'infini 28 , a title that surpasses the original by far . The book deals with the political results of introducing zero and infinity into ? as Koestler formulates it so suitably elsewhere ? the " social equation " : I remembered a phrase of Malraux 's from Les Conquerants : " Une vie ne vaut rien , mais rien ne vaut une vie . " In the social equation , the value of a single life is nil ; in the cosmic equation it is infinite . Now every schoolboy knows that if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finite caculation , the equation will be disrupted and you will be able to prove that three equals five , or five hundred . Not only Communism , but any political movement which implicitly relies on purely utilitarian ethics , must become a victim to the same fatal error . It is a fallacy as naive as a mathematical teaser , and yet its consequences lead straight to Goya 's Disasters , to the rein of the guillotine , the torture-chambers of the Inquisition , or the cellars of the Lubianka . Whether the road is paved with quotations from Rousseaux , Marx , Christ or Mohammed , makes little difference 30 . From what has been said , it also follows ? almost of necessity ? that the final goals of every ideology will have to be utopian , and therefore inhuman . Here Rosseau 's thesis , pulled out the attic and dusted off ,  | which speaks of the goodness of man in nature and of society that depraves him , makes a glorious comeback . However , it remains unclear , just as in Rousseau 's time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ human beings has degenerated into this dark evil force that is responsible for oppression , mental illness , suicide , divorce , alcoholism , and crime . In 1945 , Karl Popper , in his work The Open Society and Its Enemies 47 , made a comment that sounds almost prophetic now : that the paradise of the happy , primitive society ( which , by the way , never existed ) is lost for all those who have eaten of the fruit of the tree of knowledge . The more we try to return to the heroic age of tribalism , Popper warns , the more certainly we will reach the inquisition , the secret police , and a romanticized gangsterism . But once the existential problems of the individual , who is good by nature , can be blamed on the " evil " society , nothing stands in the way of sheer imagination . The definition of the benevolent society free of all power is only a question of fantasy . Thus Marx and Engels , for example , see one of the manifestations of bourgeois power in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ imagine the solution to the problem : For as soon as labour is distributed , each man has a particular , exclusive sphere of activity , which is forced upon him and from which he can not escape . He is a hunter , a fisherman , a shepherd , or a critical critic , and must remain so if he does not want to lose his means of livelihood ; while in communist society , where nobody has one exclusive sphere of activity but each can become accomplished in any branch he wishes , society regulates the general production and thus makes it possible for me to do one thing to-day and another to-morrow , to hunt in the morning , fish in the afternoon , rear cattle in the evening , criticize after dinner , just as I have a mind , without ever becoming hunter , fisherman , shepherd or critic 40 . " I want to see all oppressed people throughout the world free . And the only way we can do this is by moving toward a revolutionary society where the needs and wishes of all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ radical phi-  | losophy professor Angela Davis paraphrases Isaiah 's ancient messianic dream of the lion that will peacefully lie down with the lamb in a completely good world . But what the Biblical prophet perhaps could not know is contained with a clarity that leaves nothing to be desired in the opening sentence of an address of the French Senate to Napoleon I : " Sire , the desire for perfection is one of the worst maladies that can affect the human mind . " The authors of this sentence could , of course , take advantage of the dubious benefit of having directly experienced and survived the consequences of the attempted introduction of liberte , fraternite , and egalite . The utopian expectations receive further impulses from the assumption that the noble oppressed will change into champions of the most ideal human values after their liberation ? precisely because they have experienced injustice and oppression themselves . George Bernard Shaw has pointed out that this is not quite the case in his preface to The Revolutionist 's Handbook : " Revolutions have never lightened the burden of tyranny ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ How it comes about that the most wonderful utopias turn into the most gruesome oppression is the subject of speculation later in this essay . That the utopias do this is confirmed by history consistently , from Plato 's day to the most recent past . And one must bear in mind that most of the classical utopias existed only in the minds of their originators and on the pages of their treatises . Nevertheless , these utopias bear the characteristics of inhumane oppression , even if their models that have never been put into practice . Wolfgang Kraus speaks of this in Die verratene Anbetung ( " Betrayed Adoration " ) : If one examines the classical social utopias for the values appearing most important to their authors , one comes to amazing results . From Plato 's Republic and Laws , to Plutarch 's chapter on Lycurgus , to Thomas More 's Utopia and Campanella 's State of the Sun , to Francis Bacon 's Atlantis and many other works a terrifying disposition to violently established orders manifests itself . The political dictatorships known to us today look like @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 32.  | And yet the world still runs after the utopian pied piper until the bitter end . What remains is disbelief and disappointment , as if this end had not been foreseeable from the start . Max Frisch expresses this with enviable terseness in The Fire Raisers : What all have foreseen From the outset , And yet in the end it takes place , This idiocy , The fire its too late to extinguish , Called fate . Different people come to terms with the pain of disillusionment in different ways . In the newspaper das konzept of March 1979 Niklaus Meienberg writes , For years we have ignored things that could have darkened our pretty image of socialism , or then things that we have fought in Switzerland we have excused because of the unique politicohistorical context ; not until after our Vietnam had marched into Cambodia in a very classical way , with American-like bombs and tanks , with authentic Blitzkrieg tactics ... did it become instantly clear to some people that the Khmer Rouge had committed genocide . But not before 41 . And the Zurich @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ethiopia and Cambodia , no longer any progressive camps that settle differences of opinion or conflicting interests in principle without armed confrontation . There are ? and this may be the central experience of the next generation ? no more good , political examples . The time of political models is over 65 . The Paradoxes of Perfection and Infinity As audacious and powerful as the most sublime philosophical edifice may be , as much as it may appear to be an iron-clad system , it nevertheless has a fatal flaw : It can not prove its own logic and freedom from contradiction from within itself . This funda-  | mental condition for the logical construction of every reality we create has been most thoroughly researched by the mathematicians ? above all by Kurt Godel 19 ? and their results are valid for all thought systems having a complexity that corresponds at least to that of arithmetic . In order to establish its freedom from contradiction , it is unavoidable that the given system step out of its own conceptual framework to demonstrate its consistency from without by using interpretive principles @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ consistency of these new additional principles ? that is , of the conceptual metaframe ? can in turn only be proven within a metametaframe of another more comprehensive system , and so on ad infinitum . We know since Whitehead and Russell 62 that whatever refers to a whole can not be a part of that whole , that is , can not refer back to itself without falling into the paradoxes of self-reflexivity . The famous liar who says of himself , " I am lying , " illustrates the simplest form of such a paradox . If he actually is lying , then his statement is true . But if it is true , it is false that he is lying , and he therefore lied when he claimed to be lying . Therefore he lied . . . and so on . In other words , the statement , " I am lying , " refers at the same time to both the whole ( mathematically expressed , the class ) of his statements and a part ( a member ) of this whole , namely , this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not strictly distinguished , the well-known paradoxes of self-reflexivity 60 , demonstrated in formal logic , appear . The map is not the territory ; the name is not what it names ; an interpretation of reality is only an interpretation and not reality itself . Only a schizophrenic eats the menu instead of the foods listed on the menu . ' Kant already recognized that every error of this kind consists in our taking the way we determine , divide , or deduce concepts for qualities of the things in and of themselves . Thus when an interpretation of the world , an ideology , for example , claims to explain everything , one thing remains inexplicable , namely , the interpretive system itself . And with Footnote                     