@@773707

txt 40 Arguments 3 The idea that man is indivisible , a simple unit , and not , as the Europeans believe , a compound of body and soul . Thus , Kagame tells us that there is no word in Kinyarwanda to denote the soul , at least as long as the individual is alive . 4 The idea that God , and not the natural parents , is the real begetter and author of individual destinies . 5 The idea that people 's names indicate their destiny . 6 Above all , the idea that humanity is at the centre of the Bantus ' thoughts and preoccupations , to such an extent that other beings are conceived solely in opposition to it , as negations or inverted images of their own natures as thinking beings : things ( ibintu in Kinyarwanda ) are by definition beings deprived of intelligence , as opposed to humans ( umuntu , pl. abantu ) , which are defined as the intelligent being . As against these similarities , Kagame does part company with Tempels ( without expressly saying so ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first place , his method , which is founded on direct linguistic analysis , differs from Tempels ' . Among all the institutionalized records ' of Bantu culture , Kagame deliberately emphasizes language and its grammatical structure . " Hence perhaps the exceptional value of his book . Kagame nags us ? and in doing so renders us signal service ? with the disturbing reminder that we might think very differently if we made systematic use of our mother tongues in our theoretical work . Indeed , the Rwandais philosopher is much more sensitive than was his Belgian predecessor to the contingency of language and the inevitable rooting of even the most abstract human thought in a world of pre-existing meanings . More rigorous in method , Kagame 's analysis is also less ambitious in aim . It is offered to us expressly as a monograph ' , valid only for a specific geographical and linguistic area : Rwanda and its close neighbours . This is a far cry from Tempels ' rash generalizations , with their claim not only to open wide the doors of Bantu philosophy but also to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is obvious that Kagame , while he joins with Tempels in asserting the existence of a collective Bantu philosophy , carefully avoids confining it within a narrow particularism . On the contrary , he more than once emphasizes its universal aspects , by which it is linked with , among others , European philosophy ' . For instance , he tells us that formal logic is the same in all cultures ' and that concept , judgement and reasoning have no Bantu , Eastern or Western An alienated literature 41 specificity : What is expressed on this subject , in any language of Europe or Asia , America or Africa , can always be transposed into any other language belonging to a different culture . ' 12 Kagame is also peculiarly sensitive to those transformations of Bantu philosophy ' which result from its contacts with European culture . To him these transformations appear profound and significant , whereas Tempels believed that acculturation ' could never impart more than a superficial veneer . Thus , the Rwandais philosopher warns us : You will not find , in our country at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have not corrected their traditional views on the world and on the heroic style of the past . ' " In particular , he insists at length on the innovations introduced by the missionaries into the vocabulary and even the grammatical structure of Kinyarwanda.14 In this he shows himself sensitive to the internal dynamism and capacity for assimilation of his own culture ? so much so that he himself gives us the facts with which to refute his own initial methodological assumption , posing the immutability of philosophical principles . Such divergences are important and would suffice to differentiate Kagame 's work clearly from Tempels ' . But beyond these formal differences even more striking is the fact that the two authors , while both postulating the existence of a constituted Bantu philosophy , give different interpretations of its content . Thus ( although his criticism remains general and is not directed overtly at Tempels ) Kagame in fact rejects the fundamental thesis of the Belgian missionary , according to which the equivalence of the concepts of being and power is the essential characteristic of Bantu thought . It is true @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Aristotelian concept of substance and kindred concepts in Bantu thought . This difference is that the philosophy of European culture ' tends to conceive being in its static aspect , while the philosophy of Bantu culture prefers to consider its dynamic aspect . But he states that this is only a slight nuance ' , for the two aspects remain complementary and inseparable in any mode of thought : In both systems , indeed , there are inevitably a static and a dynamic aspect at the same time . 1 . Any structure , considered apart from its finality , must appear static . 2 . If you then consider a structure as having an end , as being structurally oriented to action or being used for an end , that structure will present its dynamic aspect . 42 Arguments It therefore follows that if the philosophy of Bantu culture is called dynamic , it must be remembered that it is in the first place static . If the philosophy of European culture is described as static , it must not be forgotten that it is in the second place dynamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ double axiom : 1 . Operational predisposition presupposes essence . 2 . Essence is structured in terms of its finality . ' 5 While Tempels is not mentioned , the target of this critique is clear . But this is far from being the only divergence between Kagame and Tempels . Many others occur in their interpretations of Bantu philosophy ' , even though they both suppose this philosophy ' to be constituted and pre-existing , confined once and for all in the African 's eternally immutable soul ( Tempels ) or at least in the permanent essence of his culture ( Kagame ) . Who is right ? Which is the better interpretation ? The choice is the reader 's . Perhaps he will wish , in order to form his own opinion and close the debate , to return to the evidence itself and take cognizance of the original text of African philosophy ' , that secret text so differently interpreted by Tempels and Kagame ? This is what one usually does in Europe ( and even Asia ) when , in the name of intellectual integrity , one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arriving at one 's own conclusion in the face of the conflict of interpretations ' . Y6 Only a return to sources can enlighten us . It alone can enable us to discriminate between interpretations and assess their reliability or simply their pertinence . Unfortunately , in the case of African philosophy ' there are no sources ; or at least , if they exist , they are not philosophical texts or discourses . Kagame 's institutionalized records ' , or those which Tempels had earlier subjected to ethnophilosophical ' treatment , are wholly distinct from philosophy . They are in no way comparable with the sources which for an interpreter of , say , Hegelianism , or dialectical materialism , or Freudian theory , or even Confucianism are extant in the explicit texts of Hegel , Marx , Freud or Confucius , in their discursive development as permanently available products of language . I can foresee an objection . Of course I know that among Kagame 's institutionalized records ' the products of language occupy a large place ( proverbs , tales , dynastic poems and the whole of Africa @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kagame 's work is so exceptionally interesting precisely because of his extraordinary An alienated literature 43 knowledge of the traditions , language and oral literature of Rwanda . " But the point is that this literature ? at least as it is presented by Kagame ? is not philosophical . Now , scientific method demands that a sociological document is interpreted first in terms of sociology , a botanical text ( written or oral ) first in terms of botany , histories first in terms of historiography , etc . Well then , the same scientific rigour should prevent us from arbitrarily projecting a philosophical discourse on to products of language which expressly offer themselves as something other than philosophy . In effecting this projection , Kagame ? and Tempels before him , along with those African ethnophilosophers who followed suit ( we are less interested in the European variety ) ' ? committed what Aristotle called ( and Kagame himself is rather fond of invoking Aristotle ) a metabasis eis allo genos , i.e. a confusion of categories . ' 9 This leaves readers with no means of checking their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? but not philosophical ? records ' is inadequate , readers are brutally thrown back upon themselves and compelled to recognize that the whole construct rests on sand . Indeed , Kagame , in spite of the very attractive qualities of his analysis and the relative accuracy of some of his sequences , has remained on the whole the prisoner of an ideological myth , that of a collective African philosophy ' which is nothing but a revamped version of Levy-Bruhl 's primitive mentality ' , the imaginary subject of a scholarly discourse which one may regret Kagame did not apply to something else . Kagame himself seems to have been aware of the difficulty , for he felt compelled , in order to render the idea of a collective philosophy plausible , to assume , at the beginnings of Rwandais culture , the existence and deliberate action of great initiators ' , intuitive philosophers who are supposed expressly to have formulated the principles of Bantu philosophy at the same time as they founded the institutions of that society.LO But it is easy to see ( and Kagame himself can hardly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , even mythological . Moreover ? and this is more serious ? it does not even solve the problem but rather encloses us in a vicious circle . The alternatives are as follows . Either Bantu ontology is strictly immanent in the Bantu languages as such and contemporaneous with them ( which Kagame expressly recognizes , since he infers this ontology from the grammatical structures of Kinyarwanda ) , in which case it can not have been taught by initiators ' , who would have had to express themselves in these 44 Arguments Bantu languages ; or this philosophy really was taught at a particular point in time , and in this case it is not coeval with the Bantu languages but is a historical stage in Bantu culture , destined to be overtaken by history . Either way , Bantu philosophy ' 2 ' is shown to be a myth . To destroy this myth once and for all , and to clear our conceptual ground for a genuine theoretical discourse ? these are the tasks now awaiting African philosophers and scientists . I will now seek to show briefly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? namely , the anti-imperialist struggle in the strictest sense of the term . The unshackling of discourse I have quoted Kagame only as an example . Despite his undeniable talent and his powerful theoretical temperament ( which so brilliantly distinguishes him from some ethnophilosophers ) , it seems to me that his work simply perpetuates an ideological myth which is itself of non-African origin . Unfortunately , Kagame is not alone . A quick look at the bibliography suggested in note 1 is enough to show how much energy African philosophers have devoted to the definition of an original , specifically African philosophy ' . In varying degrees , Makarakiza , Lufuluabo , Mulago , Bahoken , Fouda and , to a lesser extent , William Abraham remain caught in this myth , however scientific and productive their research ( remarkable in some cases ) , sincere their patriotism and intense their commitment may have been.22 Theirs is clearly a rearguard action . The quest for originality is always bound up with a desire to show off . It has meaning only in relation to the Other , from whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is an ambiguous relationship , inasmuch as the assertion of one 's difference goes hand in hand with a passionate urge to have it recognized by the Other . As this recognition is usually long in coming , the desire of the subject , caught in his own trap , grows increasingly hollow until it is completely alienated in a restless craving for the slightest gesture , the most cursory glance from the Other . For his part , the Other ( in this case the European , the former colonizer ) did n't mind a bit . From the outset he himself had instinctively created a gap between himself and the Other ( the colonized ) , as between the master and his slave , as the paradigmatic subject of An alienated literature 45 absolute difference.23 But eventually , as a gesture of repentance , or rather , to help allay his own spiritual crisis , he began to celebrate this difference , and so the mysterious primitive mentality ' was metamorphosed into primitive philosophy ' in the hard-pressed master 's mystified and mystifying consciousness . The difference was maintained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ; and although the advertised primitive philosophy ' did not correspond to that which the colonized wished to see recognized , at least it made dialogue and basic solidarity possible . It was a case , says Eboussi aptly , quoting Jankelevitch , of doubly interpreted misinterpretation ' , in which the victim makes itself the executioner 's secret accomplice , in order to commune with him in an artificial world of falsehood.24 What does that mean in this context ? Simply that contemporary African philosophy , inasmuch as it remains an ethnophilosophy , has been built up essentially for a European public . The African ethnophilosopher 's discourse is not intended for Africans . It has not been produced for their benefit , and its authors understood that it would be challenged , if at all , not by Africans but by Europe alone . Unless , of course , the West expressed itself through Africans , as it knows so well how to do . In short , the African ethnophilosopher made himself the spokesman of All-Africa facing All-Europe at the imaginary rendezvous of give and take ? from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glove , objectively , with an abstract universalism , since the African intellectual who adopts it thereby expounds it , over the heads of his own people , in a mythical dialogue with his European colleagues , for the constitution of a civilization of the universal ' .25 So it is no surprise , then , if this literature , like the whole of African literature in French ( and to a lesser extent , in English ) , is much better known outside than inside Africa . This is due not to chance or to material circumstances only but to fundamental reasons which proceed from the original destination of this literature . Now the time has come to put an end to this scandalous extraversion . Theoretical discourse is undoubtedly a good thing ; but in present-day Africa we must at all costs address it first and foremost to our fellow countrymen and offer it for the appreciation and discussion of Africans themselves.26 Only in this way shall we be able to promote a genuine scientific movement in Africa and put an end to the appalling theoretical void which grows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and indifferent to theoretical problems that are seen as pointless . Science is generated by discussion and thrives on it.27 If we want science in Africa , we must create in the continent a human environment in which and by which the most diverse problems can be freely debated and in which these discussions can be no less freely recorded and disseminated , thanks to the written word , to be submitted to the appreciation of all and transmitted to future generations . These , I am sure , will do much better than we have . This , obviously , presupposes the existence of freedom of expression , which in varying degrees so many of our present-day political regimes are endeavouring to stifle . But this means that the responsibility of African philosophers ( and of all African scientists ) extends far beyond the narrow limits of their discipline and that they can not afford the luxury of self-satisfied apoliticism or quiescent complacency about the established disorder unless they deny themselves both as philosophers and as people . In other words , the theoretical liberation of philosophical discourse presupposes political @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tangle of problems . The need for a political struggle makes itself felt at all levels , on all planes . I shall simply add that this struggle will not be simple and that clarity as well as resolve are needed if we are to succeed . The future is at stake . 2 History of a myth * African philosophical literature rests , it hardly needs saying , on a confusion : the confusion between the popular ( ideological ) use and the strict ( theoretical ) use of the word philosophy ' . According to the first meaning , philosophy is any kind of wisdom , individual or collective , any set of principles presenting some degree of coherence and intended to govern the daily practice of a man or a people . In this vulgar sense of the word , everyone is naturally a philosopher , and so is every society . But in the stricter sense of the word , one is no more spontaneously a philosopher than one is spontaneously a chemist , a physicist or a mathematician , since philosophy , like chemistry , physics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own exigencies and methodological rules . In this kinship between philosophy and the sciences we have the touchstone , the infallible criterion by which to judge the absurdity or relevance of any proposition on philosophy , however general . Indeed , whatever scope is assigned to philosophy to distinguish it from other disciplines , one thing is certain : philosophy is a theoretical discipline and therefore belongs to the same genus as algebra , geometry , mechanics , linguistics , etc . Now , if we pose that it is absurd to speak of unconscious algebra , geometry , linguistics , etc. , and if we accept that no science can exist historically without an explicit discourse , then by the same token we must regard the very idea of an unconscious philosophy as absurd . Conversely , if we believe that it is of the essence of any science to be constituted by free discussion , by the confrontation of hypotheses and theories created by the thought of individuals ( or at least assumed by them ) and reaching total convergence through reciprocal amendment , then we must also find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy ' , abstracted from history and progress . * A recast version of an article written in 1970 , published in Daho-Express , no. 1411 ( 10 May 1974 ) , and in Presence Ajricaine , no. 91 , 3rd Quarter ( 1974 ) . 48 Arguments But this is precisely what African philosophy ' is , as understood by our Africanists . Why such a flagrant misconception ? There is every indication that our ethnophilosophers were perfectly aware of the equivocation . It is true that Tempels seems to resort most naturally to the ideological use of the word ; but one can detect in certain of his colleagues and disciples something like a scruple or at least an embarrassment . Kagame wams us , right at the beginning of his great work , that he is using the word in the sense of intuitive philosophy ' and not in its proper sense , and in Un Visage africain du christianisme , Vincent Mulago contrasts formal ' and material ' philosophy . But in both , this distinction functions as a theoretical assumption preceding their analysis , as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surprising . The distinction between the two ideas of philosophy should lead not to the consecration of the vulgar meaning but to its destruction . It should compel a philosopher to reject as null and void the pseudo-philosophy of world-views and make him see clearly that philosophy in the strictest sense , far from being a continuation of spontaneous thought systems , is constituted by making a clean break from them ; whereas here it serves our authors as a pretext for undertaking in all sincerity , a conjectural reconstruction of African wisdom , decked out for the occasion as a philosophy . Why this failure ? Why does the conceptual distinction remain without effect ? Why does the promised clarification come to nothing ? The failure can not be ascribed to igorance . It is clearly deliberate , the effect of a wish . African ethnophilosophers ( like their predecessor Tempels , in spite of his apparent naivete ) knew full well that African philosophy ' , in the sense in which they understood it , belonged to a very different genus from European philosophy , taken in the usual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wholly distinct and therefore incomparable , incommensurable . And yet they insisted on this comparison , setting their conceptual understanding on one side while drowning the language of science in a welter of desire . We have already identified this desire : African intellectuals wanted at all costs to rehabilitate themselves in their own eyes and j in the eyes of Europe . To do so , they were prepared to leave no stone unturned , and they were only too happy to discover , through Tempels ' notorious Bantu Philosophy , a type of argumentation that could , despite its ambiguities ( or , rather , thanks to them ) , serve as one way of ensuring this rehabilitation . This explains why so many History of a myth 49 African authors , in various tones and moods , struck up the Tempelsian theme , whereas they should have been mindful of the massive and blinding fact that the Belgian missionary , by his own admission , was addressing not them but the European public . We shall not so much insist here on this fact as on the way @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Being a European 's discourse addressed to other Europeans , an exhibit in a debate in which the Bantus have no part to play and appear only as an object or pretext , Bantu Philosophy is cut to its public 's size . In a dual motion that is contradictory only in appearance , it aims on the one hand at facilitating what it calls Europe 's mission to civilize ' ( by which we understand : practical mastery by the colonizer of the black man 's psychological wellsprings ) and , on the other hand , at warning Europe itself against the abuses of its own technocratic and ultra-materialistic civilization , by offering her , at the cost of a few rash generalizations , an image of the fine spirituality of the primitive Bantu . It is a double problematic , that of the mission to civilize ' and the heightening of the soul ' ; ' neither can be separated from the other . The colonizers civilize ' , but only on condition that they rehumanize themselves and recover their soul . The theoretical objective of Bantu Philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ finds its meaning solely in the ideological problematic of triumphant imperialism . This one has to accept : every such theoretical project , every attempt at systematizing the world-view of a dominated people is necessarily destined for a foreign public and intended to fuel an ideological debate which is centred elsewhere ? in the ruling classes of the dominant society . Why did the African public allow itself to be taken in ? It perceived only the second aspect of the project , without linking it with the first . The problematic of the heightening of the soul ' flattered its pride at little cost and so concealed from it the link with the first problematic ( the civilizing mission ' ) which was , in fact , the dominant one . The African public spontaneously ' 2 inverted the priorities , making the secondary problematic primary and paying little or no attention to the dominant problematic which itself was inseparable from the fact of the non-African destination of the book . This misunderstanding explains why so many of our fellow countrymen should have appropriated the heightening of the soul ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophy ' , Rwandais philosophy ' , Dogon philosophy ' , Yoruba philosophy ' , Wolof philosophy ' , etc. , or more generally of African 50 Arguments philosophy ' , collective and spontaneous world-views which were being called upon to regenerate European philosophy ; and why they did so without worrying about the political implications of such a project . This disastrous inconsistency has made us waste our time , for the last twenty years at least , 3 in trying to define ourselves , to codify a supposedly given , ready-constituted thought , instead of wading in , throwing ourselves into the fray and thinking new thoughts on the basis of today 's and tomorrow 's problems . We thus remain unwittingly prisoners of Europe , trying , as ever , to force her to respect us and deriving naive pleasure from declaring for her benefit what we are naive enough to regard as our philosophical identity . In a completely sterile withdrawal we go on vindicating our cultures , or rather , apologizing for them to the white man , instead of living fully their actual splendour and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ here of the Gospel truth : he who would gain his soul must lose it . By dint of trying to defend our civilizations at all costs , we have petrified , mummified them . We have betrayed our original cultures by showing them off , offering them as topics of myths for external consumption . In doing so we have unwittingly played Europe 's game ? the Europe against which we first claimed we were setting out to defend ourselves . And what do we find at the end of the road ? The same subservience , the same display of wretchedness , the same tragic abandonment of thinking by ourselves and for ourselves : slavery.4 Tempels ' African successors , whatever the distance ? which may be important ? that separates them from the Belgian missionary , have this in common with him : that they have chosen to address themselves primarily to a European public . This choice largely explains the content of their discourses . Their objective has been to describe the main features of African civilization for the benefit of their European counterparts , to secure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's own terms . In the circumstances it was inevitable that they should have ended up by inventing , as a foil to European philosophy , an African philosophy ' concocted from extra-philosophical material consisting of tales , legends , dynastic poems , etc. , by aggressively interpreting these cultural data , grinding them down to extract their supposedly substantive marrow ' , turning them over , again and again , in order to derive from them what they could not , can not and will never yield : a genuine philosophy . History of a myth 51 As a result , the systems of thought reconstructed by our authors at the conclusion of this over-interpretation are the expression of their personal philosophical choices rather than of some collective thought of the Africans . Proof of this lies in the fact that attentive reading often reveals significant differences in the apparent monotony of these monolithic interpretations . The most important of these , as we have seen , is that which contrasts Alexis Kagame with the author of Bantu Philosophy . For Tempels the main difference between European philosophy and Bantu @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ static in the first case , dynamic in the second . For the Bantu being is supposed to be synonymous with power , so that ontology becomes a general theory of forces , of their natural hierarchy and interaction . But according to the Rwandais priest , it is artificial to contrast being at rest and being in motion , for in each case we are confronted with the same being , only considered under two different aspects : Operational predisposition presupposes the essence ; essence is structured in terms of its finality . ' This is the double axiom with which Kagame refuted his illustrious predecessor , without naming him . His critique , however , is not a radical one . He should have renounced Tempels ' whole project instead of accepting its dogmatic naivete and carrying it out slightly differently . Kagame should not have been content to confute Tempels , he should have asked himself what the reasons were for his error . Then he might have noticed that Tempels ' insistence on emphasizing the differences was part and parcel of the whole scheme , the reconstruction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ not inscribed in the Weltanschauung itself but was external to it . Kagame should have seen that this theoretical undertaking took its meaning only from a desire , the desire to differentiate African from European civilization at any cost , and that in these conditions the author of Bantu Philosophy would inevitably regard all as grist to his mill and would massively project on to the Bantu soul his own metaphysical reveries , reinforced for the occasion by a few delusive fragments of ethnography . Because he failed to drive home his critique , Kagame has remained a prisoner of the same myth . Enmeshed with him are all those authors , some remarkable , and all those African intellectuals who have taken it into their heads to define a specific African philosophy , a world-view common to all Africans , past , present and 52 Arguments future , a collective , immutable system of thought in eternal opposition to that of Europe . Such is the theoretical impasse into which we have been blind enough to stumble . Since then all our philosophical thinking has been marking time . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstruction of the world-view of African peoples : a mad and hopeless enterprise . Each and every African philosopher now feels duty-bound to reconstruct the thought of his forefathers , the collective Weltanschauung of his people . To do so , he feels obliged to make himself an ethnological expert on African customs . Anything he may produce in another vein , say on Plato or Marx , Confucius or Mao Tse-tung , or in any general philosophical area unconnected with Africa , he regards as a sort of parenthesis in his thought , of which he must feel almost ashamed . And if he is shameless enough not to go blue in the face ( some would prefer him to blush ) , so much the worse for him ! His critics are watching . They will soon drag him back to the straight and narrow path ... of Africanism . That is how two entirely different discourses come , eventually , to be confused : the ethnographic discourse ( whose scientific status , incidentally , might itself bear investigation , especially in relation to sociology ) and the philosophical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ managed , in the last thirty years , to get itself bogged down in the muddy paths of a dubious ethnophilosophy , a hybrid , ideological discipline without recognizable status in the world of theory . In treading these paths our authors have genuinely believed that their work is original , whereas in fact they have merely been following in the footsteps of Western ethnocentrism . For Europe has never expected anything from us , in cultural terms , except that we should offer her our civilizations as showpieces and alienate ourselves in a fictitious dialogue with her , over the heads of our own peoples . This is what we are invited to do whenever we are asked to develop African Studies and preserve our cultural authenticity . We forget too easily that African Studies were invented by Europe and that the ethnographic sciences are an integral part of the heritage of Europe , amounting to no more than a passing episode in the theoretical tradition of the Western peoples . So what is to be done ? Apart from a nationalistic withdrawal into History of a myth 53 ourselves @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a collective narcissism induced by colonization , we must relearn how to think . True , we must grant African ethnophilosophers the merit of having tried , with the means at their disposal , to defend their cultural identity against the avowed or cryptic assimilationist designs of imperialism . But we must add that this ethnophilosophical argument , which they have used as a means of cultural resistance , is one of the most ambiguous ever to have been invented and that , having failed to perceive its ambiguity , they have unwittingly played their opponent 's game . Motivated by the genuine need for an African philosophy , they have wrongly believed that this philosophy lies in our past , needing only to be exhumed and then brandished like a miraculous weapon in the astonished face of colonialist Europe . They have not seen that African philosophy , like African science or African culture in general , is before us , not behind us , and must be created today by decisive action . Nobody would deny that this creation will not be effected ex nihilo , that it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ therefore rather be a recreation . But this and simple withdrawal into the past are worlds apart . Admit , then , that our philosophy is yet to come . Take the word philosophy ' in the active , not passive , sense . We do not need a closed system to which all of us can adhere and which we can exhibit to the outside world . No , we want the restless questioning , the untiring dialectic that accidentally produces systems and then projects them towards a horizon of fresh truths . African philosophy , like any other philosophy , can not possibly be a collective world-view . It can exist as a philosophy only in the form of a confrontation between individual thoughts , a discussion , a debate . That is why our first task today is to organize such a debate : an autonomous debate , not a far-flung appendix to European debates but one that will bring African philosophers together , thus creating within Africa a human ambience in which it will be possible to ask the thorniest theoretical questions . The Africanness of our @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ depend above all on the geographical origin of those who produce it and their intellectual coming together . The best European Africanists remain Europeans , even ( and above all ) if they invent a Bantu philosophy ' , whereas the African philosophers who think in terms of Plato or Marx and confidently take over the theoretical heritage of Western philosophy , assimilating and transcending it , are 54 Arguments producing authentic African work . And they are even more authentically African if instead of merely sharing that heritage with their European counterparts , instead of drowning their own discourse in the tumultuous streams of European debate , they decide to subject that heritage first and foremost to the appreciation and criticism of their own fellow countrymen . The real problem is not to talk about Africa but to talk among Africans . Europe is what she is today because she assumed and transformed the cultural heritage of other peoples , in the first rank of which were a people of our own continent : the ancient Egyptians . Nothing must prevent us today from taking the opposite path . We @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ghetto to which it has been confined , get out of our intellectual prison , open up a breach in the closed space of our collective fantasies , so that theoretical issues may surge in , to be shared first of all with our immediate brothers . In other words , today 's African philosophers must reorient their discourse . They must write first and foremost for an African public , no longer a non-African public . That will be enough to stop them purring on about Luba ontology , Dogon metaphysics , the conception of old age among the Fulbe , etc. , simply because such themes do not interest their fellow countrymen but were aimed formerly at satisfying the Western craving for exoticism . As for the African public , what it wants most is to be widely informed about what is going on elsewhere , about current scientific problems in other countries and continents , out of curiosity in the first place ( a legitimate curiosity ) , but also in order to confront those problems with its own preoccupations , to reformulate them freely in its own @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ African science . The real problem , then , is to liberate the theoretical creativity of our peoples by affording it the means of exerting itself effectively , on the basis of boundless information and through a free discussion in which the most diverse theories may be generated and refuted . In the last resort philosophy , in the active sense of the word , is , before anything else , just that : a huge public debate in which every participant 's intellectual responsibility is at stake . Everything else , including science , will come afterwards , in its train . 3 African philosophy , myth and reality * I must emphasize that my theme is African philosophy , myth and reality , whereas one might have expected the conventional formula , myth or reality ? I am not asking whether it exists , whether it is a myth or a reality . I observe that it does exist , by the same right and in the same mode as all the philosophies of the world : in the form of a literature . I shall try to account @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by those who produce it and who , in producing it , believe that they are merely reproducing a pre-existing thought through it : through the insubstantiality of a transparent discourse , of a fluid , compliant ether whose only function is to transmit light . My working hypothesis is that such suppression can not be innocent : this discursive selfdeception serves to conceal something else , and this apparent selfobliteration of the subject aims at camouflaging its massive omnipresence , its convulsive effort to root in reality this fiction filled with itself . Tremendous censorship of a shameful text , which presents itself as impossibly transparent and almost non-existent but which also claims for its object ( African pseudo-philosophy ) the privilege of having always existed , outside any explicit formulation . I therefore invert the relation : that which exists , that which is incontrovertibly given is that literature . As for the object it claims to restore , it is at most a way of speaking , a verbal invention , a muthos . When I speak of African philosophy I mean that literature , and I try @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts to hide behind the screen , all the more opaque for being imaginary , of an implicit philosophy ' conceived as an unthinking , spontaneous , collective system of thought , common to all Africans or at least to * This is a rewritten and updated version of a lecture stammered ' at the University of Nairobi on 5 November 1973 , at the invitation of the Philosophical Association of Kenya , under the title ' African philosophy , myth and reality ' ( cf. Thought and Practice , vol . I , no. 2 , Nairobi , 1974 , pp. 1-16 ) . The same lecture was delivered at Cotonou on 20 December 1973 and at Porto-Novo on 10 January 1974 , under the sponsorship of the National Commission for Philosophy of Dahomey . 56 Arguments all members severally , past , present and future , of such-and-such an African ethnic group . I try to understand why most African authors , when trying to engage with philosophy , have so far thought it necessary to project the misunderstood reality of their own discourse on to such palpable fiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ level . What is in question here , substantially , is the idea of philosophy , or rather , of African philosophy . More accurately , the problem is whether the word philosophy ' , when qualified by the word African ' , jnust retain its habitual meaning , or whether the simple addition of an adjective necessarily changes the meaning of the substantive . What is in question , then , is the universality of the word philosophy ' throughout its possible geographical applications . My own view is that this universality must be preserved ? not because philosophy must necessarily develop the same themes or even ask the same questions from one country or continent to another , but because these differences of content are meaningful precisely and only as differences of content , which , as such , refer back to the essential unity of a single discipline , of a single style of inquiry . The present chapter will therefore endeavour to develop the conclusions of the first two . In particular , it will attempt to show , first , that the phrase African philosophy ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the problem , has so far been the subject only of mythological exploitation and , second , that it is nevertheless possible to retrieve it and apply it to something else : not to the fiction of a collective system of thought , but to a set of philosophical discourses and texts . I shall try to evince the existence of such texts and to determine both the limits and essential configurations , or general orientations , of African philosophical literature . The popular concept of African philosophy Tempels ' work will again serve us as a reference . ' We will not summarize or comment upon it again but will simply recall the author 's idea of philosophy , the meaning of the word philosophy ' in the phrase Bantu philosophy ' . More than once Tempels emphasizes that this philosophy is experienced but not thought and that its practitioners are , at best , only dimly conscious of it : African philosophy , myth and reality 57 Let us not expect the first Black-in-the-street ( especially if he is young ) to give us a systematic account of his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ penetrates and informs all the primitive 's thinking and dominates all his behaviour . Using the methods of analysis and synthesis of our own intellectual disciplines , we can and therefore must do the primitive ' the service of looking for , classifying and systematizing the elements of his ontological system . ( p. 15 ) And further on : We do not claim that Bantus are capable of presenting us with a philosophical treatise complete with an adequate vocabulary . It is our own intellectual training that enables us to effect its systematic development . It is up to us to provide them with an accurate account of their conception of entities , in such a way that they will recognize themselves in our words and will agree , saying : You have understood us , you know us now completely , you " know " in the same way we " know " . ' ( p. 24 ) It is quite clear , then : the black man is here regarded , in EboussiBoulaga 's words , as the Monsieur Jourdain of philosophy ' . ' Unwitting philosopher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ famous character , who spoke in prose without knowing it . Ignorant of his own thoughts , he needs an interpreter to translate them for him , or rather an interpreter who , having formulated these thoughts with the white world in mind , will accidentally drop a few crumbs which will inspire the Bantu , when he picks them up , with boundless gratitude . We have already mentioned Cesaire 's criticism . That very necessary political critique , we said , stopped short because it failed to follow up its own theoretical implications . To aim cautious criticisms , not at Bantu philosophy , but at the political uses to which it is being put ' , : ' was to avoid questioning the genealogy of the concept itself and to treat its appearance in scientific literature as an accident , as though its only function were this very political one . It was , in fact , tantamount to shying away from an exposure of the profoundly conservative nature of the ethnophilosophical project itself . It follows that not only Bantu Philosophy but the whole of ethnophilosophical literature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Cesaire 's political criticism . For if , as a result of what might be called the ethnological division of labour ( a sort of scientific equivalent of the military scramble for the Third World by the great powers ) , Tempels can pass for the great specialist in the 58 Arguments Bantu area , and if , too , his reconstruction of African philosophy ' is the more sensational because of his one-to-one contrasts between this African pseudo-philosophy and an equally imaginary European philosophy , ' similar attempts have been made by other European authors for other regions of Africa . To quote only a few , Marcel Griaule has devoted to the Dogons of the present-day Republic of Mali a book currently regarded as a classic of Dogon wisdom , Dieu d'eau , ' followed by another , in collaboration with Germaine Dieterlen , entitled Le Renard pole .6 Dominique Zahan has made known to the world the religion , the spirituality and what he calls the philosophy ' of the Bambara.7 Louis-Vincent Thomas has carried out painstaking research among the Diola of Senegal and has expatiated on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ he calls it , their philosophy ' . " As might have been expected , the example of these European authors has been widely followed at home . Many Africans have plunged into the same field of research , correcting on occasion ? but without ever questioning its basic assumptions ? the work of their Western models . Among them is the abbe Alexis Kagame of Rwanda , with his Philosophie bantou ? rwandaise de 1'etre,9 already cited . Then there is Mgr Makarakiza of Burundi , who published in 1959 a study entitled La Dialectique des Barundi.1I The South African priest Antoine Mabona distinguished himself in 1960 with an article entitled African philosophy ' , then in 1963 with a text on The depths of African philosophy ' and finally in 1964 with a meditation on La spiritualite africaine ' .11 In this concert Father A. Rahajarizafy has sounded the note of the Great Island by trying to define Malagasy philosophy ' in an article of 1963 on Sagesse malgache et theologie chretienne ' .11 In 1962 , Frangois-Marie Lufuluabo , a Franciscan from the former Belgian Congo , appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bantoue , followed in 1963 by an article entitled La Conception bantoue face au christianisme ' , signing off in 1964 with another booklet on La Notion luba-bantoue de Petre.13 Then , in 1965 , his compatriot , the abbe Vincent Mulago , devoted a chapter to African philosophy ' in his Visage africain du christianisme.14 The former Protestant clergyman Jean-Calvin Bahoken , of Cameroun , was clearing his Clairieres rn &aphysiques; africaines15 in 1967 , and two years later the Kenyan pastor John Mbiti , probably fascinated by his own childhood , revealed to the world in a now classic work , African Religions and Philosophy , the fact that the African ignores the African philosophy , myth and reality 59 future , hardly knows the present and lives entirely turned towards the past . 16 Before we go on with the catalogue , let us note that all the authors we have just quoted are churchmen , like Tempels himself . This explains their main preoccupation , which was to find a psychological and cultural basis for rooting the Christian message in the African 's mind without betraying either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , up to a point . But it means that these authors are compelled to conceive of philosophy on the model of religion , as a permanent , stable system of beliefs , unaffected by evolution , impervious to time and history , ever identical to itself . Let us now turn to the lay authors , with , here again , only a few examples . We can not but mention Leopold Sedar Senghor , whose chatty disquisitions on negritude ' are often buttressed by an analysis of what he called , as early as 1939 , the black man 's conception of the world ' , a phrase which he later replaced , under the influence of Tempels , with the black metaphysic ' . " There are also the Nigerian Adesanya , author of an article published in 1958 on Yoruba metaphysical thinking ' ; 18 the Ghanaian William Abraham , author of a book which is remarkable in many ways , The Mind of Africa19 ( I believe that a book can be instructive , interesting , useful , even if it is founded on erroneous assumptions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can hardly be regarded as his best publication ; 20 the Senegalese Alassane N'Daw , who devoted several articles to the subject ; 21 the Camerounian Basile-Juleat Fouda , author of a doctoral thesis defended at Lille in 1967 on La Philosophic negro-africaine de 1'existence ' ( unpublished ) ; 2L the Dahomean Issiaka Prosper Laleye , also the author of a thesis , La Conception de la personne dans la pensee traditionnelle yoruba ' , 23 presented in 1970 at the Catholic University of Fribourg , in Switzerland ; the Nigerian J. O. Awolalu , author of an article entitled The Yoruba philosophy of life ' .24 And there are many others.25 Without being motivated quite so restrictively as the church ethnophilosophers , these authors were none the less intent on locating , beneath the various manifestations of African civilization , beneath the flood of history which has swept this civilization along willy-nilly , a solid bedrock which might provide a foundation of certitudes : in other words , a system of beliefs . In this quest , we find the same preoccupation as in the negritude movement ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ colonizer ? but now 60 Arguments there is the underlying idea that one of the elements of the cultural identity is precisely philosophy ' , the idea that every culture rests on a specific , permanent , metaphysical substratum . Let us now ask the crucial question : is this the usual meaning of the word philosophy ' ? Is it the way it is understood , for instance , in the phrases European philosophy ' , nineteenth-century philosophy ' , etc. ? Clearly not . It seems as though the word automatically changes its meaning as soon as it ceases to be applied to Europe or to America and is applied to Africa . This is a well-known phenomenon . As our Kenyan colleague Henry Odera humorously remarks : What may be a superstition is paraded as African religion ' , and the white world is expected to endorse that it is indeed a religion but an African religion . What in all cases is a mythology is paraded as African philosophy ' , and again the white culture is expected to endorse that it is indeed a philosophy but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dictatorship is paraded as African democracy ' , and the white culture is again expected to endorse that it is so . And what is clearly a de-development or pseudodevelopment is described as development ' , and again the white world is expected to endorse that it is development ? but of course African development ' .26 Words do indeed change their meanings miraculously as soon as they pass from the Western to the African context , and not only in the vocabulary of European or American writers but also , through faithful imitation , in that of Africans themselves . That is what happens to the word philosophy ' : applied to Africa , it is supposed to designate no longer the specific discipline it evokes in its Western context but merely a collective world-view , an implicit , spontaneous , perhaps even unconscious system of beliefs to which all Africans are supposed to adhere . This is a vulgar usage of the word , justified presumably by the supposed vulgarity of the geographical context to which it is applied . Behind this usage , then , there is a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with its suggestion that in primitive ' societies ? that is to say , non-Western societies ? everybody always agrees with everybody else . It follows that in such societies there can never be individual beliefs or philosophies but only collective systems of belief . The word philosophy ' is then used to designate each beliefsystem of this kind , and it is tacitly agreed among well-bred people that in this context it could not mean anything else . African philosophy , myth and reality 61 One can easily detect in this one of the founding acts of the science ' ( or rather the pseudo-science ) called ethnology , namely , the generally tacit thesis that non-Western societies are absolutely specific , the silent postulate of a difference in nature ( and not merely in the evolutionary stage attained , with regard to particular types of achievement ) , of a difference in quality ( not merely in quantity or scale ) between so-called primitive ' societies and developed ones . Cultural anthropology ( another name for ethnology ) owes its supposed autonomy ( notably in relation to sociology ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ types of society which are taken , arbitrarily and without proof , to be fundamentally different.27 But let us return to the myth of unanimity . It would seem at first sight that this theoretical consensus postulated by ethnophilosophy among all members of each primitive ' community should produce a parallel consensus , at the level of results if not of methods , among all ethnophilosophers studying the same community . But , curiously enough , instead of an ideal consensus , a fine unanimity whose transparency would have revealed the spontaneous unanimity of all those primitive philosophers ' , ethnophilosophical literature offers us a rich harvest of not only diverse but also sometimes frankly contradictory works . We have noted above such divergences between Tempels and Kagame . It would probably be easy to find similar differences between the many other works relating to the traditional ' thought of Bantus or Africans in general , if one could overcome one 's understandable boredom , read all of them one by one , examine them patiently and juxtapose all the views they contain . But I can see the objection being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of works is a source of wealth and not of weakness , that the internal contradictions of ethnophilosophy can be found in any science worthy of the name ? physics , chemistry , mathematics , linguistics , psychoanalysis , sociology , etc. ? that they are a sign of vitality , not inconsistency , a condition of progress rather than an obstacle in the path of discovery . It may be added that , as in all sciences , a reality may exist without being immediately understood , and that consequently it is not surprising if an implicit system of thought can be reconstructed only as a result of long , collective and contradictory research . The only thing this objection overlooks is the slight difference ' between the sciences cited and ethnophilosophy that they do not 62 Arguments postulate anything remotely comparable with the supposed unanimity of a human community ; that in these sciences , moreover , a contradiction is never stagnant but always progressive , never final or absolute but indicative of an error , of the falsity of a hypothesis or thesis , which is bound to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whereas a contradiction between two ethnophilosophical theses is necessarily circular , since it can never be resolved by experimentation or any other method of verification . The point is that an ethnophilosophical contradiction is necessarily antinomal in the Kantian sense ; thesis and antithesis are equally demonstrable ? in other words , equally gratuitous . In such a case contradiction does not generate synthesis but simply demonstrates the need to re-examine the very foundations of the discipline and to provide a critique of ethnophilosophical reason and perhaps of ethnological reason too . Ethnophilosophy can now be seen in its true light . Because it has to account for an imaginary unanimity , to interpret a text which nowhere exists and has to be constantly reinvented , it is a science without an object , a crazed language ' 28 accountable to nothing , a discourse that has no referent , so that its falsity can never be demonstrated . Tempels can then maintain that for the Bantu being is power , and Kagame can beg to differ : we have no means of settling the quarrel . It is clear , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not the philosophy of the Bantu but that of Tempels , that the Bantu-Rwandais philosophy ' of the other is not that of the Rwandais but that of Kagame . Both of them simply make use of African traditions and oral literature and project on to them their own philosophical beliefs , hoping to enhance their credibility thereby . That is how the functioning of this thesis of a collective African philosophy works : it is a smokescreen behind which each author is able to manipulate his own philosophical views . It has nothing beyond this ideological function : it is an indeterminate discourse with no object . Towards a new concept of African philosophy ' Behind and beyond the ethnological pretext , philosophical views remain . The dogma of unanimism has not been completely sterile , since it has at least generated a quite distinctive philosophical literature . African philosophy , myth and reality 63 Here we must note a surprising fact : while they were looking for philosophy in a place where it could never be found ? in the collective unconscious of African peoples , in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ questioned the nature and theoretical status of their own analyses . Were these relevant to philosophy ? There lay the true but undetected problem . For if we want to be scientific , we can not apply the same word to two things as different as a spontaneous , implicit and collective worldview on the one hand and , on the other , the deliberate , explicit and individual analytic activity which takes that world-view as its object . Such an analysis should be called philosophology ' rather than philosophy ' or , to use a less barbarous term , metaphilosophy ' ? but a metaphilosophy of the worst kind , an inegalitarian metaphilosophy , not a dialogue and confrontation with an existing philosophy but a reduction to silence , a denial , masquerading as the revival of an earlier philosophy . For we know that in its highly elaborated forms philosophy is always , in a sense , a metaphilosophy , that it can develop only by reflecting on its own history , that all new thinkers must feed on the doctrines of their predecessors , even of their contemporaries @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the philosophical heritage available in their own time . But in this case metaphilosophy does not rely on an exploitation of extra-philosophical data or on the arbitrary over-interpretation of social facts which in themselves bear no relation to philosophy . Metaphilosophy signifies , rather , a philosophical reflection on discourses which are themselves overtly and consciously philosophical . Ethnophilosophy , on the other hand , claims to be the description of an implicit , unexpressed world-view , which never existed anywhere but in the anthropologist 's imagination . Ethnophilosophy is a pre-philosophy mistaking itself for a metaphilosophy , a philosophy which , instead of presenting its own rational justification , shelters lazily behind the authority of a tradition and projects its own theses and beliefs on to t hat tradition . If we now return to our question , namely , whether philosophy resides in the world-view described or in the description itself , we can now assert that if it resides in either , it must be the second , the description of that vision , even if this is , in fact , a self-deluding invention that hides behind @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in a new sense , as a literature produced by Africans and dealing with philosophical problems . 64 Arguments A contradiction ? Oh no ! Some may be surprised that , having patiently dismantled the ethnophilosophical machine , we should now be trying to restore it . They have simply failed to understand that we are merely recognizing the existence of that literature as philosophical literature , whatever may be its value and credibility . What we are acknowledging is what it is , not what it says . Having laid bare the mythological assumptions on which it is founded ( these having suppressed all question of its status ) , we can now pay greater attention to the fact of its existence as a determinate form of philosophical literature which , however mystified and mystifying it may be ( mystifying because mystified ) , nevertheless belongs to the history of African literature in general . Let us be accurate : the issue here is only African ethnophilosophy . A work like Bantu Philosophy does not belong to African philosophy , since its author is not African ; but Kagame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In other words , speaking of African philosophy in a new sense , we must draw a line , within ethnophilosophical literature in general , between African and non-African writers , not because one category is better than the other , or because both might not , in the last analysis , say the same thing , but because , the subject being African philosophy , we can not exclude a geographical variable , taken here as empirical , contingent , extrinsic to the content or significance of the discourse and as quite apart from any questions of theoretical connections . Thus Tempels ' work , although it deals with an African subject and has played a decisive role in the development of African ethnophilosophy , belongs to European scientific literature , in the same way as anthropology in general , although it deals with non-Western societies , is an embodiment of Western science , no more and no less . A happy consequence of this demarcation is that it emphasizes certain subtle nuances and occasional serious divergences which might otherwise have passed unnoticed and which differentiate African authors whom @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ possible to see the immense distance which separates , for instance , Bahoken 's Clairieres metaphysiques africaines , 29 justifiably assessed as a perfect example of ideological twaddle designed by an apparently nationalistic African to flatter the exotic tastes of the Western public from Kwame Nkrumah 's Consciencism , written chiefly for the African public and aimed at making it aware of its new cultural identity , even though Nkrumah 's African philosophy , myth and reality 65 book , unfortunately , partakes of the ethnological conception that there can be such a thing as a collective philosophy.30 Another even more important consequence is that this African philosophical literature can now be seen to include philosophical works of those African authors who do not believe in the myth of a collective philosophy or who reject it explicitly . Let me cite a few of these . Fabien Eboussi-Boulaga 's fine article Le Bantou problematique ' 31 has already been mentioned . Another Camerounian , Marcien Towa , has given us a brilliant critique of ethnophilosophy in general , the Essai sur la problematique philosophique dans 1'Afrique actuelle , followed by an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sedar Senghor : negritude ou servitude ? 32 Henry Oruka Odera of Kenya has published a fine article entitled Mythologies as African philosophy ' .33 The Beninois ( former Dahomeyan ) Stanislas Spero Adotevi earned fame in 1972 with his brilliant book Negritude et negrologues.34 But more than that : African philosophical literature includes works which make no attempt whatever to broach the problem of African philosophy ' , either to assert or to deny its existence . In fact , we must extend the concept to include all the research into Western philosophy carried out by Africans . This broadening of the horizon implies no contradiction : just as the writings of Western anthropologists on African societies belong to Western scientific literature , so the philosophical writings of Africans on the history of Western thought are an integral part of African philosophical literature . So , obviously , African philosophical works concerning problems that are not specially related to African experience should also be included . In this sense , the articles by the Ghanaian J. E. Wiredu on Kant , on material implication and the concept of truth , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are analyses of the concept of freedom or the notion of free will36 by the Kenyan Henry Odera or the Nigerian D. E. Idoniboye . The same can be said of the research on French seventeenth-century philosophy by the Zairois Elungu Pere Elungu , Etendue et connaissance dans la philosophie de Malebranche , 37 of the epistemological introduction to Theologie positive et theologie speculative3 " by his fellow countryman Tharcisse Tshibangu . The work of the Camerounian N'joh Mouelle , particularly Jalons and De la mediocrite a ! ' excellence . Essai sur la signification humaine du developpement , 39 may also be placed in this category , although their subjects are not only 66 Arguments universal but also linked with the present historical situation of Africa . By the same token we may readily claim works like those of the Ashanti scholar Anton-Wilhelm Amo , who studied and taught in German universities during the first half of the eighteenth century , as belonging to African philosophical literature , 40 although this may be regarded as a borderline case , since Amo was trained almost entirely in the West . But @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even today ? 41 The essential point here is that we have produced a radically new definition of African philosophy , the criterion now being the geographical origin of the authors rather than an alleged specificity of content . The effect of this is to broaden the narrow horizon which has hitherto been imposed on African philosophy and to treat it , as now conceived , as a methodical inquiry with the same universal aims as those of any other philosophy in the world . In short , it destroys the dominant mythological conception of Africanness and restores the simple , obvious truth that Africa is above all a continent and the concept of Africa an empirical , geographical concept and not a metaphysical one . The purpose of this demythologizing ' of the idea of Africa and African philosophy is simply to free our faculty for theorizing from all the intellectual impediments and prejudices which have so far prevented it from getting off the ground.42 Final remarks There can no longer be any doubt about the existence of African philosophy , although its meaning is different from that to which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular form of scientific literature . But , of course , once this point is established , many questions remain . For instance , how shall we distinguish philosophical literature from other forms of scientific literature , such as mathematics , physics , biology , linguistics , sociology , etc. , inasmuch as these disciplines also develop as specific forms of literature ? In other words , what is the particular object and area of study of philosophy ? In more general terms , what relation is there between scientific literature and non-scientific literature ( for instance , artistic literature ) , and why must we include philosophical literature in the first rather than the second ? This is not the place to answer these questions . All that we have African philosophy , myth and reality 67 tried to do so far has been to clear the ground for questions of this kind , since they presuppose that philosophy is recognized simply as a theoretical discipline and nothing else , a discipline which , like any other , can develop only in the form of literature . Moreover , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the definition of a science must be revised constantly in the light of its own progress , and the articulation of theoretical discourse in general ? by which we mean the demarcation of the various sciences ? is itself subject to historical change . At this point , it is true , a much harder question , or series of questions , arises : how is the object of a science determined ? What conditions , economic , historical , ideological or other , contribute to fixing the frontiers of a discipline ? How is a new science born ? How does an old science die or cease to be considered a science ? 43 This is not the place to answer these questions either . But at least there is one thing we are in a position to affirm : no science , no branch of learning can appear except as an event in language or , more precisely , as the product of discussion . The first thing to do , then , is to organize such discussions in the midst of the society where the birth of these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ specific object of philosophy may be , the first task of African philosophers today , if they wish to develop an authentic African philosophy , is to promote and sustain constant free discussion about all the problems concerning their discipline instead of being satisfied with a private and somewhat abstract dialogue between themselves and the Western world.44 By reorienting their discourse in this way , they will easily overcome the permanent temptation of folklorism ' that limits their research to so-called African subjects ? a temptation which has owed most of its strength to the fact that their writings have been intended for a foreign public . It is indeed a strange paradox that in present conditions the dialogue with the West can only encourage folklorism ' , a sort of collective cultural exhibitionism which compels the Third World ' intellectual to defend and illustrate ' the peculiarities of his tradition for the benefit of a Western public . This seemingly universal dialogue simply encourages the worst kind of cultural particularism , both because its supposed peculiarities are in the main purely imaginary and because the intellectual who defends them claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they have never asked him to do so and are usually unaware that such a dialogue is taking place . 68 Arguments On the contrary , it is to be hoped that when Africans start discussing theoretical problems among themselves , they will feel spontaneously the need to gather the broadest possible information on the scientific achievements of other continents and societies . They will take an interest in these achievements not because they will be held to be the best that can be attained but in order to assess more objectively , and if necessary improve , their own achievements in the same areas . The paradox is therefore easily removed : interlocutors of the same origin rarely feel the need to exalt their own cultural particularities . Such a need arises only when one faces people from other countries and is forced to assert one 's uniqueness by conforming to the current stereotypes of one 's own society and civilization . Universality becomes accessible only when interlocutors are set free from the need to assert themselves in the face of others ; and the best way to achieve this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ among all the scientists in the continent , within each discipline and ? why not ? ? between one discipline and another , so as to create in our societies a scientific tradition worthy of the name . The difficult questions we have been asking concerning the origins , the definition , the boundaries , the evolution and the destiny of the various sciences , and more particularly the nature of philosophy and its relation to other disciplines , will then find their answers in the concrete history of our theoretical literature . We must therefore plunge in and not be afraid of thinking new thoughts , of simply thinking . For every thought is new if we take the word in its active sense , even thought about past thoughts , provided we are not content simply to repeat hallowed themes , catechetically and parrot-fashion , with a pout or a purr , but on the contrary boldly rearticulate these themes , justify them , give them a new and sounder foundation . Conversely , every blustering declaration of loyalty to a so-called modern ' doctrine will be at best @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be an objective mystification ? unless it is accompanied by some intellectual effort to know , understand and think out the doctrine by going beyond the more sensational formulations to the problematic on which it is founded . We can not go on acting a part indefinitely . The time has come for theoretical responsibility , for taking ourselves seriously . In Africa now the individual must liberate himself from the weight of the past as well as from the allure of ideological fashions . Amid the diverse but , deep down , so strangely similar catechisms of African philosophy , myth and reality 69 conventional nationalism and of equally conventional pseudoMarxism , amid so many state ideologies functioning in the Fascist mode , deceptive alibis behind which the powers that be can quietly do the opposite of what they say and say the opposite of what they do , amid this immense confusion in which the most vulgar police state pompously declares itself to be a dictatorship of the proletariat ' and neo-Fascists mouthing pseudo-revolutionary platitudes are called Marxist-Leninists ' , reducing the enormous theoretical and political subversive power of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in the name of revolution , they kill , massacre , torture the workers , the trade unionists , the executives , the students : in the midst of all this intellectual and political bedlam we must all open our eyes wide and clear our own path . Nothing less will make discussions between free and intellectually responsible individuals possible . Nothing less will make a philosophy possible . As can be seen , then , the development of African philosophical literature presupposes the removal of a number of political obstacles . In particular , it requires that democratic liberties and especially the right of free criticism , the suppression of which seems to constitute the sole aim and raison d'etre of the official ideologies , should be acknowledged and jealously guarded . It is impossible to philosophize in Africa today without being aware of this need and of the pricelessness of freedom of expression as a necessary condition for all science , for all theoretical development and , in the last resort , for all real political and economic progress , too . Briefly , and in conclusion , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is believed to be . It is developing objectively in the form of a literature rather than as implicit and collective thought , but as a literature of which the output remains captive to the unanimist fallacy . Yet , happily , it is possible to detect signs of a new spirit . The liberation of this new spirit is now the necessary precondition of any progress in this field . To achieve that we must begin at the beginning ; we must restore the right to criticism and free expression which are so seriously threatened by our regimes of terror and ideological confusion . In short , it is not enough to recognize the existence of an African philosophical literature . The most important task is to transform it from the simple collection of writings aimed at non-African readers and consequently upholding the peculiarities of a so-called African world-view ' that it is today into the vehicle of a free and rigorous 70 Arguments discussion among African philosophers themselves . Only then will this literature acquire universal value and enrich the common international heritage of human thought . 4 Philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : First , that philosophy is not a system but a history , essentially an open process , a restless , unfinished quest , not closed knowledge ; second , that this history does not move forward by continuous evolution but by 1 ? aps and bounds , by successive revolutions , and consequently follows not a linear path but what one might call a dialectical one ? in other words , that its profile is not continuous but discontinuous ; third , after this rough sketch of a theory of theoretical development , of a theory of theoretical history , of a theory of philosophy seen as a discontinuous theoretical history , that African philosophy may today be going through its first decisive mutation , the outcome of which depends on us alone , on the courage and lucidity we show in bringing it to its conclusion . Philosophy as history First , then , philosophy is a history , not a system . I do not consider here the word system ' in its weak sense of methodical knowledge ' . If we took it in that sense , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , simply meaning that one does not philosophize without some method and prior knowledge , that philosophy requires a rather special conceptual ability on the part of the practitioner , that there is a terminology , a vocabulary , a conceptual apparatus bequeathed by philosophical tradition which we can never do without but must , on the contrary , use with profit if we want to be authentic philosophers . It goes without saying that philosophical reflection in this sense inevitably includes a systematic aspect , which Footnote 72 Arguments is both methodical and constantly related to an existing theoretical tradition which may either confirm or confute it , and that no philosophers can evade the rigours of this discipline if they really want to philosophize and not just ( in Plato 's words ) tell stories ' .1 In this sense it seems obvious to me that African philosophers , like any others , need have no qualms about philosophizing , methodically and rigorously , in and through the conceptual heritage labelled philosophy ' . African physicists are not generally ashamed to use the concepts which are proper to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the technicalities of philosophical language . We shall never create an authentic African philosophy , a genuine philosophy , genuinely African ( that 's what I mean by the term authentic ' ) , if we skirt round the existing philosophical tradition . It is not by skirting round , and still less by ignoring , the international philosophical heritage that we shall really philosophize , but by absorbing it in order to transcend it . In this sense , but only in this sense , it seems to me evident that philosophy , whether we like it or not , is a system involving a special method of inquiry . But in another sense , the strong sense of the word system ' ? that is to say , a set of propositions regarded as definitive , a set of ultimate truths , the be-all and end-all of all thought ? philosophy is not a system . For philosophy never stops ; its very existence lies in the to and fro of free discussion , without which there is no philosophy . It is not a closed system but a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generation , in which every thinker , every author , engages in total responsibility : I know that I am responsible for what I say , for the theories I put forward . I am responsible ' for them in the literal sense of the word , because I must always be prepared to answer ' for them ; I must be ready to justify them , to attest to their validity . It is as an individual that I take part in this debate , and in doing so I take part in the gradual unveiling of a truth that is not mine but everyone 's , the outcome of the confrontation of all individual thoughts which constitutes an unending collective search . The contention that philosophy is a history and not a system means , among other things , that no philosophical doctrine can be regarded as the Truth . It follows in a sense that there is no absolute truth in philosophy , or rather , that in this context the absolute is contained in the relative of an infinite , open-ended process . In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ set of definitive , untranscendable propositions but rather the process by which we look for propositions more adequate than others . In a way , then , truth is the very act of looking for truth , of enunciating propositions and trying to justify and found them . In the Theaetetus , one of his dialogues devoted to the problem of the nature of knowledge , Plato , having shown that knowledge is not merely true perception or belief , suggests that it may possibly be true belief accompanied by reason or , more accurately , by discourse , by account ( logos ) .2 I say possibly ' , for the remainder of the argument attempts to demonstrate the inadequacy of that definition without , however , substituting another for it.3 It is nevertheless interesting to note the importance attributed here to logos ( i.e. to discourse or theoretical account ) as the decisive element in scientific truth . This clearly suggests that not all truth is necessarily scientific and that science lies less in the result than in the method . In any case , it is in this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for proof that science lies , in our view , and also philosophy , which is no more than reflection on the aims of science . ' I can foresee the objection : did not many philosophers aspire to build systems ? Did not Spinoza or Hegel , to cite only the greatest examples , attempt to think of the Whole as a system of systems , a synthesis of all systems , a totality that was to be the ultimate end of all possible systems ? Maybe . But such reasoning misses the point . In the first place , it omits the fact that the doctrines of a Spinoza or a Hegel owe their systematic character precisely to the philosophers ' claim to have summarized , in a single work , the entire history ( and not only the actual history but also the possible history , past , present and future ) of philosophy : Spinoza 's three kinds of knowledge or the stages of Hegel 's phenomenology of spirit ' . The supposed systematicity of these doctrines springs from their having integrated , or their claim to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that both respects and transcends them . They thus recognize , each in its own way , 5 that truth can not reside in one doctrine , that it can not emerge directly , in a flash , but only at the end of a long journey which takes in all the doctrines in turn until it finally outdoes them all . The philosophies of Spinoza , Hegel , etc. , all the philosophies which have taken the form of a system , have always been erudite philosophies , extremely well informed about the history of philosophy . That is precisely why , believing they had discovered the law governing the development of that history and imagining that this law was 74 Arguments purely internal and immanent ( i.e. that the transition from one stage of thinking to another was purely philosophical and therefore purely conceptual ) , the philosophers made a deluded attempt to master a priori the future course of that history , to reduce their surprises a priori , thanks to a system of systems which made it possible to predict the substance of all possible doctrine . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and their scholarly surveys of the history of philosophy ( however mistaken they may have been in thinking that they had put an end to that history ) with what anthropologists are today presenting to the world as African systems of thought ' ! 6 That is not all . The concentration on Spinoza and Hegel is liable to make one forget that philosophy did not stop with them and has therefore disproved their claim to have completed it . And this confirms that philosophy is indeed an open-ended story and that any attempt to put an end to it is a dream or a delusion . It is essential to understand both the necessity for such a dream and its vanity . Its necessity . It is the expression of an aspiration towards mastery , of a need for security which can not be divorced from the subjectivity of every thinker because it is a constituent element of all human subjectivity . This dream haunts not only the minds of system builders like Spinoza or Hegel but , in a more or less visible form , those of all philosophers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and all men when they think . Every one of us likes to think that we pronounce the truth as a court of law pronounces a judgement . We can not persist in our thought without this belief . The truth of our discourse , like truth in general , is not only an ideological myth but also a necessary and productive ideological myth . Its vanity . History can not be stopped . More than that : it can not be neutralized , and its surprises can not be reduced . This is true of history in general : while its laws can be established ( i.e. the functional correlations between its various levels ? for instance , between formations of the economic structure and formations of the ideological superstructure ) , while therefore a science can be established ( and we know that such a science was founded by Marx under the name of historical materialism ' ) , knowledge of this science in no way allows us to predict , let alone neutralize , events in their singularity . This is also true of the history of thought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tendencies of philosophy , as Philosophy and its revolutions 75 Engels attempted to do ( he reduced them to two ) ; one can , at most , starting from the assumptions of one of these tendencies ( the idealist tendency , for instance ) , offer an a priori sketch of some of the possible configurations of philosophical thought , of culture , and of what Hegel called the Objective Spirit . This tells us precious little about the actual succession of philosophical doctrines and even less about their real content as they address each other , refute and confirm one another throughout history . In this respect what applies to science applies also to philosophy . Husserl attempted for the former what others , more ambitious , have attempted for thought in general ( for scientific thought is also a moment in Hegel 's phenomenology of the spirit ' ) . For the author of the Logical Investigations ( 19001 ) ' the supreme task of a theory of science was to construct a theory of the possible forms of theory ' , in order to survey a priori @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sense , to neutralize the history of science . It is well known that Godel has demonstrated , in a famous theorem ( 1931 ) , the mathematical impossibility of such a theory , the impossibility of a universal axiom-system providing an a priori determination of all possible axiom-systems . To this should perhaps be added that even if this ideal had been attainable , only the forms of possible theories could have so been defined . Nothing would have been learned about the content of future scientific theories or the concrete modalities of their appearance and succession ; it would have been of no use in developing techniques based on these theories ; it would not have replaced the research , the untiring effort to solve problems , the complex methods of proof and verification . In short , the concrete work of the researcher would have remained unaffected . This is proof enough that science can not be reduced to a system any more than can philosophy , even if that system were to be a system of all possible forms of systems ; science is an endless history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' that succeed one another in the history of the sciences or of philosophy , real doctrines with their relative coherence and closure , can never achieve the status of System in the strong sense , System par excellence , Absolute Knowledge , the totality of all possible truths , which must remain the ever-receding horizon of an infinite quest . To say that philosophy is history and not system is to say that there can not be a collective philosophy and therefore that African philosophy ' , in the sense consecrated by the anthropologists , is a 76 Arguments Philosophy and its revolutions 77 huge misconception . There is no philosophy that would be a system of implicit propositions or beliefs to which all individuals of a given society , past , present and future , would adhere . Such a philosophy does not exist , has never existed . The real problem should never have been to define the content of African philosophy in this sense ? to identify the essential themes or the fundamental problematic of African philosophy construed as a spontaneous , unreflective , collective world-view . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to find out why certain Western authors , followed ( and this is more serious ) by African authors , should from a certain time onwards have felt the need to look for such a collective world-view in the secret recesses of the mysterious African soul . Why , for instance , did Tempels feel compelled to write his Bantu Philosophy ? How can one explain the extraordinary success of this book in the most serious European philosophical circles and even among African intellectuals ? What lies behind the fact that a French philosopher of Bachelard 's calibre ( to cite only the most disquieting case ) should have poured lavish praise on such an equivocal piece of work ? ' There lies the real problem . Bantu Philosophy appeared at a specific moment of our history and was the product of the ideological structure of the time . What is worth doing now is to investigate and describe this ideology if we are ever to leave it behind . The problem is all the more real because Tempels ' book itself lagged considerably behind the anthropology of the time . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an altogether more rigorous and scientific work , Primitive Man as Philosopher . ' The American ethnologist was not trying ( as Tempels was to do later ) to reconstruct a collective primitive ' world-view through personal and arbitrary interpretation ; on the contrary , he was explicitly denouncing the classical prejudice according to which , in non-civilized ' societies , the individual is entirely submerged in the group , unable and unwilling to think for himself , directly and fully adherent to the thought system of his community . Radin 's book was explicitly an account of the exceptional man in primitive communities ' ( p. xiv ) , an attempt to demonstrate the existence of an intellectual class ' in primitive ' societies and to define the role and attitude of this class . His objective was not to reconstruct a collective system of thought , one of gratuitous hypotheses , but simply to transcribe as faithfully as possible the words of those he called the thinkers ' and the philosophers ' of primitive ' communities , to write under their dictation , simply , dutifully , with as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ After Radin Marcel Griaule also attempted , as is well known , to write under the dictation of a primitive ' thinker , the Dogon Ogotemmeli . It is true that the French ethnologist 's book , Dieu d'eau . Entretiens avec Ogotemmeli , was not written until 1946 ? 7 and was published in 1948 ? that is to say three years after the first and limited edition of Bantu Philosophy in Elisabethville in the then Belgian Congo ( 1945 ) and one year before the Presence Africaine edition ( 1949 ) .11 There is therefore no point in upbraiding Tempels for having failed to take his cue from Griaule 's method . Nevertheless , in comparing these two almost simultaneous texts one can not help noticing how different they are from the point of view of rigour and cogency . It is remarkable that the less consistent of the two should have received the more enthusiastic welcome , at least on the part of the African public . There is only one explanation : the public of the time was ready for a work of that kind , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ zealous defenders of African culture , even if it were to be at the cost of a gross misunderstanding . By asserting the existence of a Bantu philosophy ' Tempels , at little cost , satisfied the Africans ' aspiration to see their culture rehabilitated . By simultaneously asserting the collective and unreflective character of this philosophy ' , the inability of its exponents to formulate it adequately for themselves , he was indirectly confirming the contentions of Levy-Bruhl . Everybody was happy : not only the conventional nationalists ( and their accomplices , the ' progressive ' European anthropologists or intellectuals ) , for whom cultural authenticity coincided with an exclusive revaluation of the past , but also the traditional ethnologists , who were quite prepared to trade the word mentality ' for the word philosophy ' as long as the adjective primitive ' remained and the structure was regarded as immutable , ahistorical and inert . Thus the miracle came to pass , thanks to the mirage of a word , a simple word deliberately misused . It was a tragedy of haste and thoughtlessness , the nationalists being @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Neither could be satisfied with the transcription of the thoughts of an individual like Ogotemmeli or of several comparable individuals . For them African philosophy could not possibly lie in this disorderly plurality of individual thought ; they could not engage , in order to study it , in an examination demanding endless patience , in a ceaseless search 78 Arguments doomed to meditate on an infinite series of irreducible doctrines , and never to arrive at anything better than provisional , revocable syntheses . Each in his own way needed something more massive , more definite , that could be taken in at a glance , something that could be objectivized and manipulated at will so that he could claim it passionately ( the nationalist ) , or recognize it frankly as the story of his own intellectual childhood ( Bachelard et ceteri ) , or find in it confirmation of the inferiority of exotic ' cultures ( the conventional ethnologist ) . Tempels ' book met these multifarious expectations . It was praised to the skies . It is also worth noting that Griaule , who had tried so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it necessary to deny in his preface that the thought they conveyed was the property of Ogotemmeli and that , rather than granting him originality and responsibility , he preferred to look on him as the simple guardian of ancestral tradition , the slavish mouthpiece of group wisdom . In order to justify his book to the public , he had at all costs to avoid letting it believe that here was an individual speculation of secondrate value ' ( p. 4 ) ; on the contrary , he had to emphasize its collective character , to show that this doctrine was the birthright of the whole Dogon society and even , beyond the Dogon , of all the populations of the Sudan : Bambara thought rests on a metaphysic as ordered and rich as that of the Dogon , and its principles are comparable . . . . It is the same with the Bozo , fishermen of the Niger , with the Kurumba , farmers in the middle of the Loop , with the enigmatic ironsmiths of the same region . . . . We are therefore not in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ link in a long chain.12 So Griaule , in spite of his concrete method of investigation , shared Tempels ' refusal to accept that a non-Western society could contain a plurality of opinions that might conceivably diverge . In the presence of one thinker , he believed that this man 's thought acquired value only as the expression of a diffuse collective thought ; that the thinker in question was therefore not a real thinker but a griot of some sort because it was assumed from the outset that the individual was completely immersed in the group or , rather , that the individual and individuality as such could not exist in a supposedly primitive society . Philosophy and its revolutions 79 From this point of view , Radin 's work is still , to the best of my knowledge , the most lucid ethnological critique of the theoretical assumptions of ethnophilosophy . By pointing out the variations in the different versions of the same myth , by showing how they express each narrator 's individual fancy , by vigorously denouncing the classical prejudice according to which there is only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deviation or variation is due to lapse of memory , ignorance or general degradation , 13 by asserting the profound individualism of primitive ' man , his thirst for prestige and recognition , his consequent complete freedom of thought ' ( this phrase is the title of Chapter 5 ) , by interpreting myths and proverbs as the personal creations of poets and thinkers , rather than as a collective , immemorial and anonymous heritages ' ? by these means the American anthropologist completely reverses the habitual practice of his colleagues and allows us to see the possibility of a plurality of opinions and beliefs , of theoretical individuality in primitive ' societies and their profound resemblance , in this respect , to Western societies . Unfortunately , this reversal has its limits , and our author persists in referring to primitive ' man and primitive ' society , to aboriginal ' peoples , etc. ? an unmistakable sign that he still believes in an essential difference between Western and other cultures , even if the difference is displaced , determined in a new way . For instance : Radin duly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the group and about the complete lack of individualism found in primitive communities ' , ' ' but a couple of pages later he asserts that primitive man has a conception of social reality that is radically different from that of Western man , that for the primitive ' social reality is ... something unique and definitely distinct from the individual and no more emanates from him than does the external world ' .16 And again : The individual and the group are in primitive society strictly incommensurable units , each with a separate and independent existence . We have nothing even remotely comparable with primitive man 's sense of an objective social world , a world which is just as real as the external world and which is conceived of as being just as independent of the individual as the external world is . " It is this conception of social order which , according to our author , explains the apparent conformism of the primitive ' , the 80 Arguments absence of consistent sceptics or unbelievers and . .. the non-existence of revolts against the real structure of society @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inexplicable in view of the intellectual inventiveness and independence of which the same primitive ' is also capable . In other words , in a primitive ' society thought never has any real subversive effect . It is purely individual , impractical and aesthetic : The freedom of thought encountered here is not due to any secondary emancipation from the shackles of traditional dogmatism , as among us us Westerners , of course . It is due to the recognition of personality and the right of personality to expression and to the clear perception of a lack of contact between thoughts , ideas and opinions on the one hand and the social realities on the other . The life of thought does not dominate and tyrannize even the most intellectual of primitive people as it does some of the least intellectual among us. ' 9 As is apparent , the difference remains as monolithic and radical as ever . The primitive ' is still , in Radin as in Levy-Bruhl , the absolute other ' of the civilized ' man . His otherness is simply redefined . The American anthropologist has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the thick wall of ethnological prejudice , despite the considerable breach he has made in it . Not daring to pursue his critique to its conclusion , he has preferred to enclose himself within another circle by substituting for the old myths of primitive unanimity , of immersion of the individual in the group and other inventions of the same water , new myths no less gratuitous and pernicious . Evidently , it would have been too simple to recognize the capacity of the primitive ' for responsible thought and have done with it ? too simple and too dangerous , for the primitive ' would then have ceased to appear as a primitive and to feed the Western taste for spice , sensation and exoticism . So he had to daub , to depict non-Western man in the likeness of an absorbed individualist devoted to prestige-hunting ' , to naive self-glorification ' , whose rapport with his society was totally different from the Westerner 's with his own : a strange relationship of exteriority and mutual exclusion ? and this , by the same token , severely restricted the primitive @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the limbo of dreams , imagination and art . And thus the essential fine irresponsibility of the primitive was preserved , along with his good-natured insouciance , his passivity , his Philosophy and its revolutions 81 impotence ; and at the end of this prodigious journey the classical ( ethnological ) attributes of the primitive were restored . Thus the only real effect of Radin 's critique was on the aesthetic plane . It does indeed validate the idea of individualized art in non-Western societies ( in the form of the verbal arts , of poetry , singing , storytelling , etc. ) as against the contemporary anthropologists ' vision of a collective , anonymous art . On all other planes this critique stops short . We are now at the heart of the matter . An individual art of discourse is not yet a philosophy . Individual discourse ( as opposed to silent group discourse ) , the discursive intervention ( as opposed to passive acquiescence ) are no doubt necessary conditions ; but they can not in themselves create the act of philosophizing . On the social level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exist historically only through a literature , that it is properly speaking a special kind of literature , it does not follow that all literature is philosophical . Therefore even if Griaule had the merit , which Tempels lacked , of giving the primitive ' a right to speak ( although he obstinately reduced Ogotemmeli to the role of mere spokesman ) , and even if Radin went so far as to recognize that , in the last analysis , all wisdom is irreducibly personal and to demonstrate the existence of a litterature de pensee , 20 produced by those whom he calls its intellectuals ' in every non-Western society and transmitted orally from generation to generation , it does not automatically follow that this literature of thought is a philosophical literature , any more than discourse in general is automatically philosophical discourse . Radin and Griaule , in affirming this , were in much too much of a hurry . With this in mind , if we read Ogotemmeli 's narratives in Dieu d'eau , we shall easily be persuaded that they constitute a mythological rather than a philosophical discourse @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cosmogony is not philosophy . Let us read this Ewe funerary hymn , for instance , translated by Radin : Sing me a song , a song of death , That I may guide it by the hand . Sing me a song of the underworld . Sing me a song , a song of death , That I may walk to the underworld ! 82 Arguments Thus speaks the underworld to me , The underworld speaks thus : O beautiful it feels in the grave , 0 lovely is the underworld ! But yet no palm wine you can drink . ' Therefore I take you by the hand And journey to the underworld.21 Or this doleful lament of an Amerindian warrior : Mighty , mighty , great in war , So was I honoured , Now behold me old and wretched ! 22 If we read about the feats of the great Earthmaker ' in the cosmogony and mythology of the Winnebago Indians , 23 we can readily see that this literature is infinitely closer to poetry than to philosophy . That this poetry conveys a thought makes no @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be profound as well as beautiful . Every thinker is not a philosopher . This point must be made clearly so that we can rid ourselves of the common illusion once and for all . But , of course , I know what 's waiting for me around the corner ? the trick-question , the question of questions that divides all philosophers : what is philosophy ? If it is not poetry or narrative , not myth or proverb or any other kind of aphorism , neither history nor biography , if it belongs to none of the genres into which the oral literature of so-called primitive peoples is customarily divided , then what is it ? I am in no hurry to answer this question , and this is my right , for I am not an anthropologist . I am content for the moment to show what philosophy is not . As for the rest , we shall come to that later . But let me clarify just one point : in speaking of poetry , I do not mean to reduce the oral literature of non-Western peoples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as I have already remarked . Furthermore , not all of the texts are poetry ' . I am only pointing out a similarity , a kinship , so as to show that if these texts can not all be equated with poetry , they can not a fortiori be characterized as philosophical . Objectively , they are closer to poetry than to philosophy . Tables , fables , legends , myths , proverbs , biographies and autobiographies , etc. , are literary ' genres in the ordinary sense of the word , genres of what we shall call artistic literature as distinct Philosophy and its revolutions 83 from scientific literature . Philosophy , on the other hand , belongs to scientific literature . Its lifeblood and rhythm are the same as those of mathematics , physics , chemistry , biology , linguistics . That is why the texts cited by Radin are nearer to poetry than philosophy . That is how a way of thinking may belong to art rather than to science . If we wish to articulate the difference more accurately , we shall have to call , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ speaking , one can say that a poem or a novel is valuable in itself ; it is independent of the general history of poetry or the novel . A philosophical or mathematical work , on the other hand , is intelligible only as a moment in a debate that sustains and transcends it . It always refers to antecedent positions , either to refute them or to confirm and enrich them . It takes on meaning only in relation to that history , in relation to the terms of an ever-changing debate in which the sole stable element is the constant reference to one self-same object , to one sphere of experience , the characterization of which , incidentally , is itself part of the evolution . Scientific literature , in short , is thoroughly historical . Artistic literature , on the other hand , knows only of an extrinsic history which is not essentially related to its content . It is an endless accumulation of works , each of which is a perfectly autonomous unit , significant in and of itself , a finished totality which might have appeared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose actual appearance is due to no internal necessity . One poem or novel does not refute another unless it be a poem or a novel a these , but then it is more than an ordinary poem or novel . From a purely artistic point of view , Valery 's Cimetiere marin ( 1920 ) could have appeared before Baudelaire 's Fleurs du mal ( 1857 ) . Cesaire 's Armes miraculeuses ( 1946 ) could have appeared in the nineteenth century . Neither content nor form assigns these works to particular appointed places in a historical sequence , or if they do , the relation of these works to others is accidental , not essential , and it does not define them as literary works.24 In the strictest sense of the term , art has no history , although it unfolds in history . Philosophy , on the other hand , like any other science , is historical in its very substance . It has the intrinsic historicity of a pluralistic discourse , in which different interlocutors question and answer one another within a generation or from one generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is clear that the discourse of a man like Ogotemmeli , inasmuch as it aspires to convey a wisdom that is eternal , intangible , a closed knowledge sprung from the 84 Arguments depths of time and admitting of no discussion , opts out of history in general and , more particularly , from that groping , endless history , that unquiet , forever incomplete quest we call philosophy . Philosophical revolutions We have perhaps said enough to illuminate our first contention : that philosophy is a history , not a system . It goes without saying that in making this contention history ' is placed above system ' . To be more precise , we wish to make the point that philosophy can not reduce itself to dumb acceptance , a contented purring , to the catechistic repetition of intangible dogmas without denying itself , and moreover , that philosophy not only exists within history , like a substance in a container , but is itself a second-order history borne by empirical history , a productive process ( producing something as yet undefined ) , a progress . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it is history itself . Some readers may think that this is an overestimation of philosophy and its power . While conceding at most that philosophy , like science , exists only as a theoretical history , such readers will object that the history of philosophy , unlike the history of the sciences , is repetitive , circular , that it creates nothing , that in the last resort it is a pointless history , a pointless discourse . The objections may find support in the history of philosophy ? in Kant , for instance , and in a certain sense , in Marx and then Lenin . First , Kant . As is well known , the immense project of the Critique of Pure Reason rests on the painful observation that human reason has failed every time it has sought to grapple with transcendental problems . For Kant the history of philosophy is nothing but the story of those failures . Philosophy is the battlefield ( Kampfplatz ) on which , from time immemorial , irreconcilable doctrines have been fighting . Essentially , they can be reduced to two @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ end to this sterile and exhausting confrontation , it was necessary to undertake a complete examination of the power of the human mind as an instrument of knowledge and to define its true scope and the limits of its legitimate exercise . The Kantian project thus puts the history of philosophy on one side : what use is it if after so much toil it has failed to bring to light a single universally recognized truth and has never been more than a theatre of pointless quarrels , the closed field of a generalized war of all against all ( bellum omnium contra omnes , as Husserl was to say ) . Philosophy and its revolutions 85 Let us then make a tabula rasa of the history of philosophy . Already evident in the Preface ( the two Prefaces ) , this move becomes increasingly precise and explicit in the Introduction to the Critique of Pure Reason . We know that this Introduction concentrates on raising and articulating the problem to which the whole work is devoted : how are synthetic , a priori judgements possible ? We also know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is pure mathematics possible ? How is pure physics possible ? How is metaphysics possible ? What is most remarkable here is that the third question ( which in a way is the first , since it prompts the general question and consequently the first two particular questions ) appears from the outset to be crippled by a hopeless equivocation . While Kant regards pure mathematics and physics as real sciences and attempts , by regressive analysis , to determine the conditions of their possibility , he believes that metaphysics exists not as a science but merely as a natural disposition ' , so in this case it is necessary to demonstrate the conditions of possibility not of a science and an actuality but of a painful absence . The analysis indicated by this little word possible ' may be regressive ' only because of this discontinuity in the real , because of the different status of the objects to be analysed : sciences ' on the one hand , natural disposition ' or need ' on the other . Conversely , if the third question is formulated in the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a science ? ) , the similarity of form is only superficial . The problem is no longer to move back from an existing science to the conditions of its possibility but to specify the conditions for the emergence of a future science . The little word possible ' has changed its meaning : it no longer calls for a regressive analysis but for a prospective exploration . This equivocation , we have said , is remarkable . Why ? Because the thesis of the non-scientificity of metaphysics ( of pre-critical metaphysics , of course ) has a specific effect in Kant 's text : it annuls , invalidates the whole history of Western philosophy , considered as the untiring repetition of the same dogmatism generating contradictory theses interspersed with occasional sceptical doctrines : Reason 's dogmatic employment . .. lands us in dogmatic assertions to which other assertions , equally specious , can always be opposed ? that is , in scepticism . . . . We may then , and indeed we must , regard as abortive our emphasis all attempts , hitherto made , to establish a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose diverse productions we must ' regard as abortive ' is complemented by the thesis of the universality of metaphysics seen as a natural disposition ' : There has always existed in the world , and there will always continue to exist , some kind of metaphysic , and with it the kind of dialectic that is natural to pure reason . 126 Kant 's effort aims precisely at explaining the possibility of this natural metaphysics ' , of these questions which , it seems , spontaneously and universally command the attention of human reason . If all men are natural metaphysicians , it is by virtue of the very nature of reason , which irresistibly impels it to break out of the field of experience by following up the series of its conditions as far as the ultimate Unconditional . This motion is irrepressible in all men , in all cultures . In this respect , Western civilization enjoys no special privilege : reason is doomed to the same fate everywhere , the perpetual sifting of the same problems . So long as a tribunal ' has not been instituted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condemn any unjustified usurpations ' , so long as a critique of pure reason has not been established , the history of metaphysics will be a pointless history . The subtle debates , the enormous literature devoted for centuries by the West to problems of this order will be nothing but vain theoretical agitation , sterile diatribe in no way preferable to the mindless mumbo-jumbo of the so-called primitive mythologies . In Europe as elsewhere , metaphysics exists merely as a natural disposition ' . Nowhere does it exist as a science . We are all in the same boat , at the same level of theoretical indigence . How reassuring to see our mythologies , cosmogonies , theogonies , anthropogonies , eschatologies , etc. , our conceptions of the world , our wisdom thus up to a point rehabilitated . It suggests that all those forms of thought that a little while ago we were contrasting with philosophy conceived as history , because of their systematic closure , can be regarded as modes of this universal natural metaphysics ' and , to that extent , as rehabilitated . But if @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is a moment in the history which it rejects ; it appears at a particular stage in its evolution and is carried by its momentum . Of this Kant himself is fully conscious . It is no accident that he so frequently takes his bearings with reference to Hume . The Humean analysis of the concept of cause , the psychologistic reduction of all predicative relations to the level of simple effects of association , the a priori Philosophy and its revolutions 87 subjectivist determination to explain objective relations between phenomena in terms of the laws of the human mind and the resulting impossibility of science as of metaphysics , all of these had exerted a profound impression on Kant which , in the celebrated remark of the Prolegomena , were to rouse him from his dogmatic slumber.27 This is true to such an extent that the Critique of Pure Reason may he read as a methodical solution of Hume 's unique problem , reformulated and placed on a level of generality which Hume had not been able to attain : how is causal judgementpossible ? In this respect it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Introduction and the text of the Prolegomena , and then the numerous , the dozens of passages in which his problematic is evoked inside the Critique , to realize how personally Kant felt challenged by Hume and to what extent his work , far from simply taking its place alongside that of the great Scottish sceptic in an external history , is actually based intimately on it , both in continuity and in opposition ? in a dialectical relation in the strict sense . This is proof enough that despite his thorough obliteration of the history of thought , or rather because of it , because of his patient destruction of the finest monuments of speculative reason , Kant takes his place in a current of that history ? or , rather , it is through Kant that we are able to grasp the precise theoretical function of that current as distinct from all the others . Scepticism , the father of all critical philosophy , is not a philosophy among others . It can not be placed on the same level as the various constructions of dogmatic metaphysics @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ force of negation and uncertainty , somewhat like a bad conscience . Above all , scepticism is what enables metaphysics to escape from the simple juxtaposition or confrontation of irreducible closed systems and to take its place in a history of thought , in a history of philosophy , which includes metaphysics as well as its opposite . One can find in the last pages of the Critique of Pure Reason , in that Transcendental Doctrine of Method ' which is supposed to constitute the second part of the book but is very much shorter than the first , the Transcendental Doctrine of Elements , an outline of what Kant calls a History of Pure Reason ' .211 This history may present us with nothing but structure in ruins ' , rotting systems stripped of all credibility and powers of persuasion , but these ruins are nevertheless instructive , and they have a history that is not purely negative , since it was to nurture the idea , the 88 Arguments project of a critique of pure reason ; moreover , the creator of these ruins , the corrosive element that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reason and inspiring it with the will to criticize , is none other than scepticism . This makes it tempting to account for the nuances of the Kantian position on this point by carefully separating metaphysics from philosophy , by generalizing Kant 's explicit opposition between dogmatic metaphysics and transcendental philosophy . If there is no history of metaphysics as such because the subject is pure repetition , the sterile confrontation of opposing dogmatisms , there exists on the contrary a history of philosophy ? the history of the question of the possibility of metaphysics that can , with hindsight , incorporate and integrate the various productions of dogmatic metaphysics . The history of philosophy so understood follows an internal necessity , a logic . As Kant writes , in a chapter entitled The discipline of pure reason ' : The first step in matters of pure reason , marking its infancy , is dogmatic . The second step is sceptical and indicates that experience has rendered our judgement wiser and more circumspect . But a third step , such as can be taken only by fully matured judgement , based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , namely , to subject to examination not the facts of reason but reason itself , in the whole extent of its powers , and as regards its aptitude for pure a priori modes of knowledge.L " There is therefore something like an internal rationality , a teleology , in the history of pure reason that leads to the gradual emergence of the need for self-knowledge , for criticism . In this respect Kant is fully of his time . The progress of philosophy is just an aspect of the progress of Enlightenment . The very intention of the Critique is deeply rooted in the spirit of the century : of this we are warned in the Preface . " Kant defined Enlightenment as man 's release from his self-incurred tutelage , for which he is himself responsible ' . ' " There are examples other than the relation of Kant to Hume , less direct perhaps , less favourable sometimes , but just as decisive . Thus Locke is often cited as the real founder of modern empiricism , later raised by Hume to its highest level of coherence . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is taken from Aristotle but redefined and reassessed from a critical perspective . Plato , Philosophy and its revolutions 89 Berkeley and occasionally Descartes function in Kant 's discourse as negative models , pitfalls to be avoided , and so of course does the rationalism of Leibniz and Wolff , which Kant himself long professed ( the famous dogmatic slumber ' ) before subjecting it to a particularly radical critique based on corrosive Humean empiricism . We could now call it a day , the example of Kant being proof enough of our point that no philosophy , however new , ever appears ex nihilo , that every philosophical doctrine is a reply to foregoing doctrines in the double mode of confirmation and refutation or , better still , as a call for further developments , an appeal for future confirmation or refutation , so that every philosophy looks forward and backward , to the inexhaustible history of the discipline . But then we should still have to account for the Kantian move mentioned above , for his reduction of the history of philosophy on which the critical philosophy was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the multiple real relations which continue to bind it to this same history . It is not only in Kant that we observe this equivocation . We find it in diverse degrees in all the great classical philosophers , in all those who were conscious of the fact that they were deliberately trying to change the course of the history of philosophy . In the seventeenth century Descartes ruthlessly blue-pencilled the whole of scholastic doctrine , which had failed to give him the certainty he required , and on this basis he turned fiercely to the cogito as the ultimate source of all truth . Closer to us , Husserl , tired of empiricist prattle about the psychological origins of the laws of logic , demands , in a celebrated formula , a return to things themselves ' , beyond the learned discourses which have tried to dissolve them in the flow of subjective consciousness . At this initial stage of phenomenology the history of philosophy could be understood only as the story of an omission , of the loss of what was essential , of alienation . Husserl 's entire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reality of things , to seek an opening to the meaning by which consciousness invariably defines itself . Hence this rule , formulated in Philosophy as rigorous science ' : The impulse to research must proceed not from philosophies but from things and the problems connected with them . 132 But the sequel to the story is well known . Beyond its break with the scholastic heritage and its radical return to the ego cogito , Cartesian philosophy deployed a number of concepts and themes inherited from the scholastic tradition . Many of Descartes ' most 90 Arguments crucial ( and sometimes least convincing ) moves , like his celebrated reification of the cogito , his hasty provision of substantial support for the pure activity of thought ( defined as the res cogitans ) with which Kant and then Hegel , Husserl and many others , each in his own way , were to reproach him , are intelligible only in terms of the implicit logic of Aristotelian and medieval metaphysics . In his turn Husserl , in breaking with the dominant psychologism of his time , in returning to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is conscious of repeating , essentially , the initial move of Descartes ' philosophy . Moreover , in contemplating the crisis in European science and humanity in his last works , he was to place his own philosophy in perspective , interpreting it as the manifestation of a telos inherent in history itself . Kant 's position is therefore far from unique . Every great philosophy begins by inserting within parentheses , by practically rejecting the history of philosophy . Every great philosophy is a rebirth , a radical questioning . But the break itself appears only after the event , through a kind of recursion which is also essential to all philosophy , as a necessary moment in the history of philosophy , a turning , renascence , revolution , mutation taking place within that history and not a suppression or annihilation that comes from the outside . So the fact is that the history of philosophy is not cumulative as a consequence of the addition of new thoughts to old ones . It moves between successive levels separated by pits and ruptures ; it cuts its way through @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the point of being engulfed it rises up , transformed . Thus the structure of the history of philosophy is similar to that attributed by Bachelard to science : What happens is not a development from old doctrines to the new ; but rather an envelopment of old thoughts by the new . 133 This is probably a typical structure in the history of thought , the after-the-event structure of hindsight , the recursion that enables each figure of science , as those of philosophy , to reinterpret the previous figures , after first rejecting them , and to replace them in a reorganized theoretical space . In philosophy , as in the sciences , one does not simply move from an old theory to a new one by a process of elaboration . One must have already accepted the new theory in order to discover the limits of the old theory and , at the same time , its relative validity . So far we have been content with describing this fact , calling on a Philosophy and its revolutions 91 few classic examples . There remains the task @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of philosophy does not move in a straight line but steers a zigzag course , as it were ; why every great philosophy , in order to establish itself , must ravage the existing theoretical space ; what laws , regularities or series of conditions govern these upheavals . To ask such questions , let us note , is to abandon philosophy , in a way , and to treat it as an object , to provide an account of it , anticipating perhaps the non-philosophical theory of philosophy ' 34 which Althusser looks forward to . Such questions are impossible inside philosophy . The philosopher can only observe this kind of articulation of doctrines ; he can not explain it for the simple reason that anything he might say would necessarily refer , in the last analysis , to the universal essence of discourse as the basis for the articulation of philosophy in history . The reasons he would give could help to explain why philosophy has a history ? or , rather , that it is itself a history ? but they could not explain why this history is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the question from a point of view outside discourse , and this is precisely what Marx and Engels invite us to do in The German Ideology . Their position on this point is concise and well known : philosophy has no history ! Of course , one is tempted , after what has been said of Kant , Descartes and Husserl , to dismiss this theoretical rejection of the history of philosophy as a figurative expression of its rejection in practice which is always part of the negative move that institutes every new philosophy . And it remains true that this thesis can not without absurdity be taken literally : Marx and Engels were aware of the actual succession of philosophies and of the complex tangles of their reasons and arguments . They knew that in this succession everything is interwoven , that in the end every philosophy is a link in the chain that carries it , referring to the whole set of past , present and future philosophies . Nevertheless , it does not follow that this thesis can be reduced to a rhetorical figure . What Marx and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theoretical interdependence of doctrine is enough to make a history . In the pure domain of thought every mutation or revolution , every event in the strong sense , refers to some event in the material world and owes its own occurrence as an event to this relation . This is what the young Hegelians did not understand . Taking the history of thought for the whole of history , 92 Arguments they overestimated the importance of their own intellectual effervescence , saw in the Germany of their time the scene of an unprecedented upheaval ' and believed that they were promoting a revolution beside which the French Revolution was child 's play , a world struggle beside which the struggles of Diadochi would appear insignificant ' .35 Marx and Engels retorted to these pretentious ideologues that their theoretical revolutions were dreams , fantasies without any grip on reality , that real history was taking place elsewhere , in the material world where people were forever producing the means of their existence . They oppose their own method in The German Ideology to the Hegelian conception of history . In direct @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , here we ascend from earth to heaven . That is to say , we do not set out from what men say , imagine , conceive , nor from men as narrated , thought of , imagined , conceived , in order to arrive at men in the flesh . We set out from real , active men , and on the basis of their real life process we demonstrate the development of the ideological reflexes and echoes of this life process . The phantoms formed in the human brain are also , necessarily , sublimates of their material life process , which is empirically verifiable and bound to material premises . Morality , religion , metaphysics , all the rest of ideology and their corresponding forms of consciousness , thus no longer retain the semblance of independence . They have no history , no development ; but men , developing their material production and their material intercourse , alter , along with their real existence , their thinking and the products of their thinking . Life is not determined by consciousness , but consciousness by life .... Where speculation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science begins : the representation of the practical activity , of the practical process of development of men . Empty talk about consciousness ceases , and real knowledge has to take its place . When reality is depicted , philosophy as an independent branch of knowledge loses its medium of existence.36 This long quotation is necessary in order to give the context of certain formulations , now classic , that have been so often repeated mechanically out of context that they have lost any real meaning and have ceased to function except as incantations . Incidentally , this passage is fatal for some of our official Marxists ' , for if one can not start from what men say , imagine , conceive ... to arrive at men in the flesh ' , if on the contrary one must judge their word in the light of their practice , it is equally clear that it is not enough to proclaim oneself a Marxist to be one ; that official declarations of Philosophy and its revolutions 93 authority ? even and especially if that authority calls itself revolutionary ? must be assessed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ major problem in the sphere of political analysis is to know not so much how a regime defines itself as what objective function this self-proclaimed definition has in the political game which the regime is playing ; that beyond the declaration , real or feigned , of loyalty to Marxism the real problem concerns the historical mode of appropriation of Marxism , the concrete role which it is made to play and , in a word , the way in which it functions : is it an agency of liberation or of enslavement , a catalyst of energy or an ideological opiate , theoretical matrix of political and scientific debate or monologue of power , language of the masses or mystifying discourse carried on behind their backs ? But enough of this problem . It is more important for our purpose to measure the exact scope and meaning of that paradoxical but by now classic statement Philosophy has no history . ' Addressed to pretentious intellectuals shut up in their theoretical universe and , like their master Hegel , regarding the development of the Idea as the motor of world history @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the history of ideas itself , to replace it in the context from which the ideologists had extracted it to hypostatize it , and to show that of itself it has all the characteristics of a game but that it really can be organized by reference to the real history of the material world . There is no Idea in itself , no Spirit that is not the human spirit , no Consciousness that does not refer to a specific subject . Therefore there is no autonomous development of the Idea imagined as a living being endowed with spontaneity and drawing from itself the law of its own ' growth . Ideas are always products of human thought , of the mental activity that is inseparable from the material activity of men . We are therefore now presented with a reversal of perspectives . Marx and Engels do not really deny that philosophy can have a history . On the contrary , they explicitly accept that men , developing their material production and their material intercourse , alter , along with their real existence , their thinking and the products of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ recognizing the existence of such a history . They add , however , that this history is not autonomous and does not draw from itself the law of its own development , which is determined in the last analysis by the history of the production of material goods and that of the social relations of production . The precise modalities of this determination , which we know to be a determination only in the last instance , are not defined in The 94 Arguments German Ideology . In order to give a theoretical account of them we must refer to other texts and place The German Ideology in the context of the whole of Marx 's work . One then realizes how enigmatic are the trenchant formulations of this book and how mistaken one would be to give it a literal interpretation in view of the theory developed in later works . On this matter Louis Althusser has said things that one can no longer afford to ignore : the Marxist conception of history is not a simple reversal of the Hegelian conception , an almost mechanical substitution of a materialistic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ did not borrow ' the Hegelian concept of history and alter its content or determinations : he constructs another concept of history on the basis of a totally different conception of the social whole . Whereas for Hegel society was a homogeneous whole , of which each part was pars totalis , equally qualified to express the internal essence of the whole and manifesting , each in its own way , the self-presence of the concept at any given historical moment , the Marxist whole is complex , hierarchical , decentralized and has distinct and comparatively autonomous levels . Each level of this whole evolves according to its own rhythm , and every instance possesses a different kind of historical existence so that it is not possible to conceive these different levels or instances in the same historical time . Strictly speaking , therefore , there is no such thing as a single , unitary history ' of society , let alone a general history ' of mankind , a sort of neutral milieu in which different events might successively reside , like clients in the bed of a prostitute . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ histories of the different levels or instances : an economic history with its own rhythm , a political history , a history of religions , a history of ideologies , a history of philosophy , a history of the sciences , a history of art , etc. , each also with its own rhythm . The idea of continuous and homogeneous time disappears . Abstract history splinters into a plurality of differential histories stripped of all reference to a common time ( the abstract time of the clock ) but articulated one into the other according to the specific nature of the relevant whole ( of the relevant mode of production ) and determined by the economic base ' only in the last instance through a series of completely unavoidable mediations.37 This is surely not the place to develop this theme . We have broached it simply to locate properly ( that is , to relativize ) the abrupt statements of The German Ideology and also of Theses on Feuerbach , which date from the same period , by reference to the Philosophy and its revolutions 95 works of Marx 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy and Capital ) . In these texts of 1845 the whole of philosophy is cast aside as part of ideology and thus condemned to a joyous death in the cause of the only science , which itself owes its escape from ideology to the fact that it is conceived , in accordance with the classical model of empiricist theories of knowledge , as a carbon copy of reality and not as a conceptual exercise creating its own objects . To understand these enigmatic texts , one must remember that they belong to the period of the break ' ( Althusser ) , when Marx undertook , in his own words , to settle accounts with his erstwhile philosophical conscience ' , and that they are inevitably marred by exaggeration and polemical violence . Reacting against the idealism of Hegel , Marx and Engels could not , in 1845 , bother with niceties . They could only invert its propositions , term for term , and counter Hegel 's idealist monism with a brutal materialism that was still mechanistic , pending the development of new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ founded on this break . Whatever these later revisions , however , the inversion effected in that extract from The German Ideology , even attenuated and refined by the works of Marx 's maturity , refers to a different concept of history from the one from which we started . At the outset we could not imagine any other history than that of discourse . History was for us nothing but the developed form of articulated speech , its distribution over time and , consequently , the developed form of the linkage of letters in writing , of the linear display of words on papyrus . For us history was the history of logos , and in fact it was no more than another name for logos : discourse , reasoning , reason . We could therefore confidently treat the historicity of philosophy and of the sciences as modes of logos , but we could conceive of the history of art only by reducing it to the history of discourse about art . Still less could we conceive of economic history , the history of material production , what Marx and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , the material life process ' , material production ' and the practical process of development of men ' . Let us not shun the word : our concept of history was an idealistic concept . Underlying our analysis was the Hegelian conception of philosophy as the pure development of the Idea , a conception which makes the history of thought the rational core and finally the whole 96 Arguments of history . Marx 's critique sends that naive concept of history flying and compels us to refer the linear development of ideas , the concatenation of discourse , the theoretical interdependence of doctrines , to a more fundamental history , decisive in the last instance ? the history of production . Of course , it would be foolish to ignore the theoretical difficulties of this new concept of history . It lacks the massive persuasiveness of the metaphor of the line or , more exactly , the chain . It is infinitely less transparent and limpid than the earlier concept . Marxist history is not the simple articulation of a linear discourse slightly complicated by the plurality of divergent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ another through mathematical laws of transformation and conversion . It is the complex articulation of levels ' or instances ' , each of which has its own legitimacy and mode of existence , all consequently heterogeneous and irreducible to one another . The unity of the concept of history , which seemed so secure in Hegel 's conception is lost in this deployment of levels ' . At the same time a new difficulty arises , unknown to Hegel : that of the transition from one historical moment to another . These transitions were self-explanatory within the idealist philosophies , being nothing more than the flow of speech itself , the evocation , affirmative or contradictory , of one idea by another , what the empiricists interpreted mechanistically in terms of association ' . But the transition from one economic structure to another ? From one mode of production to another ? We shall not attempt here to solve this problem , nor even to state it fully.311 Let us simply point out that in fact this problem of transitions does not concern material history alone . It exists also at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ concealed by the assumption of continuity of the idealistic and logocentric conception of history . The difficulty posed by this problem is therefore no argument against materialism ; on the contrary , it is materialism which reveals the problem and thereby makes its solution possible , whereas previously it was unseen , suppressed . We shall also add this : the difference of status between the two concepts of history means not that one must be renounced in favour of the other but that each must be integrated with the other , as the part with the whole or the particular with the general , or , as Bachelard puts it , as an old theory is enveloped ' by a new one . The Hegelian concept of history enables one to understand the specific mode of existence of philosophy and the sciences as opposed to the Philosophy and its revolutions 97 repetitive discourse of daily life or art . For us its sole meaning lies in this polemical , discriminatory capacity , and it is only in this sense that we have used it above . But having specified the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ having defined what we shall venture to call the theoretical instance , it has been necessary ? in order to render intelligible the specific mode of development of this instance ? to locate it in the complex , hierarchical whole which is society . Hence our recourse to another , infinitely richer and more complex , concept of history . Let us put forward , in conclusion , a few abrupt hypotheses , which we shall not be able to justify fully here . We offer them for what they are , i.e. possible elements of an answer to the problem , stated above , of the conditions of possibility of revolutions in philosophy . In the light of our earlier analyses , this problem may be formulated thus : what , outside philosophy , determines the transitions which are the stuff of its history ? How , by what mediations , is philosophical practice finally determined by material practices ? Our answer is based once more on an extremely valuable remark of Althusser . Returning in Lenin and Philosophy to one of the arguments of his unpublished Course in Philosophy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ philosophical revolutions are always the sequel of great scientific revolutions , so that philosophy is organically linked , in its growth and evolution , with the birth and development of the sciences : Philosophy has not always existed ; it has been observed only in places where there is also what is called a science or sciences ? science in the strict sense of theoretical discipline , i.e. ideating and demonstrative , not an aggregate of empirical results ... . ... For philosophy to be born or reborn , it is necessary that sciences be . That is why , perhaps , philosophy in the strict sense began only with Plato , goaded into being by the existence of Greek mathematics ; was blown up by Descartes , roused into its modern revolution by Galilean physics ; was recast by Kant , under the influence of the Newtonian discovery ; was remodelled by Husserl , stung by the first axiomatics , etc.39 In other words , philosophy does not get up until dusk : we know that from Hegel , in the Preface to The Principles of the Philosophy of Right @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ behind science , as the belated aftermath within philosophical discourse of the great events in the history of the sciences . " ' 98 Arguments Now , if this hypothesis is correct , it gives us the answer to our question . Philosophical revolutions are functions of scientific revolutions , of the great ' breaks ' through which the problematics of existing sciences are reorganized and new sciences sometimes thrown up . These breaks are not , of course , in themselves purely discursive events but rather theoretical effects in the field of discourse , of experimental practices which inform science throughout , practices organically linked to human material practices as a whole , employing various technical processes and hence dependent on the development of technology and therefore of the productive forces . If we want to understand the possibility of revolutions in philosophy , we must go so far as to accept that philosophical discourse , while not a mechanical reflection of the economic structure ( as vulgar materialism would have it ) , is strictly modelled on the model of scientific discourse ( though it is not , of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this way hinges upon the history of material practices . To be sure , this is as yet only a hypothesis . To give it substance , new and difficult analyses in the history and philosophy of science will be needed , which would in particular emphasize the experimental nature of all sciences , mathematics included . " We also need new analyses of the history of philosophy in order to discover the specific relation between each great philosophical problematic and an actual , or at least emergent , science . Such an approach promises to be fruitful and in any case offers the only hope at present of a solution to the difficult problems stated above . We can now state what we have been driving at : if our hypothesis is correct , if the development of philosophy is in some way a function of the development of the sciences , then African philosophy can not be separated from African science and we shall never have , in Africa , a philosophy in the strict sense , a philosophy articulated as an endless search , until we have produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history of the sciences . Philosophical practice , that peculiar form of theoretical practice that is called philosophy , is inseparable from that other form of theoretical practice called science . Rather than noisily claim the existence of an African ' philosophy ' which would save us the trouble of philosophizing , we would therefore be better advised to work patiently and methodically for what we could call African science or African scientific research . It is not philosophy but science that Africa needs first . If philosophy can also be of use , it is only by helping to liberate a genuine theoretical Philosophy and its revolutions 99 tradition on this continent , an open scientific tradition , master of its problems and of its themes , and also to the extent that it proves capable , once this tradition is established , of contributing in one way or another to its enrichment . That philosophy ? that theoretical quest strictly hinged upon science ? will carry us a thousand miles away from the preoccupations which have inspired and shaped the myth of a so-called traditional African philosophy ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the origins of the world , the meaning of life , the wherefore of death , human destiny , the reality of the beyond , the existence of God and all those insoluble problems which really belong to mythology , yet are the usual fodder of philosophical rumination . But it will open up new theoretical problems concerning the essence of scientific discourse , its history and the conditions that render it possible . The first precondition for a history of philosophy , the first precondition for philosophy as history , is therefore the existence of a scientific practice , the existence of science as an organized material practice reflected in discourse . But one must go back even further : the chief requirement of science itself is writing . It is difficult to imagine a scientific civilization that is not a civilization based on writing , difficult to imagine a scientific tradition in a society in which knowledge can be transmitted only orally . Therefore African civilizations could not give birth to any science , in the strictest sense of the word , until they had undergone the profound @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transformation which is gradually changing them , from within , into literate civilizations . Let us be quite clear about this : pre-colonial Africa had undoubtedly amassed a wealth of true knowledge , of effective techniques which have been transmitted orally from generation to generation and continue to this day to ensure the livelihood of a large part of the population of our countryside and cities . It is probably one of the most urgent tasks facing our generation to record this precious heritage , to test and systematize it . But precisely because we speak of recording and systematizing it in order to integrate it into our modern knowledge , it must be that this heritage has not yet been recorded , systematized , integrated . It must be admitted that of itself it could not have produced that specific form of knowledge that we refer to , very vaguely , as modern knowledge ' . We have first to accede to this modern ' knowledge before we can recognize retrospectively the possibility and necessity                @ @ @ @ @ 