@@773862

txt // the early eighteenth century , immediate causes are of special concern . They dominate the profile of all causes and deprive the society of the largest blocks of the space of life , blocks composed of years not survived from infancy or childhood into old age . But among people who die old , as for the most part people in Europe and the United States now do , immediate causes are less important . They have been supplanted by multiple pathologies , by the ways in which aging itself depletes vitality , and by the memory of prior health experience that the individual , the cohort , or the population has accumulated . In reviewing evidence and theory from the biological sciences about aging and insult accumulation , this chapter will clarify ways in which aging influences the risks of mortality and morbidity , and lay foundations for considering health experience over the life course . The objective is to consider the timing of death and the risk of ill health as functions of prior health experience , thus to see the usefulness of historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ essential point remains the observation that health experience is a continuing narrative in the life course of the individual , the cohort , and the population . AGING The viability or vigor of the human organism decreases and its vulnerability increases with age in ways that are apparent from clinical examination and post-mortem analysis , and from laboratory experiments with animals that , reasoning selectively from analogy , provide insights into human experience . The process , called aging or senescence , is usually associated with the part of the life cycle following somatic growth . In humans it is now sometimes held to begin at conception or birth , or upon reaching physical maturity , age 18 , but the more common view is that it begins after age 30 . It becomes manifest between ages 40 and 50 . Although the processes of deterioration begin to prevail in a noticeable way in most individuals between ages 40 and 50 , they do not for some time thereafter play a determinant role . Only at or above the modal age of death , between about ages 85 and 110 , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ extreme the probability of dying from any disease or injury is so great that , while death may be attributed to one or several diseases or injuries , its underlying cause is senescence . The aging hazard is defined as a property of the organism in general , so that it includes // neither the risks of disease and injury nor those associated with hereditary features peculiar to some but not all members of the species . While it is easy to find grounds to suspect that aging is a distinct process , it is difficult to demonstrate its existence in an unambiguous way or to isolate its quantitative properties . The most common argument for the existence of an aging process is based on an interpretation of the survival curve . As explained by the biologist Alex Comfort , a progressively increasing force of mortality and decreasing expectation of life in a population . . . is evidence of the senescence of its individual members if significant variation in the exposure rate can be excluded ' .2 In other words , a stable mortality rate implies that deaths should be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is approximated by the experience of paleolithic humankind as appeared in Figure 1.3 . Few individuals survived to ages at which senescence might play a role , and most died earlier in life from diseases and injuries that might have caused death at any age . ( It is for the moment merely incidental that the causes shifted somewhat with age , relating more to nutrition early in life and to activity among juveniles and adults . ) In contrast , a mortality rate that increases with age , such as appears in Figure 1.3 for the US population of 1979-81 , implies senescence . In it most individuals survive to advanced age but after a certain age ' they die from causes that would not have killed them in youth ' .3 Diminishing vigor and increasing vulnerability are not merely related to age but are related in such a way that aging exerts a regularly increasing influence on survival . Individuals age at slower or faster rates , but a regular rate of increase appears when large groups are surveyed . The regular rate of increase in the death rate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Benjamin Gompertz , who devised a formula to express the correspondence . ' Stable functions of this kind have also been found in the healing time and mortality rates associated with some specific insults , such as burns , in mortality from some individual diseases , and in a linear rather than an exponential form in some physiological functions , such as the basal metabolic rate , which measures oxygen consumption at rest . ' The properties of the mortality risk curve that are said to reveal the existence of aging show up more clearly on the logarithmic scale of Figure 2.1 , which reproduces a figure comparing the empirical data that Gompertz consulted from eighteenth-century England with some death rate curves from the first half of the twentieth century . // On the logarithmic scale a stable rate of increase in the death rate appears as a straight line , a feature approximated by each curve in this figure but approximated better by the curves based on large rather than small populations ( e.g. , Thailand 1947 and Cyprus 1950 ) . The figure was initially constructed to illustrate the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be expected to vary from one population to another ( in this instance between 7 and 8.5 years would pass before the death rate doubled ) . That is , the gradient of the function differs from population to population , but all populations exhibit periods during the life course when a regular rate of increase in the death rate appears for some years during adulthood . Figure 2.1 also indicates that the location of the Gompertz function ( or straight line ) within the life course not only varies from one population to another but also varies within an historical pattern . Excepting Gompertz 's Northampton curve , based on the experience of insured lives from eighteenth-century England , all the death rate curves in Figure 2.1 refer to the first half of the twentieth century . But they refer to populations with quite different levels of mortality and life expectation , some of which can be characterized as favored ' and others as unfavored ' . Comparing Gompertz functions in these terms , it appears that the location of the function underwent a peregrination . In unfavored populations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Gompertz function appeared in early adulthood but gave way in mature adulthood to a second function in which the death rate was higher and took less time to double . As age-specific mortality risk shifted downward over time , the first Gompertz function peregrinated , beginning and ending at a later age . It appeared around age 30 in unfavored populations ( including nineteenth-century Sweden and England , not shown here ) and disappeared around age 50 , while in favored populations it appeared around age 45 and persisted for longer and longer periods . In the US during the period 1979 ? 81 ( Figure 1.4 ) the straight line occurred between ages 45 and 90 , and was then replaced by a slower rate of increase in the death rate . ' The slower rate of increase at high ages can be explained as the result of changes in the characteristics of survivors , changes related to the amount of variety , which is called heterogeneity . Heterogeneity is an important issue in describing the composition of populations . Each cohort is born with a certain range of vitality @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but evidence about it can be collected from mortality and morbidity data . Although some // deaths and sicknesses have completely random causes , most are associated to some degree with characteristics of the individual and , in the aggregate , of the cohort . At birth the cohort 's heterogeneity extends from individuals condemned to early death because of genetic or congenital abnormalities to individuals who for most of their lives will resist or avoid major threats to health and survival . More or less by definition the part of the cohort that dies at each age , whose deaths are the basis for deriving the qX function of the life table , is a select population . Over time , deaths diminish heterogeneity by removing susceptible individuals , but illnesses , injuries , and other experiences introduce fresh heterogeneity by leaving memories that influence future susceptibility to disease and death . The balance of heterogeneity remains unobserved . Most authorities expect it to diminish as the cohort ages . Clearly the range between the most and the least susceptible member of the cohort narrows , but the average @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Late in life there is a transition from heterogeneity toward homogeneity , a transition that occurs at a point at which the cohort 's survival comes to be dominated by less susceptible individuals . ' The increase in the age at which this transition has occurred ? its peregrination ? is a sign that the heterogeneity necessary to maintain the Gompertz function is preserved for a longer part of the life cycle in favored than unfavored populations . In other words , higher risk people are living longer . The rising age of this transition is another illustration of how the survival rectangle has been overtaken . It indicates that the overtaking is an effect of changes in survival within the limits of a life span specific to the human species . It also indicates that , below the transition , overtaking the space of the rectangle occurs by adding to the longevity of more susceptible members of the cohort . That is , the changes that have occurred in longevity and life expectancy have had little to do with the rate of aging . They are effects of changes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the rate of aging can be manipulated and that it can be controlled in ways that add to the sum of years of vigor and health rather than merely to the sum of years lived . ' Animal experiments and , more recently , work in cell biology appear to confirm the theoretical possibility of adding time to the human life span , extending it beyond the limit so far postulated , about age 110 , to a higher figure . But the most promising of the // methods so far demonstrated on laboratory animals , which focus on dietary restriction rather than chemotherapy , have limited potential for application to humans and ambiguous implications . Experiments conducted by C.M. McCay in the 1930s , and since replicated and expanded , show that the life span of rats can be increased by severely restricting caloric intake while maintaining a balance of vitamins and minerals . Rats fed 50 per cent fewer calories lived nearly twice as long , and those fed 25 per cent fewer calories lived about a third longer . The longer-lived rats appear to have had years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vigor rather than to old age . They were able to reproduce longer and , when the restricted regime had been begun before physical development was complete , it deferred maturity . Further experiments considering the effect of dietary restriction on susceptibility to disease have shown mixed results , in general an increase in bacterial and parasite infections but a decrease in some tumors . Even though similar findings have been shown for other laboratory animals , including mice , guinea pigs , fish , and fruit flies , interpretation of the results is unclear . Who knows what the vitamin and mineral requirements of these organisms may be , and who can say that the diets given in a controlled manner represent optimal diets ? One possible interpretation is that dietary restriction restored the experimental animals to the life spans they would have had had they eaten in the laboratory the diets of the wild to which their species had adapted through natural selection , and that the control groups , which were fed ad libitum , lived shorter spans because of overeating . In that case the results might @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ overeating than the positive effects of undereating.9 Another reason for skepticism lies in the antiquity of this idea of long life through diet , as of other elements of Hippocratic advice about health maintenance . An association between dietary restriction and extended longevity appears repeatedly in medical literature . For example , George Cheyne , a physician practicing in Bath , England , early in the eighteenth century , cited reputedly long lives of ascetic eastern Christians subsisting on very little Food ' as evidence of an association , and developed the idea by repeating dietary advice from long-lived individuals.10 He also described the components of an appropriate diet . Testimony about superior longevity and dietary reasons for it fails to stand up to critical scrutiny or to produce populations of extreme aged people composed to a great degree of individuals who have // practiced such diets . The historical evidence , which tends to be vague about dietary composition , suggests that restriction is not an adequate means to extend the potential life span or at least that appropriate forms of dietary restriction have not yet been found . Roy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ span extension , cites the example of a Venetian nobleman , Luigi Cornaro , who converted from dissipation and excess to temperance and dietary restraint around age 37 , and lived until 1565 or 1566 , when he was age 98 or 104 , or something in between . ' Cornaro discovered ' how to live longer by taking up ideas of the classical Greek physician Galen about dietary regulation . Cornaro spread those ideas in a series of books written in the 1550s ? including Compendio della vita sobria ? which were republished and translated in numerous editions into the twentieth century . Yet it is at least as easy to cite examples of people who practiced lifelong dissipation and still lived long lives . And there is the difficulty of identifying long life spans of people directly influenced by Cornaro or Galen . The historical record includes abundant examples of involuntary undernutrition and some diets resembling those that laboratory animals were fed ? nutritious diets restricted in calories that are linked in laboratory populations to longer life spans . But historians seem to associate all population-level dietary restriction with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ aging rate might be influenced . Animal experiments suggest that lowering metabolic rate might extend the life span . Fruit flies and fish live longer when their body temperature is lowered , suggesting a mammal model in which hibernation or torpor ? for example , a small reduction of body temperature during sleep ? might reduce the aging rate . Other sectors of research focus on body chemistry and cells , examining how additions or deletions of hormones influence animal aging and mortality , on means to repair cell damage associated with age , and on the immune system . The immune response matures around age 22 and begins to deteriorate after adolescence , a point at which the autoimmune response increases . The two dysfunctions , immune response deterioration and autoimmune response increase , which may be related in their development , play a major role in the onset of and development of some leading degenerative diseases , including many cancers and autoimmune diseases . In this way aging is tied directly to some of the leading diseases causing death in adulthood and old age , but the association is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , radiation , and other exogenous factors also influence the age of onset // and the risk of cancers . In an interesting combination of results , rats and mice fed restricted diets show a higher immune response later into life . That is , disease frequency appears to be open to manipulation by several means working jointly . But it remains unclear whether the single or joint operation of these or any other techniques would extend the potential life span or influence the proportion of people living to that potential . Many biologists are hopeful about a breakthrough in means to slow the aging rate , but none of the paths yet explored has been shown to be effective in humans . The optimism rests more on the absence of compelling reasons to believe that the potential life span can not be extended than on the availability of effective or plausible means of extension . To some extent at least it rests also on continuing difficulty in distinguishing between interventions that increase the likelihood of survival to more or less 110 years and those that extend the life span in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ good health.12 Although it is usually suggested that the potential human life span has either remained unchanged or increased very slightly since the paleolithic era , biological research also raises the possibility that the aging rate has instead quickened and the life span thus contracted . In one form of this idea , it is suggested that toxic substances such as chemicals and radiation have been added to the diet and the environment more rapidly than the body has learned how to compensate for them . And , in a variant on that idea , Richard Cutler thinks that health and life span may be dependent on the degree to which repair and protective processes have evolved to protect an organism against its own endogenous production of toxic by-products. ' 13 The biological inquiry into genetic and biochemical control of the aging rate and of health maintenance in turn influences the questions that may be posed of historical data . Records about health and illness over the life course assume more importance when the questions posed deal with ways in which life experiences influence the timing of death , the more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ whose life course is complete and whose experience with health , diet , and other macro-level variables can be reconstructed . Retrospective post-mortem investigations assume new importance , especially with regard to people who died more recently , when human remains can contribute answers to the micro-level questions posed by the biologist as well as the macro-level counterparts of these questions formulated by the historian . // Distinguishing Aging from Vulnerability The most compelling evidence for the existence of a distinct aging component within mortality risk is provided by the regularity in the rate of increase of the mortality rate in mature adulthood . But the Gompertz function is not the product of aging operating by itself . It has two sources . The increase is , in the first place , a consequence of survival time , of continuing exposure to disease and injury hazards , and of the accumulating effects of earlier insults . Second , it is an effect of aging . The unsolved problem is to determine the force of the senescence risk and to distinguish intrinsic changes associated with aging from other sources of vulnerability that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eighteenth-century observer like de Moivre , who estimated a juridical version of the modal age of death as 86 , might have set the gradient of the senescence risk in quite another way than would an actuary or a biologist familiar with recent experience . In de Moivre 's day hazards unassociated with senescence ensured that most individuals would die before being able to reproduce , but those same hazards took a high toll of individuals surviving past 30 , or to between 40 and 50 , when the senescence risk is now held to intervene in an observable way.ls Recent gains in longevity , especially in the longevity of people age 65 and over , imply a later and lower senescence risk than appeared to exist in de Moivre 's day or even as recently as the mid-twentieth century . Nor have the limits of survivorship after 65 been reached . Most authorities predict further gains in life expectancy at higher ages . Since senescence is believed to be a characteristic property of the human organism as formidable ( albeit theoretically ) in paleolithic as in modern times and one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ intervention , these continuing gains reflect controls over other categories of risk.16 All the gains in life expectancy observed so far may be attributed to some combination of public health , medical , standard of living , or environmental control measures , and none to measures that slow or suspend the intrinsic process of aging . Returning to the metaphor from Chapter 1 , humankind has not put itself into a zoo or a laboratory , but it has made considerable progress in controlling threats in the wild . To appreciate this historical trend is to find reasons to reduce the portion of the risk expressed by the Gompertz function that should be assigned to aging and to increase the part that should be assigned // to vulnerability . The problem of distribution has a second dimension , consisting of passage along the continuum of age . A distribution of the two components suitable for age 50 , for example , will not be suitable for age 75 . It is clear that the part to be assigned to aging is weak when the Gompertz function appears , around ages 45 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stronger when it disappears , at 75 or higher . The stability of the function implies a regular rate of increase from the beginning to the end of the effect . But the level of either portion remains unobserved at either end . It seems reasonable to suggest that aging plays so little role in the mortality risk at ages 45 ? 50 that its part for those ages could be set at or close to zero . If the value at the other extreme could be fixed , portions of risk could be estimated for each intervening age by backcasting from the distribution fixed for the higher age to zero at ages 45-50 . But , in populations heretofore observed , the Gompertz function ? the stable rate of increase in the death rate ? has disappeared at ages earlier than it is plausible to suppose that aging is the only or even necessarily the dominant factor over vulnerability . The effort to partition the vulnerability and senescence components ? or terms ? remains worthwhile , but it requires more sensitivity to historical and prospective experience . In the hands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of aging as a term in the equation of health and mortality risks in adulthood and among the elderly . The net effect of casting the issue within a history of survivorship is to enhance the part of vulnerability over that of aging . That is , the vulnerability term is larger than it has been taken to be , and the evidence of that consists of large and continuing changes in the mortality rate at those ages to which the Gompertz function applies , and at higher ages also . To stress vulnerability in turn places more emphasis on the components of vulnerability . VULNERABILITY The hazards and processes that collaborate with aging to cause death have been treated above as the vulnerability term ' in an equation in which the risk of death has only two terms : aging and vulnerability . There is no easy distinction between the two , in language or practice . Aging is styled an intrinsic or endogenous process , and most factors contributing to vulnerability are considered extrinsic or ekogenous . But some elements of vulnerability are intrinsic to begin with , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ risk of death can be reduced somewhat by adopting a simplifying assumption , which is that all deaths are preceded by sickness , even if the sickness is instantaneous . Here sickness has been defined to include illnesses and injuries in such a way that being struck by lightning and dying immediately can register on both the morbidity and the mortality scales . Thus all deaths , even those that might be attributed solely to chance and might therefore be detached from any reasonable effort to link the death to features peculiar to the individual , the cohort , or the population , are considered . Another step toward bringing the complexity of the mortality risk within manageable bounds lies in breaking the vulnerability term into leading components , three of which are proposed here . First , genetic and congenital abnormalities and propensities influence many members of a cohort in ways that determine later morbidity and mortality . This part of the vulnerability term is largely complete at birth , and the cohort bears a pattern that will subsequently change , chiefly through selective mortality among members whose genetic programing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fresh increments to genetic vulnerability as the cohort ages . Second , every cohort faces a range of illness and injury risks , a range that is influenced somewhat by the characteristics of the cohort but that is chiefly a function of time and place . A cohort born in sixteenth-century England faced a barrage of infectious diseases , including plague , but one born in late twentieth-century England can be expected to contract many fewer infections , to survive childhood in larger proportion , and , correspondingly , to acquire immunity to fewer diseases by means of clinical or subclinical episodes . The effects of time periods ? period effects ? are , by definition , extrinsic or exogenous . Both their occurrence and their nonoccurrence influence the cohort . They cause deaths , and these contribute further to changes in the composition of the cohort . The members who die are a select population ( or rather a set of select populations ) , and , increasingly , the members who do not die become a select population in their own right . The period effects also contribute to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is at least deferred . In this way they are held to be endogenized , and to form part of the third segment of the vulnerability term , a segment representing collectively all previous illness and injury experience that has some bearing on subsequent health and the timing of death . The third segment can be styled the insult history ' , and its operation insult accumulation ' , a phrase already familiar . // Each of the three segments is difficult to observe , but the ways in which health services have been organized in the US and Europe make it more likely that evidence will have been gathered about the second segment than the first or third . This is so because of something called the medical model , an abstract construction represented in practical ways by health personnel and institutions that are responsive to health problems identified by the individual . People who practice the medical model ? patients and physicians ? want to categorize ill health , usually by specifying a physical or mental disorder that is recognized in lay or professional circles and about which information @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , recognition leads to the identification of a program of therapy and to recovery . Most of us expect or hope for recovery from the health services we use , so that the beneficiaries of health services ? patients ? contribute to the reign of the medical model just as surely as do deliverers of health services , such as physicians and hospitals . But this medical model is not the only way in which health problems might be identified , and many authorities have come to be persuaded that it is not the model most appropriate for current and future needs . They argue that it is suited best to an era in which ill health was usually exogenously determined and consisted for the most part of discrete bouts of sickness attributable to infection . The model helped conquer infections , although more via public health reform than strictly medical means . Success is documented by an epidemiologic revolution in which causes of death shifted from infections to degenerative diseases and people lived longer . " In the new circumstances , so the argument goes , the medical model is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most episodes likely to cause death , discomfort , or pain are not susceptible to identification or treatment in the same way as infections . A different pattern of diseases calls for a different model.18 Although various ideas have been expressed about the characteristics the revised model should have , there is some agreement that it should be concerned with identifying propensities toward illness and that its conception of therapy should be much broader than the chemotherapeutic and surgical orientations of present-day medicine . The debate is fascinating , but it is not itself the issue here . If health services and the expectations that providers and recipients of those services have were different , more might be known about the first and third segments of the vulnerability term ? genetic anomalies and previous sicknesses . It is comparatively easy to find information about the // incidence of death by disease and , at least in the twentieth century , the incidence ( or prevalence ) of diseases deemed important enough to be made notifiable ' ? to enter the list of diseases about which data are regularly collected . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first and third segments . The three segments are unequal in their impact on mortality and morbidity , but not enough information is available to apportion them accurately . Genetic Vulnerability Major structural defects ? congenital malformations ? presently occur in about 20 per cent of fertilized ova . Most of these ova die before becoming viable fetuses so that congenital malformations occur in about 2 per cent of newborns . Of these defects about 25 per cent are related to genetic causes and about 10 per cent to environmental sources ( infections , drugs , and irradiation ) during fetal development . Causes of the remaining 65 per cent of congenital defects remain unknown . Before the twentieth century most individuals with lifethreatening malformations ? about 1 per cent in each birth cohort ? failed to survive to adulthood and thus failed to reproduce . In the long run the failure to reproduce had functioned as a form of natural selection . At least in theory it had limited the incidence of malformations to a trend stable fraction of birth cohorts and to a fraction composed chiefly of malformations caused @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? affecting about 0.5 per cent of the birth cohort ? became treatable . Comparing early twentieth-century life tables to recent life tables , individuals with these problems gained more in life expectancy at birth than did the overall population . Increased survival within this group does not appear to have influenced the rate at which malformations occur , but it has influenced the composition of each birth cohort and thus the population . In terms of mortality selection , as discussed above , survival prolongs the period in which the cohort is marked strongly in its susceptibility to sickness by heterogeneity . That is , as this part of the population has lived more years , it has carried with it a higher risk of sickness . Of the remaining portion of the cohort with congenital malformations ? 1.5 per cent ? most malformations consist of anomalies that pose no particular health risk to the people who bear them and the remainder of those for which no treatment is yet available.19 // A much larger part of any cohort is born with malformations that remain undetected at birth but appear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and cardiac anomalies , or with propensities to disease that may be known or suspected on the basis of parental experience . Several degenerative diseases , including some of the leading causes of death in late-twentieth-century populations ( heart diseases , neoplasms , and diabetes ) have been linked to heritable propensities ( as have also a number of diseases seldom associated with fatality , such as schizophrenia and allergies ) . But it is difficult to distinguish the origins of these propensities because the genetic characteristics passed on by parents to children are usually melded with environmental characteristics , habits , and attitudes that become part of the child 's lifestyle . The case of longevity endowments ' provides a good example of this problem . Long-lived parents , especially long-lived mothers , pass to their children an endowment toward long lives and , correspondingly , short-lived parents pass on the opposite endowment.20 Experiments with laboratory animals in which some environmental factors , such as exposure to infection , are controlled , show that these endowments curtail the maximum life span . The experiments appear to confirm genetic differentiation in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ also contribute to longer or shorter life spans have not been successfully measured , and the evidence is insufficient to distinguish the value of genetic from environmental effects . Although genetic propensities are recognized and include some important diseases such as diabetes , Alzheimer 's disease , and Parkinsonism , most authorities maintain that most of these diseases and most cases of disease in which the propensity plays some role occur chiefly because of exposure or lifestyle rather than genetic endowment.21 People known to have a given genetic propensity often fail to develop a given disease , and people without any evidence of such a propensity often develop the disease . This review of information about genetic vulnerability leads us to expect that each birth cohort is programed to repeat some diseases that occurred among its parents , but that the programing is probabilistic rather than determinant . The programing works in two ways . Parents pass along propensities toward disease , consisting mostly of propensities they have at birth but also of some they acquire before reproducing . And parents may also pass along dispropensities , such as genetically programed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infectious diseases conveyed some // of that resistance to their children.22 In the very long run this kind of endowment gradually decreased the incidence of disease or at least the incidence of disease as manifested by fatalities . Except in a few specific diseases , such as syphilis and tuberculosis , the effect has been too small to measure accurately on the scale of human time . From the survey of mortality in Chapter 1 , it is evident that the risk of death from infectious disease remained quite high from the neolithic revolution into the eighteenth century , especially for infants . The death rate fluctuated from period to period , but the very longrun trend was stable . In that high mortality regime people who died early in life included individuals preselected for death by their congenital malformations , and perhaps also some with less genetic resistance to common diseases , especially infections . People within one cohort surviving to each successive age constituted a somewhat fitter group ? if we define fitness as the absence of malformations and propensities plus the presence of genetic resistance . But cohort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ time the disease profile shifted , and the value of inborn qualities changed . Each cohort was slightly better prepared to resist the profile of diseases its parents had known than the profile it would face . But most deaths in the early modern era can be attributed to infectious diseases , which seem to have offered much smaller chances for resistance or dispropensity than the leading causes of death in low mortality regimes . Survivors were unable to pass along dispropensities of marked value . In the low mortality regime that has emerged since the eighteenth century , infectious diseases have taken a smaller toll and smaller parts of a cohort have died in infancy and childhood . Lower mortality rates in early life mean that more individuals survive to ages at which genetic propensities toward degenerative disease appear . The genetic composition of successive cohorts has not changed , at least not in these terms , but the genetic composition of the population has changed . This feature of the history of survivorship provides a second reason to suspect that the incidence of sickness may have increased when the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Figure 2.1 ( p. 32 ) , from which it appears that , in the shift from a high to a low mortality regime , heterogeneity was preserved for a longer part of the life cycle of successive cohorts . People at higher risk to mortality lived longer than formerly . The second reason arises from the observation that passage from the high to the low mortality regime changed the genetic composition of the population . The // change was probably small . Certainly it was if attention falls only on congenital malformations and net changes in heritable resistance . But it may have been large , if genetic propensities toward degenerative diseases constitute a major part of the reason for degenerative diseases in middle and old age . At any given age in adulthood , the low mortality regime cohort will manifest more episodes of degenerative disease because more of its members survive to ages at which degenerative diseases occur . And it will present more episodes of diseases of all types because degenerative diseases dominate the disease profile in adulthood . But natural selection will change genetic endowment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differences after about age 40 , when fertility is low , should have little effect on the genetic endowment of the next generation . What is not clear is whether the increase in sickness will be in proportion to the increase in survivorship , or something greater than that . That is , aggregate sickness will have increased , but the effect of a changing genetic composition of the population may not have increased the age-specific sickness rate . The outcome is unclear because of the lack of information about the relationship among genetic endowment , infectious disease , and degenerative disease . If the new survivors ' ? people who live longer in the low mortality regime but would have died at an earlier point in the high mortality regime ? had faced genetically influenced , higher risks of infectious and degenerative diseases , then the passage from one mortality regime to the next probably increased the age-specific rate of sickness.23 But if the genetic propensities and dispropensities toward infectious and degenerative diseases were separate or in balance , then this passage may have brought no change in the sickness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The net effect of these observations is to suggest that the fitness of the population ? its genetic susceptibility to sickness ? changed little from generation to generation in the high mortality regime . It also appears to change little from generation to generation in the low mortality regime . But , in the passage from one to the other , there may have been a substantial shift . The reduction of mortality changed the composition of the population , preserving its genetic heterogeneity longer . In successive cohorts more people survived to higher ages , but they survived with health statuses compromised by genetic malformations and propensities . The new survivors have less healthy lives . // Vulnerability to Random Illness and Injury It is not uncommon to hear or read of people who claim never to have been sick a day in their lives . But the memory of ill-health episodes is faulty . It is so faulty that late-twentieth-century interviewers conducting health surveys have settled on a reference period no longer than fourteen days : respondents are asked to recall ill-health episodes over the two weeks prior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adopted because of the discovery that people recall a diminishing percentage of episodes in times more distant from the present and overlook some altogether . Although it is widely believed that individual medical histories are an important element in health experience , diagnosis , and treatment , the kinds of histories taken seldom provide more than negative evidence about the claim that some lives are free of illness and injury . The histories record episodes remembered or treated . They are not intended to measure either the prevalence of ill health within a life or the complete incidence of sickness , which would consist of the sum of recorded and unrecorded episodes . Quite probably there is no complete health history for any pre-twentieth-century figure , no single instance in which a person 's ill-health experiences were recorded in full over a long life . The closest approximation seems likely to consist of diaries that include comments on health . The Reverend Ralph Josselin kept such a diary from the autumn of 1643 , not long after Josselin became vicar of Earls Colne in Essex , until July 1683 , shortly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual-level records . Josselin recorded his own ailments with care , but reported those suffered by his wife Jane and other family members less completely . Even this unusual daily or weekly record of his own illnesses and injuries omits Josselin 's childhood , youth , and early adulthood ? from 1616 until autumn 1643 ? and may contain gaps . Even in this form the historical record is so incomplete that it is impossible to decide how seriously claims of sick-free lives should be taken . I believe they can be dismissed as so improbable as not to require notice when our concern lies with population-level health . For most people the narrative of health over the life course is a narrative of movement into and out of a status recognized as sickness . Some of the sicknesses experienced fall into the category of fresh insults . These consist of illnesses and injuries that are usually called random events , meaning not that their occurrence is entirely // random but that the individual 's health history and genetic endowment plays no evident role in contraction . For the moment it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the medical model of ill health , our imaginations , and our histories . It will be the subject of Chapters 3 and 4 . Insult Accumulation Surviving the high mortality risks of fetal development and birth brings for most individuals a series of ill-health episodes . Each episode bears a certain risk of death . But most episodes are not resolved in death . Most are resolved in something called recovery . The individual resumes ordinary activities , but each episode constitutes an insult to the organism , one that produces a certain amount of damage . The organism strives to repair the damage or to adapt to it and both of these capacities are linked to age . Senescence can be seen as a diminished capacity to repair or adapt . For most of the human life span most episodes are adequately repaired , but some leave lasting damage . Unrepaired damages accumulate , adding to the likelihood that future exposure to pathogens or environmental hazards will produce a clinical level of disease and to the likelihood that future episodes of ill health will result in death . This @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of prior insults . The history of an individual 's health is a history of the accumulation and shedding of insult effects . Like so many other features of sickness , the two processes remain unobserved . It is known that some illnesses and injuries leave lasting damage and suspected that others may do so . It is also known that some damage is permanent , while some is long lasting but ultimately reparable . What is unobserved is the mix between the two , and the overall mix among ill-health episodes that cause permanent , long lasting , or merely temporary damage . The hazards represented by prior insults can be divided into two categories . One consists of recognized ill-health events , which we call illnesses and injuries . The other consists of events that we do not perceive at the time as illness or injury but that influence later health . The theory about how each type of insult influences later health can be explained by considering the case of illness and injury . In a general way the history of a theory of insult accumulation is so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no longer possible to trace its origins . Patients observed and experienced // associations and sometimes committed them to knowledge in the form of folkloric sayings . Physicians learned to recognize associations and disassociations between illnesses and committed these to memory as aphorisms . Galenic tradition identified three forms of old age : premature , marked by constitutional infirmities or those traceable to diseases contracted in youth ; ordinary , an insidious aging ; and late , in which vitality was preserved ( tautologically ) by the absence of earlier diseases or dissipation.25 The concept that health experience influences current and future health became embedded in the medical consciousness of practitioners and patients . But the representation of the idea was vague , or the notion was linked squarely to external influences rather than to the internalized effect of prior illness.26 Nevertheless , this idea promoted a new , complex attitude toward illness and injury . To the notion that ill health should be avoided for the sake of the immediate risks each episode posed to life and comfort , insult accumulation added the idea of incremental hazard : future health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prior health . The idea of insult accumulation acquired an extended theoretical form in a 1955 essay by the medical physicist Hardin B. Jones.27 Jones examined mortality patterns in mid-twentieth-century populations with high and low death rates and in some historical populations in which birth cohorts could be followed through all or a large part of the life course . Some populations seemed to age more slowly than others . Life expectancy increased both because more people survived the diseases of early life and because favored cohorts experienced less mortality at each later stage of life . Individuals attaining age 70 in favored populations possessed a greater endowment of future life expectancy than counterparts aged 70 in unfavored populations . Jones decided that a formal distinction could be made between physiologic and chronologic age at the population level , not merely at the individual level . Although people aged 70 in favored and unfavored populations have the same chronologic age , those in the favored population have a lower physiologic age.28 To explain the different rates of aging , Jones suggested that physiologic age is a function of prior disease experience @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ greatest impact on later physiologic age , but diseases experienced in adulthood also seemed to play a role.29 Every disease episode does some damage to physiologic function ' , Jones wrote . Diseases tend to facilitate the growth of disease states ' at all ages , including adulthood.30 Favored cohorts ? // those that have experienced less disease ? enjoy longer life spans and greater vigor at every subsequent stage of life . Although Jones described the model of physiologic versus chronologic age chiefly in terms of mortality risk , it is clear that he had a broader conception in mind , and it is clear that more recent biological and medical versions extend the territory of the model even further . In principle the theory of insult accumulation encompasses all physical and psychological experiences that have lasting health consequences as well as insult experiences in three areas : diseases , injuries , and risk factors . In practice , the list of insults deemed significant is limited by incomplete or ambiguous information about the health effects of many experiences , and by the variability of effects from individual to individual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some examples , it is useful to reflect on the difficulty of identifying causes that operate at a distance and effects that are delayed and occur after intervals during which other factors intervene . In the broader model of health risk , insults remain necessary causes . But their degree of sufficiency as causes declines from the high levels held to occur with infections , in which a clinical level of ill health is chiefly a function of the volume of pathogens , to a lower level . The operation of cause is not doubted in the instance of insults , but its degree is usually unmeasured.31 Diseases . The physical and psychological effects of disease are understood to an uneven degree . At one extreme , many diseases , especially virulent infections , are known to cause cellular and tissue lesions , blatant signs of illness . At the other extreme , many diseases cause no apparent physical damage . In between the two , clinically manifest instances of disease , and perhaps subclinical episodes too , impose stress on the sufferer , contributing to attitudes concerning pain , health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ways to psychological well-being . In the realm of external damage , some insults are repaired , and the repair process more or less coincides with recovery . The sickness episode is often held to end when visible signs of damage disappear . Internal damage is more difficult to track , and occurs in a number of diseases , including virulent infections common in historical populations , such as streptococcal infections and typhoid fever , that may cause lasting or permanent damage or , in the case of streptococcal infections that convert to rheumatic fever , cause subclinical anomalies that subsequently regain a clinical level of // importance . In rheumatic fever , for example , the infection usually occurs in childhood . The disease damages heart valves , but the individual recovers and adapts . The damage has little immediate effect after recovery but regains importance later in life and may later cause heart failure . Yet another category of disease accumulation takes the form of uncured ailments . The sufferer of persistent skin diseases , rheumatism , tuberculosis or diabetes adapts to the disease but finds future health compromised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . These too have a range of effects extending from minor damage repaired with no apparent lasting effects to serious disabilities that permanently compromise health , lifestyle , and behavior . Minor injuries ? cuts , scratches , burns ? are probably the most common of all ailments and leave the least significant traces . But this category includes wounds and structural damage suffered at work , at play , in events of violence such as assaults , small group incidents like automobile accidents , and organized , large-scale episodes such as war . It is , in the twentieth century , a category of growing importance . The proportion of fatal and serious injuries within all sickness episodes has grown in absolute and relative terms compared to the eighteenth or nineteenth century.32 The medical capacity to repair or substitute for functional impairments , to limit side effects of injury such as infection , and to assist the body 's adaptation may have improved more rapidly in the twentieth century than any other realm of medicine . The risk of injury has increased over the last century or so , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ modest than the increase in the risk of injury . The portion of the population with injury insults has grown , even though the average effect of each injury on activity or the quality of life may have diminished . Risk Factors . Epidemiologists have relearned something known to physicians since Hippocrates : health is influenced , and sometimes determined , not merely by disease and injury but also by behavior , lifestyle , and environment . Classical Greek physicians considered these factors as non-naturals - influences external to the body that contribute to health and disease ? and that concept of health risks remained strong into the nineteenth century.33 Physicians who wrote about the means of preserving or restoring health advised of the dangers of unhealthy // behavior , specifically of diets abusive to health in the short or long run ; of climatic , weather , and other environmental threats ; and of the role of rest , exercise , regularity of habit , moderation , and emotional balance . In that medical model the individual was held responsible for health maintenance , although the physician would assist in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ path had not been followed . In modern science the non-naturals have been redefined , emerging not in the limited sense that the concept of non-naturals acquired in the nineteenth century ? hygiene ? but as factors that cause or heighten the risk of illness while remaining extrinsic or , at least , something apart from microorganisms . The path of health maintenance has also been defined more broadly ? it includes more categories of behavior and lifestyle than those specific among the nonnaturals ? and it defines those categories with less ambiguity . And it has become disease-specific . Most risk factors are related to individual diseases , and the epidemiologist considers it useful to assess the degree of risk added by each factor . The process relies on a shift from individual- to population-level experience and on the statistical analysis of associations between behavior and disease . These techniques point to a long list of risk factors , a list led by cigarette smoking , alcohol abuse , diet , atmospheric pollution , radiation , and stress . Each item stands for a variety of associations not yet fully @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probabilistic nature at the level of the individual but deterministic nature at the population level . Risk factors may or may not promote or produce disease in an individual but , in a population , given levels or degrees of abuse can confidently be associated with given levels of effect.34 Another feature of risk factors is the capacity of this concept to accommodate a broader variety of psychological insults . Even if stress and other signs or manifestations of psychological ill health short of insanity can not always be identified in historical sources , present-day theories suggest ways to supply missing information . In this way the record of Ralph and Jane Josselin 's sicknesses , which includes some explicit references to depression , might be elaborated further by supplying episodes now linked to unusual stress , such as childbirth , job changes , travel , marriage and marital discord . If such events can be supplied at the individual level they can also be supplied at the aggregate level by consulting average population experience and historical events . It is unreasonable to expect a wholly quantitative record of physical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ need for an amalgamation of the diagnostic and temporal models and of qualitative and quantitative information . As an example of risk factors , consider the case of cigarette smoking , which has been associated statistically with a wide range of mostly degenerative diseases , among them lung cancer . Cigarette smoking adds to the likelihood of lung cancer by causing lesions in the lungs , but the latent period is a long one . An analysis of lung cancer among white males estimated the average time between tumor initiation and death at 20.3 years . The amount of damage and thus the risk is a function of the quantity of cigarettes smoked and the pace of smoking ? measured as pack years ' ? and perhaps also of characteristics of the cigarettes smoked . At a modal pace of smoking , damage also peaks after about twenty years , in a complicated process by which the smoker repairs some of the cellular lesions but adds new damage by continuing to smoke.35 Former smokers shed some damage because affected cells die off at a faster pace than unaffected cells , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of damaged cells . The damage caused by cigarette smoking is lasting but not necessarily permanent ; it is variable from individual to individual and on other grounds . Like diseases and injuries , risk factors have histories and the profile of risks faced by a population changes over time . For example , environmental pollution is often thought of as a recent phenomenon , a byproduct of industrial modernization . Only certain forms of pollution are recent . Some toxic chemicals , such as polychlorinated biphenyls or PCBs , have entered the soil and the air as a byproduct of manufacturing processes introduced in the twentieth century . But toxicity in the environment and human contributions to toxicity are as old as humanity.36 Taken as a whole , risk factors constitute another category of injuries . The distinguishing features of this category are the delay between cause and effect or , at least , perceived effect , and the indirectness of cause and effect . The delay ? the latent interval ? makes it more difficult to measure the degree of effect or to provide compelling testimony that the effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the past who professed despair because patients refused to accept sensible advice about the non-naturals , the epidemiologist-physician of the present may despair at the reluctance of patients to accept advice about the probabilistic effect of riskprone behavior and of risks encountered involuntarily . // Over the life course every individual accumulates insults and , given the range of illnesses , injuries , and risk factors that might be experienced , each individual acquires a unique insult memory . The same is true of cohorts . Each cohort acquires a specific memory as its members confront and either die from or survive disease hazards , as each obtains certain kinds of medical care , and as each faces non-disease hazards taking peculiar combinations . Even when Jones considered these factors of exposure and assistance impressionistically ? at the level of high and low risks and good and bad care ? he recognized that the experience of each cohort would be unique . Nevertheless , the experiences of cohorts born at nearly the same time would be so similar that he elected to compare cohorts distant from one another in time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so during the period that Jones studied , about the last 125 years . Over the longer term it is less likely to have been true because earlier cohorts often experienced rapidly changing disease hazards , with the differences producing substantial variations in life expectancy at birth ) 37 Across a cohort the timing of death would be a function of the accumulation of past impairments . Medical measures appear in this part of the theory as interventions that shorten or mitigate disease episodes . To a clinician it is obvious that diseases are not of equal importance in the damage they leave . Jones did not maintain a doctrine of equal importance , but he dealt with this aspect by assuming an equation between morbidity and mortality . The mortality of members of the cohort who died would faithfully reflect the average severity of diseases experienced in the cohort and therefore the average development of its vulnerability . In effect , Jones assumed that the case fatality rate of illness and injury episodes would adequately measure insult accumulation , and he assumed further that the most important aspect of accumulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health . From his vantage in the 1950s , Jones predicted that the incidence of disease in adulthood would decline sharply in less favored populations as each new cohort suffered fewer diseases at every stage of life , and would decline to the degree that medical measures slowed the rate at which diseases still experienced added insult increments . His hopes for the future included further increases in life expectancy , further reductions in morbidity , and further gains in physiologic age . These are important predictions , and it is worthwhile to pause for a moment to distinguish between conclusions warranted by the evidence available in the 1950s and the assumptions not warranted by // that evidence . Jones compared survival curves to infer the difference between chronologic and physiologic age , and he considered some implications of radiation experiments on animal models . At that time medical physicists suspected that radiation exposure influenced the aging rate and , using animal models , investigated both the effects of excessive radiation from such sources as nuclear explosions and the level and effects of radiation encountered in the ordinary environment . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , in that some damage was incremental , some damage became manifest only later or again later , while repeated episodes added to the risk of additional impairment . The experiments also provided practical information about the effects of excessive radiation and its peculiar health sequence : illness , recovery , and deferred illness that often caused death . Jones did not report demographic or medical models based on radiation experiments nor , more important , did he report evidence about morbidity in humans or laboratory animals . Instead he drew inferences from a series of implicit and intuitive assumptions . The mortality rate of a population or cohort reflects morbidity experience . A high mortality rate signals a high morbidity rate , and vice versa . It is appropriate to substitute disease ' for mortality ' in a phrase such as physiologic age is a function of prior mortality experience ' . The high mortality rate of unfavored populations ? those with low physiologic ages ? is itself evidence of a high morbidity rate and a more rapid rise in the vulnerability term . Longer life spans reveal increased vigor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jones estimated the vitality of the surviving population by observing the vulnerability of those who died . He assumed a parallel relationship between mortality and morbidity . And he assumed that the trend of declining mortality risks , which he observed by comparing survival curves , was itself proof of a declining morbidity risk . Furthermore , Jones explicitly rejected the idea of selection , holding that survivors are not selected on grounds of fitness except in the case of infants with severe physical disabilities who die but who make up a tiny part of any cohort . Modifications to Insult Accumulation Theory Some of Jones 's assumptions have retained the confidence of later researchers , and some have been modified . The most recent version // of the initial proposition , which was a statement about the properties of mortality risk during adulthood and the similarity of human experience to that of many animal models , has been provided by T.B.L. Kirkwood and R. Holliday . In the basic form of the problem , stated by Gompertz and restated most effectively by George A. Sacher , two terms ? the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kirkwood and Holliday add a third term representing somatic maintenance and repair.39 Although this term is presented as a distinct element in the equation , it seems to incorporate properties previously assigned to both aging and vulnerability . It is not yet clear how the addition of this term influences opportunities for testing the equation with animal or human models . Other modifications derive from closer scrutiny of evidence considered by Jones . Whereas Jones stressed the greater importance of insult accumulation during development , especially up to age 18 , Bernard Strehler 's modification suggests the continuing , and in some instances growing , importance of accumulation through adulthood . Looking at survival curves , Strehler noticed that the rate of increase in the death rate ? the Gompertz function ? is stable in favored and unfavored populations but also that its value has been somewhat lower in unfavored than favored populations.40 In unfavored populations a high mortality rate in infancy and childhood is followed by higher mortality rates in adulthood but a lower rate of increase ( i.e. , in the terms of Figure 2.1 , a more gradual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rate before age 30 winnows the population , leaving survivors whose longevity is prolonged . The lower rate of increase in the adult death rate appears in all unfavored populations studied , and therefore in a variety of disease- and injury-risk profiles . Unfavored populations resemble one another in their higher death rates but differ from one another in the causes of those higher rates . This characteristic suggests that winnowing in the development stage of life influences the way insult accumulation effects in the postdevelopment stage will accrue . Strehler 's modification also accommodates evidence from postmortem analysis , which shows that the number of lesions unassociated with the cause of death rises with age.41 And it allows for the influence of risk factors more satisfactorily than does Jones 's initial formulation . Risk factors operate at all stages of life , but many injury risks cluster by age . As will be shown in more detail below , one of the most intensive points of clustering occurs in adolescence and early // adulthood , a period in which injury exposure resembles the hazards of early childhood exposure to infectious @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality risk curve its interior peak and the form of a misshapen W.42 Jones initially proposed that mortality within a cohort does not involve a process of selection except in the case of infants with severe physical disabilities who survive infancy . Survivors present the same characteristics and the same distribution of characteristics as those who have died . He later altered this position by suggesting that children who survive diseases in infancy become a special population more likely to develop other diseases.43 The comparison between unfavored and favored populations is instructive once more . It suggests that the process of differentiation occurs not only in infancy and childhood but continues throughout life . Members of a cohort shift position from relatively disease-free backgrounds to relatively disease-ridden backgrounds as additional disease and injury hazards are encountered . The issue is not only mortality but also morbidity experience . Jones ' intuitive sense that the morbidity experience of survivors could be inferred from mortality experience will not withstand scrutiny.44 Disease experience is reflected in mortality rates , but the manner of its reflection changes over time and during the life cycle of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cohort is not subject to the same array of insults . A cohort quickly divides itself into numerous segments , each representing clusters of people who share the same or very similar disease-and-recovery experiences . The pertinent issue is whether the process of selection can be separated into constituent parts . In the simplest possibility , cohorts might be found regularly to divide themselves into three categories : members who have died , members who lived but accumulated insults at a notably higher rate , and members who lived but accumulated insults at a notably lower rate . At the other extreme , survival might constitute a process of selection and differentiation with a stunning number of permutations in which the ultimately unique experience of each survivor represented significantly different histories of insult accumulation . The operation of a latent interval further complicates the problem of identifying and measuring causation . In any event , accumulation has its own history in each cohort , and that history can be told as a process of division and selection . Finally , Jones cast the issue of insult accumulation not in terms of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ between chronoSickness , // logic and physiologic age , that is , in terms of vigor rather than vulnerability . If it were plausible to assume a trend stable relationship between mortality and morbidity risks , then vigor and vulnerability might simply be two sides of the same coin . But if the relationship is unstable ? if , for example , the morbidity risk is more susceptible to manipulation than the mortality risk , or if it is less susceptible ? then the role of insult accumulation will differ between the two outcomes . In one morbidity/mortality complex a higher index of insult accumulation may augment the risk of sickness without increasing the risk of death at any given age . That is , anything other than a parallel and proportional relationship between morbidity and mortality will upset Jones 's version of the theory . From discussion above it is already apparent that this relationship will not always be parallel . We will later encounter reasons to wonder whether or not the relationship between these two risks is usually stable and proportional . ' Modifications to Jones 's theory produce @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ insult accumulation . The new theory expands the range of insults , demands information about the degree and term of influence exercised by individual types of insult , and considers insult accumulation at every stage of life rather than chiefly in childhood . The modifications substitute an assumption of life-long selection for an assumption that selection is insignificant or else important only in the early years of the experience of a given cohort . But the most important effect of the modifications is to recast the underlying question . Jones wondered how to account for stability in the mortality risk during a period of adulthood in which populations with quite different disease and medical histories nevertheless manifested a statistical regularity ? the Gompertz function . His answer was to suggest that health events early in life condition the average experience of the cohort , a conditioning that shows up statistically when population ( rather than cohort ) experience is compared because events differ little from one birth cohort to the next . In Jones 's formulation the important issue was the timing of death . The important hypothesis held that more @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ earlier death . In the recast version , three fresh issues emerged . How do survivors differ from those who die ? Flow do those who survive ( or die ) in the same cohort differ from one another ? How much do sicknesses experienced earlier in life influence health experience later in life ? // CONCLUSION Death is a sequel of illness and injury , but the relationship between the two is complex . The comparison of survival curves across vastly different populations suggests that the relationship between morbid experience and death should be addressed in the first place by means of a division between intrinsic and extrinsic sources of risk , and in the second place by a division of the life course into three stages . In the first stage , lasting from early fetal development until middle age ? now about age 45 ? mortality and morbidity seem to be conditioned chiefly by extrinsic risks . Some members of every cohort carry intrinsic risks at birth in the form of serious structural malformations , and many more bear propensities to disease or stress that may be inherited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the population level until later in the life course . Nevertheless , the mortality risk , which is all that has yet been considered here , exhibits certain regularities suggesting that underlying biological properties are influential . It is not surprising that mortality is regularly higher among infants ( 0 ? 1 ) than among children . The peak in mortality risk at which life opens , and the correspondingly predictable peak at which it closes for any cohort , implies an intervening low point . But it is surprising that the low point seems itself to exhibit an age-related regularity . Figure 1.4 ( p. 23 ) suggests that the mortality risk reaches this lowest point at about age 11 , even though Figure 1.4 deals with populations facing radically different disease and injury profiles , and radically different profiles of medical assistance . Another regularity appears in the misshapen portion of the W-shaped mortality curve . An initially rapid increase in the mortality risk from the low point around age 11 to a second peak around age 20 gives way to a leveling off or a temporary decline in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the recurrence once more of a certain form ? the misshapen W ? suggests that underlying biological properties condition the influence of extrinsic risks . The second stage of the life course also exhibits an underlying biological regularity , namely stability in the rate of increase in the death rate . This stability , often called the Gompertz function , appears now around age 45 and persists for twenty years or more thereafter . It is ordinarily explained as evidence that intrinsic factors have intervened in a more compelling manner , casting the mortality risk into two terms : aging and vulnerability . The implication is that // the aging term increases at a stable rate , hence that the vulnerability term decreases at a stable rate . What remains unobserved is the point or the level at which the aging term intervenes . Closer scrutiny of the Gompertz function across populations , and of biological theory concerning the function , suggests that the aging term may increase in a trend stable manner rather than at a stable rate . That is , there may be interactions between aging @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that combine with aging to produce the Gompertz function . Populations age at different rates , which may be a function of differences in the degree of vulnerability accumulated before age 45 and of differences in the way that mortality shapes the composition of cohorts and therefore of populations over time . In the third stage of the life course the evidence is sketchy . That stage deals with ages to which few individuals survived in most historical populations and with a part of the life course in which age exaggeration seems to distort most data sets . There , too , mortality curves display an important regularity , and an historical trend . The regularity consists of the substitution at advanced age of an arithmetic increase for the Gompertz or geometric increase in the mortality risk , so that the qx function begins to resemble the exposure time function sketched in Figure 1.4 as curve T. That is , the number of survivors at advanced ages appears to diminish at something approaching a regular arithmetic rate from the age at which the Gompertz function ceases to apply until the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does not always appear in pre-twentiethcentury mortality curves , presumably because the age evidence is faulty rather than because survivorship has been closed in the sudden and catastrophic depletion of the population suggested by the pretwentieth-century curves in Figure 1.4 . The historical trend consists of a peregrination in the point at which the Gompertz function gives way to the arithmetic function . Over time the age at transition has risen , as appears from Figure 2.1 . The rise has been interpreted here as an historical movement toward the later preservation of heterogeneity . As mortality declined and life expectancy increased , the relationship between mortality and morbidity shifted , and the leading effect of the shift was to ensure that people with a higher risk to morbidity lived longer . Jones misinterpreted the content and implications of the mortality decline by adopting an intuitive assumption that the mortality risk is a direct and parallel representation of the morbidity risk . The transition from a high to a low mortality regime and the lower risks of the low // mortality regime created , or widened , the gap between chronologic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to vitality . It is a measure of the capacity to survive rather than of the capacity for health and , as a measurement , is influenced by the duality of physiologic age itself . A gain in physiologic age may , at the individual level , signal an increase or a decrease in the amount of sickness that will occur in the remaining term of life . At the aggregate level the leading effect of longer average life spans has been to increase the number of new survivors , to ensure that more of the population has survived to ages at which propensities to disease present at birth and the accumulation of insults through life will produce ill health . Animal models and reasoning from analogy to human counterparts suggest that humankind 's adaptation to the environment remains something less than optimal . Animals brought from the wild into a zoo live longer and display gains in life expectancy similar to those exhibited by human populations passing from the mortality risks of paleolithic or neolithic civilization to those of civilizations more successful in curtailing mortality . Transferred to a laboratory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ monitored and controlled , insects and small animals display still further gains . These gains comprise increases in life expectancy and life span but also increases that make the distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic risks more difficult to draw . The distinction between gains in life expectancy and in life span becomes still more vague . Environmental control on the order of what can be achieved in the laboratory with animal subjects implies the elimination of illness and injury hazards , including all elements of the vulnerability term , or at least all elements except the comparatively small hazard consisting of genetic malformations that are not now susceptible and present no likely prospect of becoming susceptible to treatment . The animal model therefore suggests the plausibility of finding the means to push life expectancy at birth not just to the modal age of death , which is perhaps 85 years , but to the human life span , which is 110 years or somewhat more . Indeed the animal model , interpreted in the light of insult accumulation , implies that still higher life expectancies might be achieved by creating human @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ could accurately be said that the individual or the cohort has never been sick a day in its life . Conquest of the space of life brought humanity into confrontation with a fresh problem . To the degree that we have begun to see the nature of the problem ? and that is as yet a limited degree ? the // conquest assured a longer period in which intrinsic and endogenized sources of ill health would begin to hold sway . In the high mortality regimes of the past most people died from the effects of virulent infections . They died before experiencing the effects of propensities to disease present at birth and additional propensities acquired during lives exposed to illness and injury . The mortality decline pushed the risk of death into ever-diminishing portions of the survival rectangle . The cost of that conquest of space was to add years of life in which the effects of disease propensities and insult accumulation would be felt . To see the implications of this process more clearly , it is necessary to consider the risk of sickness as something distinct and distinguishable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Men know when they are ill , but very few when they are well . ' Imagine a continuum beginning at wellness ? the hypothetical state in which an individual exhibits no pathological or behavioral signs of disorder . Toward what state does it extend ? The obvious answer would be death caused by pathological or behavioral stress . Although the mortality-oriented definition of this counterpart of wellness has undeniable value , and leads to an assessment of the risk of death presented by any new insult , most sicknesses do not now and have not , except perhaps in unusually virulent epidemics , been resolved in death . Most sicknesses are resolved in something called recovery , in which the individual resumes activities engaged in before the insult , perhaps with reoccurrences . Other sicknesses do not end . They become submerged by convalescence , by coincidental illnesses , or by aging itself . Sickness is an aspect in most deaths , but the contrary is not true . What is more , many public health and medical measures that influence the risk of death may have little influence on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ requires its own evaluation . ' But what is sickness ? Again imagine a continuum , this one extending from the state at which an individual exhibits some signs of pathological or behavioral stress , even if those signs can be detected only through intensive scrutiny , toward a state of incapacity to perform basic functions , such as feeding or dressing oneself . To admit the existence of this continuum is to recognize the difficulty of deciding how sickness is to be identified and measured . All of us appear to fall at one or another point along this continuum . We are all either already sick , or potentially sick from existing propensities and signs of stress . But we are all sick only according to an extreme definition . In fact , most of the time we adequately perform not only the basic functions of caring for ourselves but also a wide range of other functions . This is true today , and it was true in historical societies , too . The problem therefore is to identify thresholds at which individuals pass from a state of capacity @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complication exists in the fact that individuals react in different ways to what appear to be identical levels of pathologic and behavioral stress . This book is a study of aggregate experience . To 62 // proceed , it is necessary to adopt an assumption : sensitivity to stress is normally distributed within any large population at any given time . Over time societies may change their sense of whether a given stress leads to incapacity to function . But at any one time the collection of individual judgments about all existing levels of stress will rise to a peak at a certain collective definition and decline thereafter . This is not a contentious assumption . Normal distributions are regularly observed in large populations . Of course , individual responses to the stimuli of pathological and behavioral stress vary from aggregate averages . Confronted with a phenomenon ? sickness ? that exists as a continuum rather than a series of discrete components , we must find ways to distinguish stages within the continuum . Two useful approaches have been devised . One of these , as old as medicine , organizes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? which are called diseases . Today , the classification of a population 's ill health proceeds by clinical analysis , which seeks to identify disease states in order to diagnose them . In some countries diseases considered important for epidemiological reasons ? notifiable diseases ? are reported by public health officers to central statistical offices , which in this way collect data about the incidence of these diseases . For much of the history of medicine , diagnosis has proceeded from the assumption that most diseases have physical origins and that the leading manifestations of disease are also physical . Since the late nineteenth century , this assumption has been questioned , and the view has emerged that many disorders have behavioral origins and effects . These disorders , too , are classified as disease entities . To follow this diagnostic line , which assesses ill health within a cross-section , is to be led toward an inventory of all disease states manifested , an acknowledgment of multiple conditions in many individuals , and an ordering of these diseases . The diagnostic approach organizes information in a way that is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assess the risk to life posed by disease . ' A second approach eschews diagnosis and uses as a definition of sickness the concept of capacity to function . The form functioning takes may be readily visible , such as the capacity to feed or dress oneself or to perform the tasks required in an individual 's work , or it may be internal , and therefore measurable only by biochemical , physiological , or behavioral assessment . Ill health is graded according to whether ordinary functions are compromised . Functional assessments are not new , but the twentieth century has // seen considerable development in the effort to collect data about them . Some assessments seek to determine the degree to which a physiologic function , such as blood pressure or basal metabolism , departs from the parameters of ordinary performance according to existing information about the distribution of the function among individuals in adequate health . In this way , functional assessment offers a way to grade malfunction and to estimate the likelihood of future disease episodes in cases in which a certain compromise of function has previously been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the assessment of function is organized around the social costs of disorder . Measurements of hospital bed use , consultation of physicians , restriction in ordinary activity , and time lost from work or school produce data useful for predicting the demand for medical services , assessing the social and economic costs of ill health , and forecasting trends in these costs . Neither the disease list nor the functional disorder list are entirely discrete , but collection in these categories makes possible the organization and interpretation of otherwise chaotic data . For enquiry to proceed in this way , it would be useful to preserve fixed definitions of each disease or functional disorder . In reality , fixed definitions do not exist for two major reasons : research continuously produces new information about disease and functional entities and about ways in which these entities should be perceived , and medical opinions change . The list of diseases discussed in pathology texts changes over time , often through the subdivision of existing entities . A sign of this , one of particular concern to historians and epidemiologists , is the lengthening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diseases given as cause of death . The lists grow not so much because new diseases are discovered as because the complexity of existing diseases has been further penetrated . For example , the designation old age ' , which satisfied the nineteenth-century Registrar General of Births , Deaths and Marriages in England and Wales as a way to account for many deaths among the aged , has given way to increasingly refined categories . A similar process exists in the functional approach . Physiologic and biochemical research identify functions that should be measured , and research in sampling procedure shows how to extract superior information from respondents . ' In short , the phenomena being measured may not change , but the way in which they are perceived does change . Some functional disorders are more susceptible to redefinition than others . For example , hospital bed use , on which some data might be // collected for the past four or five centuries , is affected by the role assigned to the hospital , the designation of pathological and behavioral disorders that warrant hospitalization , and the demand for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , age distribution , and the standard of living ) . Each of these variables has changed radically over time , and continues to change , to such a degree that it is difficult to see how hospitalization data could be standardized . Many early modern hospitals refused to accept individuals with diseases believed to be contagious , whereas many present-day hospitals focus on treatment and isolation of individuals with infectious and communicable disorders . Measurements of physiological and biochemical function also provide evidence of limited value to the historian , chiefly because the procedure of measurement is for the most part a recent technique , but also because the significance of the quantity measured continues to change as more is learned about the meaning of these signs . If measurements of functional disorder adhered over time to fixed definitions , it would be comparatively simple to arrange these measurements into a hierarchy and to assess changes over time in the level of ill health associated with a given functional limitation . Since fixed definitions do not prevail , it is necessary to proceed in another way . A category of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a long time and in a way open to adjustment to a common standard . The category that most nearly satisfies these needs is time lost from work because of ill health . Ill health is an event that does not lend itself to direct observation . All the ways by which it is identified for study only represent manifestations of an underlying phenomenon . Thus a pathologic or a behavioral diagnosis gives an identity to a state of disorder , an identity that is manifestly useful . But the underlying disorder is more complex than its diagnostic identity suggests . Moreover , all identifications involve a certain risk of error . Diagnoses made represent only a part of the complete number of disorders within a population , and diagnoses of notifiable diseases reported represent only a part of the diagnoses made . Work time lost because of sickness is not ill health itself but a manifestation of ill health . In the most common case encountered in historical sources , this manifestation represents a judgment by a third party that an individual was unable because of pathologic or behavioral stress @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ she had been following . To acknowledge a state of functional incapacity is , in its own way , a diagnosis , one in which the // objective is not disease identification and treatment but something closer to a distinction between clinical and subclinical disorder . At any rate a decision has been made , and not all third parties ? physicians or workmates ? would arrive at the same decision . Nor would the same decision necessarily be reached at different times or in different cultures . These real and potential sources of confusion about threshold , definition and identification require constant attentiveness to the characteristics of the proxy for ill health , be that proxy a diagnosis or an insurance claim . The great advantage of using sources about work time lost is that they reveal the scale and leading characteristics of the population at risk to sickness . Other sources often report cases of ill health but seldom reveal the size or other characteristics of the population among which these cases have occurred . Work time lost means a sacrifice of income , and it is this feature @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ accounts recording payments into and out of a fund used to compensate members for lost work time , together with ancillary information ? rules ? explaining how episodes warranting compensation were to be identified . Individuals came under observation when they purchased insurance , and they entered the pool of people in ill health when they were incapacitated for work and thereby earned benefits . Wage insurance funds of this sort have been traced to classical antiquity , but the earliest known financial accounts date from the seventeenth century . During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , the state involved itself in these activities , first regulating the management of existing funds and then taking over some of their compensatory functions . Since the late nineteenth century , the data provided by financial accounts have been supplemented by intensive surveys of the health experience of selected communities and , more recently , by random population surveys of the incidence of work time lost , sometimes measured in terms of diagnosed disorders and sometimes as events or prevalences . In every case , from fund to fund , from fund to survey @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the phenomenon of work time lost is under observation . ' To be compared in a useful way , the different data sets must be adjusted to a common standard . As is the case with diagnosis , this is a particularly difficult task . The problem is not to reconstruct the disease profile of past populations , finding counterparts in the modern lexicon of the pathology textbook for historical diseases . It is instead to reconcile valuations of function and variations in the terms of the insurance contract or in the millieu of work . Whether apSickness // proached via diagnosis or function , the history of ill health shares an abiding problem of perception : when individuals , physicians , or detached observers declare themselves or someone else ill , do they mean more or less the same thing over time ? Or do judgments about the threshold separating health from illness change over time ? This is not an easy question to answer . By the very nature of the matter , an objective standard is lacking , and the subjective influences that affect judgments ? which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ themselves change . Assuming that judgments about the threshold between health and ill health change from time to time in the case of diseases and functions , the key issue becomes how and in what way changes in the perception of threshold affect what statistical data suggest about the trend of ill health . For example , Ralph Josselin , living in the seventeenth century , treated colds as lightly as most modern sufferers do , refusing to curtail his activities . But he also insisted on preaching each Sunday while ill with a long and otherwise incapacitating swelling and ulceration in his left leg . ' Present-day sufferers of something like Josselin 's leg ulcers less often need feel compelled , as Josselin did , to work while so seriously ill . Since little is known about changes in perception , the true ' sickness trend between Josselin 's era and our own would not be apparent even if we possessed information about sicknesses that seemed to be similar . The very long run trend can not be determined in so simple a way . But we can pursue an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seem to be undisturbed by perceptual changes and to examine their course over the very long run . This chapter will consider a series of figures and tables that depict some aspects of sickness risk . In each instance , the data set(s) on which a figure or table is based has been selected because it provides an illustration that can be generalized . How broadly the forms to be encountered can be generalized is not yet apparent . Certainly , these forms will not apply to all other populations , especially not regarding specific morbidity levels . But the figures and tables will be broadly representative of the way in which sickness risks of the same type will occur in other populations . SICKNESS AND AGE IN MALES The incidence of ill health is influenced by many forces , but one of these ? age ? exerts more effect than any other . ' ( It is useful to distinguish between the contribution made by aging to the risk of // death or ill health , and the association between age and ill health or mortality rates . ) The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ age is best represented by a vaguely defined figure with a U shape . The risk of ill health is high in infancy and early childhood . It declines to a low point in adolescence and rises gradually thereafter to a second peak in old age . But the idea of expressing morbidity risk as a curve , using something akin to the function of the life table that assesses mortality risk , is itself still uncommon . Whereas the.idea of measuring expectation of life and using that measure to compare the quality of life between two societies is familiar , the health counterpart ? a health expectation ? is unfamiliar . The reasons for vagueness about and unfamiliarity with the age distribution of health risks arise in part from the ambiguity of ill health . Like the mortality risk , the morbidity risk may change over time , so that comparing any two measurements of it gives the impression of failing to obtain a reliable estimate . In mortality , that variability is reconciled by comparing measurements over time , usually by comparing life expectancy at birth . Health in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ since the nineteenth century , and the evidence for this is higher life expectancy . ' Yet health in the US is not as good as it might be , because still higher life expectancies occur in some other countries . The morbidity risk adds another form of ambiguity , a form arising from the difficulty of selecting a single standard for distinguishing health from ill health . Different standards usually preserve resemblance to a U , but the sides of the U change their angles . Lacking a preferred standard , the morbidity risk has not been measured in a fashion analogous to the mortality risk even though the measurement of risk in this way is necessary in order to calculate the future stream of health risks in a population , which is the basic element in an expectation . Once a standard has been selected , the morbidity risk curve acquires definition , and its movements across time can be plotted . These properties appear in modern health surveys , which sample several health indicators within stratified random samples of national populations . They appear with still better definition @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ members of sick funds in the nineteenth century . The actuaries studied only the experience of insured people , so that their reports do not speak to the level of sickness in the overall population . This is an important limitation , but it is compensated for by other qualities of the actuarial reports . They deal with vast numbers of males , numbers large // enough to follow experience age by age rather than in broad age groups , and they preserve consistent standards of measurement over time , standards elaborated in rules that distinguished claims warranting compensation from those not . The actuaries also investigated environmental and socioeconomic characteristics to see how factors other than age influenced sickness risk . The practical objective of actuarial investigation was to measure work time lost to illness and injury , i.e. , sickness . The theoretical goal was to discover a putative law of sickness ' ? an age-specific schedule that the actuaries expected would obtain in any large population properly surveyed . Discovery of the law would allow projection of claims in a given sick fund without requiring information about claims @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the amount of time a given population would lose to sickness per member per year , which is to say , the duration of sickness episodes . It is useful to think about this form of sickness as the risk of being sick , or the duration risk . This risk measures sick time as a proportion of time at risk . The Risk of Being Sick Alfred W. Watson directed the largest actuarial investigation , which detailed the experience of the Independent Order of Odd Fellows Manchester Unity from 1893 to 1897 . His report recounted claims in a friendly society with an average of more than 600 000 members in each year of the five-year survey period , one whose membership ? males only ? was concentrated in England and Wales and ranged across ages 13 to 100 . This survey remains the largest single data set ever compiled in the United Kingdom . Figure 3.1 portrays the age-specific risk of being sick indicated by Watson 's investigations ( curve A ) and compares it to some other sets of experience : the Odd Fellows from 1866 to 1870 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ throughout the Australian state of Victoria from 1903 to 1907 ( curve Q. Sickness is measured as weeks lost per year at each age in the aggregate membership . The graph provides sickness rates only for ages at which large numbers of men belonged to one or another society . The curves in this graph suggest an age schedule with several interesting properties . First , the patterns confirm the degree to which age influences the sickness rate . Both in young adulthood , when the age-specific sickness rates are low , and in old age , when they are // high , the probability of being sick can be estimated more satisfactorily for any large number of individuals from information about their present age than from any other known statistical characteristic . However , even the experience of large populations , here ranging in size from 75 000 ( curve C ) to 600 000 males ( curve A ) , does not produce curves that are entirely smooth . Each population is divided by the ages represented in it . When small numbers are at risk at each age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irregularities are more numerous . These are an unavoidable result of subdivision . The actuaries dealt with irregularities by smoothing the crude data at their disposal , adopting one or another procedure for averaging agespecific data over several ages . Unsmoothed series are given here in order to show how much variation occurs even in large surveys and to underscore the kind of information that is lost in sampling procedures using small populations . Second , the risk of being sick is influenced by other factors than age . The two Odd Fellows surveys , separated by twenty-seven years , show a similar distribution of age-specific risk , but indicate that sickness rates were higher during 1893 ? 97 than during 1866-70 . The difference can be attributed to as yet unidentified factors specific to the time at which the surveys were made ( such as the disease profile , or the mixture of occupations , residential patterns , or income levels among insureds ) . Curve C begins and ends at rates similar to those of the Odd Fellows from 1893 to 1897 , but for most of its course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . This comparison suggests that the risk of being sick may also be affected by differences in the rules applied to distinguish incapacity or in the characteristics of the populations under study . The nineteenth-century actuary 's hope of discovering a law of sickness failed because of the influence of these additional factors . Sickness rates inferred from the experience of any two populations are unlikely to describe exactly the same curve . Third , in the curves in Figure 3.1 , both irregularities from age to age and disparities from curve to curve are most pronounced for early ages , from 17 to 35 . On the basis of the data used to sketch these curves , it is not clear whether the risk of being sick rises gradually from a floor in adolescence or whether the distribution of this risk by age should be seen as a U curve . This issue is unclear in Odd Fellows and Australian friendly society experience because so few individuals joined before age 18 and because those who joined were usually // ineligible for sickness benefits for six months after joining ( the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vested ) . Fourth , Odd Fellows experience during 1893-97 , which is the only data set dealing with large numbers of individuals at advanced ages , gives the impression that the rate of increase of the risk of being sick slowed between ages 70 and 80 and , thereafter , leveled off or declined . It is particularly difficult to assess risk at these ages in historical populations , because smaller proportions of each cohort survived to advanced ages , and because the friendly societies offered benefits for time lost from work . For the individuals represented in these three curves , employer-funded or state-funded retirement programs remained a hope for the future , and retirement from work had to be financed by the individual . The actuaries suspected that some elderly individuals used benefits as a pension . These individuals remained members of the sick fund and drew benefits under the assumption that they might recover and return to work . But , as age increased , so too did the proportion of members continuously sick . For advanced ages , it is difficult to distinguish episodes of sickness @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , between about ages 45 and 70 , the risk of being sick , like the risk of dying , increased with age in a stable manner . In Chapter 2 , it was noticed that different mortality rate series indicate that , for certain ages in adulthood , the death rate increases at a stable rate . The biologist Alex Comfort , who took the Gompertz function to be evidence of the existence of a distinct process of senescence operating with the mortality risk , hypothesized that morbidity data would reveal a similar function . The curves in Figure 3.1 seem to bear out Comfort 's hypothesis . Curves A and B depict a stable rate of increase from about age 50 until about age 70 . In those populations , the sickness risk doubled about every eight years , approximately the same doubling time observed in mortality series from late-nineteenth-century Britain . Curve C , which deals with Australian experience , also suggests a stable rate of increase for the smaller part of the age spectrum for which data are available but with a shorter doubling time : about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ series , Figure 3.1 suggests that the morbidity form of this process will occur in different populations but will vary according to environmental factors . The strength of the aging term in morbidity remains unmeasured . Sickness Risk 73 The Risk of Falling Sick The sickness risk can also be considered according to the number of episodes or sickness events that occur within a population in a given period of time , a concept expressed here as the risk of falling sick or the event risk . If the age-specific average duration of sickness episodes were stable , then the risk of being sick would coincide with the risk of falling sick in the same population . Curves representing the two risks would appear at different points on the morbidity schedule because the risk of being sick would count days ( or weeks ) per year and the risk of falling sick the smaller number of events per year . If , however , the duration of sickness episodes itself changes from one age group to another because of factors unrelated to age , the two will diverge . To describe @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form , it is useful to consult another actuarial report , one drafted by Francis G.P. Neison , Jr. , who surveyed experience in the Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society for the five years beginning 1 January 1871 . In that period , the Foresters had somewhat less than half as many members as the Odd Fellows during 1893 ? 97.9 For present purposes , the leading effect of this smaller membership is that fewer individuals are represented at all ages but especially at age 18 and at age 77 and above . In Figure 3.2 , curve D depicts the risk of being sick as inferred from Foresters experience during 1871 ? 75 , curve E the mortality rate at each age , and curve F the risk of falling sick . Curve D is expressed in the same manner as curve A in Figure 3.1 ; it sketches age-to-age changes in the average quantity of time lost from work because of sickness . Curve F assesses the risk of falling sick by sketching the proportion of all members who experienced an episode of sickness at each age.10 Comparing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the risk of falling sick was much higher at all ages measured than the risk of death . Since episodes of sickness are more numerous than deaths , reliable morbidity rates can be obtained from smaller populations than would be necessary to derive mortality rates . In Figure 3.2 , the risk of being sick reaches a floor at ages 23 ? 24 and the remainder of this curve also follows the same form as the curves in Figure 3.1 . In the Foresters series , the rate of increase stabilized at about age 50 and remained stable thereafter , although with some more irregularities that may be attributed to the smaller number of members at each age . In short , curve D repeats leading // features of the risk of being sick already identified . The new informa tion in Figure 3.2 consists of evidence about the age distribution of the risk of falling sick . In the Foresters experience , this risk reached a floor during the age band 25-34 . Thereafter it rose much more gradually , resembling half of a shallow bowl more closely than the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ explanation for the vagueness of the morbidity curve as usually conceived . Unless a distinction is made between the risk of being sick and the risk of falling sick , two basically dissimilar kinds of experience will merge . Once the distinction is made , it becomes clear that the average duration of sickness episodes changes with age and that these changes influence representations of the morbidity risk . For example , at age 29 when , in the Foresters series , the probability of falling sick was lowest ( curve F ) , the average duration of this smallest proportion of episodes had already increased to the point at which the risk of being sick was noticeably higher than at its floor . The 20-year-old of the Foresters survey was more likely to fall sick but also to recover ( or die ) more rapidly than the 29-year-old . At age 65 , the likelihood of falling sick was only 1.9 times greater than at age 29 , but the likelihood of being sick was 7.7 times greater . The risk of being sick rises with age much more rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ average duration of all episodes . In the populations considered in Figures 3.1 and 3.2 , the two risks declined together in very early adulthood , and rose together ( although at different rates ) from about age 35 . Between some point within the age band 19 ? 24 and age 35 , the two risks moved in opposing directions . Childhood and Early Adulthood In the British friendly societies and in parallel groups in other countries , ill health acquired a definition from the capacity of the individual to perform functions associated with work . The sickness rate derived from the experience of those societies is a statement about aggregate incapacity in the part of the population with employment . That part included individuals with jobs , people temporarily or permanently incapacitated and receiving friendly society benefits , and people temporarily out of work but still eligible for benefits . Work ? regular and full-time participation in the labor force ? was characteristic of most men in Britain at ages 18 and above . But it was not characteristic of younger males . In general , the degree to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ distinguishing health from ill health diminishes as attention shifts from age 18 toward childhood and infancy . Smaller and smaller parts of the population come under scrutiny in consulting friendly society records for information about sickness rates at lower ages , and those parts become less and less representative of the overall population . Moreover , // adolescents and children who worked regularly enough to warrant joining friendly societies held distinctive socioeconomic characteristics , which are likely to be reflected in health statistics , and these groups may also have been chosen for work because of other characteristics ( e.g. , height , orphaned status ) with implications for health . If work sometimes separates the population into groups with different characteristics likely to influence health status , it also serves as a bridge between health experience at age 18 and at each lower age . A comparison between the working 18-year-old and the working 17- , 16- , and 15-year-old would not manifest these different characteristics as clearly as would one between the working 18-year-old and the 10-year-old . But the association of some adolescents and children of each age @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which health is measured . That is , the gradual shift of nineteenth-century adolescents into work between 12 and 18 helps redress the gap otherwise created by an abrupt movement into work . Even if the friendly society records can not adequately capture the form sickness risks take from childhood into adulthood , the evidence they supply is useful because of this bridging function . The sources consulted so far in this quest for information about basic forms of the sickness risk leave unanswered some questions about sickness risks in late adolescence and early adulthood as well . The leading problem is technical : how should the population at risk be counted in a stage of life during which young men joined and left the friendly societies , in turn expanding and shrinking the denominator of the fractions created to derive sickness risks . In the societies surveyed so far , most young men joined between ages 18 and 25 . The issue of measuring numbers at risk is important because of the suggestion , from the mortality curves so far examined , that these risks take the form of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Especially toward the end of the nineteenth century , Odd Fellows and Foresters branches added juvenile counterparts . Throughout the century , separate friendly societies were organized for people not yet 18 . In 1896 , William Sutton , actuary to the Registrar of Friendly Societies , published a body of data about sickness experience at younger ages . He interpreted the information he had gathered in a way that diminished the effect of entrances and exits and that supplied some information about sickness risks for ages 9 and upward . 11 Figure 3.3 sketches curves for the risk of being and falling sick from Sutton 's data , which relate to experience in some registered friendly // societies in England and Wales from 1876 to 1880 . The sickness risks , like the mortality risk , reveal an interim peak , which occurred at age 19 in these two populations . From that age forward , the sickness risk declined , reaching another low point at ages 22 ? 25 in the measure ment of duration ( the BS curve ) and at ages 27 ? 28 in the measure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ From age 19 and younger , the number of individuals under ob servation diminishes rapidly and their association with work becomes increasingly problematic . Parliament restricted child labor in a series // of measures adopted from 1802 on , but throughout the century children could be hired in some occupations without restriction on length of the workday . Nevertheless , labor force participation remained uncommon for children younger than 12 . The irregularities in sickness risk indicated in Figure 3.3 for ages 9 ? 17 probably derive from the small number of people under observation ? numbers given in the figure ? and changes in labor force participation among them . Since Sutton reported on a few children at ages below 9 ? even at age 1 ? it is obvious that not all the experience he consulted concerned children with jobs . Still , the minor peak in sickness risk at 12 probably identifies an age at which many children began work and faced work-related risks they had not previously encountered . That peak seems to be specific to populations in which children entered an adult work force and confronted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It was later curtailed by legislation restricting the employment of children . The peak at or close to age 20 is another matter , for it may signal a need for reservations about the degree or the manner in which biological forces shape the distribution of mortality and morbidity risk by age , and it certainly undermines the usual claim that adolescents are the healthiest of the age groups . According to biological theory , reviewed in the previous chapter , the mortality risk is associated with age in such a way that the risk of death peaks first at the beginning of life ? when the organism 's capacity to resist exogenous threats is undeveloped and when many individuals within a cohort exhibit malformations ? and next in old age ? when aging has undermined the capacity to resist exogenous and accumulated hazards or to repair damage . This distribution of risks implies a U-shaped curve , as mortality risk is usually described , or , more accurately , a curve shaped like a check mark or tick . Figure 3.3 ? and other data sets that confirm the existence @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 20 in nineteenthcentury British populations ? indicates that the morbidity risk , like the mortality risk , does not take the shape of a modified U or a tick but resembles a misshapen W. 12 When mortality and morbidity data are examined on an age-by-age basis , both rates are seen to increase more rapidly between age 11 or so and age 20 than they do at any point again until middle age . Compared to infancy and old age , adolescent risks remain low . But both their level and their rate of change indicate significant health problems . // The interior peak may be entirely a function of environmental hazards that are particularly intense in late adolescence , but the explanations offered for this phenomenon in cases where it has been observed in mortality series usually specify circumstances related to time and place . For example , the US population of 1979 ? 81 displayed a marked shift in the survival curve around age 20 ( Figure 1.4 ) . Sometimes called the trauma bump ' , this phenomenon regularly appears around age 20 in twentieth-century US life tables @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the undulation is most in evidence in recent US experience , the risk of death peaked at age 23 , declined slightly until ages 28 ? 32 , and then resumed its increase . This feature of the US life table is usually explained not by an association with employment but as an effect caused by motor vehicle accidents and access to automobiles on the part of adolescents . 14 Since automobile accidents are still a leading cause of ill health as well as death in this group , the mortality peak would presumably find its counterpart in an age-by-age representation of morbidity among US white males . The issue , however , is whether automobile accidents are a cause or an effect of an unidentified behavioral or environmental risk . In its manifestation in nineteenth-century British populations of working youths , the W 's interior peak in the sickness risks might also be explained by factors peculiar to place and time . Most young men took up jobs in the adult world at those ages , often jobs that involved particular hazards for inexperienced hands . The new workers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occupational injury , a risk that diminished as they learned more about their jobs and the hazards associated with them . The increased risk around age 20 may also have derived from exposure to typhus and typhoid fever . Those diseases , which appeared together in the British cause of death registers until 1869 , constituted two of the leading causes of death in the period covered by Sutton 's surveys . 15 They are known as diseases with a marked age intensity in which mortality rates usually peak in early adulthood . But in Japan and Sweden early in the twentieth century , the same W-shaped curve was explained as an effect of tuberculosis.16 The appearance of this peak in successive surveys of morbidity and mortality makes it unlikely that any one of these environmental factors ? job initiation in hazardous occupations , typhus and typhoid fever , tuberculosis , access to automobiles ? will provide a satisfactory explanation . Instead the rise of mortality and // morbidity rates to a peak around age 20 may be a function of age-related factors , such as emotional instability and risk-seeking behavior @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ psychological factors . Recent research links higher adolescent mortality risk to depression , a condition believed to have biochemical and psychological origins but one associated more often with violence against the self ( suicide ) and property destruction than with the generalized morbidity and mortality suggested by the histori cal evidence . " Or the environmental interpretation might be recast as a change in exposure to disease rather than in specific diseases experienced . In the nineteenth century and since , most authorities have assumed that the age distribution of the morbidity risk early in life could be inferred from mortality data . The risk would be highest immediately after birth and then diminish rapidly . That assumption requires merely that the case fatality rate preserve a more or less consistent decline in the passage from the diseases of infancy to those of late childhood . Cause-of-sickness data that refer to work as a standard obviously have little utility for this age group . Young children , even infants , were sometimes enrolled in friendly societies and claimed sickness benefits , but it is obvious that their claims were judged on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so difficult to assess at these ages is the absence of any standard that might be used during a phase of life in which functional capacities and disease risks change rapidly and radically . Useful data sets are rare . Further , each one has its own character istics , so there is seldom a significant degree of consistency between surveys in the definitions or methods applied to gather observations . The numbers surveyed are often small and the populations atypical . What is more , not all authorities agree that the morbidity risk should be expected to parallel the mortality risk . Case studies often report an increase in morbidity between infancy and age 1 . In a study of nutrition and infection among Guatemalan villagers from 1959 to 1964 , the mortality risk peaked in infancy but the morbidity risk at ages 1-2 . The morbidity peak was associated with six to twenty-four months of age , when Mayan children of a highland region were weaned , and it appeared in measures of episodes and the duration of all illnesses observed in home visits made every other week . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ linked to weaning rather than with stress on the immune // system , another effect that might be cited to explain a sudden change in morbidity risk around age 2 . However , they observed significantly lower morbidity rates through age thirty months in the control village , Santa Maria Cauque , which was supplied with neither dietary supplements nor medical treatment , than in two treatment villages . A subsequent study in the control village from 1964 to 1969 reported a stupendous disease load among weanlings : illnesses and injuries , mostly diarrheal and respiratory diseases , occurred at a rate of 20 to 22 per person year , nearly five times the rate observed in the same village from 1959 to 1964.18 Other researchers , too , have found the weanling months to be fraught with risks to life and health and have suggested that , in poorly nourished populations , morbidity risk peaks in harmony with growth retardation.19 But it is not clear that they have found a common standard for measuring morbidity across the early months of life , or whether they have been misled by intervening @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infants and young children to visitors . Other studies , dealing mostly with economically developed regions , suggest that morbidity risks parallel the mortality rate in infancy , and these studies point to distinctive passages ? from breastfeeding into protracted weaning , entry into kindergarten and school ? that mark transitions within a general pattern of declining risk.2O The transitions are more sharply defined in small case studies in which many children are weaned or enter school at the same age in months than in aggregate studies in which the passages from one status to another are dispersed across months or years . The degree to which each passage influences the sickness risk varies according to many environmental circumstances in a way that suggests that cultural and social rather than biological factors have the greatest impact . The net effect of this review is to leave the shape of the morbidity risk in infancy and early childhood in doubt . Environmental factors , such as cultural habits regarding weaning and socialization of children , demonstrably affect health , but their effects are not concentrated in a clearly marked age pattern . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mortality risk , declines to a low point at an age between 5 and 15 . But the age at which the morbidity risk is lowest may not match the age of lowest mortality risk , which the data assembled for Figure 1.4 suggest to be 11 . More uncertain still is whether the morbidity risk rises again ? at least in societies where infants are breastfed ? after the first six or twelve months of life or whether this risk at ages after six months may equal or exceed its // level in the first month of life . The morbidity risk curve may be comparatively flat for the first year or eighteen months of life , or it may decline sharply from the immediate neonatal period . SICKNESS RISK IN WOMEN VERSUS MEN Female life expectancy has exceeded male life expectancy for most ages and in most European populations since the seventeenth century . In the twentieth century , the differential has increased and become more consistent . But it has never attained the degree of regularity that would suggest that biological factors dominate its terms , a suggestion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ male in virtually all animal species ? and from social history ? specific instances of greater male longevity can be explained plausibly by sexual bias . Infanticide has sometimes been practiced selectively against females , and lower female than male life expectancy at ages 10 ? 20 has been explained as an effect of the nutritional deprivation of girls . Variability in the sex differential indicates that behavioral and risk factors play an important role . Their effect shifts over time , and it may also be true that the interplay between biological and environmental forces changes as environmental forces shift.2i In some nineteenth-century societies , women faced higher mortality risks before and during childbearing years . Because the risk at those ages is low for both sexes , this differential rarely showed up in lower female life expectancy at birth . For example , in England and Wales in 1861 , female mortality exceeded male only at ages 5 ? 19 and 25 ? 34 , but female life expectancy exceeded male at all ages . This pattern appears in Figure 3.4 in a comparison of mortality rates of men @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Wales during the period 1856-75 . In the quinary age groups from 10 ? 14 to 35 ? 40 , females died at higher rates than males ( but the differential closed with the onset of childbearing years ) . After 35 ? 40 , male death rates remained higher than female until ages 70 ? 74 . The male disadvantage at higher ages sufficed to make male life expectancy at birth lower than female.22 Nineteenth-century observers usually attributed higher female life expectancy at birth to the higher risks of occupational mortality that men faced . But it is not apparent that this is a sufficient explanation or that the differential observed in the nineteenth century more // closely approximated the natural or biological effect , as is sometimes implied.23 Women often worked at wage-earning jobs in nineteenth-century Britain , and women with jobs often joined friendly societies , but few affiliated societies accepted women in large numbers . Tables // addressing morbidity risk among friendly society members consist for the most part of experience amalgamated from independent societies . Sutton 's report , summarized in Figure 3.4 , provides @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represented extend from 1 to 93 , but the total number of years at risk accumulated over the 20-year record is only 139 122 , as compared to 2 995 724 years at risk to sickness in Watson 's survey of Odd Fellows during 1893-97 and the still larger number behind male experience in this figure.25 As a result , the sickness and mortality risk curves for females are more irregular than the corresponding curves for males . The curves for being sick and falling sick suggest marked sex differences even though the women surveyed resembled the men in that they held wage-earning jobs ( although not necessarily in the jobs they held or risks associated with those jobs ) . In the risk of being sick , women were sick for longer periods than men for all but two ages from 18 to 54 . Indeed , for most of this part of the age spectrum , women faced a much higher risk of being sick than did men : 27 per cent higher at ages 30-34 , 46 per cent higher at 40-44 , and 15 per cent higher @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from which information was drawn , with the result that it is not possible to explore their rules to learn whether female members received benefits for worktime lost because of childbearing . Some societies admitting women refused benefits for sicknesses coinciding with childbirth or for childbirth itself , some refused benefits only for the month after childbirth , and some made no exceptions . Whether the female risk of being sick exceeded the male risk because of pregnancy and associated sicknesses can not be determined from the data available . It may be significant that the gap between the two curves closed toward age 50 , at the end of childbearing years . But it seems more significant that female mortality exceeded male more before than during childbearing years , which suggests that young females confronted higher mortality and risks of being sick independently of childbearing . From about age 50 to 70 , the female risk of being sick differed little from the male risk . In the risk of falling sick , the sex differential was reversed . Women fell sick less often than men . With the exception @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ experienced fewer episodes of sickness than men , but each episode was longer enough on average to produce a higher risk of being sick . In terms of the proportion of men and women who were sick , male rates exceeded female rates by 2 per cent at ages 30-34 and 40-44 and by sharply higher margins at earlier and // later ages between 18 and 54 . At ages 50-54 , for example , the male rate was 18 per cent higher . The same pattern appears in data accumulated by Austrian authorities for the period 1891 ? 95 regarding 6.3 million years at risk among males and nearly 2 million among females . Measured by duration , female sickness rates exceeded male rates for all ages from 16 to 84 . Measured by episode , males fell sick more frequently than females at all ages when pregnancies are excluded , but less frequently to age 43 when pregnancies are not excluded . The Austrian data suggest that work-incapacitating sickness occurs less frequently among women but that childbirths may conceal the form of this underlying sickness risk.26 This variance between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ important clue about how to interpret the relationship between morbidity and mortality . In insult accumulation theory , prior sickness is expected to influence later experience and the timing of death . Women would not be expected to experience more sickness than men yet live longer unless the additional sickness influenced insult accumulation to a lesser degree or was unrelated to it . The data in Figure 3.4 suggest that females enjoyed longer life spans than males because they accumulated fewer insults at most ages . The high female risk of being sick can also be interpreted as evidence that women convalesced more deliberately from the sicknesses they did suffer . It is also plausible to suggest that these women returned to work after longer periods of recuperation because their economic burdens were lighter ( that is , fewer families depended on female breadwinners ) . If convalescence time is related closely to the quality of repair , female life expectancy may have been greater because of superior health care . Plausible explanations for the sex differentials in mortality and morbidity are not difficult to suggest , but they are difficult @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ friendly societies is compared to morbidity and mortality among US females in the period 1958 ? 81 . The US health surveys , which measure the incidence and point prevalence of functional impairment and some specific diseases , regularly indicate higher female than male morbidity rates . The leading authority on US experience , Lois Verbrugge , finds that women report 20 to 30 per cent more ill health from acute conditions and non-fatal chronic diseases than do men of the same age , and more short-term disability . Men report more lifethreatening diseases and more permanent disability . That is , women // are sicker in the short run and men in the longer run ; women experience more sickness but men have more serious health problems . Verbrugge explains the differential chiefly by exposure and lifestyle , and to a lesser degree by psycho ? social factors ( that is , sex differences in perception of or response to symptoms ) or the idea that the differential should be attributed to a greater propensity of women to adopt what sociologists call the sick role ' .27 The two patterns @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reporting work incapacitation , the other twentieth-century US experience in a cross-section of the female population , appear to be at odds . But Verbrugge 's explanation of recent US experience also suggests a resolution . She argues that morbidity reported in the US surveys constitutes only a portion of all ill-health episodes . In the unobserved portion ? episodes affecting work for less than a day and illnesses unreported altogether ? Verbrugge believes that female ill health probably exceeds male to a still greater degree . The friendly societies applied a more stringent standard to distinguish sickness from health ( incapacitation for work lasting at least three days ) than the standard used in the US health survey ( restriction of ordinary activity lasting a half day or longer ) or than Verbrugge applied to hypothesize the distribution of shorter and unreported episodes . Taking those differences into account , women appear to experience more sickness , but their episodes are less serious in that they are less often life-threatening . Under the conditions obtaining in these populations , women lived longer because they accumulated insults more slowly . Verbrugge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , one that demands diagnostic information in order to gauge the seriousness of sicknesses . This is an illustration of the need to combine diagnostic and functional approaches . Even so , it does not settle how diseases should be graded for severity . The threat different maladies pose to life changes with therapies , coincidental disease risks , and exposure . Nor is it apparent that threat to life is the appropriate way to gauge degree in insult accumulation . Concerning other issues raised earlier in this chapter , Figure 3.4 shows that , for the women observed in the friendly society surveys , too , the sickness risk takes the form of a misshapen W. Between ages 9 and 35 , the risk of falling sick peaked at age 19 , reached a second floor at ages 26-27 , and thereafter increased more slowly than among the male friendly society members to whom this experience is compared . The female risk of being sick also peaked at age 19 but // reached a second floor immediately thereafter ( ages 20-23 ) and then increased so rapidly that the risk @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at 19 . In this instance , too , the decline in the risk of falling sick exceeded the decline in the risk of being sick . Among men and women , there is evidence of an undulation in the rate of insult accumulation in the ages associated with late development and early adulthood . SICK TIME , HEALTH TIME Age is the dominant but not the exclusive factor in the distribution of sickness risk and , as a force in distribution , age exerts its effects in ways that change over the life course , over time , and according to the way sickness is distinguished or perceived . This section will consider three aspects of perception : the distribution of sickness durations , the division of sicknesses between those resolved in recovery and those resolved in death , and lifelong experience with sickness and health . These issues , too , can be approached via the experience of male members of friendly societies in the United Kingdom in the second half of the nineteenth century , because those surveys present data in the forms necessary to make these distinctions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to say that they may be of sharp and short course , hence resolved in recovery or death quickly , or they may be chronic , which is to say long lasting , even permanent . Common sense points to the need for such a distinction , but there is no settled opinion about when , in the duration of an episode , acute becomes chronic . Some authorities divide acute from chronic by distinguishing episodes lasting less than six months from those lasting six months or longer . Others prefer three months ( that is , 13 weeks ) . Still others divide elsewhere . The division itself is an historical artifact , for it is influenced by the profile of diseases to which people are at risk as well as by therapy . For the high mortality regime of early modern European experience , there is considerable sense in adopting a division close to the one made by the physician George Cheyne : 40 days ( six weeks ) . " Most acute disorders are resolved more quickly than six or three months , and a division at six @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of death into the // eighteenth century , including typhoid fever and plague which , without treatment , may linger about eight weeks.29 Still , many infectious diseases common in the eighteenth century and earlier manifested themselves in ways that made the distinction between acute and chronic inappropriate . To call an illness a fever ' , a common diagnosis , was to avoid the issue of whether the ailment would have a brief or a prolonged clinical course . Many diseases appeared not as discrete episodes but in association with other ailments , acute or chronic , that the physician was poorly prepared to differentiate.30 Furthermore , chronic diseases often include periods of remission in which , although the disorder continues and may be recognizable to a clinician or to the sufferer , the individual resumes ordinary activity . Chronic episodes also hide behind acute episodes of sickness in any reconstruction based on diagnosis , and acute diseases hide behind chronic . A division at eight , 13 , or 26 weeks is meaningful when the issues that prompt it refer to function rather than diagnosis . For other purposes @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and that is the approach usually taken in twentieth-century health surveys . Both the onset and the resolution of sickness are often ambiguous events . Everyone is familiar with the often inchoate origins of many ill-health episodes and with the subjective elements involved in deciding when to resume ordinary activities after sickness . These ambiguities trouble all measurements of sickness time . In the friendly societies they were handled in a certain way . Sickness began at the conclusion of a waiting period during or after which the individual consulted a physician or was visited by an officer of the society ( or both ) . From the society 's perspective , the purpose of consultation and visitation was to determine whether the episode warranted compensation . Sickness ended when , during a process of regular consultations or visitations , the member was judged to be able to resume work or , in most cases , when the individual resumed work of his own accord and notified the society . From this procedure it is apparent that friendly society records would not include episodes or periods of sickness lasting less @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to one week long , and that they also would not include episodes lasting after the resumption of ordinary activities except in those cases in which the individual once again entered a claim . The missing information is important , for brief episodes are the most common . The important point , however , is the consistent exclusion of those episodes in the insurance records , and their incluSickness // sion in most twentieth-century health surveys . The risk of acute sickness declines as age rises , and the risk of chronic sickness rises with age . " As a force influencing the risk of being sick , aging slows down the pace at which sickness episodes are resolved and exposes the individual to a changing group of disorders . In young adulthood , sicknesses are resolved more quickly : they tend to be acute disorders , and young adults have stronger powers of recuperation . At advanced ages , sicknesses are resolved more slowly : they tend to be chronic disorders , and older people have more limited powers of recuperation . These characteristics appear in a clear way in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Figure 3.5 divides sick time into five durations ? weeks 1-13 , 14-26 , 27-52 , 53-104 , and 105 ? 260 ? for alternate quinary age groups from ages 20 ? 24 to 80 ? 84.33 Considering the extremes , at ages 20 ? 24 , 80 per cent of all sick time occurred within weeks 1 ? 13 and only 2 per cent within weeks 105 ? 260,34 but at ages 80 ? 84 , the proportions were reversed : 5 per cent of sick time fell within weeks 1 ? 13 and 76 per cent within weeks 105 ? 260 . From these distributions , we can infer that at young adult ages the leading risk consisted of the risk of being sick for a short time , that at advanced ages the leading risk consisted of protracted sicknesses , and that the two types of risk were approximately equal at ages 55 ? 59 . For younger age groups , sick time was concentrated in the shortest term because recoveries were concentrated in that term , while for higher age groups sick time was concentrated in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ That is , recovery was also a function of age in this late-nineteenth-century population . The risk of being sick for intermediate terms was much smaller for all ages than the risk identified with the leading term at each age , and it shifted from one quinary age group to the next within narrow boundaries . Although these intermediate terms together account for 35 per cent of the time covered in a five-year survey , they did not at any age account for 35 per cent of claims . The two leading terms , weeks 1 ? 13 and 105-260 , together account for 65 per cent of the time covered , and more than 65 per cent of sick time at all ages . Sutton 's report on 1876 ? 80 subdivides claims lasting thirteen weeks or less into three categories , weeks 1-4 , 5 ? 8 , and 9 ? 13.35 Table 3.1 shows the proportional distribution of claims in these terms and in term 105 ? 260.36 In this population , too , sicknesses were concentrated in extreme terms , and within the shortest term , 1 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 4 for all ages . To appearances , sicknesses tend to be brief or protracted .                     