@@773425

txt Poverty and desertion were not the only assaults on the immigrant family ; there was also disease . " Consumption , " or tuberculosis , was the great scourge of the workers in sweatshops . The cure in those days was to leave the city for the cleaner and purer air of the mountains . The beginnings of Jewish settlement in the Catskill Mountains near New York were often boardinghouses that were created for sufferers from consumption . The need for such facilities soon spread to the Rocky Mountains , where the National Hospital for Consumptives was established in Denver in the 189os . Not all of the immigrants from Eastern Europe remained poor , or ill . Some succeeded with astonishing speed . By the mid-188os , rich " Russian Jews " were moving to New York 's Upper East Side , the very citadel of the " German Jews . " As early as 1886 , they founded an Orthodox synagogue , Kehilath Jeshurun , in that neighborhood . Recent immigrants were the initial guarantors of the salary of the chief rabbi of the Orthodox @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was brought to the city from Vilno in 1888 . Abraham Cahan 's The Rise of David Levinsky is , in part , about the economic success of such an immigrant . The children of these parents did not have to attend the public colleges . Some simply entered the family business ; others were among the first Russian Jews to enter the elite American colleges . All of the families , rich or poor , were deeply and inevitably divided by the Americanization of their children . The most obvious attacks on the integrity of the family were the dance halls and the street culture , including Jewish gangs . But the educated minority were also very much a problem to their parents . Merit examinations had been instituted in New York in 1901 , and Jews immediately began to find their way into the school system . By 1905 , Jewish students were already a majority in the City College of New York ; they were nearly half of the student body at the Normal School , the teachers ' college for women that was the predecessor of Hunter @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The men were struggling through college in order to make careers in honorific professions ; by 1910 Jews were already roughly one-quarter of all the students in American medical schools . Very few of the women were raised with such ambitions . Those who went to college were preparing themselves for secure " feminine " jobs as teachers . In the early years , these were mostly women graduates of the Normal School . I lere , too , Marie Antin 's autobiographical writing is most instructive . She tells that parents " in their bewilderment and uncertainty , had to address their children to learn from such models as the tenements afforded . Parents had to take the law from their children 's mouths because they had no other means of finding out what was good American form . " The result was " an inversion of normal relations " which strained and often broke up the family . The role models that young Jews could not find at home , they inevitably looked for elsewhere . In the immigrant ghetto itself , the revolutionary movements , socialism and anarchism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a role to be had in society for those who were heroic enough to dare to remake the world . Revolutionary ideology was never , not even in its heyday at the turn of the century , as dominant among the immigrants as many observers maintained both then and later . On the contrary , the large majority of the immigrants adhered to the traditional religious forms as best they could , and they worked toward leaving the proletariat as quickly as possible . But socialist and anarchist agitation did play a role in the destruction of the Jewish father , of nullifying whatever authority he might have brought with him from Europe , and of replacing him . The revolution demanded new role models . A new society could best be made by the young ; a new dispensation required defiance of fathers rather than deference to whatever authority they might still represent . In reading the writings of antireligious Jews of the 1890s and of the early 19oos , one is impressed by their sense of themselves as being part of a worldwide battle to release men from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of themselves as doing among Jews what leading American agnostics such as Robert Ingersoll and , soon , Clarence Darrow , were doing among Christians . Left-wing Jews regarded all eight of the Haymarket martyrs in Chicago , the four who were hanged , the one suicide , and the three who went to jail in 1886 for the throwing of a bomb during a strike rally which killed policemen , as heroes to be revered . These revolutionary immigrants were imparting freedom to their children ? not the free ( loin to open a shoe store , but the hope of making in America the revolution that had not yet happened in Russia ? and which seemed hopeless hcti ) fl it did happen in 1917 . Almost all of the earliest Yiddish poets and novelists were socialists or anarchists who wrote from the sweatshops . Such writing was usually lurid , but it did reflect , in a heightened , declamatory way , the lives of its readers . One of the favorite themes was the oppression of the workers by the Jewish bosses . This class struggle within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , to reflect the inequities of capitalist society as a whole . Hope was to be found only in the possibility that an end would be made of capitalism . The immigrants knew that they could not make the revolution because they were too foreign . They could not lead in America , but their " American " children were sworn to the task . Morris Rosenfeld , the first of these proletarian poets to be translated into English , railed at the meaninglessness of a life spent tending and feeding the sewing machine . The message was clear : there had to be a world that was better than this oppression . The novelists took this theme of social protest further . Leon Kobrin was perhaps the most prolific of all the Yiddish writers in America . In one of his stories , entitled " A Common Language , " which was written in the 1920s , the hero is a night watchman who catches a thief and begins to beat him . " Suddenly it struck me . Maybe he had no home for himself and his child ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Maybe that 's why he went out to steal on a night like this ? Maybe he had done it for the sake of his child . " The thief was an Italian . " We talked , he in his language , and I in mine . " In the end , the hero gets fired for helping the thief . Moshe Nadir was much more self-consciously political . It was inevitably so , for he wrote for the Yiddish Communist daily , the Morgen Freiheit . In one of his stories from the 1920s , Nadir told about a workers ' strike . The story , entitled " Thoughts About Forty Cents , " was written , ironically , from the perspective of a capitalist . " With the fish course my wife also served me a bit of news about a town called Roosevelt where they had shot into a crowd of strikers without any rhyme or reason . I felt my blood begin to boil . " As Nadir 's capitalist " hero " eats on , through the various courses of a sumptuous meal , his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . He lights up a Havana cigar and makes himself comfortable in an easy chair . " And at this point I saw how trivial those workers are , to risk their necks for a measly forty cents a day . " Even i ? the writings of the socialist novelists , the workers failed more than they succeeded . But the socialist novelists and essayists wanted the immigrants to fight back . Revolutionary consciousness meant that Jews should not be passive as they had been throughout the centuries in Europe . They should stand up against the bosses for the rights of labor , as the workers had done in Nadir 's story , but above all , Jews were enjoined not to cower before anti-Semites , as they had in Europe , but to confront their tormentors . In one of the numerous stories that revolve around this theme , Joseph Opatashu described the ambivalent response of Jews to anti-Semitism in America : they tried to ignore it , to pretend that it was not there , until on occasion the provocation became too great to be avoided . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of children is teasing an old Jewish peddler , and only one young Jew among the onlookers has the courage to get up to defend him . " The few Jews in the car buried their heads deeper in their newspapers , looking up nervously at the scene , trembling in fear and angry agitation . But fear was strong enough to keep them frozen in their places . " Then this gang of young hooligans began to tease a young Jewish woman . At that point , " the Jews behind their newspapers threw them away and clenched their fists , and that is how the fight began . " America , the " golden land , " was thus an arena of struggle , of pain , and even of defeat . In the sweatshops the bosses were " bloodsuckers , " and on the streets the Jew-haters were always mocking and harassing " kikes " and " sheenies . " The passivity of the immigrant fathers was irrelevant , or worse , in the New Land . Their children had to find their own courage to fight back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least a few of the fathers to be " Americans . " II Riis , Steffens , and Asch had observed that the children belonged much more to the culture of the streets than to that of their families . I ) avid Nasaw , in his book Children ofthe City , has recently confirmed Ibis 's contemporary accounts : " The early twentieth-century city was a city of strangers . Most of its inhabitants had been born or raised elsewhere . ( ) sly the children were native to the city ? with no memory , no longing , no historic commitment to another land , another way of life . . . . Work , money , and the fun that stoney bought were located on the streets of the city . " The streets have never taught immigrants to America primary lessons in virtue . On the contrary , some of those who were raised on the streets , without strong role models at home , have turned , generation after generation in America , to crime . Young Jews , children of immigrants , followed the pattern @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , crime has been a major avenue for quick material success in America . There has usually been no generational succession in crime , for western gunslingers who consistently outdrew their enemies sometimes ended their careers as sheriffs , and some of their children became governors . Jews were not exempt from this rule . In the era of the mass migration , the Irish had at first dominated the criminal scene in the big cities . So it was with the Jews . Large-scale prostitution had not existed in pre-emancipation Jewry , though there were , of course , many individual examples of sexual misconduct . In the late nineteenth century , with Jews moving into the big cities of Eastern Europe , and away from the constraints of their native smaller towns and villages , prostitution began to appear in Europe . There was Jewish prostitution in Warsaw and in Odessa . In Moscow and St. Petersburg there was both real prostitution as a trade and the pretense of it : some respectable Jewish women accepted internal passports as prostitutes , because that " trade " was one of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ areas from which they were excluded . But Jewish prostitution , and several other kinds of crime , were prevalent in the New World . At least one-third , perhaps half , of the known prostitutes of New York , then , in the early 1900S , were Jews . The French , Irish , Germans , and Italians were next in order , but the Jewish proportion seems very nearly to have equaled the total number of all the rest put together . The explanation for this anomaly is probably to be found in a demographic fact ; unlike all the rest , Jewish immigrants were coming to the half-dozen largest cities , led by New York , where perhaps seventy percent of these immigrants were settling . Big cities are the locus of crime , as small villages , towns , and farms , where many of the other ethnics were settling , are not . The most striking aspect of these statistics is that more of the Jewish prostitutes seem to have been native than foreign-born . The nativehorn seem to have had the initial skills of language @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as immigrant new ( oiners , did not have . How much crime was there really on the Lower East Side of New York ? This was a painful issue in the years of mass migration , and it has been debated since by historians . In September 1908 , the police commissioner of New York , Theodore A. Bingham , published an article in Harper 's , under the title " Foreign Criminals in New York . " Bingham argued that in New York , the Jews and the Italians , two of the largest communities , were the source of numerous gangs and that these " criminal organizations " needed to be watched by specially trained police details . He went on to say that with a million Jews now in New York , perhaps a quarter of the population , " it is not astonishing that half the criminals should be of that race . " He attributed this supposed propensity to crime to the foreignness of those Jews , and he went on to assert that " Jewish criminals tend not to attack people but rather to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ about Jewish juveniles under sixteen : he asserted that they were especially prominent among the offenders . This article aroused a storm . The Jews of the Lower East Side reacted to it as a portent of American anti-Semitism , parallel to the kind that they had been experiencing in Europe . They protested with fury . The leadership of the older Jewish settlers , including Jacob Schiff , who was by then the universally acknowledged " king of the Jews , " joined the outcry against the assertion that Jews were the main source of criminality in New York . In a few days , Bingham withdrew the remarks " without reservation , " but the question remained alive . At the time Bingham spoke , he was probably telling the truth . There was quite a large amount of petty juvenile crime , such as stealing from pushcarts and picking pockets , but the overwhelming bulk of the young people who engaged in such endeavors did not graduate into careers in crime . The young Eddie Cantor , who was later to become a famous entertainer , was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , " Pork-faced Sams . " One of the principal tricks of this group was to steal from stores and then sell the owners their own stock . Gambling was a pervasive Lower East Side recreation . The numerous regular games in homes or other gathering places were largely innocent , but the ghetto did breed professional gamblers . The flashiest of- New York 's big-time gamblers , Arnold Rothstein , had been barn irr Philadelphia in 1892 to a respectable , pious family of Jewish Immigrants from Eastern Europe . Rothstein could have followed after his father , and become a moderately successful businessman , but he chose instead to be a high roller and casino gambler . Rothstein bribed police officers and judges , he helped support the Tammany machine , and he hobnobbed with the titans of American industry , if only to gamble with them in his own establishment . One famous night , Percival H. Hill , the head of the American Tobacco Company , lost a quarter of a million dollars to Rothstein . This was not the only occasion when the upstart gambler took @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that matter , Rothstein was also a famous pool player , and he became even more of a " name " when he defeated a professional from Philadelphia in a game which lasted thirty-four hours . The most famous sports scandal in American history , fixing the World Series of baseball in 1919 , was a gamblers ' coup engineered by Arnold Rothstein . He arranged to bribe a number of key players on the Chicago White Sox to throw the series . This " feat " earned Rothstein a fortune in bets . In his personal habits , Rothstein had learned from his big-business clients to act the swell . No less an authority than Lucky Luciano , one of the leading criminals of the 1920s and 1930s , paid Rothstein a tribute in his memoirs . Luciano reported that Rothstein had taught him " how to dress , how not to wear loud things , and how to have good taste . " Is is even true , contrary to Jewish apologists then and later , that the immigrants were indulgent to certain kinds of crime . Violence was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of survival . A little arson to collect insurance was acknowledged as something which occurred with some frequency ; the perpetrators were not universally condemned by the community . A contemporary joke told of a petty businessman who had committed arson several times . When he could no longer get fire insurance , he turned inquiringly to one of his friends and asked , " How do you make a flood ? " Arson got to be so much of a nuisance and danger that in the early 189os eighteen of New York 's worst arsonists were sent to jail , some for life . The attitude among the immigrants toward such crimes was rooted in centuries of Jewish experience in the Diaspora . The law had always been the enemy of the Jews ; to circumvent it was often the only way to survive , and , therefore , to outfox authority was a praiseworthy act . Such an attitude was , of course , to he ( build among other immigrant groups . Poor peasants everywhere had survived through the centuries by poaching on the estates of ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's Lower East Side . There were comparable , though smaller , groups of offenders in Chicago and in Philadelphia , as well as in Cleveland , Boston , Detroit , and Newark . Surprisingly , Minneapolis , which had a comparatively small Jewish community , produced an outsize number of youth gangs and criminals . There may have been as much crime in New York as Bingham had charged , but something was happening that he could not predict : crime was a half-generation occupation for almost all of the young who engaged in it . It created no model for the next generation . The more socially respectable avenue to quick fame and fortune was sports . The Jewish immigrants had no tradition in sports activities . In Europe , sports had belonged to the Gentiles , and even among them , not to the poor . The children of the immigrants , however , became almost immediately avid participants in sports , especially in those that required little space and equipment , both of which were in short supply in the Lower East Side . The sports in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engaged in a kind of " free enterprise , " and which might lead quickly to large rewards . Thus , there were no Jewish tennis players or golfers , for these sports were , then , entirely amateur . Those sports were doubly alien to the children of the immigrants because they required courts , or many acres of ground , and this much room could not be found among the tenements . Tennis and golf would later be picked up avidly by many of these second-generation immigrants as one of the marks of their arrival in America . Despite the strong and ingrained religious tradition against doing physical harm to others , many of the young in the ghetto took to boxing . Training space was minimal : all that was needed was a ring and a place for a punching bag . Such room could be made in any decrepit building . For at least two decades , the Lower East Side was the breeding ground of great Jewish fighters , such as Abe Attell , Benny Leonard , Ruby Goldstein , and Barney Ross , all of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1920s , seven of the nine boxing championships were held by Jews . The striking exception was the heavyweight championship , simply because the Jews did not produce ri1.tnv physic , specimens in that weight range . Even so , one of the leading ch , ntpiuns of the 19ttis , Max Baer , pretended to he . t Jews , hcc.rttse Jews were so ptonrincr , t among the fight tans . It was an advantage for a fighter like Baer to say that he belonged to " this well-known line of Jewish champions and hopes . " Sports are very often on the border of criminality , because they have always been the object of betting and of fixing . Entertainment was on a higher level of legitimacy , but , like crime and sports , it , too , offered the possibility of success in one 's own lifetime . To be sure , there had been a tradition of entertainment in Eastern Europe . Klezmer musicians had performed , especially at weddings , and there was usually a Badchen , a composer of impromptu verses , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , perhaps , the cultural ancestors of America 's Jewish music-makers and stand-up comedians . The immediate models for the young Jews who tried to sing and dance their ways to fortune were the Irish entertainers , who dominated the vaudeville stages at the turn of the century . The great wave of Jewish immigration came when the main forms of entertainment were theater and vaudeville . Live entertainment was a mass industry , which the older Protestant America had left to the Irish . Jews moved very rapidly into vaudeville . The new Jewish entertainers even brought with them a new audience , their contemporaries from the Jewish ghetto . " Pat and Mike , " who made jokes about the rubes and the camaraderie between Jews and Irish , became a favorite team on the circuit . At the turn of the century , " Jewish " figures were widely expected to be part of every program on the vaudeville stage . Some of the song and dance men and women and the comedians became stars . There is no way of estimating the proportion of Jews among the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century . We do know , however , that by around 1910 something on the order of sixty percent of vaudeville houses in the ten largest cities were owned by Jews . Most of these owners were not new immigrants . They descended from the older " German Jews , " who had come to the United States before or immediately after the Civil War . But these older Jewish settlers held no monopoly . Soon , by 1900 , such people as the Balabans , more recent immigrants who had begun as children of the ghetto , had made their way into this expanding business . Jews were much more important in the newest entertainment enterprise , the movies . At the beginnings of the movie industry . Jews did not figure as actors or directors . f lollywood was then producing pictures that supposedly mirrored the mainstream of American life . Authentic American was , then , white and Protestant . It took very nearly a generation for Jewish actors and directors to play a role of significance in Hollywood , and , even then , the vast majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Even Paul Muni , who was the superstar among the serious actors in the early days of talking pictures , worked hard not to mention that he had come to Hollywood from the Yiddish stage on Second Avenue in New York . During the earliest years of Hollywood , Jews rapidly became the large majority of the entrepreneurs . The business of moviemaking was dominated by such men as Louis B. Mayer , Samuel Goldwyn , Adolph Zukor , David O. Selznick , Harry Cohn , the Fox Brothers and the Warner Brothers ? to mention only the most prominent . They built the major studios , and they presided over Hollywood at its most flamboyant . What these men put on the screen was very smoothly American , but what they spoke among themselves was an English accented by the Yiddish that had been the first language for most of them , including those who had been born in America . At the inception of the movie industry , it was Jewish entrepreneurs more than anybody else who seized the opportunities of the new invention and took the risks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ while . These men were themselves the incarnation of the very Horatio Alger myth which Hollywood often celebrated . Yet , even as they told the story of poor farm children rising from the log cabin to the presidency , or to a Fifth Avenue mansion , they were not yet ready to tell their own story , of rising from the streets of the ghetto to sit beside the swimming pools of Beverly Hills . Some of these men failed , or they destroyed each other . Ultimately , all of the major studios would be controlled , directly or indirectly , by the bankers who provided them with capital . The story of the rise and fall of the Hollywood moguls would eventually be told by some of their children in memoirs or in novels , often with bitterness , as the recurrent tale of unslakable hunger for success . Recently , the early days of Hollywood have been examined again , with new respect for the astonishing creativity of those who invented the first and still dontin:utt form of worldwide mass entertainment . Theta ' is ( VCII @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ yearning of some of the Hollywood moguls for artistic respectability . From newish pet-spec- tives the movies have been seen as another example of how the Jews , when society was intent on excluding them from established businesses , found their way into the American economy . Jews had to take the risks of beginning new pursuits . The movies were exempt from the endemic anti-Semitism which kept Jews out of white-collar jobs in the banks , the insurance companies , the railroads , steel making and coal mining . What did the entry of many of these children into largely unprecedented pursuits mean for the shaping of American Jewish experience ? The point has already been made that religiously traditional lives were inconceivable in any of these endeavors , even though there is an account of at least one Jewish gangster from Cleveland who wore a skullcap at all times , and who was totally observant ofJewish rituals , as he plied his violent trade as " enforcer . " This interesting gangster may have had a parallel or two among Jewish entertainers or Hollywood moguls , but , altogether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who ventured out farthest from the immigrant ghetto , to Hollywood or into the boxing ring , had to invent a new persona for themselves . There were no models in the Jewish past for the behavior of fighters , gangsters , or movie moguls . All of these new Jews ( so they have told in their many autobiographies ) had ineffectual fathers ; they were their own ancestors . They also imagined America , for they did not know it . The movie czars , the entertainers , the boxers , and the criminals were usually school dropouts . These were the people who had taken to the streets rather than finish high school and go on to college . They had thus not been reached by American middle-class norms , which the schools imparted . Some of them rose to finance movies about the American gentility they had never encountered . They imagined an America that never was , and hoped that this mythic America would accept them . III F. Scott Fitzgerald 's famous novel of the 1920s , The Great Gatsby , considers this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have been fashioned after Arnold Rothstein . In Fitzgerald 's story , the Rothstein figure is called day Gatsby . He came to Long Island , a precinct of established American society , to win acceptance through his wealth and his manners . Gatsby failed , for , in a moment of crisis , he was brutally reminded that he remained an outsider . The story of Gatsby is thus the tale of an assimilationist who has abandoned his past and who has nothing left to live for when he is rejected . This may have been true of Arnold Rothstein , that he wanted to be accepted by the swells whom he aped , and from whom he won money gambling , but it is not likely . No matter what his surface manners might have been , Rothstein , the gambler , was twice an outsider , and his gambling coups had about them an air of defiance and a suggestion that the America which was fascinated by him , and held him in contempt , was not as righteous as it pretended : the titans of industry came @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . One can not know whether Rothstein harbored within himself some Jewish " island within " of defiance and pride , but it is possible . Such feelings were present in most of his generation , even among those who tried to assimilate . Jewish pride ? and guilt ? were imparted by almost all of the Jewish mothers , and not only by them . In theory , socialism was a universalist ideology which taught the abandonment of all ethnic distinctions , but most of the spokesmen of socialism among the Jewish immigrants insisted on the importance of maintaining Jewish group feeling , and even of holding onto some respect for the religious heritage . There are many exchanges on the subject of Jewish continuity in the famous letter-column , the " bintel brief , " of the Jewish Daily Forward . A son of unbelieving parents discovered that his parents , who had always treated even the Day of Atonement as just another day , were upset that he wanted to marry a non-Jewish young woman . He wrote to the Forward on the presumption that he would find @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and freethinking editors of the paper insisted , with the same seeming illogic that the letter-writer attributed to his parents , that it was imperative that he marry a Jew and that he continue to identify with the Jewish community . This was no isolated exchange , for the Foru'ard took a comparable attitude even in its earliest years , when it was most ideologically socialist and secularist . In response to numerous questions about proper behavior for secular nonbelievers , in order not to offend the sensitivities of the vast mass of Jews on Yom Kippur , the Forward insisted that nonbelievers should be enormously discreet in their refusal to fast and to attend synagogue on that day . The editors of the Forward did not doubt that the children of the immigrants would move from Yiddish to English as their primary language ; they actively encouraged such Americanization . This newspaper preached to the largely Jewish labor unions and to the Jewish socialists ( most of whom were organized into a party of their own , apart from the main body of American socialists ) that they were not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forces that were fighting for a just society . And yet , those who read the Forward knew that the commitment of Jews to remain Jewish was beyond question and discussion . Even the pleasures that Jews enjoyed in the immigrant ghetto helped maintain some feeling of continuity between the generations . In the 188os , near the very beginnings of the mass migration , Jacob Riis reported that " the young people in Jewtown are inordinately fond of dancing . " By 1900 , when the Jewish population of the Lower East Side was some four hundred thousand , there were so many dance halls in the neighborhood that one or two of them could be found on every block . These were frequented by the young . The parents objected , at very least because spending time and money on such endeavors was regarded as wasteful . But all the objections were of little avail . A rage was exploding in America , among the immigrants themselves and especially among their children , for whatever pleasures could be enjoyed in the present . This passion emerged from a desire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for many generations ; they had been double barred for centuries from " this world , " both as poor people and as Jews . Now , in America , the passion for enjoyment had at last found the opportunity to express itself , because here no one was limited to making do with devotion to the spirit . In the dance halls , the young sought to learn how to enjoy pleasure in an " American " way , but they were moved by a hunger for this world that they shared with their parents . The men and women of the older generation expressed this desire , in part , through their passion for the Yiddish stage , and especially for those sentimental productions , such as plays about the sweatshops or about the clashes between parents and their " Yankee " children , that mirrored their own lives . The big occasions , not only itt New York but also in Chicago , Philadelphia , and Boston , were Friday nights and Saturday matinees , when such performances were being held in contravention of the religious injunctions which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the immigrant years before 1914 were the high point of the era of the virtuoso cantors ; tickets were sold for the services that they conducted . Those who mobbed such services by superstar cantors , such as Yossele Rosenblatt and Zanvel Kwartin , came to pray , and to be entertained and moved by the talents of these men , who were called " sweet singers of Zion . " Giant ads appeared in the Yiddish press inviting people to buy tickets for the services that these cantors conducted . There were often policemen at the doors of the synagogue to make sure that those without tickets were not admitted . The parents who went to the Yiddish theaters or to the synagogues , and the children who went to dance halls and Broadway shows , did meet in the catering establishments . Weddings , bar mitzvahs , and other family occasions were celebrated with ever greater elaboration . In his memoirs , Dore Schary , of movie fame , tells of his parents ' catering business , which opened in the Jewish ghetto in Newark just before the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a roaring , stormy success from the very beginning . Jewish families flocked to it for their sons ' bar mitzvahs , their daughters ' weddings , their own anniversaries , or for charity banquets . Business grew so that within a few months , the Manor had to be moved to a large mansion . Schary 's grandfather was a Jew of the old school , and the move away from the older life began when the grandfather died . Schary 's father lived an " American " life : " Papa believed in full and generous living . His wardrobe was huge and chosen with great taste . Though he did n't drink and smoked few cigars , he was an avid and reckless pinochle player and a ravenous eater . He was courteous and particularly gallant to women , who were as attracted to him as he to them . On those holidays or for family celebrations when he took us to New York , he arranged for orchestra seats in the theater and the best table at 1 ) elmonico 's or Lorber 's , ordered the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " Jews who had had little to eat in Europe had thus created the caterers ' culture with its outstanding characteristic of eating too much at every f ; iniily occasion . The stuffed derma , the knishes , and the ' ' sweet tables " became the assurance that the world was now difIcrent . In the language of Yiddish theater ditties of that era , " stuffed geese is no longer a delicacy for the rich ; in the golden land everyone can enjoy this dish . " Overeating was the revenge , and the apotheosis , of the poor . Among heaping platters of Jewish foods ( some of which had never existed in Europe ) , two or even three generations of postimmigrant Jews could meet on a mutual ground of feeding their bodies , and thus giving assurance to their souls . Here a view of America was asserted that both generations held in common : in the old country poor Jews could only dream of joy in the world to come ; the New Land was the place in which the Jew could attain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ halls could not be divorced entirely from the synagogue . To be sure , political radicals and secularists of several varieties avoided religion and devised forms of their own for celebrating marriages and conducting funerals , but this was not the practice of the overwhelming majority of the immigrants and their children . On the great occasions in the personal lives of individuals , and of families , even the children whom Jacob Riis had seen sitting on the steps defiantly smoking cigarettes on Sabbath morning were in the congregation . The young came with their parents to worship services on the High Holy Days , they attended the Passover Seder at the family table , they were married by Jewish clergy , and they observed the rituals of mourning as prescribed by the tradition . These rituals were practiced out of family feeling . The Jewish God was not entirely absent , for those who observed this regimen felt that they were giving Him the minimum that He was due . Even those who had no faith were in synagogue to appease the father , to be less guilty toward @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the wider world , and to demonstrate how far the child of the ghetto had gone in conquering America . All of these themes came together in the famous first talking picture , The Jazz Singer . It was produced in 1927 and premiered in New York in February 1928 . Al Jolson , the best-known Jewish entertainer of the day , played the son of a cantor who abandoned his father 's calling to sing on the American stage . The theme of The Jazz Singer , the pain of loss , and of longing for the Jewish certainties of childhood , had been a major subject of American Jewish writers in the three languages ? Yiddish , English , and 1lebrew ? in which they wrote ' . And yet , the appearance of 7 lie Jazz Singer marked a turning point in American Jewish life . For the first time , the dews who dominated Hollywood came out of the closet as Jews . This self-revelation of the children of the immigrants was possible because 1928 was the high point of the economic " boom . " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , less afraid of anti-Semites than ever before , or than they were to be again in two years , after the Crash . Al Jolson was , himself , the son of a cantor in Washington , D. C. Like the hero of the movie , Jolson had begun as a performer by singing in a synagogue choir , but he had reached the height of his stage career as a minstrel , singing " Mammy " in blackface . Suddenly , in 1928 , Al Jolson told the essence of his Jewish autobiography on the screen for all America to see . Being Jewish , especially as it expressed itself in the inner torment of what was lost when the Jewish past was forgotten , had become a subject that could be discussed in front of Gentile America . In the movie the son of the cantor returns home from his " American " life , at least for the Day of Atonement , to replace his dying father in the synagogue , while the mother looks on with tearful blessing from the ladies ' gallery . The mother @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , both because he had succeeded in America , and because he returned home for the Day of Atonement . The silent , weeping mother in the ladies ' gallery is thus archetypal : it is her Jewishness that The Jazz Singer represented . In 1928 , the very year in which The Jazz Singer was being screened all over America , Ludwig Lewisohn , who was then one of the bestknown figures in American letters , published a call to return to Jewish identity under the title The Island Within . Lewisohn was not an East European , for he came of German Jewish stock . As a young man in the early years of the twentieth century , Lewisohn had made a career as the most important interpreter in America of modern German literature . He was involved in political and social causes , and he even served for a short while after the First World War as literary editor of The Nation , which was then the most important liberal journal in the United States . In midlife , Lewisohn suddenly returned to Jewishness . The Island Within @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the inhospitable Gentile world to the inner life of the Jewish community ( the hero was , like Lewisohn himself , unhappily intermarried ) . In a few years the result of lewisolun 's own turning was that he became a Zionist and that he grew ever closer to East European culture in Yiddish . I ewisohn soon became an editor of Zionist journals , and he kept attacking the Jews among the Marxist and Freudian intelligentsia for their alienation from Jewishness . But Lewisohn 's career was of concern only to small coteries , even among Jews . The assimilating Jewish intelligentsia , whom he attacked , essentially ignored him , and the organized Jewish community which became his home was , to use his own term , an " island within . " It was then a private preserve in which some Jews asked and debated questions about themselves , in substantial isolation from all of America . By their very nature , intellectuals and ideologues leave a paper trail , for a large part of their trade is to write . The documentary record of the immigrant generation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and of an infinite variety of other movements and cliques . The mass and the passion of this writing have seduced some historians of the immigrant past into believing that new ideologies dominated the ghetto , and that the bulk of the children of the immigrants were raised in left-wing , secularist , Yiddish-speaking families . Some were , but most were not . The Jazz Singer offers a much truer picture of the mainstream . The Jewish masses were to be found in the congregation of the old cantor , the father of the " jazz singer . " The young Jews who attended sometimes wished that they had other options . Some were proud of what they had made of themselves in America . Whatever their inner feelings about their Jewishness , most knew that they could be neither " German Jews " nor Gentiles . The children of the immigrants had only one option , to be exactly that , children of the Jewish ghetto in the New World . They could make their way into America only by force , by acquiring power . I Between 1914 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ American Jewry . The " Russian Jews " rebelled , and won , in the name of Zionism . This fight involved the most serious of all issues : how should Jews behave before the eyes of the American majority ? Did they have to play the game by some supposedly " American " rules ? Did they always have to appeal to the majority in the name of " freedom and justice for all " like the " German Jews " ? I ) id they have to agitate for the freeing of Jews from the sweatshops in the name of the universal rights of labor ? Or could they press , forthrightly and avowedly , for the Jewish interest ? Before - 9 t 4 , the Zionists were a negligible force in America . When war broke out , the Zionists persuaded Louis Dembitz Brandeis to place himself at their head , and thus a new chapter began in the history of American Jewry . Brandeis , a famous lawyer and a friend of I'residcut Wilson , gave Zionists instant respectability . Under his Ic aic tship , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " Russian " immigrant groups , who were not even on the margin of American politics , into a viable public force . On the surface Brandeis was a strange kind of leader for the Zionists . Born in Louisville , Kentucky , in 1856 to recent immigrants from Bohemia , who were not much involved in Jewish life , Brandeis had a brilliant career at Harvard Law School , and by the late 188os had become a successful Boston lawyer . True , many of his initial clients were " German Jews " to whose social set he inevitably belonged , but he was even more peripheral to the Jewish community than the most assimilated among them . There was some memory in his family of its origins in Prague in a circle that still harbored loyalty to the memory of Jacob Frank , the false messiah who had appeared in Poland in the latter half of the eighteenth century . Brandeis 's mother was very opposed to Jewish particularism . In his earliest Boston years , he was to be found , at least once , on the list @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ other hand , he had been deeply influenced in his earliest years by an uncle , Louis Dembitz ( whose family name he adopted as his own middle name ) , a learned , Orthodox Jew . After 1900 Brandeis began to get involved somewhat tentatively in Jewish affairs . The turning point came in 1910 , when a bitter garment workers strike , involving both Jewish workers and Jewish employers , was being fought out in New York . Brandeis was known as a leading Progressive , and as an eminent lawyer who had represented capitalists . He was approached to help resolve the conflict . Brandeis succeeded in negotiating an agreement that was a first in labor/management relations in America . The workers and the bosses signed a contract to standardize working conditions throughout the industry , and they agreed to refer all disputes to binding arbitration . Brandeis was transformed by this encounter . He had come to know the recent immigrants , and he " was impressed , deeply impressed , that these Jews with whom I dealt showed in a striking degree the qualities which , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that within them there was a true democratic feeling and a deep appreciation of the elements of social justice . " Brandeis was particularly moved by the fact that even the employers were not totally obdurate , " that each side had a great capacity for placing themselves in the other fellow 's shoes . . . That set these people apart in Illy experience in labor disputes . ' . At the same time , Brandeis started to become alienated politically from the bulk of the " German " Jews ; they were overwhelmingly conservative in their politics , and he was an ever more passionately convinced Progressive . As he was settling the garment workers ' strike , Brandeis began to believe that the East Europeans were better Americans than the impeccably " American " Jewish bourgeoisie into which he had been born . These new and , on the surface , very foreign immigrants represented " the age-old ideals of the Jews , " which were identical with " the twentieth century ideals of America . " In 1913 Brandeis surprised everyone , including his own family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ evidence that he found in Zionism a way of expressing his own alienation , and even anger , with the German Jewish leaders . That year he had all the more reason to be angry . Brandeis had worked very hard in the election campaign of Woodrow Wilson . The president-elect was known to be contemplating appointing Brandeis to the cabinet as secretary of the interior . Jacob Schiff , the acknowledged leader of the " German Jews , " was rumored to have informed Wilson that the leadership of American Jewry did not regard Brandeis as a representative Jew . Schiff supposedly even hinted that such an appointment would cause trouble , because of Brandeis 's supposedly pronounced " leftist " views , and that the possible fallout in anti-Semitism would be an unwarranted and unnecessary problem for American Jews . There is no proof beyond rumor that such representations were made , but the leading figures among the " German Jews " were known to hold such views . The overt opposition to Brandeis 's being offered a cabinet post at the beginning of the Wilson administration came from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progressive and a radical . Brandeis did not react to this defeat by becoming angry with Woodrow Wilson , who had made the decision to exclude him . Brandeis was in and out of the White House within days of the beginning of the new administration . It is , however , not entirely fanciful to suppose that he displaced his anger at the defeat in 1912 on those to whom Wilson had listened , and especially the Jews among them . To lead the East European immigrant masses against the ( let-man Jewish classes was a conceivable counterattack . The private representations against Brandeis in 1913 had not been the the first time that the Jewish establishment had sided against him . ish Committee , Cyrus Adler had suggested Brandeis 's name as a founding member , but the nomination was rejected . This internal rift became public in 1916 when President Wilson nominated Brandeis to the Supreme Court . Brandeis was the first Jew to be named to the high tribunal . His enemies saw in Brandeis a radical , a role model of disrespect for authority , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his opponents hated him . Writing in the third person during the battle , he said , " The dominant reasons for the opposition to the confirmation of Mr. Brandeis are that he is considered a radical and is a Jew . " Jacob Schiff and Louis Marshall did not dislike Brandeis because he was a Jew , though they kept complaining to both Jews and Gentiles that Brandeis had been a marginal , uninvolved Jew until he turned Zionist . The clear implication was that such a Jew should not be usurping leadership from them , the legitimate leaders of " Americans of the Jewish faith . " Schiff and Marshall privately asked President Wilson to withdraw the nomination . As the controversy heated up , they remained silent in public . They did not testify against Brandeis in the confirmation hearings or send negative letters to the Senate committee . Nonetheless , the opinions of this circle were expressed for all to read in a May 26 , 1916 , editorial in The New York Times . The editorial reflected the views of its German Jewish publisher , Adolph @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a striver after changes and reforms . The Supreme Court by its very nature is the conservator of our institutions . " There were " German Jews , " such as Henry Morgenthau , Sr. , who were Democrats and supporters of Brandeis , but the establishment had made its view clear . It wanted to be perceived as completely " American , " and it was distancing itself from Jews who were shaking up past custom and privilege . In the mind of America , and not only of anti-Semites , Brandeis was cementing the identification of Jews with " radicalism . " The line of cleavage had been reached in American politics , between the " German Jews " and the leader of the " Russians . " The bitter , public , Gentile opposition to his nomination came from Boston . Brandeis was not some decorous , conservative lawyer who had supported the privileged classes return for their approval . Though he had been no consistent white knight ? he had taken cases in which he defended corporations against their workers  --  - Brandeis had risen to national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ battling for civil service reform , and by befriending the unions . He had fought against the New Haven Railroad , in which many Boston patricians had stakes . The president of Harvard , A. Lawrence Lowell , circulated a petition against Brandeis , and a large number of Brahmins signed with him . On the other hand , the president emeritus of Harvard , Charles Eliot , wrote the Senate committee in favor of Brandeis , and so did nine of the eleven professors at the Harvard Law School . A. A. Berle , who was then serving as a Congregationalist minister in Boston , offered the best and oft-quoted summary of the attitude of the enemies of Brandeis : Long and unchallenged control of everything in the Commonwealth has given many of these gentlemen the perfectly natural feeling that whoever is not approved by them is ipso facto a person who is either " dangerous " or lacking in " judicial temperament " . . . They simply can not realize , and do not , that a long New England ancestry is not prima facie a trusteeship for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the real spring of most of the opposition . Hillel Rogoff said the same that spring in the Zukunft , the monthly of the Jewish socialists : Brandeis was opposed by those who refused to accept that a Jew who wanted to change society belonged in that ultimate temple of America , the Supreme Court . Seats on that bench were reserved , so they insisted , for people like themselves . Walter Lippmann , defending and supporting Brandeis , expressed this opinion in The New Republic : Brandeis was feared and distrusted only by " the powerful but limited community that dominated the business and social life of Boston . He was untrustworthy because he was troublesome . " The Brahmins of Boston had thus split in public over Brandeis 's nomination . President Lowell of Harvard wanted only respectable Jews , and not too many of them , on America 's public premises . Ex-President Eliot saw America , past and present , as constantly refreshing itself from new , even sometimes untamed , energies . On June 1 , 1916 , after a bitter and bruising fight , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the Senate was even more of a watershed than it appeared to he at the time . For years , the Jews of " downtown " had heel railing against the paternalism of ' the " uptown " Jews , but there had been little ( rut ( tsrn of their political attitudes . The " German Jews " had led the " Russians " in their fight against the czar , and against home-grown anti-Semitism . Now the Yiddish press was full of attacks on " Sha-sha Jews , " that is , on those who wanted the Jews to be inconspicuous and to make no waves . This attitude continued to harden following Brandeis 's confirmation . After he had been elevated to the Court , Brandeis had resigned all his other public positions , but he remained the undoubted , active leader and role model of the " Russian Jews . " II In providing political legitimacy for the East European immigrants and for their children , Brandeis was far more important in the critical second decade of the twentieth century than much more " Jewish " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Both of these men were Reform rabbis who had begun their careers in leading congregations of " German Jews , " but they had moved away , very quickly , to identify with the East Europeans . Wise was one of the earliest American Zionists ; he had joined the movement for the creation of a Jewish national home in Palestine before the turn of the century , and he was present in Basel as a delegate from America at the Second Zionist Congress in 1898 . Wise came back to New York in 1907 , after more than six years in Portland , Oregon . A few months earlier , he had been the leading candidate for the pulpit of Temple Emanu-El in New York , but he refused to agree that the lay board could censor his sermons . Wise made a public scandal of this altercation and he proceeded to create a platform of his own , the " Free Synagogue . " Wise was a major figure in the fight for the American Jewish Congress , but the leader was Brandeis . Magnes had begun his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in New York , the " cathedral " of Reform Judaism . In 1910 , he had left that pulpit because he was ever more uncomfortable with the antiZionism and anti-Orthodoxy that pervaded the congregation . Magnes identified ever more with the new immigrants . For the next years , until he became embattled and marginal as a pacifist opponent of America 's entry into the First World War , Magnes , the wellconnected and well-established " American " dew , was one of the preeminent leaders of the Yiddish-speaking ghetto . Nonetheless , neither of these figures could stare down such powerful representatives of the " German Jews " as Jacob Schiff or Magnes 's brother-in-law , Louis Marshall . Brandeis was the only American Jew who could challenge them from the left and in the name of the masses . He was the type of alienated aristocrat about whom Karl Marx had once talked when he explained the role of the Marquis de Lafayette in helping the dispossessed make the French Revolution . Jacob Schiff was Brandeis 's major target . Schiff was a man of enormous presence and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ member of Temple Emanu-El , Schiff helped in 1900 to reorganize the traditionalist Jewish Theological Seminary . Schiff had been born in Germany in an Orthodox family , and he retained much of the religious outlook of his youth . Schiff never did business on the Sabbath , even as he made it a practice to take a ride , grandly , in his carriage through Central Park on Sabbath afternoons . He went frequently to the Lower East Side , where he supported many social services and cultural institutions , to visit with his poorer brethren , and even to debate with them . On one fabled occasion Schiff announced at the Educational Alliance , in the very heart of the Lower East Side , that he could not possibly be a Zionist because his sensibility was divided into thirds : one part American , one part Jewish , and one part German ( that of the Kultur of his origins ) . A distinguished Zionist figure who was then living in America , Shmarya Levine , is reputed to have heckled him by asking : which third is which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as well as irreverence : are the thirds divided horizontally or vertically ? Reminiscing at Columbia University in 1968 , near the end of his life , David Dubinsky , leader of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union , told of clashes with the police , when he led demonstrations against the capitalist bosses in his radical youth . Often , he and his comrades were jailed ? but they were soon hailed out by Jacob Schiff , the archcapitalist Wall Street hanker . These stories are worth telling because they help to bring to Iiti ? the figure of an imperious hidalgo who did not avoid the immigrants by barricading himself in his Fifth Avenue mansion . Even his critics and enemies knew that Jacob Schiff was the towering figure ut American Jewry and by near total consent the greatest lay figure In . ill its history . Schiff had unbounded and very personal concern for all kinds of Jews , even for those with whom he vehemently disagreed , but he drew the line at the nationalist theories of Zionism . Schiff supported the Jewish Theological Seminary generously until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Solomon Schechter , over Zionism . He then cut off support , and he ceased coming on Sunday mornings to board and committee meetings . Instead he used that time to go to the Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx , making a point of letting it be known that he was helping to count the linen in the laundry . He soon relented and came back to active involvement in the seminary , but his opinions did not change . An American Jew could not be a Zionist , so Schiff argued , because that would call into question his loyalty to the United States ; one could not be , as the Zionists would have it , part of the Jewish nation and an American patriot at the same time . In 1916 , at the height of the fight with the Zionists over " the war aims " of the Jewish people , Schiff pronounced : It is quite evident that there is a serious break coming between those who wish to force the formation of a distinct Hebraic element in the United States , as distinct from those @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thought and action and Jews because of our religion as well as cultural attainments of our people . I am quite convinced of it that the American people will not willingly permit the formation of a large separate Hebraic group with national aspirations , and that if not we , our posterity are to become sufferers in consequence . Schiff and his peers were , of course , responding to the outcry at the turn of the century against " hyphenated " Americans . They feared that Zionism would help " prove " the nativist case , that Jews had a different agenda than that of the American majority , as defined by the nativists . Schiff did push , sometimes even imperiously , to get the American government to help Jews in distress , but he and his colleagues spoke always in the name of such general American values as freedom and equality for all . He never demanded of America that it change its own self-definition in any respect . Schiff was the " king of the Jews " until his authority was challenged by Louis Dembitz Brandeis . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the " Russians " outnumbered the " Germans " by ten to one . Sonic of the East Europeans had quickly prospered in America . The more affluent had already established " second settlements " in Brooklyn and Harlem . Nevertheless , August 1914 was a turning point , and not merely because the events of the next three years hastened the process of this " ethnic succession . " What happened during the war years was no mere change of leaders ; it was a revolution in the very content of American Jewish politics . The " Germans " had labored to achieve acceptance in America ; the " Russians " pushed their angularities on the American majority . III The heightened vulnerability of the Jews in Eastern Europe after the outbreak of the First World War brought on the shift to Zionism in America . The front of hostilities between the Central Powers ( Germany and Austria-Hungary ) and the czarist empire ran through Poland and the Ukraine . This was the major center ofJewish population in the world , for it included the Russian " Pale of Settlement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which Jews were permitted to live ; it also included Galicia , the southern part of Poland , which had been acquired by the Austrian Empire in the Partition of Poland at the end of the eighteenth century . Most of the hundreds of thousands of recent Jewish immigrants to the United States had come from this region . Every family had immediate relatives in the path of war . The situation of Jews in the war zone was particularly bad because the czarist regime had not relented in its anti-Semitic policies . It was all the worse for Jews because the advancing German armies were received as liberators ; as the tide of battle changed and the Germans and Austrians retreated , Jews were attacked by the returning czarist authorities as spies and traitors . Even where there was no direct persecution , the Jews lacked food , shelter , and medical attention . l hind reds of thousands of underemployed Jewish poor had had all too little of the necessities of life in peacetime . In war , when there was no work , the situation was simply disastrous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disruption of communications largely stoppee ' the normal remittances from relatives in America . The Immediate reaction of American Jews to the war was to organize several relict organizations . The German newish leaders , Jacob Schiff , Louis Marshall , and Felix Warburg , Sclriff 's son-in-law and banking partner , convoked a meeting in October 1914 to establish the American Jewish Relief Committee . At the same time , the Orthodox community founded its own body , the Central Relief Committee . Within a month these two groups agreed to create the Joint Distribution Committee of American Funds for the Relief of Jewish War Sufferers . The Jewish unions remained aloof for a year ; they supported their own People 's Relief Committee . By 1915 , they , too , agreed to work through the Joint Distribution Committee . All three of these groups which constituted the " Joint " ( as it was popularly called ) raised money separately , but their representatives sat together on the board of the operating agency . The lion 's share of the money ( more than two-thirds of the thirty-eight @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1920 ) came , of course , from the rich , who were the " German Jews . " The other groups deferred to them ? but the creation of the " Joint " was a turning point . It was the first major step forward for the East Europeans . The " monopoly " of the " German Jews " in the field of Jewish foreign policy had ended . The " Germans " and the " Russians " had sat together in the New York Kehillah , but the " Joint " marked the first time that the " Russian Jews " were admitted as equals in an endeavor on behalf of the Jews of the world . Most of the " German Jews " remained opposed to Zionism , but one cause involving the Yishuv , the settlement in Palestine , did unite all elements of American Jewry . In 1915 , after the Turks entered the war , they became highly suspicious of the Jews of Palestine , on the correct assumption that the new Zionist settlers favored the Allies . The Turkish military governor ordered all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ actually forced to leave . The majority went to Egypt . This expulsion was ended by the intervention of Turkey 's principal ally , the German government ; it did not want the Jews of America to be alienated . The ambassador of the United States in Constantinople ( now Istanbul ) , Henry Morgenthau , Sr. , spoke forcefully to the Turkish government but , even more important , he helped to organize relief for the Yishuv . A neutral , American ship , the Vulcan , came through the Mediterranean in 1915 with food and medical supplies . The bill was paid by the Joint Distribution Committee , the organization in which German and Russian Jews collaborated . Indeed , the " Joint " spent almost fifteen million dollars in support of the Yishuv during the war years . The rationale for this action was that those who were not Zionists ? that is , those who did not share the state-building purposes of the Zionist settlers ? would not , on that ground , discriminate against these pioneers when they were in need of humanitarian assistance . Some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of " humanitarian aid " to recognize that the " Russian Jews " had won yet another battle . The Zionist efforts in Palestine were now on everyone 's budget . A pattern was set for the future : financial aid would be extended to the Yishuv by a united American Jewish community so long as humanitarian concerns would be used as the explanation . On this basis , the Zionists could tap the resources of those who opposed nationalist ideology , and the non-Zionists could express their belonging to the extended family of all Jews while talking about the universal value of kindness to the downtrodden . This pragmatic alliance , to cooperate in relief efforts , worked well , then and later , but the Zionists and their opponents could not help but engage in raucous public battle with each other . The big question was political , the future of East European Jewry : Could their lives be restored and even improved after the war in the places in which they lived ? Was it more likely that many Jews would not be able to find a place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ solution , of establishing a Jewish homeland in Palestine , be embraced even by those who were not in ideological sympathy with Jewish nationalism , because such a homeland would offer a place for many Jews who would have to leave the countries of their birth ? Should one , indeed , agree with the Zionists that the only permanent solution to anti-Semitism , and to the homelessness of the Jews , was in a Jewish state ? The preliminary skirmishes on these issues occurred almost immediately , in the fall of 1914 . The " German Jews " had fought hard in America against restrictive immigration bills , and they were to continue the fight during and after the war . This battle was a matter of honor ; they really did not want more immigrants . The existing last Sides were problem enough . The consensus in German Jewish circles was that Jews in danger in the war zones should not be encouraged to emigrate ; they needed to be supported until a better time would conic in their own countries . The old-line American Jews were not merely @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States . They refused to abandon the battle for a worldwide democratic order , f ( ( rr that would imply a lack of faith in the future of democracy even in America . One simply could not surrender on the insistence that Jews had as much right as anyone else to a future in their native lands . This was not simply or even primarily an ideological debate about what direction American Jews would give their " unfortunate brethren " in Europe . In practice , both sides soon agreed to help both those in need in Europe and the emigrants regardless of destination ; few doubted that there ought to be special concern for the settlers in Palestine . But , unlike the " German Jews , " the immigrant masses were using their allegiance to Zionism to say something about themselves . They felt themselves to be an ethnic group , an extended family , a " peculiar people " in America . They would not pretend , as the " German Jews " more than half believed , that they were a religious denomination or a bunch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Their chosen leader , Brandeis , might talk in such rhetoric , as he defined Zionism as a variation on the ideals of Progressivism in American politics . But the mass of East Europeans knew better . Zionism was for them a way of asserting folk feeling . American Zionism was an emotion and not an ideology . Zionism , in theory , insisted that the Jews were everywhere in exile , even in America . The recent immigrants , and their children , who were beginning to edge their way into American life , believed that proposition no more than they believed the rhetoric of the " German Jews . " Despite their problems with sweatshop owners and with antiSemites , the immigrants believed that America was different from all the previous habitations of the Jews . Before 1914 , Zionism in America had thus already defined itself as fundamentally different from Zionism in Europe . For the Europeans , Zionism meant that its adherents had banged the door shut on the surrounding culture , and that they looked to the possibility of emigrating to a new life in Palestine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigrants who had made the decision not long before in Europe to leave for the United States and not for Palestine . They could hardly be asserting that their coming to the New World had been a mistake , and that Zionism required of them that they repack their bags and leave for Palestine . American Zionism existed to help the pioneers and to take pride in them . Those who were constructing this sentimental , unideological program knew that theirs was a different brand of Zionism , and they were capable of self-mockery . The remark was going around in American Zionist circles as early as the 189os that an American Zionist was someone who gives someone else a five-dollar contribution to send a European Jew to Palestine . But after 1914 , those five dollars meant much more than the gibe implied . The donors were now bonding together to throw off the yoke of the " German Jews " and to enter the American political process . The late summer of 1914 brought with it a further and decisive turning point in the self-understanding of American Zionism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ centuries , Jews in the Diaspora had been dependent on the goodwill of others . They were a people without a country of their own and without an army ; they could only implore aggressors to be kind . Even after the Jews were made , by law , into equal citizens , their powerlessness remained a problem . The laws might proclaim the right of Jews to absolute equality , but these laws were not obeyed , or ignored and flouted . The modern Zionist movement arose out of a tragic assessment ; wherever the majority society was heavily influenced by antiSemitism , laws that proclaimed equality would not be heeded . Jews had to acquire some power which was securely in their own hands . The identification of the " Russian Jews " with Zionism was deeply rooted in anger at their powerlessness . They were being told repeatedly that they were inferior both by the " German Jews " and by Gentiles . By acting as Zionists , these immigrants ceased being silent proteges of the " German Jews . " By demanding power in the American Jewish @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jews " speak for them to the Gentiles , the immigrants had taken the first major step toward refusing to remain " on approval " in America . IV On August 30 , 1914 , there was a Zionist meeting in New York to face the new problems that had been brought on by the outbreak of the war . The headquarters of the World Zionist Organization were in Berlin , and the members of its executive were scattered on both sides of the war fronts . The American Zionist movement , because it was situated in the greatest of the neutral countries , was asked to take over many of the responsibilities of the World Zionist Orga- nization , especially the concern for the nascent Zionist settlements in Palestine . At this meeting Brandeis was elected chairman of the Provisional Executive Committee for General Zionist Affairs . In effect this meant that he had become the leader of American Zionism . In his acceptance speech , Brandeis spoke with total frankness . He admitted that he had been " to a great extent separated from Jews " and that he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had become identified with Jews because of their " deep moral feeling " and he cared about " the young Jewish Renaissance in the Holy Land . " Brandeis warned that this " child of pain and sacrifice faces death from starvation . " He accepted the office because he had come to " feel that the Jewish people have something which should be saved for the world ; that the Jewish people should be preserved ; and that it is our duty to pursue that method of saving which most promises success . " Until that day in August 1914 , Brandeis 's East European followers were the poor relatives of the World Zionist movement . They had provided little money and no political or intellectual distinction . Suddenly they were the custodians of the whole of the Zionist future . Brandeis , a great name in America , one of the " German Jews , " a kind of Moses who had grown up in the court of pharaoh , and then returned to them , had come to lead them . That August day held another critical turning @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of things Jewish , but he felt no need to study Talmud or learn Hebrew as a prerequisite to Zionist leadership . It was more than enough , in his mind , that he identified Jews and Judaism with a passion for morality and intelligence , and that he set before himself , and American Jews as a whole , the labor for Zion as their common task . In effect , Brandeis had presented Zionism in America not as an outgrowth of Jewish history and tradition , which he did not know , but as their total replacement . Brandeis defined Zionism as a set of high-minded political and economic labors for Zion . Thus , while Brandeis provided prestige to the masses , he was even more important to them because he helped them define themselves . It was Brandeis who made legitimate in American Jewry the severing of Jewishness from Judaism , including even the new Judaism of the Zionist settlers in Palestine ? in the name of Zionism . ' I'hr fourndier of the modern Zionist niovenu ? nt , Theodor- 1 Irril , who was almost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , had done this before , but the bulk of his followers had opposed him on these issues . The European Zionist movement had identified itself ever more closely with the building of national Hebraic culture . Zionism without culture , a movement that had fund-raising and the mounting of political pressure as its content , existed only in America . The American environment as a whole played a shaping role in defining this local brand of Zionism . European Zionists lived in countries where ideologies were taken seriously ; the New World has very seldom been the home of deep ideological ferment , for Americans have usually been doers rather than thinkers . Even recent immigrants , such as the first generation of American Zionists , responded to the majority culture by fashioning their Zionism into a set of tangible acts instead of a national ideology . Deeds were , of course , more accessible to the mass of Jews than ideas . These predispositions were accentuated , and very nearly cast in concrete , by the events of the war years . This was not the time for publication @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in deep reflections on the meaning ofJewish history . The Yishuv , the Jewish settlement in Palestine , was under the hostile rule of the Turks , and it had to be safeguarded . The time demanded that American Jews come to the rescue by exerting political pressure and sending money and supplies . In the early months of 1915 agitation began first in England and then in the United States for the Zionist movement to identify with the cause of the Allies . The British government was pressured to accept an all Jewish detachment into its armed forces . If Jews fought in the war as a national unit , so the argument went , then the Jewish people would be recognized as a cobelligerent with a right to make claims at the peace table . The men available for such a unit were Russian immigrants to England ( until late in the war , the British army was all volunteer ) and their cousins in the United States , before it entered the war in 1917 . Young Jews who had been born in Czarist Russia were not eager @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was therefore proposed ; the Jews as a people could point to their share in the victory and they would have the right to ask at war 's end for a homeland in Palestine . The Zion Mule Corps was organized in 191 i a1110llg the IZussi.ur e wish intnrigr , urts to Great Britain . This supply runt took part in the Gallipoli c.rntpaign , the abortive attempt by Britain to tot ( L. the I ) . rrd ? urelles St , Alts . Because the Zion Mule Corps was in action against Turkey , which possessed Palestine , Jews had at least shared in a battle for the liberation of their homeland . Jews had fought under a battalion flag of their own on a war front that included the ancestral home of the Jews . After the failure of the action at Gallipoli , Great Britain disbanded the Zion Mule Corps . Its volunteers went back to England , but the notion of helping the military liberation of Palestine was not dead . Quite on the contrary , two young men who were then already leading figures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived in New York from Palestine in 1915 . They came to organize a Jewish unit to fight as part of the British army on the battle line between the British and Turks on the very borders of Palestine . It took more than two years of effort to persuade the British to accept such a unit , but the result was two battalions which were attached to the Royal Fusiliers . Ben-Zvi and Ben-Gurion , and a number of men whom they had enlisted while America was still neutral , found their way through Canada to the recruiting offices for these two battalions ; one of the two units consisted mainly of volunteers from America . In the spring of 1918 , these two battalions were sent to Egypt . These Jewish units actually fought on the front in the campaign to conquer Palestine , and they were in the country by the end of the war . The Balfour Declaration had already been issued on November 2 , 1917 . Great Britain had declared , through its foreign secretary , that it favored the establishment of a Jewish national @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ military formation under its own flag was of great symbolic and emotional significance to the Jews . Here was the kernel of a Jewish army in the Jewish Palestine . The number of Jews who actually went to fight in Palestine was not large . There were some eight hundred , of whom about two hundred came from the United States , but hearts were lifted in America by high-flown words about " the first Jewish army since BarKochba " ( he had been the commander of the last revolt against Rome in the years 132-35 ) . There were meetings all over the country in praise of the soldiers of the Jewish people . The American Jews had helped out with money . They had saved the Jewish settlement from hunger and expulsion by the Turks , and they had supported the cause of the Jewish fighting battalions . In return , American dews received a glorious sense of their own power and oftheir participation in the renaissance of Jewish power iii the land of ' the ancestors . V The skirmishes , the guerrilla warfare , and the pitched @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Russians " culminated in one titanic fight : whether to organize a countrywide , representative body , the American Jewish Congress . Of their own free will , American Jews had created many organizations , both large and small , but there was no structure that encompassed all American Jews . Therefore , no orderly way existed to create a consensus about the " war aims " of the American Jewish community . This situation was essentially comfortable for the " German Jews , " who had created the American Jewish Committee in 1906 to represent their political views . The members of this body were a small , self-chosen elite of the rich and " American " Jews , and they preferred to continue to make policy without interference from the Jewish masses . The only way in which Brandeis and his associates could challenge this plutocracy was by insisting on the pernicious doctrine of " one man , one vote " in Jewish affairs . This meant that those who had money would be expected to continue to pay the bills for Jewish needs while being denied control of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ almost from the beginning . Emotions were running high at the sight of European Jews in trouble , but , more important , it was difficult to argue in a democratic America against democracy in Jewish life . There was much infighting and intrigue , but within two years , the " German Jews " had lost the battle . In the end , the " Germans " had to agree to the calling of elections throughout the United States for an American Jewish Congress , in which the delegates would vote on the " war aims " of American Jewry . A preparatory session of the American Jewish Congress took place in Philadelphia in 1916 , where Stephen Wise spoke for the Zionists ; they wanted , " not relief but redress , not palliation but prevention , not charity but justice . " Thus the Zionists , who were at the head of the vast majority of the East Europeans , announced their independence from the ( ; ermau Jewish philanthropists . Internal Jewish politics made it difficult to proceed to immediate elections for the American Jewish Congress . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( this was the first such act in American history ) . Wilson suggested to Brandeis that such a Jewish demon- stration would be inopportune at that stage of the war . The elections were postponed until the spring of 1918 . One element in immigrant Jewry , the left-wing socialists , boycotted the election because it was , then , still opposed to the Zionists , who were in control of the movement for the American Jewish Congress . The masses refused to follow this socialist splinter among the immigrants . Hundreds of thousands of votes were cast , and it was a nearly complete victory for the Zionists . In an imperfect world , it could not be doubted that the results were largely representative . When the meeting finally took place in December 1918 , the American Jewish Congress agreed by overwhelming majority to push for a Jewish national homeland in Palestine . The representatives of the American Jewish Committee , who were present under the leadership of Louis Marshall , succeeded in softening the resolution so that it was not an outright insistence on a Jewish state @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to a united American Jewish delegation to lobby at the future peace conference . There were , however , some people in this group , most notably Cyrus Adler ( speaking , so everyone presumed , for Jacob Schiff ) , who remained in opposition . In Adler 's view , if Zionist aspirations were a cause of any prominence at the peace conference , the anti-Semites in the new successor states to the Austro-Hungarian and Russian empires would simply be able to say to Jews : " Get out to your own homeland . " On March 2 , 1919 , a delegation from the American Jewish Congress presented a memorial to President Wilson asking him to support the Balfour Declaration . The anti-Zionists in the American Jewish Committee , including Adolph Ochs , the publisher of The New York Times , refused to go along with their own more moderate leaders , who had participated in the American Jewish Congress . On March 5 , 1919 , they published their own memorial of " warning and protest . " They were opposed to the " demands of the Zionists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ethnic entity in America and to the creation of Jewish territorial sovereignty in Palestine . " The American Jewish Congress had been envisioned as a continuing body , a voluntary parliament of American Jewry . This did not happen , because after the war almost all the groups , except the Zionists , preferred to go their own ways . Nevertheless , the victory of the Zionists in forcing even this one sheeting in Philadelphia was a great turning point in American Jewish life . The East European immigrants had used the only weapon that they really possessed , their numbers and their passion , in the only forum in which these assets mattered , in the first election that American Jews had ever held on a nationwide basis . The moderate majority among the " German Jews " did not simply walk away , not then , during the fight for the American Jewish Congress , or later . They led in supporting relief efforts which helped Jews in need everywhere and especially the Zionist settlements in Palestine . Numbers mattered . The Zionists had acquired mass support . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ been less than 12,000 ; within four years there were 176,000 members in the American Zionist Federation , and more belonged to a variety of smaller Zionist bodies . In the next several years , Zionist strength grew some . Membership then dropped dramatically . But , despite ups and downs in the Zionist rolls , the feelings of the East European majority of American Jews remained consistent : the Jews were a worldwide people , and Jews in trouble were safest and best off in their own land . At times of upset and danger like the First World War ( or , later , in the Hitler years ) , this emotion translated itself into rising Zionist membership . Whether organized or unorganized , the masses of the East Europeans had made an irrevocable choice : they thought of themselves not as " Americans of the Jewish faith , " but as members of a people . The mainstream of the German Jewish establishment moved toward the " Russian Jews , " for they would not abandon or alienate themselves from their larger family . The self-definition of " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ theory , but in real life it was displaced by the label , non-Zionist ? not an opponent of Zionism , but a fellow traveler , who cared about the Jews in Palestine , but who did not adhere to a nationalist definition of the Jewish people . Some years earlier , before the rift over the calling of the American Jewish Congress , Louis Marshall had even learned Yiddish in order to he able to contntunicate with the immigrants ; his influence in the American Jewish Committee was toward moderate , nonconfrontamonist policies . Felix Warburg , Jacob Schiff 's son-in-law , continued to ooper.rte with the Zionists in nonpolitical concerns , including the pltst.rl and tilt oral rcnaiss , utce in newish Palestine . Men like Louis Marshall and Felix Warburg were religious believers ; they knew that helping people ( and especially Jews ) had been commanded by God . But they also wanted to belong to the Jewish people ? and the masses of that people , the immigrants , had moved in a few short years from being a protectorate of the " German Jews " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The total opponents of Zionism among the " German Jews , " the old believers of Reform Judaism , had been pushed to the margin . Virtually all the " Russian Jews " would remain poor , and all would be semi-alien , for another generation , but by the early 1920s , they had become the dominant force in American Jewry . The children of the immigrants had to fight for power in America , not least because Congress kept telling them that they were really not wanted . The Constitution of the United States guaranteed equality for all citizens , but even in law that promise was not kept until 1965 . For more than forty years the immigration law had been biased , overtly and without apology , against Jews , Slays , and Italians . They were admitted to the United States in small numbers to ensure that the population of the country would continue to be dominated by the descendants of immigrants from Northern and Western Europe . Congress had implicitly declared that some people were better than others ; America wanted more tall , blond @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I ) uring the war over American immigration policy which had begun in the t ti9os , two propositions had been advanced by those who wanted to close the doors of America . The first was a basic premise , thought to he so self-evident that it needed no proof : the American population must continue to consist , iii its majority , of descendants of the earliest , prerevolutionary white Anglo-Saxon Protestants . Statistics were produced , with supposedly impressive scholarly authority behind them , to " prove " that American society was barely in its majority of such composition , and that further immigration of Slays , Italians , and Jews would tip the balance in an " un-American " direction . It was argued , further , that the original American stock would be flawed by the introduction of more such immigrants , because Slays , Italians , and Jews were of a lower intellectual and moral stature ? and statistics were invoked to " prove " that Slays , Italians , and Jews were unintelligent , indeed that they were the least bright of all the groups @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ war years , immigration became a more important issue . Most of the Jews of Europe lived in the borderlands where the Russians fought the Austro-Hungarians and the Germans . By 1917 , at least one million on both sides were refugees . Jewish relief efforts , which emphasized the great suffering of these refugees , could only suggest , both to friends and enemies , that there would be large-scale emigration as soon as the war was over . This became even more certain after the armistice in November 1918 . The Bolshevik Revolution was at that time a year old . Several counterrevolutionary armies were trying to overthrow the Reds , and the newly created Polish army was attempting to advance into Russia . Between 1919 and 1921 , at least sixty thousand Jews were slaughtered in this region , some by the Poles and most by the Ukrainians , often under the pretense that Jews were supporters of the Bolsheviks . Both Zionists and " German Jews " were eager to help the sufferers , but in radically different ways . The Zionists maintained that Jews in trouble @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Palestine . Zionists and non-Zionists joined in fighting hard and successfully for guarantees of equality before the law in all the states , including Poland , which had been created by the peace treaty of 1919 . These men sincerely believed that Eastern Europe would settle down after the war into a culture of parliamentary democracy . Many even added the hope that the Bolshevik regime , which they did not like because it was Communist , would in its own way treat Jews with fairness and equality . For a very short while , a wish bordering on f:uitasy existed among those who opposed the pessimism of the Zionists about the future of the Jews in Europe that many who had already come to the United States would want to return to their original homes . The reverse was true . Jews in Eastern Europe were undergoing no renaissance ; they were being murdered by the thousands . The Joint Distribution Committee acted courageously , sending relief wherever possible during the fighting between the Bolsheviks and White Russians , and during the Polish-Russian War . The Jewish effort was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as it detested Bolshevism , had allowed a commission under Herbert Hoover to raise and spend millions between 1919 and 1921 in revolutionary Russia to alleviate suffering . Jewish relief continued even after the Hoover Commission ceased to function . These humanitarian endeavors were not attacked in the United States , even at the height of the Red Scare of 1919-21 . The leaders of the Joint Distribution Committee were " German Jews " who were beyond suspicion of Communism . The sight of the horrors in Eastern Europe moved the chairman of the House Immigration Committee , Albert Johnson , to propose a two-year suspension of immigration , as an emergency measure until a permanent policy could be worked out . Early in 1921 , Johnson reported to the House that East European Jews had come through Ellis Island in great numbers in the previous few months . He quoted an unnamed officer of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society as saying , " If there was in existence a ship that would hold three million human beings , the three million Jews of Poland would board it to escape to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Jews , Johnson quoted Wilbur S. Carr , the head of the United States Consular Service . Carr had surveyed the conditions at a number of ports in Europe , and found that the Polish Jews were the worst of all the potential immigrants . They were " filthy , un-American and often dangerous in their habits . . . lacking any conception of patriotism or national spirit . " As we have seen , something like this had been said almost a century earlier , in the 183os , by a British traveler ? and repeated by American observers ? about the " German Jews , " who were then trading on Chatham Street in New York . Though the forces pushing for immigration restrictions had not forgotten their distaste for Slays and Italians , Jews were still their main target . When hearings were held in the Senate on the proposed legislation , Jewish representatives testified , chiefly to deny that there was any probability of large-scale immigration from Poland . Some of the Jewish leaders , even among the " Russian Jews , " were admitting in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but they opposed quotas on Polish Jews as an affront to the Jews already in America . The Senate committee heard comparable opinions from representatives of American business , and it therefore agreed that there was no immediate emergency . The Senate substituted its own proposal for an immigration law ? it decided to limit the numbers of new arrivals to three percent of the foreign-born of each national group who were present in the United States according to the census of 1910 . The House concurred in the Senate version . This bill was signed by Warren Harding in May 1921 . For the first time in all of American history , immigration restrictions based on national origins had become law . The editorial writers of the Yiddish press knew exactly what had happened . In the words of the Morgen Journal : " Our kin is fleeing from persecution both individual and governmental , and the question of emigration is to most of our brethren one of life or death , not merely of economic betterment . We are more hopeful than others that in the end the portals @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and religious persecution . " This hope would not be realized . On the contrary , the pressure kept mounting for an even more restrictive immigration policy . There were two new notes in the antiforeign outcry : the fear of the Bolsheviks , that more radicals would come from Russia to join the deplorable number who were already present in the United States , and the supposed certainties of eugenics as a way of controlling the quality of human population . In 1919 , A. Mitchell Palmer , the red-baiting attorney general of the United States , went looking for the Bolsheviks in America . He used the Justice Department 's Bureau of Investigation ( forerunner of the Federal Bureau of Investigation ) to help in the tracking down of Communists . Palmer had no particular bias against the Jews , but his campaign against Communism lent itself to such uses . Jews were prominent among Communists , both in Russia and in the United States . A forgery of a generation earlier , the Protocols of the Elders of Zion , was published in the United States in 1919 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conspiracy to dominate the world , and that this conspiracy was directed by a central body of influential Jews . The Protocols of the Elders of Zion had most probably been concocted twenty years earlier by the secret police of the Russian czar to justify his anti-Semitic policies . Henry Ford , the most famous industrialist in America , financed a daily newspaper in his hometown of Dearborn , Michigan , The Dearborn Independent , which had this fantasy reprinted in hundreds of thousands of copies . The Protocols made it possible to believe that Jewish capitalists like the Rothschilds and Communists like Leon Trotsky were all part of the same power directorate , and that these known leaders were controlled by even more mysterious and remote figures . This theory of Jewish world conspiracy would thus " explain " the success of the Bolshevik Revolution ? and it could act as a warning against allowing the Jews to extend their wealth and power in any society , including the United States . On the basis of this forgery , Ford 's paper became the chief trumpet of anti-Semitism in America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Jewish Communism was that it had just sufficient truth in it to make the tale plausible to Jewhaters . Though Communism was never a strong force in America , not even in its salad days before and during the Russian Revolution , Jews were very prominent in the movement . In the 1920s , there were approximately fifteen thousand enrolled members of the Communist party of the United States ; the Yiddish-speaking section represented about one-tenth of the membership , but Jews were also very important in the English-speaking section which numbered , by 1925 , 2,282 of the total membership of 16,325 . This rising membership was motivated by domestic exclusions in America , but it reflected , as well , the large initial sympathy within the Jewish community for the Bolshevik Revolution . In the earliest years of the new regime , both Jewish religion and Jewish nationalism were persecuted , and their institutions were essentially outlawed , but the Soviet Union slid allow and encourage secular Jewish culture in Yiddish . In the 19205 there was substantial sympathy for the Soviet Union among many Jews who abhorred Communism @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bolshevik regime was perceived , then , as the one government in the world which actively fought antiSc mitisni and fostered Yiddish culture . Jews were thus a striking , obvious , easy to find element in American Communism , and the " defense " of the country against subversion could , and was , easily translated into lessening the numbers and the power of Jews in America . The old outcry against Jews , Slays , and Italians was given additional respectability by the supposed science of eugenics . In 1911 , the American Breeders Association had commissioned a study to find " the practical means for cutting off the defective germ-plasm in the American population . " The conclusions of the study were published three years later . The authors were supremely confident that they could point out scientifically the bearers of defective genes , such as " the feeble-minded class " and the " pauper class , " as well as the bearers of epilepsy and insanity . Sterilization was the defensive measure of choice to protect the population . Such thoughts were sufficiently respectable so that Louis @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ immigration , was a member of the expert advisory committee . He clearly did not foresee that theories about eugenics would be used in a very few years to help curtail the immigration of " undesirables " from Europe . The secretary of the committee , Harry H. Laughlin , was the scholar who would reassure the House Immigration Committee in 1924 that it did well by the Republic when it passed the new immigration law in the spring of that year . Under this bill , quotas were now based on figures from 189o , when the foreign-born from Southern and Eastern Europe were much fewer . The result was that less than 6,00o Jews could be admitted in any year from Poland , about 2,000 from Russia , and 600 from Romania . These were the countries from which almost all Jews had come in the past . Italians were no better off ; less than 4,000 would be allowed to come to America in any one year . In contrast , the quota for Germany was s 1 , 000 , for Great Britain and Northern Ireland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State . Switzerland was allocated almost as many places as Russia ; Norway had more than 6 , 000 and Sweden had more than 9,000 . The bias of the law was clear . Hearings were held in November 1924 , when the committee already had in front of it the figures on arriving immigrants in the fiscal year which had ended June 30 . More than 6o,000 Italian immigrants and 50,000 Jews had arrived . I lenry Laughlin told the committee the truth when he defined the basis of the new law as the assertion that " immigration into the United States . . . is primarily a biological problem , and secondarily a problem in economics and charity . " The committee had adopted an immigration policy on " the biological basis . " Lest the committee have any second thoughts about the " biological basis " of the quota law , Laughlin used very recent " scientific " evidence from army experts which " proved " that people from Southern and Eastern Europe were intellectually and morally inferior . He paraded the results of standardized intelligence tests which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hundred thousand draftees into the American army after the United States entered the war . The categories of analysis ranged from the " very superior , " persons who were " capable of high-class creative work , " to " very inferior , " that is , the kind of person in whose case it was " doubtful if the value of labor equals cost of supervision . " In five elaborate tables Laughlin reiterated the same message : of all the recent immigrants , the English were the most intelligent , and Russians , Greeks , Italians , Belgians , and Poles were almost totally stupid . American Negroes , though much less intelligent than native-born whites , were three times as bright as the Belgians , seven times as intelligent as the Poles , and fifty percent brighter than the Russians . It did not seem to have occurred either to the army psychologists or to Dr. Laughlin that the intelligence tests were based on schooling in , and comprehension of , standard English , and that Negroes and recent immigrants , even the Einsteins among them , were @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of this study , and those who used it against the people whom they regarded as " undesirable , " were not motivated by pure , self-critical zeal for scientific truth . There was more than a breath of the doctrine of Aryan supremacy in the air . Congress overwhelmingly supported this law , while the opposition to it was divided . Though the National Catholic Welfare Conference had called the Johnson Act of 1921 racist , and the Federal Council of Churches , of the Protestants , asked for restrictions on trnniigration not based on race , neither group testified at the congressrlln , ll hearings in 1924 . Even Jewish congressmen , such as Emanuel ' eller of New York , were willing to accept immigration quotas if the base year were kept at 191o , and not the lunch more restrictive i Mon. ( ) n the surtae e ? , tll dews , " ( ; ernuui " and " Russian " alike , were united in opposrrii , , the law , but the " German Jews " were visibly upset bv the Red Se . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( ( ( rrr Hebrew had THE JEWS IN AMERICA published an editorial in which it warned that " the immigrants from Russia and Austria will be coming from countries infected with Bolshevism and it will require more than a superficial effort to make good citizens out of them . " Two years later , in September 1921 , this same journal was busy trumpeting the one hundred percent Americanism of the Jews . Louis Marshall , who remained firm in opposing any attempt to restrict immigration , wrote in 1921 to Israel Zangwill , the Anglo-Jewish man of letters and politics , that a large number of Jews who disliked the new immigrants were actually on the side of restriction . In the mid-1920S , the second generation , the children of the immigrants , was still young and largely inarticulate . Its spokesmen did not participate in the debate about immigration , but the passage of the law taught these children of immigrants a bitter lesson . They were second-class citizens in America . They were , at best , on approval . To be sure , Henry Ford @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was bad for business . Ford cars were being boycotted by Jews and by some liberal Christians . Ford wrote a letter to Louis Marshall withdrawing his anti-Semitic allegations , and he closed down The Dearborn Independent . This was a victory of sorts , but fundamental damage had been done . Red-baiting and nativism set the seal on a conviction that was widely held in the 19205 by people who did not consider themselves Jew-haters . Jews were not seen as individuals ; they were attacked as a group for being different and clannish , with a tendency toward political radicalism . But the Jews learned something . Jews read the victory as a result not of a change of heart by Ford but as his bowing to the power that they had marshaled against him . This incident was an important lesson in a truth about America : it is better to depend on power than on goodwill . In the face of attacks by the anti-Semites , the Jewish leadership of the 1920s was back where their predecessors had been in the 189os . They were again forced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the making of America . The American Jewish publications of those years were full of lists of Jews who had achieved honorific positions in politics and in law and medicine . These lists were sad reading , and not only because such apologetics could never convince anti-Semites that they were wrong . " The numbers that could be found were small , far less than the proportion of the Jews in the American population as a whole ( it was then three and a half percent ) . Three centuries earlier the Puritans had created their commonwealth to include only the elect . Jews were particularly alien , because only the Puritans understood the truth of the Bible ; unconverted Jews were subversive . In the 1920S , these notions , in up-to-date versions , now dominated immigration policy and much of American social thought . There were inferior races who had to be kept out , and kept at a distance even after they arrived . Jews were particularly problematic , because they had a marked propensity to radical or revolutionary ideology . Before the onset of the Second World @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personal decision about his education and career . At every turn , the fact of his Jewishness meant that many , if not most , options were simply not available to him . There was a fence around Jews . II In the 19205 and 19305 , American-born Jews in New York and Chicago were almost as much in the ghetto as Polish-speaking Jews in Warsaw or Romanian-speaking Jews in Bucharest . To be sure , there were no pogroms in America and little physical violence , but many occupations excluded Jews entirely . Despite the protests of their enemies that the Jews controlled banking and finance , the opposite was true . Jews had remained a minority on Wall Street , even as America was experiencing its stock-market fever in the years before the Crash of October 1929 . There was an effective ban on allowing the Jews into the banking business . Banks could be created only through state or national charter . Only one such charter had ever been issued to Jewish owners , to a New York concern called the Bank of the United States . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the most solvent . It was forced into bankruptcy because none of the larger banks would give the Jewish-owned bank any help in weathering the crisis . The few Jews who held jobs in banking , even at the lowest rungs of management , were usually those who hid their origins . In the insurance industry , almost no Jews could be found in the central management of the various firms . Thousands of Jews were independent agents . Such endeavors were white-collar versions ofpush ( art peddhug ; the insurance companies were willing to make a profit on whatever policies these petty Jewish businessmen would sell . The situation was the same in heavy industry ; the management of the steel and the coal companies , and the auto manufacturers , were simply closed to Jews . The barriers in education were equally formidable . Before the early 192os , Jews who applied were admitted quite freely to Ivy League schools . The Jewish proportion at Yale rose from two percent in 1901 to thirteen percent in 1925 . At Harvard the proportion was seven percent in 1900 and twenty-one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it leaked from Harvard that a Jewish quota was being imposed . Jews had become so prominent that they were changing the character of the colleges and challenging Gentile supremacy . President A. Lawrence Lowell of Harvard , who had led the attack against Brandeis , defended the idea of a quota by suggesting that if " every college in the country would take a limited proportion of Jews , we should go a long way toward eliminating race feeling among the students . " Lowell was forced to retract his view because of public outrage , but in actual fact the proportion of Jews in the Harvard student body went down after this incident . At Yale , a decision was made that students should henceforth be admitted on the basis of " character " rather than strictly on scholarship . Dean Frederick Jones had found that " every single scholarship of any value is won by a Jew " and " that we could not allow that to go on , we must put a ban on the Jews . " He agreed that " in terms of scholarship @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their personal characteristics make them markedly inferior . " At Columbia a Jewish proportion of forty percent in 1920 was cut in half within two years . The quotas in the medical schools forced many hundreds of young Jews to go abroad , to schools in various countries in Europe , especially to Italy , for their medical education . Even after they graduated , Jewish doctors were still in trouble ; the Gentile-controlled hospitals allowed very few Jews to join their staffs . In the 1920S and 1930s , Jewish hospitals existed not so much to take care of Jewish patients as to provide places in which Jewish doctors could practice . There were so few Jewish professors in the American medical schools that medical education and research were essentially closed to Jews . Jewish doctors had little choice but to enter private practice . This was equally true of the Jewish lawyers , for there were very few Jewish firms ? and the non-Jewish firms simply ( 1ic1 not hire Jews . A Jewish lawyer could only hang up a shingle and hope to build a personal practice . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a lesser part of the problem . At least in theory , the administrators who had enacted these exclusions had tried to " explain " that Jews could be assimilated only in small , dispersed numbers . There was no such pretense at the top of American intellectual life . The most modern American writers , Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald , mentioned Jews only to insist that they were irretrievably outsiders . The English departments of the universities refused to have any Jewish teachers on the premises . By anti-Semitic definition , no matter what he knew or thought , a Jew was simply incapable of entering into the spirit of Anglo-Saxon literature , or , for that matter , of American history . Lionel Trilling worked at his alma mater , Columbia University , as an instructor in English between 1932 and 1936 , but was not reappointed . The spokesman of the department explained to him that he would not be happy there " as a Freudian , a Marxist , and a Jew . " It took the personal intervention three years later of Columbia 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's appointment as assistant professor in Columbia 's English Department . Even so , Trilling 's painful victory was rare . The existing American intellectual establishment of the 1920s and 1930S never made room for Jews . Some American intellectuals had found Jews interesting , in early immigrant days , as exotics who wrote in Yiddish and lived in a pulsating ghetto . Their children were no longer exotic . They were American-born and educated , brilliantly so , but their very achievement , in becoming " Americans " stood against them . They had become potential competitors of their Gentile fellow students ? and even of their teachers . Almost without exception these young Jews were kept out of America . fiat academically trained Jews who were trying to enter the professions were a minority . The majority of the children of the immigrants , and of their parents , were going into business in the 192os . In the years before the Crash of October 1929 , many were getting tit h . This contradicts one of the accepted " truths " about the history of the Jews in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arrived in the middle of the nineteenth century , became rich in their own lifetimes , but that the East Eurpoeans did not achieve wealth until the next of them . This construction offers a partial explanation of the differences between the " Germans " and the " Russians , " but it leaves out a significant and little remembered part of the story . It skips from the sweatshops of the 19106 to the mass unemployment of the 19306 , without paying attention to the 19206 . In that decade , the Roaring Twenties , as the stock market rose steadily from 1924 until the famous Crash in October 1929 , a considerable number of the East European immigrants were becoming wealthy all over America . These new rich were the immigrants themselves and not their children , who were then still too young to be making fortunes . It was not until 1940 that a bare majority of all American Jews were nativeborn . Those who devised the questionnaires for self-studies of Jewish communities almost never asked questions about income and wealth : do n't let anti-Semites know that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ several studies that were done by outsiders were no more informative , for Jews were even less likely to tell Gentiles the truth about their earnings . Consequently there is no direct evidence to support the assertion that a considerable minority of the East European immigrants were becoming rich in the 1920s . But rising gifts to Jewish charities make this assertion highly probable . Between 1918 and 1926 , the donations to domestic Jewish charities nearly doubled . In 1918 the Jewish federations ( community chests ) of the four largest Jewish communities ? New York , Chicago , Philadelphia , and Boston ? disbursed a bit over $4.8 million to the local agencies they supported ; in 1926 the disbursements had reached $8.5 million . These figures , which came from a set of tables published each year in the American Jewish Yearbook , appeared for the last time in 1926 : they were growing at a rate which the yearbook 's editors , always concerned about anti-Semitism , did not want used by enemies of Jews and " WallStreet bankers . " It can be argued that these @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the rich " German Jews " ( there is no breakdown by origin of the contributors ) . However , the formation of new congregations and especially the erection of new synagogue buildings in that decade point to an increased wealth among the " Russian Jews . " In 1908 there were only seventeen hundred permanently organized Jewish congregations in the United States ; ten years later , at the end of-the war , there were two hundred more . In the years 1917 ? 19 a building boom began ; seventy-three new synagogues were dedicated in those years , and no more than ten were Reform . By 1928 , the number of organized congregations had jumped to three thousand . These new synagogues were not being organized by " German Jews , " who had more than enough space in their existing temples . Over a thousand new congregations , with the budgets that they required , were funded in the 19206 by recent immigrants who suddenly had the necessary money . The boom in synagogue building was even more striking . A number of Reform congregations built new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more elegant surroundings , but the new synagogue buildings , in their vast majority , were paid for by recent immigrants . A large number of imposing synagogues were built in the 19206 in the neighborhoods of " second settlement " into which East European Jews were moving . Whether on the Grand Concourse in the Bronx or on Park Heights Avenue and Forest Park Avenue in Baltimore , the newly affluent " Russian Jews , " by placing their synagogue buildings on the most public thoroughfares , were announcing their presence on the American scene , just as the " German Jews " had done in the 186os and I 870S . The pitched battles of the early 19205 over the exclusion of Jews from the " best " colleges is another oblique proof of the rise of the East Europeans to affluence . Two decades earlier their children had been going to the city colleges ; by the early 19206 many were still poor , and their children made their way to the Ivy League schools by winning the competition for scholarships . However , there was not enough @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Harvard class of 1922 , in which very nearly one out of every four students was a Jew . Most were paying tuition , there and elsewhere among the Ivies , because their parents could now afford the bills . The economic profile of immigrant Jews as a whole had been transformed in twenty years . In 1900 , the immigrants were two-thirds workers and one-third in white-collar pursuits . By 1920 two-thirds were in business or white-collar jobs and only one-third were still workers . When the best private colleges more than half-closed their doors to Jews in the early 1920s , this was a blow not only to poor Jews but also to newly affluent immigrants and their children . Many intntigr.int Jews p , Irtiripatcd iii the hull market of the mid19 ) 2os . In the era of spc ( Illation , poor Jews of yesteryear had a par- ticularly passionate need to believe that the future was unbounded . But , of course , the immigrants who became rich in the 19205 did not all engage in speculating on the stock market . In a buoyant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ clothing , and they did very well until the Crash came and consumers had no money with which to buy new clothes . Numerous other kinds of small businesses and retail stores prospered before 1929 . The massive move of Jews to new neighborhoods provided large opportunities in real estate . New buildings were going up in the Bronx and on the Upper West Side of New York , and in equivalent places in all the other cities in which there was large Jewish population . The builders of these high-rise apartment houses , or of row houses in Brooklyn , were almost all Jews . So long as the economic situation was on the upswing , apartments were in demand , rent was paid on time , and the assets of the entrepreneurs kept growing . After the Crash , many of those who had built these buildings were very soon bankrupt . Their tenants could not pay rent , and soon the landlords could not meet obligations to the banks which held the mortgages . The Jewish labor unions , which had felt powerful and rich in the 1920s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to members out of work . Jewish charities had much less money to pay for social services for the poor , and their money now came mostly from the " German Jews , " who , being better established , were weathering the Depression . The Crash of 1929 aborted the dash of a significant minority of East European immigrants to affluence in their own lifetime . They , the parents , were bankrupt , and they would not be able to pass on functioning businesses and fortunes to their children . Many of the American-born young who had been enjoying the pleasures of the Jazz Age had to find jobs in the America of the Depression years , in which anti-Semitism was rising . They were suddenly poor and defenseless Jews , even in America . III In discussing anti-Semitism in America before the Second World War , too quick a jump has often been made to 1933 , the year in which Hitler came to power in Germany . The story of anti-Seinitisin in the United States between the two wars has thus tended to become an account of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then of the Nazis . It is , of course , undeniable that anti-Semitic propaganda played a large role in whipping up sentiment , for the propagandists provided a rationale for excluding Jews . The antiSemites were in agreement on one central point : the Jew is alien , subversive , and dangerous ; he can not be allowed the freedom of unfettered competition to achieve a place in society . The American economic pie had shrunk , and Jews were cast for the role of aliens who were eating an undeserved share of the scarce food . After 1929 , American anti-Semitism arose not in the areas where Nazi propaganda was the most virulent , in big cities such as New York and Baltimore , but in the Farm Belt and the Far West . The editors of Fortune magazine , who in 1935 conducted a survey of American anti-Semitism , devised an indirect question : Do you think that Germany is being helped or hurt by the Nazi exclusion of Jews ? Across the country , the results were much less encouraging than the editors of Fortune tried to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ answered that Germany had been hurt by its policies . About a third were indifferent to the question , and some fifteen percent nationwide answered that Germany had been helped . In the Farm Belt and Far West the indifferent and the antagonistic added together to more than half of those who answered the questions . The 1930s were the time of massive disaster in the Farm Belt , both because prices had fallen drastically and because of the drought which had reduced the farmland to dust . Hundreds of thousands of dispossessed farmers , the Okies , took to their Model Ts and drove west to California . It was easy to suggest to these pained and bankrupt farmers that the Jews were somehow behind their downfall . George Winrod and Gerald L. K. Smith , the most extreme voices of antiSemitism in the Midwest , used the rhetoric of Populism . Winrod and Smith were not , however , the most prominent preachers of antiSentitisnt in America in the 1930s . That role was seized by a Catholic priest , Charles Coughlin . His prime audience was not the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pastor of the Shrine of the Little Flower iii Royal Oak , Michigan . He had taken to the radio as an advocate of the New I ) cal , but he soon turned to rem lung anti-Semitism . His message was popular in Detroit , where the auto industry was in ever-greater trouble , and among the in- dustrial unemployed throughout the country , for until the Second World War most had little hope of returning to their jobs . To be sure , other factors were important in the growth of antiSemitism in the 1930s . Much of the population of the Midwest was of German extraction and preferred to think well of the mother country , even under the Nazis . The blue-collar workers to whom Coughlin appealed were predisposed to think in terms of race , because many , both white and black , had their roots in the South . Those who were striking in Detroit against the auto manufacturers risked being injured or sometimes even being killed on the picket lines of the 1930s . Jews were prominent among union officials and strike organizers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Here were " New York Jews " with white-collar jobs in the union bureaucracies , trying to tell blue-collar workers who had been fired how to fight the bosses . Many were predisposed to make Jews the scapegoat for their woes , because it was safer and more emotionally satisfying . As always , anti-Semitism was rising in America among the masses during times of economic dislocation . As the recovery from the Great Depression began , Jews were visibly better off than most other groups . Toward the end of Franklin Delano Roosevelt 's first term , the depression in production had not yet ended , but white-collar jobs were beginning to increase , if only in the staffing of the New Deal bureaucracies . The steelworker in Pittsburgh who had not had a job in six or seven years was usually interviewed for home relief by a newly employed caseworker , who very often was a Jew . Indeed , social work began to flourish as an " industry " under the New Deal . Before the advent of Roosevelt , caseworkers had been employed in very small @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for administering relief required thousands of such functionaries . Inevitably , a large number of Jews sought these new jobs . All of the New Deal agencies were staffed by a notable number of Jews , for Roosevelt had opened these newer bureaucracies to the " merit system . " Roosevelt was thus the major employer in America who did not discriminate against Jews , and he was , inevitably , their hero . An ageold drama repeated itself ; Jews were being hired in a new " industry , " the government agencies which had just been created , because the older pursuits were keeping them out . These new jobs were insecure , but the Jews who held them were resented by those who had no jobs at all . The net result of the Jewish experience in the decade during the Great Depression was the conviction among Jews that they remained outsiders in the American economy . Their security could come only if the government itself consciously tried to include them in the promises it had made to all Americans . Jews could not afford a laissezfaire government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be indispensable to the coalition which elected the government , and that government had to act to widen the field of possibility for Jews . Otherwise , no matter what the children of the immigrants might do , their successes could be taken away from them . The way to fight the systematic exclusion of Jews was politics . In the Mid-1930S the respectable representatives of American Jewry were still trying to finesse the difference between Jews and all other Americans by insisting that there was no difference . The " German Jews " kept repeating the doctrine that being a Jew was like being a Methodist , that is , it meant belonging to one of the many religious denominations in America . But the mass of the East Europeans and their children knew that none of this was true ? and so did the most perceptive Gentiles . In America the Jews were a sui generis minority ; for them , and for all those who related to them , whether friend or foe , this was not a multireligious or multiethnic country ; it was a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " in America , Jews kept hoping that this was not so , or , at the very least , that Jews could persuade the Gentile majority of some definition of American society that would obscure this line of cleavage . I Jews never had an alternative to America . They could not go " home , " because they had none in Russia , Poland , and Romania , which remained hostile to Jews . Therefore , Jews needed acceptance in America more than any other minority . Many Gentiles , of all the ethnic groups , could , and did , go home when times were bad and they could find no work . Others returned after they had succeeded in making enough money to buy a farm or a business . But not the Jews , neither the poor nor the successful . The most telling proof of this difference is to be found in the statistics for the last year of mass migration to the United States , the fiscal year which ended on June 30 , 1924 . The restrictions of the new quota law hit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ returned to Europe from both groups knew that they would have great difficulty being readmitted . Nonetheless , while 23,000 Italians went hack home that year , only 26o Jews returned to their place of origin . l ? ven the Irish , few of whom had ever gone back , had a higher rate of rceimigration ; more than 1,500 returned to the home country in 1924 . Jews not only needed acceptance in America more than any other ethnic group , they also needed it more quickly . The Irish , Slays , and Italians came from the farms , and most were willing to remain farmers or laborers for at least a generation after they arrived in America . Jews had lived for centuries in the cities and small towns of Europe , on the margin of the economy and society . The New World meant , for them , the chance to achieve in New York what they could not reach in the Moscow of the czars : to become professors , merchants , and white-collar bureaucrats . In the early 1920s , Harvard , Yale , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Slays , Irish , and Italians , because few of their children were then applying to universities . Jews were the first ethnic group to try to breach the American Establishment . They were the first to be told that they were not true Americans . Inevitably , they were the first of all the ethnic groups to counter this attack by trying to remake themselves , and to redefine America , so that they would be just like everybody else . Their German Jewish predecessors had solved the problem of selfdefinition by insisting that Jewishness had no cultural or ethnic content ; they were Jews by religion . This formula was borrowed from Europe , where Jews had tried to present themselves in the nineteenth century as Frenchmen or Germans of the Jewish religious persuasion , just like other Frenchmen or Germans , who were Christians . The Gentile majorities in Europe were not convinced . They continued to feel that being French or German meant that the individual had age-old roots in the culture and religion of the majority . In America , opinion was not quite as firm @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contest the proposition that America was , culturally and historically , largely Christian . Theodore Roosevelt was not an enemy of the Jews ; he had even vetoed a bill restricting immigration , and as we have seen , he had written a warm greeting to the celebration in Carnegie Hall of 250 years of Jewish settlement in the United States . But Roosevelt thundered , again and again , against " hyphenated Americans , " by which he meant anyone who did not quickly sever ties with his past and assimilate into American society . Roosevelt did not specify that this American society was determined by Protestant Christian norms , though he probably felt that It was . It the essence of true Americanism . Roosevelt would have felt . it home with h:rra Stiles . That ex- Puritan divine had proposed in the earliest years of the Republic that America was a redemptive society to which all newcomers would have to conform . The repeated demand , by the Puritans , by Ezra Stiles , and by Theodore Roosevelt , that newcomers assimilate , was demeaning . It suggested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of value to the existing society , except , perhaps , as an exotic curiosity . The older , " German Jews " had made no such total concession to the majority , for they had insisted that their Judaism , even as they reformed it into American respectability , was the equal of Christianity . The " Russian Jews " had to preserve a comparable dignity . Some rejoiced in getting rid of their Jewish past , but most could not accept the thought that they should be ashamed of everything they were before landing on Ellis Island . Even assimilation could not be allowed to mean total self-abasement . But how does one retain some pride in being Jewish and become an American ? The first formal attempt by some " Russian Jews " to answer this question was the theory of the " melting pot . " This notion was invented in the early 19005 at the height of mass emigration . The United States was imagined as a big pot seething with various nationalities , both old and new . As new elements were tossed into this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The " American " was , therefore , not a fixed , existing type ; he was always still in the process of becoming . This formula was a bold attempt to make Pilgrim Fathers and sweatshop workers into equally important actors in the making of the " American . " The theory of the melting pot accepted the premise of the nativists about society : to be an " American " meant not merely to obey the law ; one had to belong to American society . But there was a basic difference between the nativists and the proponents of the melting pot . The nativists said that American society had been defined permanently by the older America ; the supporters of the melting pot argued that American society was constantly evolving . Very little has been said about the other implications , at least for Jews , of the notion of the melting pot . All the other immigrants bore no responsibility for the future of the culture from which they carne . Germany , Russia , Italy , and all the other European countries would continue to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ went to America transmuted his origins into knockwurst , vodka , or marinara sauces . Jews had a " homeland " in Eastern Europe , but they were everywhere an embattled minority . Indeed , all of the Jewish ideologies of that day , from revolutionary socialism to Zionism , began with the premise that the existing Jewish life in Eastern Europe was not viable and that in its present form it was not worth preserving . The suggestion that the Jews in America should assimilate was therefore based only in part on any certainty that Jewishness was safe in its older centers in Russia and Poland . The idea of the melting pot was not conceived in America . This new definition of America was constructed in England by Israel Zangwill , from the same intellectual material which Theodor Herzl had used when he designed his version of Zionism . When he published The Jewish State , in 1896 , Herzl had posed these alternatives : Jews should choose either national existence in Palestine or assimilation ; they should finally reorganize themselves , " normalize , " and become " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ exactly this in an afterword that he wrote to his drama , The Melting Pot , which had been produced six years earlier . The point of the play had been its advocacy of intermarriage between Jew and Christian as a way of dissolving even the greatest of differences among Americans . In the last lines of the play , the Jewish hero addresses his Christian wife . He regards the New World as far more glorious than even Rome or Jerusalem because America is the place where " all races and nations come to labor and look forward . " Zangwill remained convinced of this idea ; he defended it again in 1914 , in the afterword to the new edition , by insisting " that the conditions offered to the Jew in America are without parallel in the world . " In the New World , the Jew is a " citizen of a republic without a state religion . " All of those who were speaking for maintaining some form of Jewish apartness were missing the meaning of this messianic moment : " In America . . . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ come into his own again . " The rabbis who had denounced Zangwill for proposing the " solution of the Jewish problem by dissolution " were wrong , because /. angwill slid not believe that assimilation is " universally applicable . " In the play itself , its hero had asked his uncle , " Why , if he objects to the dissolving process , did he not work for a separate Jewish land ? " Chronghout this essay , there is a presumption about the mass of Jews in Eastern Europe : they are kept separate by anti-Semitism ; they should be saved by being given the choice between national life in Jerusalem or " the melting pot " in New York . The concept of the " melting pot " established a premise which would be the basis for all the other Jewish theories about the nature of America : the New World was not merely a place to make a living or to be free from persecution ; becoming part of America was to participate in the drama of redeeming the Jews in this world . Jews could @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ who were bringing their supposedly uncouth and pushy ways to an existing and defined America which they had not helped to run . This was heady stuff for some Jews ; they could assimilate into America in good conscience , and even in glory . But his formula of the melting pot did not persuade many leaders of the old American Establishment , not even liberals such as Theodore Roosevelt . The concept of the melting pot was rejected by Jews as well . The existing Jewish life in America was in trouble ; it was threatened by its foreignness and its shallowness , but most Jews were not going to abandon their Jewishness for assimilation . Some were at war with themselves and with the world about their Jewishness , but most accepted it as a fact of nature . Horace Kallen and Mordecai Kaplan , the first intellectuals among the children of the immigrants to think about America , began with the presumption that Jews were in America to stay ? as affirming Jews . Kaplan had been brought to New York in 1887 , at the age of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rabbinic scholar of the old school . Kaplan himself was raised on the Lower East Side of New York on the Talmud , and he was ordained as a rabbi in 1902 at the Jewish Theological Seminary , but he also studied at Columbia under John Dewey , whose philosophy of pragmatism Kaplan embraced . Kaplan was unshakably a Jew , but he wanted to enter the mainstream of American life . Along with Horace Kallen ( who had studied at Harvard under William James , another important American philosopher of pragmatism ) , Kaplan proposed a theory of " cultural pluralism . " Kaplan and Kallen defined America as a creation of all the various ethnic groups which came to the New World . They denied the melting pot because they insisted that each of these groups had the right to cultivate its links to its origins . The fierce of this assertion was to dethrone the Protestant Anglo-Saxons , who were the earliest arrivals , from their self-assumed position of being the only true Americans . The Talmudic learning of Kaplan 's father was thus pronounced to be as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' Calvinist theology . Kaplan imagined an America in which both traditions lasted , side by side , as equals . Writing in The Nation in February of 1915 , Horace Kallen defied the older America , and those who were decrying " hyphenated Americans . " He conceded ( in my view , wrongly ) that " the writers of the American Declaration of Independence and of the Constitution of the United States were not confronted by the practical fact of ethnic dissimilarity among the whites of the country . " The situation was different now : " Their descendants are confronted by it . " Kallen refused to back down and accede to the doctrine of assimilation in any form , including the melting pot . He insisted , passionately and vehemently , that inherited identities are inalienable : Men may change their clothes , their politics , their wives , their religions , their philosophies , to a greater or lesser extent : they can not change their grandfathers . Jews or Poles or Anglo-Saxons , in order to cease being Jews or Poles or Anglo-Saxons , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be citizens or church members or carpenters or lawyers without ceasing to be . The selfhood which is inalienable in them , and for the realization of which they require " inalienable " liberty is ancestrally determined , and the happiness which they pursue has its form implied in ancestral endowment . This is what , actually , democracy in operation assumes . There are human capacities which it is the function of the state to liberate and to protect in growth ; and the failure of the state as a government to accomplish this automatically makes for its abolition . Government , the state , under the democratic conception is , it can not be too often repeated , merely an instrument , not an end . As the model for the new America , Kallen proposed Switzerland , with its three languages and cultures . There was , however , one critical difference : " The common language of the commonwealth , the language of its great tradition , would be English , but each nationality would have for its emotional . and involuntary life its own peculiar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and intellectual forms . " Kallen knew , clearly and unmistakably , that he was proposing an unprecedented structure of society , a new " symphony of civilization " that would be composed of differing nationalities . He did not pretend for a moment that he was affirming a process that had been in motion since the beginnings of America . Kallen was clear and forthright in presenting cultural pluralism as a new idea . It was the contemporary way to assure everyone his full human rights in a democracy , for each American would be encouraged to have a direct and respected relationship to his ethnic group . Kallen knew that the older America would resist : " The question is , do the dominant classes in America want such a society ? " Kallen addressed this question to the Gentile Establishment , but that was not the only question that he and Kaplan had to answer . They had to explain what it meant to be a Jew in this culturally plural American democracy . How could one demand equality , and the role of a cocreator of America @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faith in the " chosen people " ? How could one accept this doctrine , even in the attenuated version of the immigrant family , that Jews were , somehow , unique ? Kallen had no problem . As a completely secular person , Kallen distinguished between " Judaism , " which he used as a name for inherited religion , and " Hebraism , " which meant for Kallen the cultural expressions of Jews as a community . Kallen was persuaded that all American identities were rapidly becoming secular . In the New Land , Jews would behave like the Irish , the Italians , and all the other ethnic groups by using only those elements of their past which spoke to their present needs in America . Kaplan , the rabbi , insisted that Jewishness had religion as its central element , but his definition of religion was unprecedented . Having become a philosophical pragmatist , Kaplan had ceased believing in a transcendent God , the Person who had spoken at Sinai to Hip creatures and who had revealed His will to them . Kaplan 's God was " @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a word which summed up the highest values of a community . All of the ethnic minorities in America , Kaplan argued , shared the basic values of American democracy , but each subgroup expressed these values through a different set of symbols derived from its history . Kaplan had thus ruled out the most striking of all newish doctrines , the faith ofJews that they were the " chosen people . " In practice , he conceded even more . Kaplan wanted no segregation from the cultural lift ? of ' the majority . He asserted that " Jews have no intention of following the example of the Catholics in contesting the prior right of the State to the education of the child . " He thus refused to use private education to preserve Jewish culture . He was too busy entering America , by differentiating himself from Catholic separatism , to ask an obvious question : What about boarding schools such as Groton and Andover , which continued to be the training schools of the Protestant elite ? Both Kallen and Kaplan were thus eager to present the Jews @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ America . Kaplan and Kallen had produced a set of definitions of America , and of the Jews , which seemed to solve the question of how one can be both a Jew and an American . Kallen helped Brandeis win the fight for the American Jewish Congress ( in which , in effect , Jews had declared themselves to be an ethnic minority with its own political agenda ) , but , overall , his impact on the organized activities of the community was not large . Kaplan did have at least one important success in shaping American Jewish institutional life . Right after the First World War , he founded the movement for the creation of " Jewish centers , " and he continued to be the inspiration for the many dozens that were being created in the next several decades . These " centers " were different from the Americanization agencies that the " German Jews " had put up at the turn of the century . The purpose of the new Jewish centers was to provide a place of Jewish assembly , where ethnic and family loyalties @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kaplan 's earliest formulations , these centers were to exist as extensions , and even transformations , of the synagogue ; religion played the most prominent role , but even so , it was only one of many elements in the " reconstructed " synagogue . Many centers were not , however , affiliated with synagogues . They were created as secular expressions of newish ethnicity . In both sets of institutions , there was large emphasis on providing programs which would attract people to the building , with the implicit assumption that the old Jewish learning and piety were too forbidding , and too identified with guilt , to be , now in America , the cement which held Jews together . The pervasive contemporary jibe at Kaplan 's synagogue-center was to call it " The Shill Shul ( synagogue ) with a Pool . " Kaplan knew that he was creating the Reform Judaism of his own                     