@@773947

txt // every sense the new Territorial Force was to be a self-contained , second line Army.47 These were welcome words to the Territorial representatives who had been waiting for a year to learn the Government 's intentions . Yet relieved as the Associations were that a decision had been made , criticisms of the Government for the delay , the confusion , and the final scheme were not so easily silenced , especially when recruiting , which officially opened on 1 February , proved dis appointingly slow . Notwithstanding Churchill 's commendation of the bounty and rates of pay to be offered Territorials , the financial rewards were not quite as attractive as he suggested . In the post-war boom wages were high , so that for the steadily-employed man ? the type the War Office wanted to recruit ? service in the Territorial Army was not necessarily financially advantageous . Churchill admitted as much when asked to explain why in South Wales three battalions had managed to enlist only eighty-two men by the middle of May.48 There were other criticisms too . Sir Francis Acland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1910 had been intimately concerned with Haldane 's original Territorial scheme , complained that the rates of pay were too high , with the result that ' instead of the Territorials being a real civilian force depending upon the goodwill and patriotism of the masses of the citizens they are going to become pinchbeck regulars dependent on money and organized on a purely military basis ' .49 On the other hand , several Associations cavilled at what they considered were the excessive number of drills needed to qualify for the bounty , especially in view of the fact that for the first few years at least , most of the men would probably have had wartime military experience . " Only one Association , Cambridgeshire , pointed out that if the Territorials were to be taken seriously as a force available for overseas service at short notice , then the prescribed number of drills was ' totally inadequate ' .51 There were widespread fears that enlistment in the Territorial Force might jeopardize a man 's employment . Many Territorials were worried that their employers might not be willing to grant @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ least to make up the // difference between their civilian and military pay ) or even grant them leave at all . Milne 's sub-committee in March 1919 had recommended that there should be some sort of legal obligation on employers as a means of sharing the national burden of defence , but on closer examination it was thought to be impracticable . If employers were required to give special holiday and pay privileges to members of the Territorial Force they might refuse to employ them in the first place . If they did employ them and allowed them extra holidays and pay , there might be opposition from the foremen and other workers arising out of resentment over this preferential treatment . There was also the possibility that the granting of employment privileges to Territorial soldiers would be construed as a none too subtle form of pressure to get men into the Force . Small employers in particular would find it difficult to make the concessions that were relatively easy for large firms and govern ment departments . In general the question of employers ' legal obligations opened up so @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the War Office . Several Associations however had called for such an obligation in 1919 , and after Churchill had made the proposals public one Association , West Lancashire , demanded a War Office conference with the Associations , employers and labour to reach agreement on a common policy for those who wished to join the Territorials.52 Nothing came of the suggestion then , but during the next twenty years there were periodic attempts to involve the employers more closely in Territorial affairs , both at the national and the local level . Nor was the final form of the overseas liability greeted with unanimous approval . The Peebles Association rejected any form of overseas obligation , but most Associations recognized that without it the Territorial Force had no future . Their objections were on two main grounds . First , many agreed with Lanarkshire that the final terms did not give sufficient guarantees that the foreign service obligation would only be applied in extreme circumstances . They dismissed the argument that the specific sanction of Parliament was a sufficient safeguard , and they demanded that the War Office give a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve overseas ' unless and until ' a General Service ( i.e. conscription ) Act had been passed . Almost as many Associations rejected the Lanarkshire motion , arguing that the injustices the Territorials had suffered in the war were admitted by the War Office , which would 61 // hardly dare treat the Territorials in the same way again.53 Nevertheless , almost all the Associations set great store by the assurances that Churchill gave to respect the integrity of the Territorial units , as the battles ? described in chapter 7 ? in the early 1930s over the pledge were to show . Many Associations argued that their troubles derived from the fact that their interests were not properly represented in the highest circles in the War Office . Their grievances arising out of wartime experiences , their frustrations over the delay in announcing the reconstruction proposals , and dissatisfaction with certain details of the scheme ? these they felt would not have developed had the Director-General of the Territorial Force been a member of the Army Council . When the East Riding Association passed a resolution to that effect @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , opinion was by no means unanimous on the subject , so that Churchill and his successors were able to resist these pressures . That they refused to make the Director-General a member of the Army Council was interpreted as further proof that the War Office did not take the Force seriously or listen to its requests and complaints sympathetically.54 // The unhappy state of relations between the War Office and the Associations was publicised by The Times . It reported that at a meeting of the West Riding Association in April , several speakers had charged that the War Office was deliberately sabotaging the recruiting campaign because it did not want the Territorial Force to succeed : having failed to kill it off at once , it was now withholding the information and support that was needed if the required numbers of recruits were to be obtained . To his utter embarrass ment , Scarbrough was quoted at the meeting by Lord Harewood , President of the Association , as laying the blame at the feet of the Finance Department of the War Office and its penny-pinching attitude and dilatory @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but there is no doubt that he had been very critical of the Finance Department.ss In a leader on 29 April The Times doubted that the Government was ill-disposed towards the Territorials , but did think that ' as regards the War Office , there may be some ground for the persistent notion that the success of the Territorial Army is not desired ' . Churchill was forced to deny the charge , and to defend the delay in announcing the terms of reconstitution , " but The Times was not convinced . An appeal by the King to the Lords Lieutenant and Lord Mayors , echoing Edward VII 's original appeal that launched the Territorial Force in 1907 , came ' opportunely at a time when official dilatoriness had brought the fortunes of the force to a low ebb .... The Government launched the new scheme in February in so half-hearted a fashion that the results . . . have been disastrous ' .57 The Times had exaggerated , but not much . The post-war Terri torial Force , which in 1921 officially became the Territorial Army , had got @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ handicaps was the mistrust between the War Office and the Associations that had arisen out of the Territorial experiences during the war and was exacerbated by the difficulty of assessing the nature of Britain 's military requirements in the unsettled circumstances of the post-war world . In trying to allay that mistrust , and soothe the sense of grievance that many Territorials felt , the War Office saddled the new Territorial Army with handicaps that emerged only later , when the considerations that had made them a necessary part of the 63 // reconstruction scheme in 1919 and 1920 no longer had the same force . Liberal pay scales , generous financial grants to the Associations , pledges that restricted the use of the Territorials : all of these were fundamental to Churchill 's scheme . All of them came under attack in the following decade . 64 4 Bayonets in the Streets ? Just as there were differences of opinion over the use of Territorials abroad so disagreements arose when the question of employing them within Britain was discussed . In some senses this was an even more thorny problem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in aid of the civil power , especially in the conditions prevailing immediately after the end of the war , would be highly visible and have an immediate impact on the general community . The industrial scene was volatile . Grievances resulting from demobilisation procedures , and the prospect of widespread unemployment for returning troops , not to mention ? at least in the eyes of the Government ? the example of the Bolshevik Revolution , led to a situation in which the inevitable readjustments to the strains in society which the war had magnified but not initiated loomed as threatening challenges to the existing order . The huge growth in the membership of trade unions , which doubled from four to eight millions between 1912 and 1919 , and the demonstrable power of those unions to extract enormous wage increases from the government during the war , raised the fear that labour would continue to press for unreasonable concessions to the point of disrupting , even halting , the normal business of the community . Even more disquieting , perhaps , were the returned servicemen 's associations , many of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than simply concerning themselves with such questions as employment and housing . In the Home Office , monthly reports on ' Revolutionary Organisations in Great Britain ' pandered to the alarmist inclinations of the more right-wing members of the Cabinet . For its part , the Army faced the prospect of civil strife with dismay . When a general strike was proclaimed in Glasgow at the end of January 1919 , and the red flag was raised in the centre of the city , the Cabinet had to decide whether or not to use troops to quell it . While volunteers could be found to run the essential municipal 65 // services , they had to be protected against the possibility of attack from strike supporters . The police force had been seriously depleted during the war , and only the Army could provide the necessary protection . The military authorities , however , were far from sanguine . Apart from their natural reluctance to become involved in disputes of this nature , they could not be sure that the troops stationed in Scotland were reliable . The nineteen infantry battalions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of them physically unfit and most of them not amenable to the discipline required should they encounter resistance from the strikers . They were , in the words of one War Office soldier , a dangerous and unique army , ' educated and ill-disciplined ' .1 A real test never came , for the strike collapsed when regular troops were quickly sent in before positions hardened . Reassured by this show of strength , Churchill argued forcibly for the deployment of troops to crush a strike of electrical engineers that broke out early in February 1919 . He was not prepared to make any distinction between an industrial emergency in time of war and in peace ; these ' attempts of a well-organized minority to obtain extravagant concessions ' had to be resisted , by armed force if necessary.2 Again , however , the situation never developed that far , but Churchill had raised a question that became even more important as the expiration date of the Military Service Act approached . For once conscription no longer provided the requisite numbers of troops , not only for the defence of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Germany and Turkey , then the burden imposed on the Army by the demands that it be available to act in aid of the civil power would become intolerable . The suggestion that the Military Service Act be extended to enable the Army to fulfil its foreign commitments was rejected on the grounds that it would intensify labour suspicions of the Govern ment 's motives , just as it was subsequently deemed ' inopportune ' to discuss in Parliament the possibility of using troops to man essential services during prolonged strikes.3 Throughout the spring of 1919 there were mounting fears of a crippling strike by the Triple Alliance ? the three largest unions , the miners , transport workers , and railwaymen . This was a for midable challenge and in response to it the Government established the Industrial Unrest Committee to coordinate emergency services 66 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? and to provide protection for those who ran them . It also tried to break up the alliance by settling with the individual unions , so that when the railwaymen finally went on strike in September they were not joined @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined that military force should be used if necessary , and to the difficult question of conditions of overseas service he now added the requirement that the Territorials be available for use in serious civil disputes . Apart from his own inclinations that way , such a role for the Territorials would be a useful counter to those who argued that the Force was too limited and too highly paid . In any case , it was inconceivable to him that the Government could not meet the threat of a strike by the Triple Alliance by calling out the Territorial Force . He insisted that the draft regulations for enlistment in the reconstituted Force be rewritten to allow for the use of the Territorials to assist the civil power . But if it was ' inopportune ' to discuss in Parliament the use of troops to maintain the lifelines of the state , what could be said of proposals to embody the Territorials when serious strikes were threatened ? Scarbrough was sure that the old Territorial regulations prohibited the use of the Force in civil disputes , except under conditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the regulation in question had been included specifically to calm the fears of organized labour so that recruiting would not fall foul of union suspicions that the Territorials were being formed as a strike-breaking organization.4 Fortunately for the Territorial proposals , the railway strike lasted only seven days . The Strike Committee , the old Industrial Unrest Committee renamed for the railway strike , had not had time to test its embryonic organization , but the experience gained in September formed the basis of its subsequent plans . Field Marshal Earl Haig , Commander-in-Chief of Forces in Great Britain , urged the War Office to press the Government to establish a Civil Guard that could be embodied to reinforce the police , protect property and maintain order . Only as a last resort should the Army be called upon to assist the civil power . This plea was well received by the General Staff . The CIGS , the DCIGS and the Adjutant-General all stressed the undesirability of using troops during strikes , and 67 // pointed to the likelihood that there simply would not be sufficient troops available in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the more necessary that the Home Office begin organizing a Civil Guard immediately . ' At the end of October the Home Secretary , Sir Edward Shortt , submitted his general proposals to the Supply and Transport Committee , which had again changed its name from the Strike Committee so that its activities might appear more neutral and its deliberations not be confined to any particular strike . From consultations with local authorities throughout Britain , Shortt concluded that a Civil Guard would be very unpopular and at best sectional in its appeal . What was required was a force that could be recruited from all classes , including trade unionists , for the protection of life and property , rather than a para-military organi zation that was seen as a strike-breaking weapon . It was ' absolu tely necessary ' that the force be civil in organisation and control , that it be under the authority of the local police , and that it ' be made clear beyond the possibility of any misunderstanding ' that its main purpose was to render assistance to the police so that it would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Committee accepted the proposals , and passed them to the Cabinet . There the matter lay . Nothing was done . It was left to Wilson to try to bring the gravity of the situation home to the Cabinet . Early in January 1920 he submitted a strongly-worded warning to Churchill , complaining that although the civil departments had concurred in his proposals several months previously , proposals that were designed to shift the burden of maintaining essential services from the Army to civil organisations , no progress had been made to meet the situation that had been predicted would arise in the new year . Despite all the warnings of the War Office , and especially of the Army Council , civil departments were all too clearly relying on the Army to provide assistance ' which it is quite beyond its power to afford ' . Wilson spelled out ' in the plainest manner possible ' the limitations under which the Army was operating . Although it was thought essential to maintain troop levels in Britain ( excluding Ireland ) at a minimum of 40,000 , so that an effective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? mobilised in time of national emergency , there would be only 38,000 troops stationed in Britain in January and February , and this figure included nineteen conscript battalions . When the conscripts were demobilized in March , the troop level in Britain would fall to 25,000 , many of them young soldiers with minimal training and weak discipline , lacking experienced senior NCOs . The figure of 40,000 was based on the assumption that adequate police forces would exist to form the first line of civil power . But no such police forces had been built up . Far from being able to assist the civil authorities in the area of transport and signal communications , the Army was entirely dependent upon the Ministry of Transport and the Post Office to provide these services if it was deployed in a civil emergency . Similarly the Army had no internal intelligence service ( and Wilson thought it unwise that the Army should engage in gathering industrial intelligence ) , and had to rely entirely on the Home Office and Scotland Yard for appropriate information . ' Yet there seemed to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the situation . Wilson felt he had made his point with both Lloyd George and Bonar Law when he impressed on them the ' necessity of increasing , doubling and doubling again if necessary , the police ' , and of putting any counter-strike measures in the hands of the civil rather than the military authorities . But Churchill seemed neither interested nor surprised when Wilson , on learning that Churchill had not read his memorandum , apprised him of the Army 's complete inability to render assistance to the civil power . Chur chill 's answer to the problem , in the absence of the Territorial Army , on which he based his long-term solution , was to appeal for loyal volunteers to enlist in a force to be raised and administered by the Home Office.8 A similar proposal was made by the Permanent Under-Secretary at the Home Office , Sir Edward Troup , in collaboration with the Chairman of the Supply and Transport Committee , Sir Eric Geddes . They suggested the formation of a ' Special Guard ' of 10,000 , which would be enlisted for temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be recruited or under what condi tions of service.9 Churchill 's ' loyal volunteers ' scheme differed in that he thought preparations for raising such a force should be 69 // made secretly to avoid provocation ; though how volunteers could be raised quickly enough without prior publicity he did not say . It appeared , however , that the question of aid to the civil power fell into the ' too hard ' category , and for the moment none of these proposals got very far . Although Churchill had not paid close attention to Wilson 's warnings , he had continued to pursue the possibility of imposing upon the Territorial Force the obligation to act in aid of the civil power in cases of extreme national emergency . Rumours circulated throughout the country that the Territorials would be liable for such duty , and when recruiting proved disappointingly slow , there were suspicions that men were holding back through fear that the Territorial Force would be used in a strike-breaking role.10 Evidence of the disquiet building up came from the City of Dundee Territorial Association , whose Recruiting Committee @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that would encourage lagging recruiting.1 ' For all the flat statements by the War Office that the Territorials could not be used in civil disputes , there was an ambiguity in the regulations . Scarbrough , who had earlier opposed using the Terri torials in this way because of the effect it would have on organised labour , which he hoped would support the Force , pressed for a change in them . As they stood , the Territorial Force could be embodied once the Army Reserve had been called out by proclama tion . Since the Army Reserve could be embodied in aid of the civil power , and since the Territorial Force , once embodied , came under normal Army discipline , it was possible to argue that the War Office had a loophole that enabled it to bypass its undertaking not to use the Territorials in civil disturbances . To allay suspicions and to reassure labour that they would not be enlisting in a strike-breaking organization , Scarbrough suggested that an additional safeguard be inserted in the Regulations , namely that after the Army Reserve had been called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament be given the opportunity to express its opi nion , before the Territorials could be embodied and used to assist the civil power.12 The Under-Secretary of State , Peel , had evidence of growing unease over this question , and with recruiting lagging 70 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? badly , was anxious to issue the necessary reassurance to Territorial Associations and potential recruits . ' Scarbrough 's proposals for a second proclamation was a simple solution . Churchill would have none of it . He agreed that the Territorials were not to be embodied for the ' suppression of civil disturbances or labour disputes ' , but insisted that these restrictions did not apply , and had never been intended to apply , in a ' grave national emergency such as an attempted revolution endangering the fundamental peace and safety of the entire country ' . It was useless , wrote Churchill , to deny that this had been one intention in reconstituting the Territorial Force , for without such a capability , the Force would be of little use . To rewrite the regulations and rule out such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the Cabinet would have to be consulted.4 Given the Cabinet 's reluctance to establish a civil alternative to the employment of military power ( which , in the circumstances outlined by Wilson meant using Territorial troops ) , it was unlikely that the War Office objections would meet with much sympathy . Scarbrough was not convinced , but did admit that the rise of ' Bolshevik and revolutionary ideas ' had injected a much more serious note into the situation . To this extent both he and Peel agreed with Churchill that in a national emergency the Government should have the power to embody the Territorial Army , but they pressed Churchill to recognize that the distinction between labour disputes and emergency situations was not matched by a corres ponding procedural distinction . It was this that was giving rise to suspicions that the Territorials would be used in strike-breaking operations , and in an atmosphere of mistrust of the War Office 's intentions and motives ? a mistrust that went far beyond the question of the civil role of the Force ? additional safeguards would provide the necessary reassurance @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ refused to budge , and eventually the War Office had to reassure the City of Dundee Association that there were adequate safeguards against the abuse of the power to embody the Terri torials for assistance to the civil power.16 In the face of Churchill 's adamant rejection of his fears , Peel noted that : ' The real safeguard 71 // of the force lies in the fact that no sane Government would embody it , unless it was sure that the feeling of the country justified so grave a step . ' " This was not likely to reassure those who already mistrusted the Government 's motives , especially as the distinctions that Churchill insisted prevented the Territorials being used in a strike-breaking role were not as clear as he imagined . In the unsettled industrial atmosphere that marked post-war Britain , with the Home Office circulating intelligence reports on subversive and revolutionary movements and the Supply and Transport Committee drawing up plans to combat attempts to overthrow the existing order , it was difficult to distinguish between prolonged industrial disputes and genuine national emergencies in which the security of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Did the use of this weapon , the most powerful in labour 's industrial arsenal , constitute that ' grave national emergency ' that Churchill argued would justify calling out the Territorials to assist the civil power ? Churchill , with his known record of anti-labour sentiments and policies , was hardly the man to decide . The test came in April 1921 . A strike by the miners precipitated the situation that the War Office had predicted for months . Throughout 1920 Wilson despairingly pressed the Cabinet to establish a civil force to provide the services that were even more beyond the capability of the Army than had been the case in 1919 when Wilson had privately fulminated against the ' criminal folly ' of the Government 's inaction.18 Again nothing was done , so that when the strike was called in April , hasty measures had to be enacted to meet heavy demands for protective services . Despite military and political objections to reducing Britain 's troop commitments overseas , the Cabinet decided that the ' risk at home from Sinn Feiners , Communists and other dangerous elements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Malta and four from Upper Silesia . Even this would not make sufficient troops available , and steps were to be taken to enable the Government to call out the Army Reserve as quickly as possible , by passing the necessary legislation in a single day . If the situation deteriorated further , the Cabinet thought that it might be necessary either to embody the Territorial Army or create a special force to augment Regular troops . The Army Council then consulted the 17 Peel , minute , 31 May 1920 , WO 32/2676. 18 CP 1853 , ' The Internal Situation and Military Precautions ' , 13 September 1920 , CAB 24/111 ; Wilson , diary entry , 3 January 1920. 72 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? General Officers Commanding Territorial Divisions , and on the basis of their opinions advised against embodying the Territorials . The reason for this was very much in line with the arguments put forward earlier by Scarbrough and Peel , that although legally the Territorials could be called out after the Army Reserve had been mobilised , ' it had been practically stated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used for the maintenance of internal order ' .19 Charges of bad faith and strike-breaking would inevitably arise if the Cabinet chose to embody the Territorials . With that avenue blocked , the Supply and Transport Sub-Committee looked at the other alternative , that of creating a separate force . The problem it faced here was that for over a year it had done virtually nothing to implement the recommendations made by the Army and the Home Office . Now , when the crisis was upon it , the Cabinet had to improvise quickly . The results were unfortunate . There was no Civil Guard in existence , even in skeletal form , no organization of a civil nature around which Churchill 's ' loyal volunteers ' could rally . There was only the Territorial Army , composed of civic-minded volunteers . It was natural that the form , if not the name , should provide the instant nucleus which the Cabinet needed . It was therefore decided that should the Miners ' Federation refuse to continue negotiations and the situation deteriorate further , Army , Naval and Air Force @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ would prepare to raise a Defence Force.20 In response to an increasingly critical situation , Lloyd George announced in Parliament on 8 April that a Defence Force would be raised to meet the challenge posed by the strike . The Government made a ' special appeal to patriotic citizens ' to enlist , ' not for the purpose of interfering in any wage dispute , but solely to support the Police in the fulfilment of their duties to the community ' . The Force would be raised for a period of service of ninety days , at normal Army rates of pay and allowances.21 Almost every opinion previously given on the subject of auxil iary forces used in civil disputes had stressed the necessity of keep ing them away from military control . Nevertheless it was decided that the Defence Force would come under Army command . The 73 // Army Council advised the Cabinet that the Government had ' practically stated ' that the Territorials would not be used in these circumstances . Yet members of the Territorial Army were to be ' specially invited ' to enlist . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ beyond the possibility of any misunderstanding ' that the main purpose of a Civil Guard was to do away with the need to call out the military forces . In the same breath as he announced the formation of the Defence Force , Lloyd George told Parliament that he had advised the King to call out the Military Reserves . The following day the Cabinet was told that several hundred Marines and four battalions from Ireland had been sent to Scotland.22 Recruiting for the Defence Force was to take place at Territorial drill halls and headquarters , using Territorial permanent staff specifically assigned to that task . Although Territorials who wished to volunteer their services in the Defence Force would have to resign from the Territorial Army , their service in the Defence Force would count towards fulfilling their Territorial obligations and they would automatically be readmitted to the Territorial Army at the end of the ninety day period if they so wished . Technically the Government had remained true to its pledge not to use the Territorial Army in internal disputes , but only at the cost of employing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began on 9 April and ended nine days later . There are no precise figures for the numbers ultimately recruited , but the response was such that after four days 40,000 had signed up.23 It is impossible to say how many of these came from the Territorial Army : at best a few details from scattered Territorial Associations can be pieced together . In East Lancashire almost 20 per cent ( 1,767 out of 8,931 ) of Territorial men enlisted in the Defence Force ; in Derbyshire the figure was also 20 per cent ( 273 out of 1,443 ) , and there Territorials made up almost 41 per cent of the Defence Force . In Leicestershire and Rutland over 30 per cent of the Territorials ( 1,124 out of 3,110 ) joined the Force , where they made up an average of half the strength of each unit raised ; while in Lanarkshire enlistments were just over 12 per cent ( 96 out of 766 ) .24 This response hardly fulfilled Churchill 's hope that large 22 Conclusions of a Conference of Ministers , 9 April 1921 , Cabinet 22(21) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Conclusions of a Conference of Ministers , 13 April 1921 , Cabinet 23(21) , Appendix II , CAB 23/25. 24 East Lancashire , Recruiting and Discharge Committee , 22 April 1921 , M 73/3/30 ; Derbyshire , General Purposes Committee , 2 May 1921 , D 503/4 ; Leicestershire and Rutland , 5 May 1921 , Acc. 819/3 ; Lanarkshire , Recruiting Committee , 20 May 1921 , MD 2/3. 74 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? numbers of ' loyal volunteers ' from among the ranks of the Territorials would answer the Government 's call . Recruitment was carried out at drill halls and headquarters , which the War Office had ' asked ' Associations to place at the disposal of the Defence Force authorities . Technically the buildings belonged to the Associations , and at least one ? West Lancashire ? had previously indicated that its premises were not available to the War Office for non-Territorial use . But when the request was made , it seems that all the Associations responded , even though there were complaints ( for example from the Durham Association ) that buildings had been @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the Defence Force was entirely inde pendent of the Territorial Army , so Associations could claim ? unconvincingly ? that the loan of buildings did not involve the Territorial Army in the activities of the Defence Force.25 In fact the two organizations were inextricably interwoven . Apart from the use of Territorial buildings , permanent instructors were seconded to the Defence Force , which was raised by having each Territorial unit ( where required ) ' throw off ' a Defence Force unit , which adopted the same name as its Territorial parent . Officers from the Territorial Army transferred wholesale to the Defence Force , which thus cut so deeply into Territorial activities that a number of Associations all but stopped recruiting until after the Defence Force was disbanded . Towards the end of April the Government decided that transpor tation difficulties arising out of the strike made it impossible to hold scheduled Territorial camps , except for those planned for week-ends , until after the middle of June . On 10 May The Times reported that financial stringency was causing the War Office to consider the cancellation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , and the following month , after representations from Territorial Associations , numbers of permanent Territorial staff serving with the Defence Force were returned to their Territorial units so that training would not be unduly curtailed . The possible cancellation of camps for the whole of the summer was a serious blow to the Territorials , for in many counties these were to be the first camps held since the Force had been reconstituted in 1920 . In the first year of recruiting camps were made optional and attendance at them was not a requirement for obtaining the bounty . Slow recruiting , difficulties in organization , and the feeling that most Territorials 75 // would not welcome a return to life under canvas quite so soon after so many of them had been demobilized led many Associations and commanding officers to decide against camps in 1920 . A second year without the benefit of eight or fifteen days ' continuous training would have been fatal , however , both to the attractiveness of the Territorial Army to its members and potential recruits and to those who supported it in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those who joined the Defence Force had some exposure to training and sustained discipline ( however slight ) before it was disbanded on July 2nd , most Territorials had neither the inclination nor the opportunity to break from the routine of their normal lives for three months . The 7th and 8th Middlesex Battalions of the Defence Force , for instance , camped on Hounslow Heath from early April until the end of June , but less than 10 per cent of London 's Territorials , according to The Times report of 10 May , had answered the call . Since recruiting in London was among the slowest in the country ( and remained so throughout the 1920s and 1930s ) it was particularly important that camps be held there . Even if the War Office did relent , and most camps were held , the mere fact that cancellation of camps on the pretext of transport difficulties had been considered raised old doubts about the Government 's commitment to the concept of the Territorial Army . If there were problems in moving large numbers of Territorials to distant camps , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the same reason was given for the cancellation of camps ) could not units hold local camps : they might have lacked the attraction of a seaside location , but at least they would enable enthusiastic troops to train together for some days rather than several hours once a week . Despite a few grumbles from those who felt that the War Office had taken their assent too much for granted , most Associations willingly cooperated with the War Office . The Director-General of the Territorial Army , Sir Noel Birch , admitted to the Surrey Association that in the rush to establish the Defence Force , the Territorials had unavoidably , though regrettably , been involved . Several Surrey members objected that the use of Territorial unit titles for Defence Force units had given the impression ? which would ultimately harm the Territorials ? that the Territorial Army had been embodied ' in connection with trade disputes ' .26 Surpris ingly , however , this charge was not levelled against the Terri torials , and for the moment there was general agreement that the 76 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Associations . Of more immediate concern to the Associations was the effect that service would have on those who had left the Territorial Army to join the Defence Force and who would subsequently wish to rejoin their Territorial units . Although the Prime Minister had said that time spent with the Defence Force would count towards fulfilling Territorial obligations , the War Office had not offered any detailed guidelines on how this was to be done . The Council of County Territorial Associations recommended that service with the Defence Force should be counted as the equivalent of the total drills required to earn the annual bounty ( apart from completing the course in musketry ) , and that attendance at Territorial camps be made optional for such soldiers . Conversely , Territorials belonging to units which had not held camps owing to the activities of the Defence Force were not to be denied the full bounty . Not until two days after the disbandment of the Defence Force did the War Office release its policy . Provided men re-enlisted in the Territorial Army within a month , their service would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ full credit for time spent with the Defence Force . Even before this policy had been decided upon , Associations looked to the Defence Force to bring in extra recruits . Not only did they hope that those who had left the Territorial Army would return , but that they would encourage others to follow them from the Defence Force . Apart from the taste of quasi-military life that the Defence Force offered , a taste that the Territorials could satisfy , there was the added attraction that men who had not been Territorials but who joined up upon discharge from the Defence Force , could earn the Territorial bounty simply by firing an elementary musketry course . Some Associations virtually suspended recruiting during the spring and summer of 1921 . Surrey eased up on recruiting , fearing that since the ' right class ' of man had gone into the Defence Force , the Territorials would be left with a poor selection from which to choose ; but Gloucestershire reported a marked increase in enlist ments , even before the Defence Force was demobilised . In the short term the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adverse effect on the Territorial Army , and was thought by a number of Associations to have been of some benefit.28 77 // Time showed otherwise . Within a few years , almost every Association was bemoaning the poor quality of recruits that it had enlisted in the previous two years . Rates of discharge on the grounds of undesirability jumped significantly . Durham explained its high wastage rate as the delayed result of choosing quantity rather than quality in the first year of recruiting , and also because it had taken on many men from the Defence Force who proved to be unsuitable . Sixteen per cent of its soldiers were discharged in 1922 ? 3 as being undesirable , while between 1922 and 1924 one of its units discharged over a quarter of its strength . In Leicestershire and Rutland , the joint Associations reported that by July 1922 they had dropped 22 per cent of their recruits taken in since recruiting began in 1920 . In 1924 , when those who had joined at the commencement of recruiting in 1920 were completing their four year term , Derbyshire @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ first six months : 271 had enlisted since January but 240 had been discharged , many of them for being ' undesirable ' . In West Lancashire the Association recorded severe financial losses on its clothing account occasioned by ' an unsuitable class of man ' abusing the clothing issue , and voted to raise its recruiting standards in the future . This was a common sentiment throughout the Territorial Army , but it proved more difficult than expected to attract a higher standard while keeping numbers up ; so that in 1924 the Essex Association deplored the necessity ? experienced by ' practically all Associations ' ? of striking off large numbers of men ( about 15 per cent ) , some of whom were ' undesirable ' .29 There were repercussions too in the labour movement . After the wrangles over the question of assisting the civil power it was the height of folly to use the Territorials so blatantly in a role that could be construed as strike breaking . By 1925 the War Office was aware of the price that it was having to pay for this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's requirements reached the conclusion that on mobilization a large body of skilled tradesmen would be needed to act in a support role behind the frontline troops . For this purpose , the War Office proposed to create a Supplementary Reserve of a technical nature so that a minimum of delay would be experienced in a future emergency . 78 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? Union resistance to recruitment was led by the National Union of Railwaymen and the Transport Workers ' Union . They feared that the Supplementary Reserve might be called out in circumstances similar to those of the strike in 1921 , and that unionists , now embodied in the Supplementary Reserve , might be called upon to run services that would in effect help break the strike . The Secretary of State for War , Sir Laming Worthington-Evans , emphasized that the War Office had ' no ulterior motives ' and appealed for union support , but to no avail . Although he repeated Churchill 's pledge ? for what that was now worth ? that Supplementary Reservists would not be used in aid of the civil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ no Government could deny itself the right to employ Reservists to assist the state in an extreme national emergency . But after the experience of 1921 the unions had every reason to claim that the distinction was less than clear . The only way in which their suspicions could be allayed , they insisted , was for a guarantee to be given that the Supplementary Reserve would be embodied for overseas service only . This the War Office was reluctant to do , since all other classes of reservists and the Territorials were recruited on a non-restrictive basis.30 The result was that both unions resisted attempts to recruit their members for the Supplementary Reserve , and numbers remained very low for some years . The War Office was not unsympathetic to the suspicions that bedevilled the formation of the Supplementary Reserve . In July 1925 , when it seemed that a coal strike was impending , some thought was given to the measures that might be necessary to maintain essential services and preserve order . One report in the War Office deprecated any suggestion that the Territorials should be used as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the use of Territorial staff and facilities in 1921 in this way was ' hardly in accordance with the spirit of the provision that it shall not be used to deal with civil disturbances ' . In any case , the Defence Force had been a ' waste of money and energy ' , an over-reaction on the part of the authorities . Worse , from the Territorial point of view , was the influx into the Territorial Army of large numbers of ' undesirables ' from the Defence Force , whose presence in Territorial units made recruiting very difficult in the face of parental disapproval . The conclusion of the report , endorsed by 79 // the Adjutant-General , was that ' It is difficult to over-estimate the harm done to the T.A . by the Defence Force.r31 These questions became of immediate concern in the spring of the following year , when the miners went on strike and a general strike was threatened . Despite the lessons that had been learnt from the 1921 experience about the harmful effects of unprepared ness , and the warning signals that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ done to meet the new dangers . In April , the Under-Secretary of State of War , Viscount Onslow , advised against following the example set in 1921 in creating a Defence Force , and allowing its members to join the Territorial Army on demobilisa tion . ' I was Civil Commissioner in the S.W. District ( Bristol ) in 1921 ' , he wrote , ' and I had some opportunity of observing the peculiarities of certain members of the Defence Force . We do not want these people in the T.A. ! ' These sentiments were supported by the CIGS and the Adjutant-General , and also by the Permanent Under-Secretary , Sir Herbert Creedy , who added : ' The Defence Force as then raised was very expensive and none too efficient . ' 32 When the General Strike began on 3 May , it was decided that the Territorial Army should not be embodied to assist the civil power . That much at least had been learned from 1921 . As the DGTA , Sir Hugh Jeudwine , told Scarbrough , the legality of so using the Territorials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . By the time the situation had deteriorated to an extent that justified calling out the Territorials , it might well be too late for them to have any useful effect.33 Instead the War Office decided to use regular troops . But that did nothing to solve the problem of maintaining order in the community if , as expected , the strike was a prolonged one . Lack of preparation , despite the mounting warning signs throughout 1925 and the early months of 1926 , forced the Cabinet to improvise . The Territorials might not be embodied , but their partially trained man-power , their buildings , and ready-made organization were too valuable an asset to be bypassed in the circumstances . True , the name ' Defence Force ' had too military a ring and was perhaps suggestive of a degree of military involvement that the War Office wished to play down . But what could be more appropriate , at a time when the constitutional foundations of the state were under attack , than that 80 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? a body of citizens should rally to uphold @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A ' Civil Constabulary Reserve ' , deployed by the Home Office rather than the War Office , and operating in civilian clothes rather than military uniforms , was the answer . The War Office could take comfort from this decision in that it seemed to have convinced the Cabinet that control of additional forces for use in civil disputes should fall to the civil ( i.e. police ) rather than to the military authorities , but its enthusiasm was not unbounded . The example of the Defence Force in 1921 created little enough confidence in the ability of the Territorials to render effective aid to the civil power , and there were the long-term effects to consider . Jeudwine wrote to Onslow : ' I think that we should ensure that should it be at any time necessary to raise again a force of this nature it should on no account be emptied into the TA as in the past . We are only now emerging from the cloud it cast over the TA.r34 Churchill dismissed these fears as groundless , and in any case minimal when weighed against @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , he said : Do not , I beg you , speaking with the knowledge of so many years of military affairs , be misled by silly War Office objections against this measure using the Territorial Army . The Territorial Army will recover after the conflict is over , but even if it suffers for some years it will not have suffered in vain . Such an embodiment will immediately give you the necessary mass of men to afford the widespread protection which is essential , and will enable you to keep the regular units concentrated . . . It is far better to take too many precautions than too few.35 The Territorial Army was already involved , as on 1 May the War Office had requested all County Associations to place their drill halls and other buildings at the disposal of the Regular Army.36 What remained to be decided was the extent of that involvement . After meeting several times on 7 May the Cabinet agreed that regular troops should be used only as a last resort . Before that became necessary , the full strength of the police forces @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . London 81 // was authorised to enrol as many as 50,000 specials , and behind these front lines there was to be established a Civil Constabulary Reserve ( CCR ) . Although the Territorial Army ( and the Army Reserve ) was not to be embodied as such , the CCR was to be based upon the existing Territorial organisation . Territorial units were to be asked to volunteer en masse for duty with the CCR , which would form the nucleus of a special section of the police forces . Until the situation became clearer , recruiting for the CCR was to be restricted to Territorial soldiers or to ex-military men , ' known and trusted at territorial headquarters ' . If it did become necessary to embody the Territorial Army , those serving in the CCR would immediately revert to their Territorial units , while non-Territorial members of the CCR would join the Special Constabulary , thus preventing the emptying into the Territorial Army of men who , however carefully they had been screened , might subsequently prove to be unsuit able , creating those problems of recruitment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Force experience of 1921 . " Those who volunteered for service with the CCR were paid five shillings a day , a generous rate designed to compensate them for the disruption to normal routine , and equipped with steel helmets , brassards , and truncheons . Recruiting opened on different days at Territorial drill halls throughout the country . The Government 's intention was to raise up to 300,000 men in units consisting of five officers and 500 other ranks , and to concentrate them at what were provocatively called ' storm centres ' . The response was heartening . In Hertfordshire 313 applicants were registered between 3 pm on 10 May and 10 am the following day , before recruiting was halted . In Middlesex plans were made to raise three full companies , around the area of the 7th Middlesex Battalion , and within hours of the beginning of recruiting on 12 May , ' hundreds of men ' had enlisted . This successful appeal was repeated through the country where it was thought that additional forces would be needed . ' ' Barely had recruiting begun , however @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ disbanded on 15 May . A few of its members had been involved in clashes with strikers and strike sympathizers , but most had done little more than don their helmets and fall in at their ' storm centres ' . Even this limited exposure was enough to raise doubts about the wisdom of the Government in 82 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? raising the CCR . The London District report concluded that : they were undoubtedly looked on as a species of strike breaker and ' black and tan ' . They did not in consequence give the same confidence to workers , and in attacking them strikers did not feel they were up against the law in the same way as with police.39 So much for the claim of the chairman of the Essex Territorial Association , Brigadier-General Colvin , that the establishment of the CCR was ' eloquent testimony to the value of the Territorial Army ' ; and there was an ironic truth in the boast of the County of London Association that the raising of the CCR had been ' nothing other than a masterpiece of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Whitehall in again evidencing the possibilities and various uses to which Territorial organisation . . . could be put to use in a moment of emergency ' . Other Associations saw their useful role in a very different direction . The Warwickshire Association staged a tattoo in Birmingham , which both stimulated recruiting and was instrumental , it suggested , ' in helping to maintain the peaceful conditions which prevailed in the Midlands throughout a period of acute industrial crisis ' .40 Again , as in 1921 , the attempt to separate the Territorial Army from the temporary force was not successful . Although the CCR was under the authority of the Home Office , its recruitment and administration were the responsibility of the War Office . Even though its members did not wear military uniforms , the fact that they were recruited exclusively from Territorial units and concentrated at Territorial drill halls destroyed the official pretence . The Territorial Army had been embodied in all but name . In spirit the Government had called upon Territorials to volunteer as units ; in place of the order it felt politically unable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Those who volunteered their services with their Territorial units were praised for coming to the aid of the state , yet as one military member of the Essex Association emphasized , it had to be made ' very clear that those joining the Territorial 83 // Army were under no obligation to assist in a civil capacity , and .. . there was no slur on those who did not join the Civil Constabulary Reserve ' .41 Despite the unfortunate identification of the Territorial Army with the Government 's efforts to combat the general strike , Churchill was probably right in arguing that any adverse effects that arose out of using the Territorials ? whether as Territorials or disguised as the CCR ? would soon pass . While the Territorial Army did not enjoy the recruiting boom that followed the disbandment of the Defence Force in the middle of 1921 , neither did it suffer from the previous influx of undesirables . Recruiting generally remained steady throughout 1926 , and the fluctuations that did occur were probably due as much to the cancellation of some camps in the summer of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of a lack of transport ) and the abolition of the bounty in 1927 . How much residual hostility to the Territorial Army remained in labour circles , and was heightened by the experience of 1926 , is almost impossible to say . Certainly the War Office continued to have problems in recruiting skilled tradesmen to join the Supplementary Reserve , and the earlier objections of some unionists to joining it must surely have been confirmed by the Government 's insistence on the maintenance of essential services during the general strike ; but the reason for the declining fortunes of the Territorial Army during the late 1920s and early 1930s must be sought elsewhere . The collapse of the general strike and the crushing of the unions through the vindictive Trade Disputes Act of 1927 brought a measure of calm if not a sense of justice to the industrial scene . The Home Office , while aware that the bitterness engendered by the general strike was another and major impediment to a lasting industrial harmony , could at least be reassured that the police forces had been able to handle the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ minimal requirement to use troops and the future need for them had been ' rendered so much the more remote ' . References to the possible use of the Territorial Army , and even of the Regular Army , in aid of the civil power grew less frequent , until by 1931 , in their Annual Review of Imperial Defence , the Chiefs of Staff noted , probably with some satisfaction , that there was little likelihood that calls would have to be made on military forces , Territorial or Regular , to assist the civil power.42 84 BAYONETS IN THE STREETS ? A question that warranted serious consideration was the maintenance of internal order just prior to or immediately after a declaration of war . That was a difficult problem , for if the Regular Army were outside the country , the Territorials would be the only troops available to maintain internal security , should panic set in or should there be resistance of any kind to the Government 's policy . But if the Territorials were to fulfil their primary role as the second line behind the Regular Army @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , then who would be left to aid the civil authorities ? The CCR could not be reconstituted , at least on previous lines , since the vast bulk of its members had been drawn from the Territorial Army . When these questions were first raised by Onslow in 1927 , they were not of immediate relevance and could be pondered at leisure.43 That was not the case in the late 1930s , when the possibility of having to dispatch an expeditionary force to the continent clashed with the need to provide adequate home defence , especially against attacks from the air . The Territorial Army was fundamental to both . 85 5 The Power of the Purse The greatest obstacle to the fulfilment of the aspirations of the Territorials was the constant threat , all too often carried out , of cuts in government expenditure . Barely had the Territorial Army been re-established after the war than the power of the purse was used to undermine and restrict the dreams of its latter-day founders . The most pervasive complaint in Territorial circles throughout the interwar period was that the Treasury @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Member of the War Office , was always trying to find ways of reducing expenditure , and that the Territorial Army was the most vulnerable target . Whether it was a question of the bounty , or of marriage allowances , or re-equipment , or improved accommodation ? all of which Territorial supporters argued were central to the well-being of the Force ? these matters always resolved themselves on the issue of money . Those who pressed for the reconstitution of the Territorials after the war claimed that for the relatively small amount of money involved , the Territorial Army offered the greatest degree of second-line security behind the Regular Army that a voluntary system could provide . If , as had been accepted by 1921 , the Territorial Army was to be the sole basis for the expansion of the nation 's military forces in time of war , then expenditure upon it could not be regarded as a frill , or approved as a grudging afterthought . On the contrary , the Territorials constituted the vital buffer that could reinforce the Regular Army within several months of the outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 's manpower was being mobilised and trained . If improvised measures such as Kitchener 's ' New Armies ' were to be discarded , as they had been in the early 1920s , then the Territorial Army was an indispensable element in the military posture of the nation . And if this line of reasoning was accepted , the economy argument could be used as an added justification for expenditure upon the Territorial Army . Its supporters constantly argued that far // from costing the state inordinate amounts of money , each Territorial soldier was in fact subsidizing the country , since his military service was voluntary and largely unpaid , as was that of the bulk of each County Association which raised and administered individual units . It was often claimed that not only was the Territorial Army the best ' insurance policy ' that Britain could have , but that it was also the cheapest . Demands for a reduction in Territorial expenditure were always met , therefore , by cries of ' false economy ' . Critics of the Territorial Army could answer variously , and they did @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the reconstitution scheme of undue generosity , even extravagance , in drawing up the scale of pay for drills and attendance at camp . While there were some who attacked the very notion of paying citizen soldiers anything beyond the barest compensation for expenses , preferring instead to rely upon the appeal of patriotism and comradeship to bring in the necessary numbers , most recognized the unreality of that position in the changed conditions of post-war Britain , and accepted that some sort of pay ? ' bounty ' , ' proficiency grant ' , whatever it was called ? was right and proper . What that scale should be was quite another question . Secondly the Associations were frequently criticised for their financial demands upon the Treasury , a charge that rankled among men who volunteered their services in a cause they felt ? often bitterly ? had little public or even official support , or that was at best taken for granted . If the Associations were sometimes unduly jealous of their independence , particularly in financial matters , it was precisely that which made them a ready target @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial position . Their grants , which were made on an annual basis , could be expended within very broad limits , according to each Association 's understanding of its own needs . While training grants were clearly tied closely to the military requirements laid down by GOC-in-Cs of each division , the Regular officers responsible for the training of the Territorials , the expenditure of such block grants as ' Clothing ' and ' Buildings ' fell largely within the discretionary powers of each Association . Furthermore , the grants were continuous , so that individual Associations could , by careful management or minimal expenditure , accumulate large surpluses that were carried over beyond the end of each financial year . Some Associations , of course , especially those who had to recruit in scattered rural areas , or those who undertook heavy building programmes in districts where land prices were high , consistently ran at a loss . But others , whose numbers remained steady and strong , were able to build up 87 // considerable capital reserves . The financial position of each County Association was published annually @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ such as Cheshire and Durham each had reserves of over ? 20,000 . ' It was these reserves that became the focus of attack . In times when economy was the order of the day , it was difficult to argue that Associations could not bear a cut in their annual grants if they were able to accumulate substantial funds each year . Either the annual grant was too large in relation to the needs of the Associations , or else the Associations were holding back necessary funds , thereby interfering with the efficiency of the Territorial units . In any case , from a centralised Whitehall perspective , there was no reason why Associations should need these reserves . The role of the Territorial Army was determined by the War Office , and grants were made to enable the Associations to raise and administer the units required to fulfil that role . The accumulation of surpluses , which gave some Associations virtual financial independence , was a blow to the War Office 's assertion of predominance as well as an offence against the canons of Treasury control and financial orthodoxy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , the Associations found that not only were their annual grants reduced , but that when they occasionally volunteered in a spirit of patriotic example ( duly balanced by a hesitancy lest an undesirable precedent be set ) to donate some of their surpluses to the War Office , they only added further weight to the arguments of their critics that the scale of annual grants to the Associations was too generous in the first place . Thirdly , there was the charge that in view of the strategic calculations ( or guesses ) of the Cabinet ? the ' ten year rule ' and all that flowed from it ? virtually any money spent on the Territorials was a waste , given the restrictions on the employment of the Territorial Army that had been built into the 1920 reconstitution scheme . Henry Wilson 's criticism that the Territorials were a ' sham ' was frequently echoed throughout the 1920s . In the battles of economy the War Office fought to protect the interests of the Regular Army first . Lacking a clear and well-defined role of immediate import , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reconstruction had barely been agreed // upon when the collapse of the post-war boom forced the Government to look for ways to reduce expenditure . In August 1921 Sir Eric Geddes , a former Minister , was appointed to head a committee to recommend substantial savings to the Cabinet . In the wake of a great war , with the general mood of the country weary of military matters , it was not surprising that the services suffered most severely . Even before the Geddes axe fell it was clear that the Army would be a prime target for recommended cuts , and so the War Office began a searching enquiry into its expenditure in the hope that it might be able to forestall the worst of the Geddes proposals , rumours of which soon began to circulate . For the Territorial Army and its supporters it was an anxious time . The adoption of the ' ten year rule ' in 1919 vitiated the need , at least in official thinking , for a capability to reinforce an expeditionary force overseas . The primary role of the Territorial Army was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Regular Army in a major war , but that possibility had now been ruled out . The wrangles between Churchill and his War Office colleagues over the question of using the Territorials in civil emergencies had left the General Staff dissatisfied . The Territorial Army was therefore in a weak position to resist inroads on its budget . There was a number of ways in which economies in Territorial expenditure could be effected , but each naturally had its drawbacks . Those who in 1919 and 1920 had been lukewarm to the terms of the Territorial reconstitution could now renew their attacks , this time shielding themselves behind outside insistence for overall national economies . Given the pronouncements of the Cabinet on the lack of urgency for a major overseas capability , defenders of the Territorial Army found it difficult to defend what increasingly appeared as a privileged position . The proposed cuts on which there was least disagreement related to the support units such as signallers , hospitals , field ambulances and veterinary companies . Since there was little likelihood that the Territorial Army would be operating overseas in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with considerable saving but at little risk . Of course there were bound to be some protests , for it was not pleasant to tell men who had answered the call in 1920 that their services were no longer required , but this was the least painful area in which cuts could be made . Others were not so easily found . There were only two areas in which substantial savings could be made without devastating the efficiency , such as it was , of the Territorials . Either overall numbers could be cut , or the cost per 89 // man could be reduced . In the latter case a reduction of the bounty was the obvious answer . The scale of payments fixed in 1920 had appalled the Financial Section in the War Office and caused some unease in the Treasury ; they went far beyond a reasonable compensation for expenses incurred and were more in the nature of ' come hither ' rewards . The circumstances of 1921 therefore provided justification for attacking this unwarranted , indeed undesirable , extravagance , even , as Sir Charles Harris argued @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ .2 If the bounty was withdrawn from new recruits and reduced by one-third for men already enlisted , there would eventually be an annual saving of ? 300,000 while the immediate saving would be ? 105,000.3 Against this attractive proposition , however , had to be balanced the impact that such cuts would have on what remained of the Territorial Army . The DGTA , Sir Noel Birch , agreed with the critics who protested that to reduce the bounty for those already enlisted would be a ' breach of faith ' , an opinion shared by the Judge Advocate General . ' ( The term continually crops up in Territorial records . The County Associations jealously guarded the interests of their soldiers , and were quick to interpret any attempt by the War Office to change the conditions of service as a ' breach of faith ' . ) Apart from this , there was the objection that recruiting would seriously decline , since men would be unwilling to incur possible losses in spending their free time in military training . The argument could be made , however , that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army and attract to it only those who were motivated by reasons other than purely financial rewards , so that while numbers might decline , overall quality would improve . The other means of achieving large savings was by reducing the establishment of the Territorial Army as a whole . It was clear by 1921 that the original projections of the reconstitution scheme were unrealistic . The slow recruiting of 1920 had proved to be not the exception that Territorial supporters claimed but the norm , so that almost two years after recruiting began numbers had come nowhere near what had been expected . While some areas , espe cially in the north of England and south Wales , had built up strong units , others had been much less successful . Even this relative failure had not produced parallel savings , since Regular staffs and // support services had been maintained at the levels laid down in 1920.5 The wholesale abolition of units therefore promised the greatest savings . It also seemed most consistent with maintaining the efficiency of the units that were retained . Rather than a reduction of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fourteen Territorial divisions ' so completely emasculated as to render each and all valueless from the point of view of war ' , the Quartermaster-General proposed that the number of formations in each division be reduced . The Adjutant-General , Sir George Milne , went much further and suggested that seven ( i.e. half ) of the Territorial divisions be abolished outright so that the rest could be properly equipped and trained.6 This avenue , however , was rejected on political grounds , ' or , as the Secretary of State put it when subsequently announcing the Territorial cuts , ' to select one division for disband ment would mean to select one part of the country and to give it no opportunity of expressing the military spirit which is common to every county ' .8 Behind this statement was the realisation that however the cuts were decided upon , there would be an outcry from the particular unit and the county in which it was raised . Eventually on both questions a compromise was reached , but with the inevitable result that no-one was satisfied . Proposals to reduce the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from Churchill , now at the Colonial Office . Not only would it ' violate the undertaking ' he had given in 1920 ( another ' breach of faith ' ) , he said , but it would entail the ' mutilation of the Territorial Force and the injury to local patrio tism ' .9 The difficulty was that if a proper geographical distribution was to be combined with a substantial reduction then some units which had done well in recruiting since 1920 would have to be disbanded , while others , much less successful , would be saved simply to retain a Territorial presence in their area . 91 // There had already been one round of reductions in 1920 ? 1 . Before the war there were fifty-five Territorial Yeomanry regiments , few of which had seen service in the role for which they were trained . Although after the experiences of the Great War there were those who claimed that the cavalry had a useful role to play ( and from the perspective of the requirements of imperial policing there was some justification for their view ) , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ conclusion that in a future war the cavalry would be much less useful than in the past . The War Office had therefore decided to reduce the number of yeomanry regiments in the Territorial Army to a mere ten . Of the remaining forty-five , one voluntarily disbanded , while thirty agreed to convert to artillery batteries , signals or armoured car companies . When it was announced that the remainder , redundant in the eyes of the War Office , would be disbanded , there was an uproar . The yeomanry was by far the most popular of the Territorial arms , and although some regiments had been slower than expected in rebuilding after the war , their overall recruiting record was much better than that of the infantry . Nevertheless , there could be little justification for maintaining these units apart from considerations of traditions and local pride . They had to go , and they did , although pressure on Churchill caused him to retain an additional four regiments , to a total of fourteen . At the same time there were reductions in the number of infantry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one was turned into an officers ' training corps . A further twenty were either disbanded or merged with other units , while all battalions suffered a reduction in establishment . In general these changes had been agreed upon , albeit reluctantly , by the various County Associations , who could hardly argue against the poor recruiting figures in the units concerned . There were some protests , especially in cases where strong battalions had been sacrificed in order to spread the losses geographically . Thus the merger of the 6th and 7th Manchesters was met with dismay and anger , as these battalions belonged to the 42nd Division , the strongest in the country . That Division had the proud record of being the first Territorial Division to go on overseas service in 1914 , when , confounding the predictions of those who denigrated the preparedness of the Territorials , it embarked only five weeks after the outbreak of war . Concessions to sentiment and tradition , such as allowing merged units to retain their distinctive uniforms and badges and to maintain separate headquarters , had helped to soothe wounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the County Associations would be // prepared to accept another round of abolitions and mergers with so little sustained ill-feeling.lo The Geddes Committee submitted its preliminary report to the Cabinet in December . Of its recommended defence cuts of ? 75 millions , ? 20 millions were to fall on the Army . Although no section of the Army escaped unscathed , the bulk of the cuts were directed against the Regular Army . Infantry battalions , cavalry regiments , artillery batteries , and engineer and auxiliary units were all to be reduced by a total of 50,000 officers and men . In contrast the Territorial Army escaped comparatively lightly . The Committee noted that although the Territorials were smaller in number than in 1914 , . the cost per man had more than doubled . But this alarming trend did not lead them to recommend a reduction in the Territorial establishment . Instead they argued that since there was no immediate prospect of war , and even less likelihood of an invasion of Britain , the Territorial Army could be maintained at a lower level of preparedness ? by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and NCOs attached to Territorial divisions and units for training purposes . The cost of this staff in 1921 was ? 1,135,000 ; it would be reduced to ? 1,000,000 as the abolition and merger of units was effected , but the Geddes Committee recom mended that no more than ? 500,000 should be spent in this area.11 As speculation on the contents of the report began to mount , Scarbrough , now Chairman of the West Riding Territorial Associa tion , wrote in alarm to Churchill : I have no doubt that the cut must fall heavily on the Territorial Army , but I am alarmed at the rumours floating about , which include a drastic reduction in the length of the annual training , and even go as far as the actual abolition of the Force . From my experience of the Military Members of the Army Council I have little doubt that they would welcome abolition and if thereby they can save something substantial for the Regular Army they will probably press for it , and if successful , destroy the one thing that keeps the voluntary spirit @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ - 1940 Some of Scarbrough 's fears would have been confirmed had he known of a meeting of the Territorial Divisional GOC-in-Cs which Birch convened at the War Office in the utmost secrecy to discuss the implications of the Geddes recommendations and to suggest other ways of saving money . Although there was no talk of abolishing the Territorial Army , there was a suggestion made that the County Associations should be abolished . It was rejected overwhelmingly , but it was agreed that any reductions in establish ment or changes in conditions of service should be imposed on the Associations and not discussed with them beforehand . The divisional commanders felt that some of the Associations were wasteful and extravagant in their administration , that smaller ones should be amalgamated for the sake of efficiency and economy , and that if the bounty had to be reduced , the savings should be made on payment for attending drills rather than for annual camp . Reduc tions in permanent staff could be made if the training standard of officers and NCOs was maintained ; the training of the men for war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ included a period of six months after embodiment before Territorial troops would proceed overseas . " ( So short were the memories of 1914 . ) Scarbrough was quite right in his assessment of the Army Council . The Geddes Committee 's call for swingeing cuts in the strength of the Regular Army evoked a furious response from the General Staff , who found a vent for their anger in the comparatively light treatment afforded the Territorials . The proposed reductions in the permanent staff attached to the Territorial Army , the General Staff noted caustically , would ensure that ' the military value of the force shall be even less than it is at present ' . The Geddes Committee , it charged , had ignored the growing responsibilities of the Regular Army and , in a manner that was almost cavalier , had pressed for reductions that would restrict dangerously its opera tional ability , while ' they pass almost in silence the policy of spending ? 5,000,000 a year on a force which under present conditions is of no practical value in upholding the authority of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a question , the General Staff disingenuously emphasized , of hostility to the Territorial Army , but a matter of priorities unhappily forced on the War Office by the calls for economy : // out by the Cabinet 's decision that a great war was out of the question for 10 years or more . This wipes out any chance of invasion . The Territorial Army can not find out overseas garrisons , it can not provide drafts , it can not furnish reinforcements for an Eastern campaign , and it can not be used for the preservation of internal order . It therefore fulfils none of the essential tasks which the maintenance of the British Empire demands . On the contrary , it is absorbing money to find which regular units are to be abolished . It is therefore , impossible to justify the retention of the Territorial Army in its present form on military grounds . Either there had to be a change in the terms of service so that Territorials could provide reinforcements for the Regular Army in a ' small war ' overseas , or some new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Army a clear and valued position within Britain 's defence posture . Since the first alternative had been , in the words of the General Staff , ' exhaustively discussed ' before the Territorial terms of service had been drawn up and had been found impossible to accommodate within the political and military restrictions imposed upon the Force , the second alternative became increasingly attractive to the War Office . A Force that was effectively limited to home service could be utilised for defence against the enemy not , as previously , from the sea , but now from the air . Anti-aircraft defence was primarily the responsibility of the Royal Air Force , but it required a complex support system of ground troops to man anti-aircraft guns , operate searchlights , and provide the necessary communications . Here was the logical role for the Territorial Army . Restricted as they were in their ability to be deployed overseas , the Territorials could be employed at home ? and probably near their homes ? in a role that might well be of vital importance in the opening stages of a war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and especially the havoc caused by the lack of preparations to meet the threat , had influenced the General Staff to begin thinking along these lines even before the Geddes Report was issued . The Army Council had already approved the establishment of two Territorial Anti-Aircraft Divisions , but apart from taking the decision nothing had been done . The funds were not available . Lip service was paid to the need to create strong anti-aircraft defences based on the Territorial Army , but in reality very little was done until the latter half of the 1930s . Before then it was the familiar story that , desirable as this development might be , there simply was not the money to carry it out . 95 // In the meantime the General Staff pointed to the infantry , artillery and cavalry units in the Territorial Army and suggested that rather than reduce the numbers of permanent staff attached to the Territorials , an entirely wrong-headed approach in their minds , the Territorial establishment itself should be reduced by abolishing some of those units that had conspicuously failed to win local @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Territorial Army , backed by local enthusiasm , trained by a keen and efficient permanent staff , and with an increasing role to play in a vital aspect of home defence , would , so the General Staff argued , be more economical on a continuing basis and more attuned to the defence needs of the country.14 Reasonable as this was in light of the decisions made by the Cabinet and the needs for economy ( whether or not the specific recommendations of the Geddes Committee were accepted ) , it was quite another matter to put it into practice . Even before a Cabinet committee was appointed to consider the Geddes Report and the General Staff objections to it , Churchill proposed an unwieldy compromise . Rejecting a purely financial approach to the question , he suggested that not only should there be no further reductions in the Territorial yeomanry , apart from some amalgamations on a squadron basis , but that regiments that had already converted to other arms should be given the option to change back to their yeomanry role if they were willing to accept certain conditions @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assist the civil power in times of emergency ( which Churchill defined much less loosely than most of his former War Office advisers ) and that in the event of a small war they should be liable for overseas service without the passing of an act of Parliament.1 ' This was in answer to the objection of the General Staff that since the yeomanry , together with the rest of the Territorials , could only be used in very restricted circum stances , ' further expenditure on it is unjustified ' .16 Birch admitted that given the option of reconverting most yeomanry regiments would take it , thus entirely upsetting all the rationalisation that had been worked out in 1921 . The General Staff was adamant : there could be no question of retaining unwanted yeomanry regiments // while Regular units were being disbanded and reduced . It would be a case , wrote Lord Cavan ( shortly to succeed Wilson as CIGS ) , of ' putting sentiment before efficiency.r17 Nor could there be any amalgamation of regiments on a combined squadron basis . Apart from the fact that this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be all but impossible to get agreement on the siting of headquarters , titles , and such matters as were of particular importance to county regiments . Having suffered the opprobrium resulting from the contractions of 1921 , the War Office was not about to reopen that question . As the Deputy CIGS noted : ' County feeling runs very high in these days.r18 Although he was chairman of the Cabinet committee set up to examine the Geddes proposals , Churchill made no headway in his fight to protect the yeomanry or the Territorial Army as a whole . The Committee 's final report attacked much of the thinking behind the recommendations , but in the final analysis it was forced to accept most of what the Geddes Committee suggested , only scaling down the cuts from twenty millions to sixteen millions . Scarbrough had expressed the hope to Churchill that ' in the broader interests of the country you will not be a party to any forms of reduction which would really emasculate and possibly kill the second line which you created ' , 19 but there was little comfort @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ report concluded : Very serious reductions have been effected in the size and standard of maintenance of the Territorial Army . . . . The reductions will deeply affect the efficiency of the force and will be extremely unpopular . We do not see how they can be avoided in the existing circumstances.20 The Cabinet 's decision on reductions and savings was com municated to the Territorial Associations at the beginning of March , and announced in the House of Commons two weeks later . Worthington-Evans , the Secretary of State for War , stressed that in finding ways of saving some ? 1,175,000 out of a current Territorial budget of ? 6,825,000 , the Cabinet had been guided by certain 97 // principles . There could be no question of disbanding any of the fourteen Territorial divisions , since the essence of the scheme was that it should cover the whole country and offer every area the chance to volunteer its services . Similarly all fighting units were to be retained , and reductions were to be made in the expenses of ancillary services ? the signals , service , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there would be no shortening of the period of annual training , which would remain at fourteen days . Critics of the restricted role of the Territorials were to be assuaged ? hopefully ? by the announcement that a greater part would be played in anti-aircraft defence by the creation of half a group of Air Defence troops , consisting of 220 officers and 2,708 men . These changes , however , would account for only 60 per cent of the required savings . The remainder were , as Churchill predicted , bound to be much more unpopular . The infantry establishment was to be cut from 280,680 to 210,637 men ; although no units would be abolished , the strength of the individual units would be reduced to 600 other ranks , and officers were to be recruited only to 75 per cent of the war establishment . Artillery batteries would be cut from six to four guns , while there would be some reductions ( though not as extensive as the Geddes Committee had recom mended ) in the numbers of permanent staff attached to Territorial units . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? 5 that it had been possible for a trained Territorial to earn in the course of a year ( plus his pay during annual camp ) was cut to ? 3 for a trained man and ? 2.10s for a recruit . Perhaps the hardest hit were the officers . Their daily messing allowance while in camp was abolished outright ; they were put on the same footing as Regular officers , and also given a flat grant of ? 1 . Even worse , their allowances for incidental expenses incurred in the course of the year 's trainirT , previously rarely sufficient to cover their costs , were halved.2 This was a bitter pill for the Territorials to swallow , but on balance they had emerged from the economy campaign better than might have been expected , given the hostility of the General Staff and the widely-acknowledged fact that they were unlikely to be needed to repel an invasion or to serve overseas in the near future . The calls for economy throughout the nation were so strong that // support for cuts in government spending became almost a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ special interests of the Territorial Army . Many members of the County Associations were themselves businessmen , anxious to see a reduction in government expenditure and a lowering of taxation rates . Of course , they defended the Territorial budget and argued against capricious cuts , but in the end resigned themselves to the inevitable with the consolation that by accepting the government 's course of action they were undertaking yet another sacrifice for the good of the nation . But although there was cause for relief that the cuts had not been more savage , there could be little reassurance that more serious inroads would not be made if further calls for economy began to be heard . An ' economical force ' , a ' national insurance policy ' ? these were fine-sounding sentiments , but what did they mean in the context of Britain 's defence requirements in the 1920s ? Who could possibly justify the expenditure of five million pounds on a Territorial Army that had so little apparent relation to Britain 's needs ? The emphasis throughout the 1920s was much more on extra-European , colonial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Against the claims of the Regular Army on increasingly limited funds the Territorials were poorly placed to compete . Even with its powerful constituency , the Territorial Army could not take its continued existence for granted . As the CIGS , Lord Cavan , said in a speech shortly after the cuts had been announced : ' This voluntary army must be treated with sympathy and understanding , for there is a real danger of its melting away . ' 22 99 6 Reduction and Recrimination The Territorials had little sympathy or understanding from the Government over the next few years . Continued calls for economy forced the War Office to focus its attention on the needs of the Regular Army ; the Territorials were left to make do as best they could with what was left . It was never enough , especially when the Secretary of State several times emphasized the important role the Territorials would play in the expansion of the country 's forces in time of national emergency . Such assurances rang hollow as each reduction in expenditure was imposed , as each government decision affecting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adequate consultation with the Associations . As a result the Government had its way : expenditure was substantially reduced , but at the cost of the goodwill and strong morale in the units and County Associations that was so necessary if the Territorial Army was to be a success . The effect of the bad feeling that developed towards the end of the 1920s was a delayed one . Not until the 1930s , when the long discarded possibility of an expeditionary force was revived , did the viability of the Territorial Army become a pressing matter for the War Office . By then , however , the accumulated distrust and feeling of neglect that permeated many Territorial units and Associations was too deep to be assuaged by glib promises of renewed interest , particularly when increased expenditure was all but ruled out by the demands of economic recovery from the depression . A combination of ' pinpricks ' and ' hammer-blows ' , compounded by an apparent War Office belief that the support , however grudging , of the County Associations could be virtually taken for granted , led to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ fundamental revision in the terms of enlistment for the Territorials in 1932 it received a rude shock : its proposals were rejected . That rebuff marked the beginning of a long but steady rehabilitation of the Territorial Army from the low point of the late 1920s. // The savage cuts in Army expenditure following the report of the Geddes Committee had so reduced the Regular Army that the General Staff felt there could be no further cuts without endanger ing efficiency and the Cabinet accepted this view . ' In future it would fall to the Territorial Army to bear the brunt of any additional reductions . None were called for on financial grounds for several years , and the Secretary of State for War was authorised to deny specifically that reductions were contemplated , in the hope that this would put an end to the rumours and stabilise recruitin ? numbers , which had fallen off badly as the uncertainty spread . However , a reordering rather than a reduction of expenditures became necessary in 1923 . On the recommendation of the Geddes Committee , and at the insistence of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ undertake an anti-aircraft defence role in the Air Defence of Great Britain ADGB scheme that was being set up . The Director-General of the Territorial Army was assured that these troops would not be raised by abolishing a number of Territorial infantry divisions , for the War Office now based its home defence plans on the possibility of an air attack combined with an invasion force of 10,000 in the Colchester-Shorncliffe area . To meet the threat Territorial infantry levels had to be maintained at their existing strength.3 The suspicion remained , however , that the War Office might be forced to resort to abolition of some units . The initial ADGB troops were to be established in the Southeast of England ? in London and its approaches , precisely the areas where recruiting for Territorial infantry units was weakest . It was tempting to abolish those units which had been struggling since the war to reach a respectable strength and to channel the funds thus saved into producing the ? 450,000 required to maintain the 15,000 AA troops . Towards the end of 1923 the question of abolishing Territorial infantry @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ appeal for AA troops raised doubts over the ability of the Terri torial Army to supply the necessary numbers , in which case responsibility for manning ADGB installations would have to fall to the Regular Army . In that case there could be no justification for 101 // maintaining expenditure on the Territorial Army at what the General Staff already considered to be an unwarranted level . It was suggested that the rate of conversion of Territorial drill halls and the provision of anti-aircraft equipment be slowed down until such time as recruitment revived sufficiently to show that AA troops could be raised through the Territorial Army.4 It was a vicious circle . The less money was spent on providing modern equipment and attractive practice halls ( together with social facilities ) , the more reluctant men were to enlist , and the less likely it seemed that the Territorial Army was the most suitable medium through which to raise the necessary troops . If the numbers were not forthcoming , there was no reason to maintain a number of weak infantry divisions whose usefulness in an overseas role was circumscribed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to home defence anti-aircraft duties had been so forcefully demonstrated . The Director-General of the Territorial Army admitted that abolition might become necessary , even at the cost of stirring up ' deep resentment and strenuous opposition ' , but he went on to say that ' if destruction of Divisions and reconstruction of Territorial formations on a new plan should be closely followed by further destruction and further reconstruction , without any definite end in sight , the effect on the Territorial Army will certainly be to induce a most dangerous spirit of discontent and discouragement ' .5 The military implications of abolishing infantry divisions , particularly in the home counties area , and the political uproar that would result was enough to convince the Army Council that other means of raising AA troops would have to be found . In December it was decided that the costs involved would have to be an additional item on the Army estimates and that Territorial units would not be reduced to provide AA troops . ' For the moment those ' other means ' did not have to be found . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the raising of AA troops was given a low priority until the funds to purchase modern equipment became available . For the next two years the Territorials enjoyed a degree of sta bility . The unrealistic hopes of the 1920 scheme had been tempered // by the sobering recruiting figures of the first two years , and the outright hostility of the War Office had given way to a resigned acceptance of the ' second line ' . For the moment the Territorials were left alone . There were no demands for additional expenditure cuts , and apart from the question of AA troops , there seemed to be no controversial policy issues to be decided which might have an effect on the Territorial Army . There was a minor flurry in 1924 when the short-lived Labour Government cancelled the capitation grant given annually to Cadet units . This provoked a storm of protest , much of which was repeated in 1930 , when official recognition was withdrawn from the Cadets , again by a Labour government . However this action had little real effect on the Territorials , other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had little sympathy with military organisations , even those such as the Cadets whose connections with the country 's military forces were tenuous at best . Though many of them privately admitted that the Cadets were of dubious value to the Territorials , the general reaction of the Territorial Associations was to decry yet another attack ? albeit an indirect one ? on the Territorial Army and the sources from which it could draw its support . By 1926 the picture had changed . Further cuts in defence expenditure were demanded , and there was little that the War Office could do to resist them . Early in the year it withdrew the per capita grant of five shillings paid to each Association for the upkeep of its clothing supplies . That saving , amounting to ? 36,000 , was quickly followed by calls for much more massive cuts . The Earl of Derby , a leading spokesman for the Territorial Associations , accepted the need for national economy , but insisted that the Territorials should not be made to bear a greater proportionate cut than the Regular Army and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training as on the administrative grant . ' The Secretary of State agreed that the Associations as a whole should determine exactly where cuts should be made . He probably hoped to avoid inflaming feelings against the Government and the War Office more than was inevitable . All he required was that the cuts be made in such a way as to cause the least possible disturbance to the Territorial Army , and ? more important ? that they be effective immediately and produce ' an actual cash saving for the coming year ' . When the Associations met under the aegis of the Council of County Territorial Associations to consider how the savings were to 103 // be made , there was surprisingly little evidence of animosity , for the total of cuts demanded by the War Office ? ? 160,000 ? was proportionate to that imposed on the Regular Army . There could therefore be no justification for previous complaints that the Territorials were being singled out by an unsympathetic War Office . Nor was there any disagreement when the Vice-Chairman of the CCTA , Brigadier-General Sir William Bromley-Davenport @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the level of cuts , rejected out of hand any idea that the reductions could be made by abolishing units , either by wiping out one battalion in each brigade or one company in each battalion . Yet in the long run some measure of abolition or at least reduction might have been the best solution . Had the weakest units been abolished or reduced to cadre levels , the smaller grants available for both training and administration would have been more effective in providing adequate training and social facilities . As it was , when reductions were ruled out as a means of saving money , the increasingly restricted funds were spread more thinly , with serious effects on recruiting . However , this was not a realistic option in 1926 , when the demand from the War Office was for ' immediate cash savings in the coming year ' . Bromley-Davenport recommended that Training Grants be cut by almost thirty-eight per cent to ? 100,000 , that grants for land purchase and the erection and renovation of buildings be halved to ? 50,000 , and that grants for hiring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reduced by ten per cent , saving ? 11,000 . A further ? 39,000 could be found by reducing the per capita clothing grant by four shillings . The remaining ? 9,000 , he suggested somewhat hesitantly , could be made up if Associations volunteered to donate five per cent of their surplus funds ( which in 1926 totalled ? 360,000 ) to the Government . This was a bold proposal , for these surplus funds had been jealously guarded by those Associations that had managed to accumulate them and keep them out of reach of the War Office and Treasury . The suggestion was not lacking in self-interest , however , for Bromley-Davenport argued that not only would this prevent units from being disbanded to save money but that it would make the surplus funds ' more than ever safe . For seeing them put to so splendid a purpose , no Government would ever have the face to lay a finger on them . ' ' There was little disagreement , for in fact there could be none . It was unthinkable , only four years after the cuts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abolished outright , and once that avenue was // rejected , Bromley-Davenport 's suggestion provided the only solu tion . The sole dissenting voice was that of Colonel John Brown of Northamptonshire , a long-standing critic of the power of the Associations in Territorial matters . He questioned the wisdom of cutting the training grant , arguing that these were the only funds available to unit commanders to conduct weekend camps and other forms of training outside the annual camp . Already the grant was too small , and if it were to be reduced further , the efficiency of the Territorial Army would suffer . As he later wrote to Basil Liddell Hart , the Daily Telegraph Military Correspondent , ' the weekend exercises and winter training are the basis of the present efficiency of TA units and as the bulk of this money gets down to the keen men it may be considered a reward for enthusiasm and efficiency .. The fact is that at the Council the bulk of members are Secretaries of the Associations and very few of them are in touch with the units . ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of individual Associations tended to think in terms of bricks , mortar and clothing stores , but this was one of the prime responsibilities of the Associations , and the authority in local affairs that went with it undoubtedly encouraged public spirited men to serve on the Associations . If the authority of the Associations were to be reduced and unit and divisional commanders given much more control of training funds , as Brown wished , then , Derby warned the Permanent Under-Secretary at the War Office , ' you wo n't get business men to serve any longer on the Associations ' . ' ? Apart from training the other major responsibility of the Associa tions was the raising and maintaining of individual units . Every enquiry , official or unofficial , into recruiting that was carried out between the wars indicated that the inadequacy and unattractive ness of so many Territorial drill halls and social clubs was a major ' factor in poor recruiting levels . If the grants for lands and buildings were cut more than the fifty per cent Bromley-Davenport recom mended , a course that Brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ more , whether or not extra training was held . At this stage , only four years after the Territorials had been reconsti tuted in the face of considerable opposition from the General Staff , there was a measure of safety in numbers . Not until recruiting cam paigns had decisively failed and there had been further reductions in expenditure did the Associations and the War Office make a virtue of 105 // necessity and begin to stress quality over quantity . Derby warned the CCTA to avoid ' kicking against the pricks ' , and , undoubtedly anxious to avoid a confrontation with the War Office , which they could only lose and out of which they might suffer greater losses , the meeting quickly accepted Bromley-Davenport 's recommendations on cuts in expenditure and agreed to donate five per cent of their surplus funds to the Government . ' ' It was an astonishingly easy victory for the War Office . In effect it had extracted major concessions from the Associations without giving anything in return . But it was also too easy , for it led the War Office @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the future . That assumption was quickly proved wrong , and in the process the distrust and ill-feeling between Whitehall and the Associations reached a peak . No sooner had the Associations accepted the cuts than the Territorials suffered another blow . When the General Strike was called in May , the Territorial Army was not embodied to assist the civil power in the maintenance of order , but selected units were asked to volunteer en masse as members of the Civil Constabulary Reserve . ( See above , chapter 4 . ) The effect of this transparent device was a delayed one : it added weight to the long-standing suspicion of the Territorials on the part of organised labour , which saw them as a home defence body designed to protect the status quo . Any ideas Labour might have had that a successful Territorial movement would be the best protection against the introduction of conscription were overshadowed by the fear that the Territorials might again be embodied to carry out a Conservative policy of internal repression . Not for many years could the Territorial movement hope to find any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Territorials were held to be a manifestation of the militarism that was such anathema to Labour ( even though much of the rank and file in the inter-war Territorial Army came from the working class ) . A much more immediate effect came in the summer of 1926 . Two weeks after the collapse of the General Strike , the War Office announced that all annual camps that were scheduled to be held before July 15 had been cancelled.12 The ostensible reason for this decision was that the strike had interfered with coal production and deliveries to such an extent that supplies were insufficient to permit Territorial units to undertake long train journeys to their // training site . Nor was it possible , the War Office claimed , to rearrange those camps , either for a period after July 15 or to a locality that did not involve excessive train travel . Exactly why this could not be done was not explained , and the suspicion spread that the Government had taken advantage of the chaos resulting from the General Strike to save some money at the expense of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ remarkably insensitive letter from the War Office to the Associations , in which the Army Council denied that its decision had been dictated by the wish to save money on training , and insisted that the sole consideration had been that ' affecting national transport ' ? which did not explain why it had refused to sanction local camps which involved no transport other than marching . The letter concluded : The Army Council are concerned at the loss of training and of consequent efficiency which must accrue to the Territorial Army and at the disappointment and inconvenience caused to many members of all ranks ; but they are aware that they can rely upon the Territorial Army to accept uncomplainingly and in the right spirit decisions arrived at in the national interest.13 This was too much to expect . The summer camp was the high point of the Territorial year , and by far the biggest single recruiting factor . Weekly drills were all very well , but it was only large scale concentrations of troops at summer camp that made battalion , brigade , and sometimes divisional exercises possible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ than ' Saturday night soldiers ' . The Army Council 's offer to provide additional funds for weekend camps was a poor substitute for fifteen days ' annual camp , especially when the sum barely made up what had been cut from the training grant in February . There were other consider ations which the Army Council had overlooked . It was more than a matter of mere ' inconvenience ' for many Territorials : they planned their holidays around the annual camp and , if the location was an agreeable one ( near the sea , for example ) arranged for their families to stay nearby . With the cancellation of camps , they risked the loss of the bounty and the allowances they could earn while in camp . For many of them it was this money that enabled them to take their families for a holiday each year . Now that was threatened . Even though the Government made it possible for men to earn their 107 // bounty by doing extra drills this could not compensate for these losses.l ' The Army Council 's hopes that the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ right spirit ' were quickly shattered . They did complain , not least because the reasons put forward by the Army Council were so unconvincing . The Chairman of the Staffordshire Association , most of whose units had their camps cancelled , rejected the coal shortage argument and publicly and bluntly accused the Army Council of being unwilling to provide the necessary funds . ' The Staffordshire Association passed a resolution ' to express the feeling of deep dismay ' at the action of the Army Council , ' and persuaded the Council of County Territorial Associations to do likewise.l ' Looking back it is a little surprising that the protests were so muted . The explanation perhaps lies in the composition of the Associations . Their most active members were politically conservative and sympathised with the Government 's interpretation of the General Strike as an extra-constitutional threat to the country . Thus , although dismayed by the War Office 's decision , they did not judge it as harshly as might otherwise have been expected . Certainly when the camps were again cancelled in 1931 , the Associations were much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was an indication ? though largely unrecognized at the time ? of things to come . Even before the War Office announced its decision on camps , the Chiefs of Staff had met and heard the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Sir George Milne , recommend a reduction in the size of the Territorial Army and a recasting of its training priorities . In May he explained to the Chiefs of Staff that unless substantial cuts were made there would be a deficit of one million pounds in the coming year , and that took no account of expenditure connected with the defence of the naval base at Singapore and other ports on imperial routes to the east . Not did it allow for the costs of anti-aircraft defences in England , even though there was some possibility that the rate of establishing these might be slowed down . The Territorial Army consisted of fourteen infantry divisions together with // cavalry , artillery , and the usual support services , but that organi sation had been established in the immediate post-war atmos phere : it had assumed that in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the second line behind the Regular Army . The likelihood of the Territorials carrying out such a role had so diminished that there was no longer any justification for maintain ing so many divisions for overseas service . The only way in which funds could be found for raising and equipping anti-aircraft troops was by cutting down on the Territorial establishment.18 When the Chiefs of Staff presented their ' Annual Review of Imperial Defence ' to the Cabinet in June , they followed Milne 's recommendation , but with a significantly different emphasis . The Locarno Treaty of 1925 imposed at least a semblance of stability on France 's border with Germany , and though the Treaty saddled Britain with a commitment to resist forcible changes in the border , the obligation was shared with the other signatories , making it ? in the words of the 1928 Review ? a ' somewhat indefinite liability ' .19 The ability of the Territorials to reinforce the Regular Army in a European commitment was thereby rendered much less important . Additionally ? and this was the significant change  --  a friendly France @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attacks from that quarter , fear of which had prompted the Chiefs of Staff in 1923 to press for increased expenditure on anti-aircraft defences . The funds released by reduction of the Terri torial units earmarked for an expeditionary role need not therefore be used for anti-aircraft defences . Now the Chiefs of Staff recommended that the expansion scheme for the Royal Air Force be postponed until 1935-6 , and no further work be carried out on the inner and outer anti-aircraft artillery zones that were to have been established around London , until the situation was reviewed at some unspecified time in the future . Instead the savings would be used for ' research and experiment ' ( especially on mobile armoured forces ) and ' to supply the Regular Army with the supplementary units , equipment and training grounds , which it now lacks ' .20 This would be a major change of policy , and no hasty decisions 109 // could be taken . It was clear to the War Office , however , that somehow its spending priorities had to be reordered even if the Treasury demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had to be made , they would be the result of careful planning rather than the hasty decisions that had been the War Office response to previous calls for economy . As soon as the Chiefs of Staff had completed their review and made their recommendations , he appointed a sub-committee of the Army Council to look at the finances of the Territorial Army and to anticipate calls for reductions . The operations of this committee were subsequently the subject of a bitter dispute between the Associations and the War Office . The CIGS , Milne , underlined the parlous state to which the Territorials had been reduced . Except for the extreme and unlikely emergency of a European war , the Territorial Army would be unable to mobilise and take the field abroad in less than six months . Even if it could be ready before that , there was insufficient shipping to transport the troops within six months , so that expenditure on the Territorials could not be cut down without seriously weakening the overall military power of the country . The committee agreed that some units could be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of supporting units ? ordnance corps , hospitals and veterinary stations . These savings , however , amounting to ? 44,000 , came nowhere near the figure of about ? 250,000 which the War Office thought necessary to fulfil the needs of the Regular Army . There were four ways in which large reductions could be made , which , taken together , would produce the required savings . The first possibility was the abolition of the bounty . This had the advantage of producing immediate and substantial savings which would become even greater as the bounty was phased out completely . Even the War Office flinched from the breach of faith involved in withdrawing the bounty from serving men , but by not paying it to those who re-enlisted after a certain date or to new recruits , up to ? 80,000 could be saved in a single year , and eventually this would rise to ? 332,000 when the phasing out was complete . The Committee recognized that recruiting would suffer a severe if temporary setback , but thought that eventually it would reach its former levels . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ largest items in the Territorial budget . Each unit went to camp for fifteen days a year , although there was provision for men who could not get that much leave to attend for only eight days . If the normal // length was cut to eight days , there would be considerable savings on pay and allowances and the hire of horses and grounds . On purely political grounds this was perhaps preferable to the abolition of units , for at least there would be an equality of sacrifice rather than the singling out of individual units to bear the brunt of the cuts . Milne was adamantly opposed to shortening the period to eight days . As it was the Territorials could hardly claim a high degree of military expertise , and if their one extended period of training was cut to eight days , the effective time available would be only four days , since two days at either end were usually taken up with establishing and then dismantling the camp site . Milne 's argument was another variation of the General Staff position of 1921 ( which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on the Geddes Committee 's recommendation that the permanent staff attached to the Territorial Army be reduced by half . This , the General Staff replied , would ensure that the military value of the force shall be even less than it is at present ' ? and that , in Milne 's estimation in 1926 , was clearly not very great . The committee agreed , and that option was dropped from further consideration . The third means by which substantial sums could be saved was through the reduction of establishments across the board . As with training , it was decided that the efficiency of the Territorial Army and its ability to expand rapidly in times of emergency could only be maintained if the establishment of officers and NCOs was kept at existing levels . For the rank and file , however , it was another matter , and the committee recommended that the establishments of infantry battalions be reduced from 680 to 500 other ranks , and that proportionate cuts be made in all other units . Finally there was some discussion of the possibility of telescop-ing the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Milne who wanted at least the skeleton of a large Territorial Army kept in existence , even though there were no funds to give it an efficient life . The committee pursued the idea no further , except to add that the two London divisions , among the weakest in the whole Territorial Army , could perhaps be amalga-mated , with a saving of ? 114,000 . London was unique in Territorial circles in that the original anti-aircraft units were established there , so that if one of the infantry divisions was abolished there would still be every opportunity for men to serve in the Territorial Army , and to serve in fact in an arm which was becoming increasingly important . In October the committee submitted its recommendations to the 111 // Army Council . It urged that the bounty be withdrawn ; that establishments be reduced ; that the two London divisions be telescoped into one and certain other small units be abolished ; that economies made in 1926 be carried over into the following year ; and that grants for travel to annual camps be reduced . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accept them without trying to gauge the response of the Territorials , who were still angered by the sudden cancellation of camps . Rather than place such an explosive package before the Asso ciations as a whole Worthington-Evans decided to sound them out indirectly , by consulting with senior men in the Territorial movement . He later claimed , when defending himself against charges that the War Office had sprung the cuts on the Associa tions without giving them any real chance to examine them , that Bromley-Davenport had been involved in the committee discus sions from the time of its inception.22 That involvement , how-ever , was fleeting and very occasional , and it was not until early in 1927 that Derby , Bromley-Davenport , and Colonel R. E. Golightly , the Chairman , Vice-Chairman , and Secretary respec tively of the Council of County Territorial Associations , were informed of the extent of the cuts that the War Office was contemplating . No doubt to the relief of Worthington-Evans , Derby told him that he personally agreed with the abolition of the bounty , and from talking to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Officers shared his dislike of it , and would look upon its withdrawal as the least objectionable means of saving money . Derby offered his strong support to the War Office in facing up to the ' howl that there always is ' but gave the impression that any adverse reaction would be limited and easily withstood . Although he was reluctant to approve of reductions in establishment , he admitted that they could be justified , and suggested that a combination of the abolition of the bounty and cuts in establishments would satisfy the War Office demands , especially as those already drawing the bounty gradually left the Territorial Army . His only reservation was over Golightly 's endorsement of the proposal to reduce camps to eight days , but // that , Worthington-Evans assured him , was no longer under serious consideration.23 The War Office , then , had reason to believe that while the cuts it wished to make would be greeted with understandable dismay the Associations would accept them as resignedly as they had cuts in the past . It was rudely disabused of this notion when @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laid the War Office proposals before the Associations ' representatives at the quarterly meeting on 9 February . No notice of the announce ment had been given , and Bromley-Davenport added to the sense of shock by implying that he had been briefed by the Secretary of State only that very morning . It was grim news that he had to tell the Associations . Expenditure cuts of ? 160,000 , which the Territor ials had accepted the previous year on the understanding ? they thought ? that they were for one year only , were to be increased to ? 231,000 . An increase of that magnitude required ' something of a much more drastic and radical character ' . Fortunately the War Office had decided against abolishing units or reducing selected ones to cadre levels , but the only other way in which the cuts could be made was by a combination of the withdrawal of the bounty and the reduction of establishments , plus some smaller economies . 24 The meeting was stunned by these sudden revelations . Bromley-Davenport wrote to Derby , who was unable to attend @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The Council have taken it very badly . The attack was led by Scarbrough in a violent speech which aggravated feelings at a moment when calmness and considera tion were required.25 Scarbrough described the proposals as a ' bolt from the blue ' , a case of the War Office holding a ' pistol at their heads ' , and called on the Associations to fight them ' tooth and nail ' . It was impossible to agree to them at such short notice , he claimed , especially when they were ' calculated to destroy the efficiency and the spirit of the Territorial Army , and to reduce Commanding Officers to a state of 113 // despair ' . Bromley-Davenport pleaded in mitigation of the War Office 's action that there was no other realistic course open , but the meeting would have none of it . Speaker after speaker rose to denounce the proposals , and Scarbrough 's motion to appoint a sub-committee to examine the cuts and , if possible , to recommend alternative economies , received unanimous support.26 It was one thing to rail against the War @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ money was to be saved . Scarbrough 's committee ( he had been made chairman ) rejected the reduction of establishments and the abolition of the bounty . In the case of the latter , it emphasized that the granting of the bounty was of much more than purely monetary significance : ' it was also intended as a recognition of the increased obligations undertaken by the new Territorial Army . ' Particularly galling to the committee was the fact that while the War Office proposed to withdraw the bounty from Territorials , it continued to pay much higher bounties to members of the Supplementary Reserve , who usually carried out their annual training with the Territorial Army . In place of these cuts , which formed the backbone of the War Office 's economies , the committee recommended that the Associations surrender twenty-five per cent of the accumulated clothing reserve funds to the War Office and that the annual grant to the Associations be reduced by six per cent . These would yield cuts of ? 200,000 , which together with those smaller economies that the committee accepted , would @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ However , as the committee noted , it was not simply a matter of financial reductions . The Associations had the right to be consulted by the Army Council before the implementation of any decisions that would drastically affect the Territorial Army : ' in neglecting to do so the Army Council have shown a want of confidence which is much to be regretted ' .27 These proposals were rejected by Worthington-Evans on 21 February , on the grounds that they were not a continuing solution to the problem facing the War Office , for they could not be repeated on a yearly basis , whereas the abolition of the bounty would provide an immediate saving of ? 64,000 and eventually at least ? 350,000 . The only other way in which comparable savings could be made was through the large scale disbandment of units , // but this was rejected out of hand by Scarbrough 's committee . Instead Worthington-Evans offered a compromise : if the Associa tions would accept the abolition of the bounty , the War Office would drop its plans ? for the coming year at any @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ establishments . Bromley-Davenport had anticipated this impasse , and told Derby that he was certain that if the Associations would agree to the bounty being with-drawn , the War Office would drop its threat to cut establishments.28 There was not much else the Associations could do , and Scar brough 's committee recommended that they bow to the inevitable and accept the Secretary of State 's offer . In making it , Worthington-Evans stressed that to be an effective economy measure the withdrawal would have to be made quickly to prevent an influx of recruits hoping to qualify for the bounty before it was abolished . Nothing more was said on the matter , and the committee left under the clear impression that there would be no final decision until the Associations had discussed the proposal at a meeting set for 1 March.29 In fact the decision had already been taken , and consultation with the Associations had been little more than a formality . On the very day the committee met Worthington-Evans , he signed an Army Order abolishing the bounty for all men enlisting or re-engaging in the Territorial @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were told of the new policy on 24 February , and reacted to this fait accompli with howls of outrage . When the need for cuts had been announced earlier in February there had been strong objections voiced by many Associations . Special meetings were called to discuss the perfidy of the War Office , which , it was widely held , had deliberately misled the Associations and again undercut the Territorial Army . From Aberdeen to Kent , from London to Northumberland , Associations protested that the abolition of the bounty would have a ' disastrous ' effect on the Territorials , that it would ' kill ' recruiting . Not only would numbers suffer , there would also be a decline in efficiency , since now there would be no incen tive for a soldier to attend drills and musketry courses . Even more of the very limited time at annual camp would have to be spent in learning basic movements instead of more difficult manoeuvres at the battalion and brigade levels . While most Associations were 115 // gloomy about the effects on recruiting , not all shared @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ see the bounty withdrawn rather than have establishments reduced , but it was one of the few Associations that had filled its establishment and had waiting lists in several units . Kent agreed , but in this case it feared that its poor recruiting record would become even worse : the agricultural workers on whom it relied heavily would simply not be able to afford to join the Territorial Army if the bounty , which represented more than two weeks ' average wages , were with-drawn . But whether they inclined to one course or another , all the Associations deplored the War Office 's action , and were deter-mined , in the words of the Cornwall Association 's resolution , to fight the proposals ' tooth and nail ' .30 The prevailing mood at the CCTA meeting on 1 March was therefore one of bitterness and anger over the high-handed War Office attitude , particularly after the special committee had warned Worthington-Evans of the resentment caused by an apparently deliberate and slighting neglect to consult the Associations properly in the first place . Bromley-Davenport , deputising for Derby , tried @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ natural feelings of indig-nation ' ran high , but his plea was ignored . The objections to the War Office action were two-fold . Many Associations argued that the Territorial soldier would be financially out-of-pocket , and that recruiting would therefore suffer badly . This was particularly so in those counties where the population was small and scattered , and where travelling costs were consequently high . Since grants to defray the costs of going to drills had been reduced in 1925 and 1926 , the abolition of the bounty was the last straw . The // representative of the Northumberland Association accused the CCTA officials and the Associations of the home counties ? the weakest in the country ? of conspiring to economise in ways that would least affect their under-strength units . No one followed up the charge , but there was clearly a feeling that the Council had not been vigorous enough in pressing its objections to the War Office plan and in suggesting alternatives . Secondly the Associations were angered by what they regarded as yet another attempt by the War Office to bypass them , even @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Territorial Army . Not only was the abolition of the bounty ' monstrous and unjust ' , as the Lanarkshire Association put it , but a ' distinct breach of faith ' and a ' dangerous menace ' to the Territorial Army 's ability to fulfil its role as the second line behind the Regular Army . This time the Associations were not so ready to accept the War Office action without a vigorous protest . They passed a unanimous resolution condemning the abolition of the bounty and disclaiming any responsibility for its effects on the future of the Territorial Army , and deploring the fact that such a ' momentous ' decision should have been taken without due consultation with the Associations . Further the Council appointed a deputation to the War Office to press for a reconsideration of the bounty abolition , and it established another special committee to enquire into the whole question of Territorial finances , in the hope that similar precipitate actions in the future could be avoided and the finances of the Territorial Army be placed on a more secure and regular basis.3 ' The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ State 's assurance that the Army Council had intended no slight in rejecting the Associations ' advice.32 Increasingly the abolition itself took second place in the scale of grievances to the method by which it had been accomplished . Bromley-Davenport reported to Derby a growing realisation that the effects on recruiting would be severe but temporary , 33 although this view was a typical example of the London-based perspective that had been criticised at the CCTA meeting . The Scottish Associations were unanimous in opposing the withdrawal of the bounty , but were split over the question of its impact . Large urban Associations such as Glasgow preferred to accept it rather than see a reduction in establishments , but almost 117 // all the other Associations argued that their units , raised in many very small detachments in rural areas , would find it very hard to maintain their numbers.34 No one could be sure , but what was clear beyond doubt was that relationships between the War Office and the Associations were at an all time low . The Times , outspoken in its defence of the Associations , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hands of the War Office . In a leader entitled ' Starving the Territorials ' , it wrote : The Territorial Army is far too important an element in the defences of the country nowadays to be treated in this niggardly and high-handed fashion .... At the present moment the Army Council is not merely looking a gift horse in the mouth ; it is extracting its teeth one by one .... It is high time the public should demand their proper recognition , and that there should be an end to the policy of slights and pinpricks.35 The deputation that went to the War Office on 16 March insisted that even if Worthington-Evans believed there was a division of opinion among the Associations as to the effects of the abolition of the bounty , the Army Council ought to give greatest weight to the views of the CCTA . Its views were unanimous . Withdrawing the bounty discriminated unfairly against those who could not re-engage in time , and it created two classes of men within the ranks , a situation that would be inimical both to recruiting and to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious matter for working-class units in particular , and com pletely at odds with the undertakings and spirit of the reconstitu tion proposals made by Churchill in 1920 . At that time it was recognised that the additional obligations placed on the new Terri torial Army , especially that of overseas service prior to the intro duction of a General Service Act , should be compensated for by the provision of some sort of bounty . The case for such a payment was strengthened by the increased standards of efficiency and the number of drills needed to reach that standard required of a force now officially designated as the second line behind the Regular Army . If the withdrawal of the bounty went ahead , commanding officers would find it impossible to maintain proper efficiency levels , for the loss of the bounty at a time when foreign service // commitments were still enforced would be regarded as a ' breach of faith ' . Worthington-Evans bristled at that accusation , protesting that ' they all ought to realise that there was no intention of committing any breach of faith or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this answer hardly met the main objection : men who could not re-engage before the sudden announcement of the bounty withdrawal were to be placed in the invidious position of having to subsidize their service to the state out of their own pockets . And that they could not afford . That was an alteration of the contract which Churchill had explicitly offered the new Territorial Army in 1920 , and which had been tied to the foreign service obligation that was still in force . In the narrow legal sense Worthington-Evans was quite right , but his reply illustrated the wide gap that existed between Whitehall and the Associations , and even more the individual units . He admitted that he had some misgivings as to the effects on recruiting , but pointed to the fact that after the bounty had been drastically reduced in 1923 the huge drop in enlistments that had been predicted had not materialised . A more serious consideration was the effect on efficiency : he seemed quite willing to consider the deputation 's proposal that an efficiency grant be made to each soldier who fulfilled @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ going to camp , and firing the annual musketry course . This at least offered some hope that while numbers might be reduced , those remaining would continue to try to become efficient . In fact they might improve their efforts since the grant could be more closely tied to performance than the bounty had been . Here was one means by which Worthington-Evans could carry out his promise to ' do his best to see in what way anything could be done to soften the blow ' .36 It did not take him long to realise that the War Office had to make some conciliatory gesture to the Associations . Bromley-Davenport gleefully wrote to Derby that public clamour had forced the Secretary of State to back down , and to restore half the bounty under the new name of ' proficiency grant ' .37 Thus he could claim that he was open to representations from the Associations , despite the charges of lack of consultation that had been levelled against the War Office . No one would lose face . The War Office stuck to its demands that the Territorials @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @                  