@@774261

txt  | indicates that other unidentified constituents of coffee besides caffeine play a role . Many drugs that are prescribed for various illnesses may also be ulcerogenic . Aspirin-containing drugs may also be associated with ulcers and should be used cautiously by persons with previous ulcer disease , and avoided by patients with active ulcer disease . Persons using large amounts of aspirin for chronic illnesses , such as rheumatoid arthritis , are candidates for gastric or duodenal ulcers . Buffering of aspirin does not prevent this danger . Other commonly used drugs associated with ulcer include reserpine-type drugs , used for control of hypertension , phenylbutazone ( Butazolidine ) , used to treat bursitis and inflamed joints , and steroid preparations , such as cortisone , used in a number of disease states . Ulcers occur in greater numbers in persons who have some unusual types of tumors . Persons with a tumor of the parathyroid gland , which regulates the level of the calcium in the blood , have a higher incidence of peptic ulcers . A rare cause of ulcer disease is a tumor of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gastrin , which is a potent stimulus of acid production in the stomach . Complications . Ulcers may cause other problems besides abdominal pain . They may erode into a blood vessel and produce bleeding , so-called bleeding ulcers . If the blood vessel is a large one , the bleeding may be brisk , and the person may vomit blood and pass bloody or tarlike stools . If the bleeding is gradual or intermittent , symptoms of anemia with weakness and tiredness may be the main problem . The person with a bleeding ulcer may be aware of a darkening of his stools , which may be black in color . If the ulcer is large , and penetrates through the entire wall of the stomach or duodenum , a perforated ulcer is present . The stomach juices and acid spill into the abdominal cavity , the digestive enzymes produce a chemical irritation called peritonitis , associated with severe pain , a board-like or rigid abdomen , and shock . Such a patient requires immediate hospitalization and surgical intervention . Persons who have had repeated episodes of ulcers may develop @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ producing obstruction to the emptying of the stomach . Vomiting of undigested food occurs , and in time significant weight loss . Surgery is required to correct blockage or obstruction so that normal digestion may occur .  | Diagnosis . Once a patient discusses his problem with his doctor , x-rays of the upper gastrointestinal tract ? an " upper G.I. series " ? are often obtained to establish the diagnosis and locate the site of the ulcer . This sort of study is carried out by a radiologist , a doctor who specializes in x-ray interpretation and treatment . Since the stomach and duodenum have the same x-ray density as the other organs and tissues in the abdomen , they ordinarily do n't stand out when a plain x-ray picture is taken . However , if the subject swallows a radio-opaque substance , such as barium sulfate , this is easily seen on x-ray study , and since it conforms to the shape of its containing vessel ? in this case , the stomach and duodenum ? it gives a good picture of the upper gastrointestinal tract . Such an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the patient has an empty stomach . Duodenal ulcers are always benign . If the symptoms improve and disappear on treatment , no further studies are necessary . Gastric ulcers may be malignant , or cancerous , in a small number of cases . Therefore , after a period of treatment , even if the symptoms improve or disappear , repeat x-rays of the stomach are obtained to see healing and complete disappearance of the gastric ulcer . Gastric ulcers are also studied by means of a fiberoptic instrument called a gastroscope , which is a flexible tube swallowed by the patient and passed into the stomach . The gastroenterologist who does this procedure can see the gastric ulcer and get a good idea whether it is benign or malignant . To confirm his impression , he often will biopsy , or snip off , several surfaces of the ulcer wall and submit the tissue and washing from the ulcer to a pathologist , who will examine them under a microscope . Treatment . The treatment of ulcer disease is usually by medical methods and not by surgery . Hospitalization of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or perforation . Persons with bleeding ulcers require close monitoring and transfusions to support the circulation and avoid shock . Surgery becomes necessary when the bleeding continues despite efforts to control it or if the bleeding is excessive . As stated above , perforation of an ulcer requires prompt surgical intervention . Symptoms of obstruction are usually gradual and if associated with an active ulcer , may respond to medical , nonsurgical , management . If the ulcer is chronic and refractory to treatment , surgery is indicated .  | Occasionally , an ulcer fails to heal while the patient is on medical therapy at home ; for this reason , he may be hospitalized for optimal sedation and environmental control ? limiting visitors and controlling activity levels . However , for most ulcer patients , staying at home is adequate for healing of an ulcer on a medical program . The usual diet for an active peptic ulcer is bland , which means avoiding spicy and fried foods , and relying heavily on dairy products , broiled meats , cereals , and creamed-type foods . Since duodenal ulcers are associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mainstay of therapy . Food is a good neutralizer of acid and , therefore , frequent feedings are recommended . Antacids , chemicals such as aluminum hydroxide and calcium carbonate , are taken frequently to neutralize gastric acid . These and other antacids are present in many commercial preparations , such as Maalox , Gelusil , Mylanta , Di-Gel , Camalox , etc . By and large , these have similar antacid properties , and differ only by the addition of mild cathartics or agents to disperse gas . These antacids are nonabsorbable , that is , they can be used in large amounts because they do not pass into the blood stream , but rather just move through the intestine after they have neutralized the stomach acids . Absorbable antacids , however , such as baking soda , Sippy powders , and Alka-Seltzer , can alkalinize the system and cause serious side effects if taken in too large quantities . Medications , called anticholinergics , are given to inhibit acid release from the stomach . Tincture of belladonna is a well-known chemical used to inhibit acid secretion . Belladonna , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ present in many different medications prescribed for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease , such as Donnatol , Belladenal , Probanthine , Dartal , and many others . Besides inhibiting acid production , these medications also relax an abnormally tight stomach or intestine . They are used for other conditions besides peptic ulcer disease , where gastrointestinal spasm is present . They have still other effects , which makes them dangerous to use in persons who have glaucoma or urinary retention . The drug cimetidine ( trade name Tagamet ) effectively stops the secretion of acid in the resting stomach , and cuts down acid production in response to stimulation by food to less than one-third of the normal amount . This , of course , makes it valuable in the treatment of peptic ulcer patients .  | Side effects of cimetidine are not common , but for long-term use antacids are safer and probably as effective . Cimetidine is most valuable in the initial treatment of new cases of duodenal ulcer . Alcoholic beverages , coffee and tea , and certain classes of drugs cited above are avoided . Patients @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as possible . Mild sedatives or tranquilizers are extremely useful in reducing anxiety and establishing a restful milieu . Once an ulcer has healed ? and ulcers may heal rapidly , even in just a few days ? the person may gradually return to his former activity level and resume a normal diet . If precipitating factors were present ( certain medicines or excessive consumption of alcohol ) , these must be avoided to prevent a recurrence . Diet should be individualized , and one 's own experience guide the selection of foods . The person with a history of ulcers should avoid foods that consistently upset his stomach or cause indigestion or heartburn . Many people can resume a diet with spicy and well-seasoned foods with little difficulty . For patients who require surgery , different operative procedures are performed depending on the particular complication ? bleeding , perforation , or obstruction . To some extent , the surgical method also reflects the personal bias of the individual surgeon , depending on his own training and experience . The surgeon achieves the greatest success with the procedure with which he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gastric resection ? the removal of 50 to 75 percent of the stomach . The procedure makes good sense , for it removes the antrum of the stomach that produces gastrin , which stimulates acid production , as well as the fundus and body of the stomach where acid is secreted . However , with the removal of a large portion of the stomach many persons can eat only small amounts before becoming full and uncomfortable . A large weight loss may occur . After eating , the food is rapidly dumped into the intestine , producing diarrhea as well as symptoms of weakness , sweating , and headache , especially following a meal with carbohydrates ? the so-called dumping syndrome . Many surgeons now perform a pyloroplasty , widening the opening of the channel from the stomach , so food can not stay as long in the stomach and stimulate acid release , combined with vagotomy , cutting the vagus nerve .  | Gallbladder Disease Medical students are taught to consider gallbladder disease in the differential diagnosis of indigestion , dietary distress , or abdominal pain , especially if the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ forty . " Gallbladder disease is common and affects both sexes , increases in incidence with advancing age , and is not limited to blonds . Gallstones occur in approximately 20 percent of persons over the age of forty . The Normal Gallbladder . The gallbladder is a bag or reservoir about the size of a pear , which lies under the liver and which stores and concentrates bile . Bile is formed in the liver and transported by bile ducts into the gallbladder . It is a golden brown fluid composed of bile salts , bile acids , pigments such as bilirubin , and cholesterol . During the process of digestion , the acid stomach contents reach the small bowel ? duodenum and jejunum ? and cause the release of an enzyme called cholecystokinin . Cholecystokinin stimulates the gallbladder to contract and discharge its contents of bile into a channel called the common bile duct , bringing the bile into the duodenum and small bowel . The bile salts and acids aid in the absorption and digestion of dietary fats as well as vitamins A , D , and K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ? Gallstones are concretions composed of pure cholesterol , inorganic calcium salts , bilirubin , cellular debris , or any combination of these . Stasis , or stagnation , of bile in the gallbladder predisposes to the forming of small crystals and eventual stone formation . This may be the mechanism for stone formation in pregnancy and in prolonged fasting or starvation . Cholesterol remains dissolved in solution largely by the action of bile acids and if the concentration or ratio of bile acids decreases , cholesterol crystals may precipitate and eventually form a stone . Cholesterol stones tend to be yellow-white in color , whereas bilirubin stones are black . Gallstones may be multiple or single ; they may be as small as salt granules or as large as a hen 's egg . Symptoms . Persons with gallstones may be perfectly asymptomatic or have a variety of symptoms and complaints that cause them to seek medical assistance . Nausea , flatulence , belching and indigestion may be prominent . Because of these symptoms a physician may suspect gallbladder disease and order x-rays of the gallbladder as well as an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as ulcer disease or a hiatal hernia . Gallbladder x-rays are obtained by having the patient ingest iodine-containing tablets the evening before the x-ray . These tablets are absorbed from the intestine into the liver , where they are excreted into the bile , and concentrated by the gallbladder . If the gallbladder is diseased , no dye is concentrated and the gallbladder may not visualize . If gallstones are present , they appear as shadows contrasted with the opaque dye . Ultrasound , mentioned in the section on aortic aneurysm , is very accurate in detecting gallbladder disease . Even if gallstones are present , it is not always certain that all the symptoms complained of are due to them and after removal of the diseased gallbladder , various symptoms really unrelated to the gallbladder may persist . Discomfort after meals , usually located under the lower right ribs extending around to the back , may be present . This distress may occur with rich foods that contain a lot of fat , such as fried and greasy foods , gravies , and dairy products , such as milk , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gallbladder to contract , and if stones are present , they may wedge into the outlet of the gallbladder and produce an acute gallbladder attack , characterized by nausea , vomiting , and severe cramping pain . If a stone is pushed into the bile common duct and becomes impacted , obstructing the flow of bile , acute inflammation of the common duct occurs , which may produce high fever , chills , and vomiting ; the attack may be associated with jaundice and yellowing of the eyes secondary to obstruction of the flow of bile from the liver . Gallbladder attacks may range all the way from the feeling of indigestion or abdominal distress after meals that occurs with dietary indiscretion to episodes that bring an acutely ill person to the hospital and emergency surgery to remove the swollen inflamed gallbladder and stone or stones blocking the common duct . Treatment . When disease of the gallbladder is diagnosed , even if the person is relatively asymptomatic , gallbladder surgery is generally recommended . The gallbladder is not necessary for good health or proper digestion . Gallbladder removal is elective @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with any factors that may possibly increase the risk of surgery properly evaluated and corrected . Gallstones do not disappear . Even though recent attempts to dissolve them by chemicals appear promising , such efforts currently remain experimental .  | Gallstones predispose to the small additional risk of cancer of the gallbladder . Gallstones may , by lodging in the common duct and by obstructing the bile passage , produce serious liver damage . The political career of Sir Anthony Eden , former Prime Minister of Great Britain , was terminated by illness resulting from gallbladder disease and inflammation of the common duct . Pancreas The pancreas is an important organ , located deep in the abdomen behind the stomach and wedged in the concavity formed by the sweep of the duodenum ( the first part of the small bowel ) and extending over to the spleen . ( See illustration 5 . ) This gland produces the important hormone insulin , so vital for fat and sugar metabolism ( see the section on diabetes mellitus ) . Other hormones , such as glucagon , are also made in the pancreas @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the absorption of carbohydrates , protein , and fat from our diet . Pancreatic secretions are stimulated by intestinal enzymes released upon contact of the partially digested food passing from the stomach into the small intestine . The pancreatic secretions are alkaline , and they neutralize the acid stomach contents passing into the small bowel , which could otherwise injure the lining of the intestine . Pancreatic enzymes participate in the process of digestion by converting food into forms that can be assimilated and absorbed by the small intestine . Carbohydrates are broken down into simple sugars , protein is split into fragments called peptides , and together with bile salts produced by the liver , pancreatic enzymes convert fat to fatty acids . Acute inflammation of the pancreas , pancreatitis , has various causes and the patient is usually first seen with abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , and even shock . Patients with acute pancreatitis are often extremely ill . The picture may resemble an acute gallbladder attack , a perforated ulcer , or even a heart attack . Acute pancreatitis is often seen with gallbladder disease . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bile duet , and since in 70 percent of people the pancreatic duct joins the common duct before entering the duodenum , a stone can block the duct and cause a build-up of back pressure in the pancreas , thus producing acute pancreatic inflammation .  | Another commonly associated cause of acute pancreatitis is excess use of alcohol . Pancreatitis may also be caused by viruses , such as mumps . Very often no clear cause can be identified . The diagnosis is usually established by finding an elevation of certain pancreatic enzymes in the blood or urine called amylase or lipase . The other diseases that have the same symptoms as pancreatitis have to be excluded . Surgical intervention for an acute gallbladder attack is quite beneficial , but if the patient really has acute pancreatitis , it may be disastrous . Most cases of pancreatitis resolve with such measures as pain medication , emptying the stomach by suction through a tube , and maintaining fluid needs by intravenous feeding while the patient remains fasting . Repeated attacks of pancreatitis gradually cause scarring and calcification in the organ , resulting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the pancreas can interfere with the process of digestion and produce poor absorption , especially of fat . Weight loss , vitamin deficiencies , and the passage of voluminous stools with large amounts of fat , or steatorrhea , can result from inflammation and injury to the pancreas . Diabetes mellitus also develops when sufficient pancreatic tissue has been damaged . The digestive disturbances can be improved by using tablets that contain pancreatic enzymes , and injections of insulin control the symptoms of diabetes mellitus . Cancer of the pancreas appears to be increasing in frequency . Most often it . escapes recognition until the disease is advanced and chances of cure by surgery are quite small , and currently chemotherapy only helps a fraction of the patients . Liver Disease The human liver is certainly an unappealing organ . It is a large , purplish-brown mass high in the right side of the abdomen ; cut sections look like the calf 's liver for sale in the butcher shop . Yet this homogeneous tissue is a fascinating chemical factory that performs many functions essential to life . The removal of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the heart , brain , or both kidneys . The liver forms and secretes bile , which helps digestion and rids the body of worn-out cell pigment . Many proteins are manufactured in the liver , including the albumin in our blood  | and many of the factors important in blood clotting . Thousands of different enzymes are necessary for all the chemical reactions that take place in the liver , and these have to be made on the spot by the liver cells . Breakdown of amino acids takes place in the liver , urea synthesis , and the making of fats , including cholesterol . Glucose is stored in the liver , and its availability is important in regulating the blood sugar . Through several different mechanisms , the liver is able to protect us against poisonous substances made in the body or taken in as food and drink . Many of the drugs we use are chemically altered in the liver . More than enough cells are present in the liver to carry out these various jobs , so that even if a large volume of liver is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diseases can involve the liver , and the organ reacts largely by two forms of damage ? hepatitis and cirrhosis . Hepatitis means inflammation of the liver and is a reaction to cell injury or cell death caused by a virus or drug . Viral hepatitis is discussed at length elsewhere in this book . Cirrhosis is a more chronic process , that is , one that takes longer to develop , and is characterized by death and loss of liver cells , thick scars , and small clumps of newly growing liver cells . These changes make the cirrhotic liver lighter in color and irregular , with a nodular surface . There are several types of cirrhosis . Biliary cirrhosis results from longstanding blockage of the bile ducts , either within the liver or after the large collecting tubes leave the organ . Hemochromatosis is a form of cirrhosis that is caused by excessive iron deposits in the liver . Cardiac cirrhosis occurs in patients with heart failure after chronic congestion of the blood vessels in the organ has caused damage to the liver . Other rare types are due @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ type of cirrhosis in America , and probably the most frequent type throughout the world , is postnecrotic cirrhosis ; it may follow viral hepatitis , poisoning with industrial chemicals or drugs , or certain infections that are unusual in our country . The most common type of cirrhosis in America and most of western Europe now is portal cirrhosis . Portal Cirrhosis . Chronic alcoholism is the major cause of portal cirrhosis . About 75 percent of patients with this disease admit to heavy drinking , and it is estimated that between 10 and 20 percent of all known chronic alcoholics have cirrhosis.  | It used to be thought that dietary deficiencies of certain vitamins and proteins was the cause and that alcoholics were susceptible because of their poor nutrition . We know now , however , that alcohol itself can cause liver damage that leads to cirrhosis . Even a well-nourished alcoholic can develop portal cirrhosis . It seems reasonable that malnutrition contributes to the development of this condition in those alcoholics who eat poorly . In the cases of portal cirrhosis that are not associated with long-term alcohol @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ occurs a little more frequently in men than in women and usually becomes apparent in middle age . A few persons may have cirrhosis and not be aware of it . The doctor occasionally finds this disease on routine examinations in persons who consider themselves well . This is unusual , however , and when evidence of liver disease is picked up in this manner , it is usually a completely curable precursor state , called fatty infiltration of the liver . Although the liver is enlarged in these persons and liver function tests are abnormal , they have not yet passed into the stage of cirrhosis . Stopping the use of alcoholic beverages and establishing normal nutrition result in complete reversal of the process . Over a period of many months , the liver returns to a normal size and the blood tests become normal . Most persons who have portal ' cirrhosis feel sick . The disease begins insidiously , with weakness , loss of appetite , vague indigestion , and easy fatigability . In several months ' time the victim may begin to lose weight and then notice @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ankles in the evening , which disappears after a night 's sleep . He feels sick , and his family and friends begin to think he looks ill . He may suddenly worsen after an especially big drinking bout , or he may slowly go down-hill in a period of several years . The development of jaundice , large amounts of fluid in the abdomen , or mental changes signify serious liver failure . Jaundice comes about in patients with cirrhosis when the liver is unable to excrete the blood pigments , and they accumulate in the blood and then in the various body tissues , where they cause a yellow color . This is usually first noticeable in the eyeballs , but as the accumulation progresses , the entire skin becomes discolored . The urine color may darken . Jaundice , of course , is not a specific symptom of cirrhosis and  | can occur whenever there is overproduction of bile pigments , liver damage of any sort to the point where the organ can not excrete them , or blockage of the bile ducts . Just as there are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of ascites , or the collection of fluid in the abdomen . When it occurs during the course of cirrhosis , it is associated with portal hypertension , that is , a high pressure in the large vein that brings blood from most of the abdominal structures to be circulated through the liver before it returns to the heart . Newly formed regenerative nodules of liver tissue press and distort the branches of the portal vein , increasing the pressure within the system and contributing to the backup of fluid in the abdomen . As much as several gallons of liquid may accumulate in these persons . The spleen also enlarges under these circumstances , and the veins in the esophagus and upper stomach become enlarged . The latter form varicose veins in the esophagus . If these veins break , massive bleeding results , and this is the cause of death in many patients with portal cirrhosis . When the disease progresses , the victim becomes emaciated and weaker , and hepatic coma may occur . As liver function worsens , the mental changes of impending coma may appear ; @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stupor and then coma . Many cirrhotic patients die in this manner . Physical examination of a patient with portal cirrhosis often shows many findings , so that the diagnosis can be suspected on the initial visit to the doctor . The presence of jaundice or abdominal swelling always raises the question of cirrhosis . " Liver spots " are tiny red areas in the skin with delicate red lines emanating from the spot , so that they look like red spiders in the skin . Redness of the palms ( like the " spiders , " also seen in pregnant women and in other conditions ) can occur . The large liver and spleen may be felt on examination . Muscle wasting can be obvious , especially around the front of the shoulders . The testes become soft as a result of certain hormone changes caused by the liver 's failure and other metabolic changes of gradual liver destruction . There are no laboratory tests that are specific for the diagnosis of portal cirrhosis , but the diagnosis can usually be made on the basis of the medical history , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ function . Liver function tests are most useful in following the course of  | the disease and improve when healing is predominant and become worse as liver damage progresses . In cases where there is doubt about the diagnosis , a liver biopsy should confirm the diagnosis and provide information about the severity of the process . This involves anesthetizing the skin overlying the liver with an injection through a small needle , then inserting a specially designed larger needle into the liver and withdrawing a tiny piece of liver tissue . The tissue is then examined under the microscope and the actual structural changes can be observed . The entire procedure is brief and involves only a minimal amount of pain . Where there is deep jaundice or where blood clotting is impaired , some danger is involved in liver biopsy , and the procedure may not be possible in the sickest patients . Although there is no cure for portal cirrhosis , discontinuing the use of alcohol , careful attention to nutrition , and prevention or early treatment of complications will provide a longer and more useful life for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ alcoholic beverages have a fiveyear survival rate of 40 percent ; that is , of every ten persons with portal cirrhosis who continue to drink after the disease is recognized , only four out of ten will live as long as five years . Of those who stop drinking when the diagnosis is first made , six out of ten will survive for longer than five years . The outlook is worse if liver failure has occurred , as manifested by jaundice or ascites ( fluid in the abdomen ) , and still worse if bleeding from varicose veins in the esophagus has occurred or hepatic coma ( mental changes as mentioned above ) is present . The first step in treating portal cirrhosis is the absolute avoidance of drinking any sort of alcohol at all in any amount at all . A nutritious diet is essential for improvement to take place . Ideally , large amounts of proteins should be eaten in order to make up deficits , but this could be harmful if there are signs of impending hepatic coma . These signs consist of confusion , drowsiness or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ outstretched fingers when the upper extremity is held straight out with the wrists cocked up , and typical brain wave changes . Under these circumstances , protein should be restricted because ammonia and other products of the metabolism of protein will make the hepatic coma worse . Salt should be restricted in the diet when there is any swelling of the abdomen or ankles , and diuretic drugs may be needed to eliminate the fluid . Other measures are  | available for the treatment of hepatic coma , such as certain antibiotics to remove the intestinal bacteria that form ammonia , correction of the electrolyte imbalance in the blood , which usually accompanies this condition , provision of nitrogen-free food and removal of precipitating causes . An operation is available for those persons who have developed portal hypertension ( see above ) as a complication of their portal cirrhosis . This procedure shunts the blood from the portal vein away from the liver and directly into the inferior vena cava and thus to the heart . This sort of by-pass is sometimes done in an emergency for acute bleeding from esophageal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poor condition of the persons in whom this occurs . The operation is usually successful in preventing recurrent bleeding and also corrects the blood changes that enlargement of the spleen causes , but there are certain late complications of this surgery , and it is not entered into lightly . As in all other diseases , prevention is better than any available treatment , and avoiding excessive amounts of alcohol is the best preventive measure . Remember , " bon vivant " means good liver , which is something they often do n't have ! Disorders of the Rectum and Anus Disorders of the terminal portion of the digestive tract are extremely common . Although generally medical texts and physicians rank anal problems as minor disorders ( especially those physicians who have not suffered personally from an anal fissure or thrombosed hemorrhoids ) , anything that interferes with normal bowel evacuation because of pain and discomfort is a major nuisance and inconvenience . Some appreciation of anatomy as well as correct terminology is necessary to understand these disorders . The anus is the opening of the lower bowel . The rectum @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ approximately six inches long , joining the sigmoid colon above and the anus below . The anus is lined by skin and surrounded by two muscle groups called the internal and external sphincter muscles , which keep the anal walls closed ; the anal canal is normally closed except when the urge to defecate causes a relaxation of these muscles . Like the skin in the rest of the body , the anus has an abundant nerve supply , which causes disturbances to be appreciated because of pain . On the other hand , the rectum is  | innervated by nerves of the autonomic nervous system and contains no pain fibers . Stretching or distension of the rectum with feces is appreciated and usually signals the need to find a bathroom for an evacuation . The rectum lies adjacent to many other structures , so a physician can often evaluate the condition of other pelvic organs ? the prostate gland in males , and the cervix , uterus , and vagina in females , by rectal examination . Many diseases in this area involve the anus , including hemorrhoids , fissures @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problems is inflammation in the anal tissues caused by contaminated material from the bowel contents . Cancer of the rectum , polyps , rectal itching , and pilonidal cysts are other important diseases . Hemorrhoids . Hemorrhoids are veins which , because of inflammation , have undergone thinning and dilatation of their walls . They are in many ways similar to varicose veins in the legs but , by their location , they are exposed to trauma from germ-laden bowel movements . Hemorrhoids may originate from veins in the anal canal , external hemorrhoids , or arise in the rectum , internal hemorrhoids . Other factors contributing to hemorrhoid development besides infection and inflammation include pregnancy , certain occupations that require prolonged standing or sitting ( such as directing traffic or driving a truck ) , constipation with resulting straining to evacuate feces , and perhaps a hereditary predisposition . Many persons are aware of small external hemorrhoids which are usually asymptomatic and offer no problems . Internal hemorrhoids may protrude during a bowel movement and then recede . Bleeding can occur , especially from internal hemorrhoids during a bowel movement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or straining to evacuate . Bright red blood may be noticed in the toilet bowl or on the toilet tissue . A sudden severe pain may occur in a thrombosed external hemorrhoid ( one that has clotted blood in it ) . Prevention of symptomatic hemorrhoids depends largely on good anal hygiene . Infection and inflammation predispose to hemorrhoid formation and subsequent thrombosis with acute flare-ups . Unfortunately , many of us , especially men , prefer the ease of showers and seldom , if ever , take a bath . Persons with hemorrhoids should take baths periodically to ensure good anal hygiene , and regularly when the hemorrhoids cause  | distress . Efforts to regulate bowel movements and maintain soft stools by adequate liquid intake are important . At times , stool softeners are useful . Symptomatic hemorrhoids , either bleeding or painful , that do not respond to conservative measures require surgical intervention . The first conservative measures include stool softeners and Sitz baths . Inflammation is often relieved by sitting in hot tubs of water several times a day . Many people with hemorrhoids report relief of symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the market , usually salves and ointments or suppositories . These agents are usually astringents ( cause swollen tissue to shrink and decrease in size ) or anesthetic agents , which numb the swollen area and cut down on pain . Usually , surgery for hemorrhoids includes hospitalization with excision of the diseased hemorrhoids under local anesthesia . Best results are achieved when the procedure is performed by a skilled general surgeon or a proctologist , a specialist in anal-rectal disorders . A recent surgical technique , tying of the hemorrhoid(s) with an elastic band , which is followed by sloughing of the hemorrhoid , appears to yield good results and can be done as an office procedure . In evaluating anal bleeding , certainly in patients above the age of 35 years , the presence of hemorrhoids should not lull the physician into accepting them as the source of the bleeding . A thorough examination by means of a proctosigmoidoscope should be performed to rule out polyps or rectal cancer . Anal Fissure . An anal fissure is an ulcer of the anal skin caused by infection and poor anal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the anal wall . Anal fissures may be extremely painful . The pain that is produced by defecation is caused by spasm or tightening of the anal sphincter inside and can last several minutes or longer . Because this pain comes to be associated with a bowel movement , constipation usually develops . Temporary relief of pain is achieved by using hot compresses , tub baths , or anesthetic ointments to numb the painful areas . Permanent relief requires surgical removal and excision of the entire fissure and surrounding tissue . Anal Fistula and Abscess . Anal fistula is caused by an infectious process beginning in an anal crypt , a glandular cavity located in the anal canal . The fistula is actually the  | opening in the anal crypt and a tunnel or passage made by the infectious process burrowing through the anal wall in various directions to resurface at secondary openings in the tissues around the anus . Localized collections of pus , called abscesses , may form . Pain in the anal area is the chief symptom of an anal fistula or abscess . The pain may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secondary opening . Surgical intervention with opening up of the entire fistula tract by an experienced surgeon can cure this problem . Pilonidal Cyst . Difficulties in the region of the lower spine are often due to a pilonidal cyst . Patients sometimes refer erroneously to this area as their tailbone , implying an ancestral origin from primitive man-like creatures . A pilonidal cyst is a birth defect occurring in the area of the tip of the spine , the sacrococcygeal region . The cyst lining or cavity is epithelium that was originally destined to form skin but that develops instead under the skin of the lower spine in or near the midline . The pilonidal cyst communicates via small channels or sinuses with openings in the skin in the center of the lower spine . Often , tufts of hair arise from these cysts , hence their designation , pilonidal , which means nest of hair . Through these openings in the skin , bacterial contamination and infection may occur . Infection of pilonidal cysts is often caused by trauma ; for example , in military personnel it could follow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ symptoms of an infected pilonidal cyst are similar to infection in any other region ? pain and swelling . The cyst may drain spontaneously , and often chronic draining sinus tracts are present . Treatment is surgical and consists of opening the various sinuses into the cyst , excising overhanging margins of skin and allowing the wound to heal . Rectal Itching . Doctors use the term pruritis ani for rectal itching . At times , the condition is a serious disturbance with the affected area of skin thickened , macerated , and secondarily infected because of the patient 's constant and vigorous scratching in an effort to relieve the intolerable itching . Most often , rectal itching is a mild nuisance and social embarrassment . The causes are numerous , including local as well as psychogenic causes . Poor anal hygiene with infrequent bathing can cause rectal  | itching . Sweating and the contact of underclothes on the skin around the rectum can produce discomfort ; strong detergents or bleaches used in washing undergarments may irritate sensitive skin and cause itching in already inflamed skin . Any rectal problem associated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lead to pruritis ani ? anal fissures , sinus tracts and fistulas , hemorrhoids , certain forms of venereal disease , or anal warts . Pinworms , a parasitic infection , are associated with rectal itching , especially occurring and awakening the sufferer in the middle of the night , when the worm migrates to the outside from the rectum to deposit its eggs . Not uncommonly , no local cause for rectal itching can be found and the condition represents a nervous habit or compulsion . Treatment depends on successfully identifying the possible local factors and correcting them . Improved local hygiene provided by bathing and using mild soaps as well as avoidance of strong bleaches and detergents on underwear can solve the problem . Local causes , such as hemorrhoids or anal fissures , respond to appropriate treatment . A search for the eggs of the pinworm , if successful , allows for eradication of the infection by medication . Very often , other members of the family harbor the worms because of sharing bedding and toilet facilities . When no specific cause of itching is found , temporary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ creams containing steroids and drug combinations reduce inflammation and itching . Tranquilizers are effective in relieving itching associated with nervous tension . Hernias Hernias are of several types and may be located on the outside of the body where they can be seen or felt , or inside the body . They are named according to their location . External hernias may be located in the groin area and are called inguinal hernias , under an incision site , incisional hernia , in the area of the navel , umbilical hernia , or below the groin in the upper thigh , femoral hernia . An example of an internal hernia is a hiatus hernia . Inguinal Hernia . Inguinal hernias or ruptures are very common and usually occur in males . They can be located on either side of the groin , right or left , or be present on both  | sides . They are caused by a weakness or defect in the lower abdominal wall producing a hole or potential passage for a loop of bowel . The human testes arise in the flank area contiguous to the kidneys @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pass through the abdominal wall to settle in the scrotum . This descent leaves a potential weakness for a hernia to develop . Many hernias are present at birth and are detected at an early age . Hernias can develop at any age . Heavy activity and lifting put a strain on the abdominal muscles and can allow for the development of a rupture or hole through which a loop of bowel or fat may protrude . Persons with chronic constipation who have to strain to have a bowel movement may develop a hernia because of an increase in abdominal pressure . Smokers who cough frequently may eventually weaken the abdominal wall and form a hernia . Older men who have enlargement of the prostate gland may have difficulty in urinating and are prone to develop an inguinal hernia . The hernia , which is actually a mass of tissue , usually a loop of bowel , or a piece of omental fat or bladder wall , may be quite small or as large as a grapefruit . Many times a person becomes aware of a hernia when he discovers a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some strenuous lifting and have felt some discomfort in his groin . Often a hernia is completely asymptomatic and is discovered during an insurance examination or a routine physical examination . A hernia will protrude when the person stands or when he coughs and raises the intra-abdominal pressure . When he lies down , the hernia often disappears into the abdomen or can be pushed back . This type of hernia is known as a reducible hernia . If the hernia can not be reduced back into the abdomen , it is trapped and is called an incarcerated hernia . The incarcerated hernia , a loop of bowel protruding through an opening in the wall of the abdomen , may become swollen and inflamed by the pressure on it , and the circulation to that portion of the bowel may be reduced , producing a strangulated hernia . Hernias should be repaired . A repair of a reducible hernia or incarcerated hernia carries a negligible risk ; whereas a strangulated hernia may have significant complications and may even lead to death . Having an inguinal hernia is like walking  | around @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Nothing may ever happen , or the dynamite can explode tonight . Many older men have had hernias for years and have escaped problems . Some wear a truss , or a belt with a metal plate that applies pressure over the weak area of the abdominal wall . A hernia repair done by a skilled surgeon is generally successful . The defect is repaired so that no weakness remains in the tissues of the abdominal wall . Occasionally , despite surgery , the area breaks down again and a hernia develops again . Generally , elective surgery involves a four or five day hospital stay . Postoperatively , a convalescence of approximately one month at home is advised , and no heavy manual work is allowed for at least three months . Incisional Hernia . A hernia can develop at the incision site following any abdominal operation . Abdominal surgery involves cutting through and dissecting many different muscle layers . At times the repair of the various muscle layers is inadequate , or the muscles are so weakened that a strong repair is not done or is not possible . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the protrusion of abdominal contents through the incision site , especially noted when standing . Just as in the case of an inguinal hernia , the hernia may become incarcerated or strangulated , so that surgical repair is recommended when possible to restore the weak portion of the abdominal wall . Umbilical Hernia . In the uterus , the fetus is nourished by the umbilical cord , which allows for the transport of oxygen and nourishment to the fetus and the removal of waste products . This exchange occurs by the attachment of the umbilical cord to the placenta and maternal circulation , and connects internally to the fetal circulation . Although the umbilical cord is cut at birth when the child breathes on his own , the passage of the cord through the umbilical opening or navel leaves a potential muscle weakness that may serve for the eventual development of an umbilical hernia . The factors previously cited that may precipitate the occurrence of inguinal or incisional hernias apply here as well . Of interest is the high occurrence of umbilical hernias in black infant males , most of which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hernia . A hiatal hernia is internal and , therefore , is not diagnosed by feeling an abnormal lump . A hiatal hernia  | refers to the protrusion of part of the stomach through an opening in the diaphragm , a muscle that separates the chest , lungs , and heart from the abdominal cavity . Hiatal hernias are also known as diaphragmatic hernias . At times , a hiatal hernia is massive , with the bulk of the stomach located in the chest and behind the heart . Normally , the diaphragm helps maintain the integrity of the gate mechanism or sphincter that allows for the passage of food and liquids into the stomach but prevents the regurgitation of acid into the esophagus . When a hiatal hernia is present , acid can now regurgitate and cause heartburn . The symptoms of indigestion and heartburn usually cause the person to seek medical attention , and an evaluation of the stomach by an upper gastrointestinal series demonstrates the presence of a hiatal hernia . Since hiatal hernias are located behind the heart , symptoms of hiatal hernia may mimic those of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are aggravated by foods that stimulate acid production ? spicy foods , alcohol , coffee , etc . The symptoms are worse when the person eats and lies down , further allowing reflux or regurgitation of acid . Treatment of a hiatal hernia is generally by medical means . A bland diet is recommended and antacids used after eating to neutralize acid . Persons are advised not to eat before going to bed or not to lie down following meals . At times , reflux of acid contents into the esophagus and mouth can be prevented by elevating the head of the bed with six-inch blocks . In a small number of cases surgery may have to be performed when symptoms can not be adequately controlled medically . Persistent regurgitation of acid into the esophagus produces a chemical irritation leading to inflammation and scarring and narrowing of the esophagus . Massive bleeding can occur and require surgery . Symptoms you should know about : Vomiting blood . Whenever blood is vomited , it is an emergency and the doctor should be seen immediately . Partly digested blood may appear dark brown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stools . Unless iron-containing medication is being taken , black stools should be considered an emergency condition . Fresh rectal bleeding . The passage of bright red blood  | during or after a bowel movement should always be investigated for its cause , but it is usually not an emergency . Constipation and diarrhea . A change in bowel habits lasting more than two weeks ought to be discussed with the doctor . Abdominal pain . Pain in the abdomen has many causes , as dealt with in this chapter . Jaundice . The first sign of jaundice is usually a yellow color in the eyes . Later the skin becomes yellow . Sometimes very dark-colored urine and light-colored ( like clay ) stools accompany jaundice . This always requires seeing the doctor for diagnosis as to the cause and treatment .  | URINARY SYStEM Normal Kidney Function Let us suppose that a design engineer was given the task of developing an efficient system of waste disposal of the potentially poisonous byproducts formed during the otherwise useful chemical processes of the body 's metabolism . In addition , the liquid medium @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is vital for normal function ( health ) , and contains many important constituents that have to be salvaged and recycled . If he were talented enough , he would produce a machine that was an artificial kidney . Fortunately for us , we have two kidneys , a fraction of the size of an artificial one , located in the flank area-one on the right side and the other on the left side . ( See illustration 6 . ) If one of the kidneys is damaged or diseased and removed , the remaining kidney , if otherwise normal , can function perfectly well to maintain normal health . The kidneys , which account for less than one percent of our body weight , receive 25 to 30 percent of the total body blood flow each minute , and through an elaborate filtering system remove many substances from the blood . Each kidney contains approximately one million separate filtering units called nephrons . The individual nephron contains a filtering network of tiny blood vessels called capil-  | laries in a basket-like arrangement known as a glomerulus . From the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cells known as tubular cells modifies the fluid filtered by the glomerulus , which then drains into the collecting system of each kidney and into the ureter to the bladder . As the fluid filtered by the glomerulus flows by various segments of the tubular cell lined loop , some substances are entirely removed and reabsorbed to re-enter the blood and circulation . Other substances are partially reabsorbed and retained , and some are secreted or added to the fluid depending on the needs of the body . The final volume of fluid produced depends on the body 's need to preserve or get rid of water and is under the hormonal control of a protein secreted by the pituitary gland of the brain called the anti-diuretic hormone ( ADH ) . Consuming large amounts of fluid or alcohol leads to copious amounts of urine production , since ADH release is shut off . If a person is dehydrated and thirsty , ADH is produced and maximal water reabsorption occurs in the kidney leading to small amounts of concentrated urine . Normally , each minute 125 cc. of plasma is filtered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The final volume of fluid or urine excreted per day averages but 1 or 2 liters . The net result of the filtering , reabsorption , and secretion by the various components of the nephron is the removal of many waste products of the body metabolism , including nitrogen products such as urea , and various acids ; the conservation of many important minerals and salts ( calcium , phosphorus , sodium , chloride , potassium ) ; the maintenance of a normal body acid content ; and preservation of plasma volume by means of water conservation or loss as described above . In addition to their function in conservation of vital body salts , maintenance of plasma volume , and elimination of waste products , the kidneys have been recognized in recent years as the site of production of important chemical mediators or hormones . Blood pressure and sodium control is directly influenced by a hormone produced in the kidney , called renin , which responds to changes in bloodflow through the kidney . Erythropoietin formed in the kidneys influences the production of red blood cells by the bone marrow @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the gastrointestinal tract by converting vitamin D to a more active and potent form .  | The Kidney in Disease Any disease process that damages or injures the kidneys causes an alteration of renal function that may be either minimal or so severe that life is not possible without alternative measures , such as use of an artificial kidney , called dialysis , or transplant of a kidney from a compatible donor . When renal function is disturbed , a series of events occurs that reflect malfunction of the various parts of the nephron . Toxic products are not properly eliminated and accumulate in the blood , and vital salts and chemical constituents of the body are not conserved . These abnormalities are easily detected by various blood tests that measure the levels of these substances . Kidney failure or uremia ( the retention of urea ) refers to the clinical picture and laboratory findings produced by these events and is the final expression of many different kidney disorders . The kidneys may be seriously damaged by any process causing hypotension or shock . This can occur from serious trauma @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ collapse caused by a serious infection . Kidney damage may result from any process in the lower urinary tract , including the bladder , prostate , or ureters , which blocks urine flow and prevents adequate drainage or runoff from a kidney or kidneys . This type of obstruction causes a build up of pressure above the blocked area and distension , ultimately damaging the kidneys . Very often kidney failure is the result of a disease process that damages the kidney itself . The kidney may be the primary site of a disease process or may be secondarily involved by numerous disorders that affect many parts of the body ? a systemic disease . But because normal kidney function is so vital for good health , the manifestations of kidney disease may be the most serious component of an otherwise generalized process . Examples of generalized or systemic diseases that may cause major renal failure include hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and connective tissue disorders . The kidney is often damaged in hypertension , a disorder that injures the blood vessels , arteries , and arterioles , causing a process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Several types of kidney disease commonly occur in diabetes mellitus , including serious damage to the glomeruli called  | glomerulosclerosis . Among juvenile diabetics , whose disease begins before age fifteen years , renal failure is a leading cause of death . Connective tissue diseases , such as lupus erythematosus , are associated with circulating immune complexes , which are antibodies combined with antigens that are often trapped in the glomerulus , causing damage to the capillary bed . Kidney disease and renal failure may be the prominent feature of this disease , although many other organs can be involved . Many other illnesses not primarily involving the kidneys may cause kidney damage and failure , including multiple myeloma , sickle cell disease , and gout , to cite just a few . Primary Kidney Diseases The kidneys can be the chief site of a disease process . Various kidney disorders generally involve specific sites of the structural unit of the kidney ? the nephron . A disease may affect the glomerulus , or the proximal or distal tubules , sections of the channel lined by specialized cells that modify and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ glomerulus . There are several uncommon congenital defects that can interfere with the normal function of a portion of the nephron . Certain chemicals , if ingested , usually accidentally , can cause serious kidney damage , including carbon tetrachloride and ethylene glycol ( antifreeze fluid ) . Several important kidney diseases comprise most primary kidney problems and are dealt with below , including glomerulonephritis , pyelonephritis , and analgesic abuse . Kidney stones , which can develop because of abnormalities in calcium and uric acid metabolism , will also be discussed in this section . Ultimately , any kidney disorder that produces sufficient kidney damage leading to renal failure will affect the entire body . The generalized chemical disturbances of kidney failure alter the functioning of the heart , gastrointestinal tract , peripheral nerves , and bloodforming tissues . Glomerulonephritis . The term nephritis means inflammation of the kidneys , and glomerulonephritis refers to the glomeruli as the site of the inflammatory process . Although glomerulonephritis can be suspected on clinical grounds and by laboratory tests , the diagnosis is firmly established by a pathologist examining kidney tissue obtained from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tissue using a special  | cutting needle ) . Microscopic examination , often with a special microscope called an electron microscope , which allows study of minute portions of the cell structure , enables the pathologist to identify hallmarks of this illness . Glomerulonephritis is divided into acute and chronic forms , on the basis of differences in cause and the course of the disease . Since any tissue has a limited number of responses to injury , other disorders can produce changes in the glomeruli that are indistinguishable from glomerulonephritis by routine microscopic findings . Bacterial endocarditis and systemic lupus erythematosus can cause a form of glomerulonephritis , but other features of these diseases distinguish them from classical acute and chronic glomerulonephritis . Acute glomerulonephritis is much more common in children and young adults and seldom occurs in older people . The disorder commonly follows an infection with Group A Streptococcus , especially with certain strains . The disease does not involve infection of the kidney by the streptococcus organism and develops one to four weeks after the infection , which is usually a pharyngitis ( " strep " throat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ infection . The delay from the initial infection to the onset of the kidney disease suggests some type of allergic or hypersensitivity reaction to the streptococcal germ . Although experimental studies tend to support this conclusion , not all cases of acute glomerulonephritis can be related to a previous streptococcal infection , and other bacteria and viruses have been implicated in causing the disease . At times , no history of any preceding infection is available . The patient usually seeks medical attention because of bloody urine . In addition , depending on the degree of kidney involvement , various other symptoms are noted . Complaints include swelling around the eyes , loss of appetite , nausea , vomiting , malaise , and headaches . In cases with significant hypertension , heart failure and convulsions may develop . Examination of the urine , called a urinalysis , points to inflammation in the glomeruli . Protein is detected , as well as red blood cells and red blood cell casts . The diagnosis of acute glomerulonephritis following a streptococcal infection is not difficult , especially with a history of a recent sore @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ show a rising level of antibodies against streptococcus , together with typical findings in the urine .  | There is no effective treatment for acute glomerulonephritis . The complications of hypertension and congestive heart failure require treatment . The majority of patients with this disease , certainly 90 to 95 percent of children , have complete healing of the glomeruli , although red blood cells in the urine may persist for a few months . Kidney function remains normal . If serial biopsies of the kidneys show that healing of the glomeruli has not occurred and active disease , with progressive inflammatory changes , scarring , and damage is noted , the patient will go on to develop chronic glomerulonephritis with various degrees of kidney failure . Most patients with chronic glomerulonephritis are unable to report having any preceding illness similar to acute glomerulonephritis . Often the disease develops insidiously without any known inciting factor . Many patients have no symptoms at all when the condition is first suspected . The patient may be found to have hypertension with blood tests showing kidney dysfunction . A routine urinalysis may show the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . In chronic glomerulonephritis , examination of the urine reveals , in addition to the protein leakage which is a constant feature , the presence of various types of casts composed of protein and cellular debris formed in the kidney tubules . As the disease progresses , inability of the kidney to concentrate the urine and conserve water also develops . Besides the abnormal findings on urinalysis , various blood tests of kidney function and salt ( electrolyte ) concentration become abnormal . X-rays of the kidneys generally show both kidneys to be smaller than normal . A kidney biopsy usually reveals evidence of chronic glomerulonephritis . Patients with chronic glomerulonephritis can be followed for many years and be relatively asymptomatic before definite signs of kidney failure appear . As a rough rule , few symptoms of chronic renal failure develop until renal function deteriorates to below 20 percent of normal . An occasional patient may seek medical attention when symptoms of far advanced renal failure have developed , including nausea , vomiting , weakness , and fatigue . At this point , hypertension and heart failure may be present and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ uremia , acidosis , and electrolyte imbalances . Death usually occurs as renal function is no longer sufficient to sustain life , unless a program of kidney dialysis is begun , with a possible goal of eventually  | receiving a kidney transplant . About half the patients with chronic glomerulonephritis develop the nephrotic syndrome , consisting of massive loss of protein in the urine , hypoalbuminemia ( very low levels of the protein albumin , in the blood ) , increased levels of cholesterol in the blood , and extensive fluid retention in the body . The nephrotic syndrome usually takes place after several years of chronic glomerulonephritis , but it may be the initial evidence of the disease . It lasts for months to a few years , and during this time renal function usually deteriorates . Pyelonephritis . The term " kidney infection " is used quite generally for any infection that may be located in the kidneys or the urinary tract , which includes the urethra ( the tube bringing the urine from the bladder to the outside ) and the bladder ( the reservoir of urine ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and is divided into the acute bacterial infection with symptoms of urinary tract infection and chronic pyelonephritis , which , up until recently , had been considered to result from the cumulative injury to the kidney(s) from previous episodes of acute pyelonephritis . However , most patients , including those who have had multiple attacks of acute pyelonephritis , never progress to chronic pyelonephritis , and the majority of patients who are diagnosed as having chronic pyelonephritis can not relate a history of having had acute pyelonephritis . Considerable doubt exists regarding the relationship of acute pyelonephritis to chronic pyelonephritis , which is now more often called chronic interstitial nephritis . Acute pyelonephritis occurs most commonly in females , especially during infancy and the childbearing years . Although acute pyelonephritis can be induced experimentally in animals by seeding the blood with bacteria , most evidence supports the view that infections originate retrograde , namely , from the ascent of bacteria from the urethra and bladder into the kidneys . Although about one half of patients with acute pyelonephritis have no known cause , in the remaining cases , a predisposing factor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of urine from the kidneys increases the incidence of infection . A prime example is a kidney stone . Females have a short urethra , the distance from the outside , unsterile environment to the sterile bladder , being about one inch . Both female infants ( perhaps due to fecal staining ) and adult  | women ( perhaps because of urethral trauma caused by sexual relations ) have a greater risk of acute pyelonephritis . Patients who undergo any type of urinary tract procedure in which instruments are used , such as the passage of a catheter into the bladder during delivery , or who require cystoscopy , an evaluation of the inside of the urinary bladder , are liable to develop a kidney infection because bacteria gain entrance into the bladder and may ascend to the kidneys . Certain neurological disturbances ( multiple sclerosis , poliomyelitis , spinal cord injury ) that secondarily interfere with bladder function may require frequent or constant catheterization of the bladder , and repeated urinary tract infections are common . Other disorders associated with acute pyelonephritis include pregnancy itself , sickle cell trait , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally first seen with high fever , a temperature of 101 to 104 ? F. , chills , flank pain , and discomfort on urination . On examining the patient , the doctor may note tenderness over one or both flank areas . At times , few if any symptoms of this disorder are present , and it may be suspected only by the finding of many pus cells in the urine and a positive urine culture . Burning and discomfort on urination and the finding of increased white blood cells in the urine with a positive urine culture do not allow for distinguishing between a bladder infection and a kidney infection . Patients with uncomplicated acute pyelonephritis have otherwise normal renal function and normal blood pressure . Those with acute kidney infection in association with obstruction or an anatomical abnormality may have renal damage and abnormal kidney function . Most cases of acute kidney infection respond well to treatment with an appropriate antibiotic . If a predisposing factor is present and not corrected , repeated infections are the rule , usually caused by the same strain of bacteria , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ attempt to eradicate the infection . The pathologist who examines kidney tissue obtained either at autopsy or during life from a kidney biopsy makes the diagnosis of chronic pyelonephritis based on certain microscopic features , including widespread scarring of the kidney . Many types of injury to the kidney besides infections can lead to these changes , which are termed chronic pyelonephritis . In  | fact , recent investigation has shown that bacterial infections alone seldom , if ever , cause chronic pyelonephritis , but additional causes are necessary , among them vascular disease ( often associated with hypertension ) , anatomic abnormalities , overuse of analgesic agents ( pain medication including phenacetin , aspirin , and acetaminophen ) , increased levels of uric acid ( hyperuricemia ) , and kidney stones . Patients with chronic pyelonephritis most often have no symptoms until sufficient renal damage develops to produce the symptoms previously described with uremia and renal failure due to chronic glomerulonephritis . If infection is proved , the use of appropriate antibiotics may improve or stabilize renal function to levels consistent with a relatively normal existence . Often the course @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as renal failure progresses quite slowly . Hypertension is common in this disorder and may cause congestive heart failure or a stroke unless adequately treated . Patients with far advanced or end stage renal failure secondary to chronic pyelonephritis require kidney dialysis to maintain life and eventually may be candidates for a kidney transplant . Kidney Stones . Kidney stones , or renal calculi , develop quite frequently in otherwise healthy persons . They may develop only once in a lifetime or form repeatedly , with episodes of acute renal pain or colic associated with the passage of the stone from the kidney pelvis , through the ureter into the bladder , and , finally , out through the urethra . In a typical case , a patient calls the doctor complaining of a severe and excruciating pain which has gradually developed in the previous hour . The discomfort is first located along his flank and is then present in the front of the abdomen and radiating toward the groin . He is admitted to the hospital , given pain medication , and a urine specimen is noted to be bloody @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ shows a suspicious , tiny density along one side of the abdomen and an x-ray of the kidneys obtained by injecting a radiopaque dye ( an intravenous pyelogram ) , shows a stone lodged midway along the course of the ureter with some dilatation of the kidney collecting system ( pelvis ) above the stone . The patient is encouraged to drink lots of fluid , and later on that day experiences a second bout of severe pain very similar to the initial attack . Further pain medication is given , and shortly  | thereafter , a stone is passed in his urine , which is recovered by straining the urine specimen . A repeat x-ray taken a few days later shows the previous shadow has disappeared , indicating that the stone has indeed been passed and there no longer is any dilatation of the kidney above the site of obstruction . Analysis of the stone chemically shows it to be made up of calcium oxalate . It is not entirely clear in most cases why kidney stones form . Racial , dietary , and climatic factors account for some instances @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ components , an organic matrix of proteinaceous material ( called a nidus ) and the crystals that precipitate from urine onto the nidus and constitute the bulk of the stone . In normal urine , despite a high concentration of crystalloid substances ( calcium , phosphates , oxalates , uric acid ) in solution , a favorable balance of other constituents are present to prevent crystal formation . Kidney stones not uncommonly develop in the setting of a kidney infection that promotes the presence of proteinaceous material or nidus for crystals to deposit . Infection of urine by urea-splitting bacteria alters the solubility of crystalloids by changing the urine acidity , favoring stone formation . Calcium stones , the most commonly encountered ones , may develop in patients who excrete excess amounts of calcium in the urine . In most cases , no cause or underlying disease can be identified , although a family history of kidney stones may be present . In hyperparathyroidism , a disorder characterized almost always by a benign tumor of a parathyroid gland , excess parathyroid hormone causes bone reabsorption and release of calcium , raising @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ develop in 20 percent of such cases , and hyperparathyroidism accounts for perhaps 5 percent of all calcium stones . Uric acid stones develop in conditions associated with high levels of blood uric acid and increased excretion of uric acid in the urine . Gout , acute attacks of arthritis in one joint caused by uric acid crystals , is often associated with uric acid kidney stones . Several other uncommon disorders , such as cystinuria , can cause stones . The ideal approach in a person who has a kidney stone involves collection of the stone when it is passed and analysis to identify the constituents of the stone . If a urinary tract infection is present , cultures of the urine with identification of  | the bacterial agent and treatment with an appropriate antibiotic is undertaken . Urinary tract infections predispose to stone formation , and stones , by interfering with adequate urine flow and drainage , are often associated with infection . The need to perform urological surgery to remove a stone also predisposes to the risk of introducing infection . An anatomical abnormality identified by an intravenous @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that is associated with repeated urinary tract infections and kidney stones may require surgical intervention and attempted repair . Blood studies are usually done to help in ruling out disturbances of calcium and uric acid metabolism . If hyperparathyroidism is proved , surgical exploration of the neck and removal of the involved gland(s) is necessary . Excess uric acid levels in the blood with secondary increased uric acid excretion in the urine can be controlled by certain drugs . Surgery may be required to remove large stones in the kidney or ones that lodge in the ureter , are not passed , and are associated with renal colic and obstruction to urine flow from the involved kidney . Patients who form stones are encouraged to drink large amounts of fluids so that they will excrete lots of urine ( over a quart per day ) in order to help maintain crystals in solution . Kidney Dialysis Dialysis refers to the exchange of molecules of substances ( solutes ) from one fluid to another by diffusion through a semipermeable membrane . A simple example would be a chamber containing salt water on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . If the membrane or lining separating the two fluids were permeable , or porous , to the molecules of sodium and chloride ( salt ) , these would diffuse from the salt water chamber to the distilled water until the concentrations were the same on both sides of the membrane . Hemodialysis is the process when blood from an artery of a patient with chronic renal failure ( uremia ) containing high levels of urea , creatinine , uric acid , sulfates , phosphates , and various other substances is circulated through an artificial kidney on one side of a membrane , while a balanced or physiological solution circulates on the other side . Over a period of time , the high concentrations of " toxic substances " in the blood are reduced as they diffuse into the fluid of the dialysis bath .  | Patients may undergo dialysis for acute reversible kidney damage , where one to three weeks is needed for repair and restoration of renal function . Examples of this type of problem include acute shock from blood loss or from overwhelming infection , or from certain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used for patients with acute poisoning caused by potentially lethal doses of barbiturates or other sedatives . For end stage renal disease with severe kidney failure , patients undergo dialysis on a long-term basis . To facilitate the procedure , artificial shunts are created in the arm between an artery and vein in order to keep the blood vessel open . A plastic tube in the artery removes the blood from the patient and carries it to the dialysis unit , and another plastic tube then returns the blood to the vein . Patients usually require two or three sessions per week of several hours each in order to reverse and control the symptoms of uremia and chronic renal failure . Some patients with otherwise terminal renal failure have been kept alive for several years while efforts to find a suitable kidney donor for a kidney transplant have gone on . Needless to say , the financial burden of such dialysis is a major problem . In addition , the need for frequent interruptions of normal living for the vital dialyses imposes an emotional strain on the patient and his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organ from a donor to a recipient with end stage disease and restore normal function and improved health must rank as one of the greatest scientific accomplishments of the current century . Heart transplants had been attempted in 202 patients through 1972 , with 29 patients surviving more than two years , and 6 patients living beyond four years . Improving results have recently been reported from Stanford University where 153 heart transplants had been performed before September 1978 , with 64 survivors into 1979 , one of whom was living more than 8 years after surgery . Bone marrow transplants are currently being carried out in a few medical centers for acute leukemia , deficiency of the immune system or bone marrow failure . Of 182 liver transplants done as of 1972 , only 3 patients survived beyond three years . Lung transplants done in 32 patients during the last ten years have been quite disappointing , with only 3 patients living for more than thirty days  | with a functioning graft . Recent efforts to transplant the pancreas also have been generally unsuccessful . The greatest success rate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , either from a living donor or a cadaver kidney , one obtained from a patient with normal kidneys immediately upon death . The highest success rate is from a relative of the patient who shares similar antigenic traits known as histocompatibility genes . Approximately 75 percent of organ grafts ( transplants ) from a blood relative survive and function for at least a year and around 50 percent of cadaver kidneys do as well in the recipient . Patients with functioning grafts have an average survival of around two and a half years , and those living more than five years are not uncommon . In order to circumvent the normal body 's response to foreign tissue ( and the body treats a transplanted organ , unless from an identical twin , as different and attempts to destroy it ) , powerful drugs called immunosuppressants are given . Unfortunately , by modifying and altering the usual bodily defense mechanisms , we expose the recipient of a graft to the risk of unusual infectious diseases and an increased chance of developing a malignant disease . Lower Urinary Tract Disease The urinary @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , is a reservoir or chamber that stores the urine from the kidneys . The bladder is quite distensible , like a balloon , and can store up to several hundred cubic centimeters of urine . The bladder is located in the center of the lower abdomen or above the pubic bone , in the suprapubic region . The opening of the bladder , which is located at the bottom or base of the organ , is usually closed by an arrangement of muscle fibers called a sphincter . When the bladder fills through two tubes from the kidneys ? the ureters ? and distends , the urge to urinate is felt and voluntary relaxation of the bladder sphincter along with contraction of the muscular wall of the bladder initiates urination . The urethra is the channel from the bladder to the outside . In the female , the urethra is only about an inch long , opening to the outside into the vulva . In the male , the urethral passage is several inches long , the channel passing through the penis to the outside . Bladder infections are much @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or passageway  | from the bladder to the outside . Various problems can interfere with normal urination . Obstruction to the outflow tract of the bladder is very common in men because of enlargement of the prostate gland . Injuries to the spinal cord itself secondary to trauma or an accident , or to the nerves that control the bladder , which can occur in diabetes , can prevent proper functioning of the bladder muscle and sphincter . Loss of urinary control or incontinence can be a serious problem or a source of constant embarrassment . Bladder infections and bladder tumors , both benign and malignant , are additional disorders . Bladder Infections ( cystitis ) . Bladder infections are quite common in females because of ready access of bacteria into the bladder . Young girls should be taught at an early age to cleanse their anal area by wiping from front to back in order to minimize the possibility of introducing bacterial infection . Although infection is usually confined to the bladder , it may spread up the ureters and cause serious kidney infections as well . Bladder infection commonly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . " It is recommended that women empty their bladders after having sexual relations and before retiring to bed in order to minimize the possibility of bladder infections . Symptoms of bladder infection include the urge to urinate frequently , with burning and discomfort and often only small amounts of urine passed . Lower abdominal distress and an uncomfortable pressure sensation are often noted as well as fever . The urine may be cloudy , or at times , bloody . Examination under the microscope shows white blood cells , often in clumps ( pus cells ) , and bacteria . Treatment with antibiotics is almost always successful , but recurrences of infection are quite common in some persons . In cases of frequent infections of the lower urinary tract , bladder or urethra , evaluation of the bladder by cystoscopy may be necessary to reveal anatomical abnormalities or reasons for incomplete emptying of the bladder , which predispose to infection . Urine samples collected in as sterile a manner as possible should be obtained to identify the bacteria involved and to determine which antibiotic will be most effective . Fluids @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ irrigates the bladder and helps to wash out bacteria . Bladder Tumors . Bladder tumors , either benign growths  | called papillomas or malignant ones , are usually discovered when a person seeks medical attention because of an abnormal urine specimen . Blood in the urine , referred to as hematuria , is alarming , and warrants investigation to localize the site in the urinary tract as well as the cause of the bleeding . Since bleeding can be coming from the kidneys , ureters , bladder , or urethra , a stepwise evaluation that includes kidney x-rays and cystoscopy is necessary to find the source . Benign growths are often removed at the time of cystoscopy , but they may recur . Malignant growths require removal of the involved bladder . If the cancer is very superficial and does not penetrate deeply into the bladder wall , and is located in an area of the bladder away from the ureters and outflow tract , a partial excision of the bladder is possible ? preserving the rest of the organ . For extensive disease , total removal of the bladder may @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or following surgery . If the bladder is removed completely , an artificial bladder is made using a loop of small bowel called an ileal bladder and the ureters are reimplanted into this structure . Incontinence . Urinary incontinence , or loss of voluntary bladder control , occurs quite frequently , especially in elderly , debilitated , often bedridden patients , who have various chronic diseases . Because bedwetting leads to bedsores , skin ulcers , and serious infections , urinary catheters are often needed to protect the skin . Catheters in this setting are the lesser of two evils , since chronic bladder infection develops when they are used for a long time . A rather frequent cause of incontinence is seen in women , almost always those who have had multiple pregnancies ? stress incontinence . This problem develops because repeated stretching of the pelvic tissues during pregnancies causes the bladder to drop , distorting the anatomical relationships of the bladder neck . Uncontrolled wetting , usually initiated by acts such as coughing , laughing , sneezing , or bending can be quite a source of distress . Part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ even protrude , called a cystocele . Correction of a cystocele and stress incontinence can be achieved if the symptoms are troublesome or severe by surgery to strengthen the loose tissues and restore the proper bladder neck angle . Cystoscopy . Cystoscopy is a surgical procedure to evaluate urinary tract problems performed by a urologist with the  | patient under either spinal or local anesthesia . The cystoscope is an instrument introduced via the urethra into the bladder . The urologist can look through one end and study the part of the prostate gland that surrounds the bladder neck and also inspect the interior of the bladder . In addition , the openings , one on either side of the bladder , of the two ureters can be seen . If additional information is needed , catheters can be passed up the ureters into the kidneys , allowing for sampling of urine from either kidney . X-ray visualization of kidney detail following an injection of dye can help to locate and identify tumors or stones in the urinary tract . Cystoscopy is most commonly performed to evaluate the lower urinary tract @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ if studies of the kidneys by conventional x-ray have proved unsatisfactory for various reasons , cystoscopy allows their visualization from below through dye introduced into the ureters . Urinary Catheters . Catheters or tubes made of rubber or silicone may be required to ensure proper emptying and drainage of the bladder . They are used frequently in the case of blockage , which can occur in prostate disease or because of disease in the spinal nerves affecting bladder function ( neurogenic bladder ) . Not uncommonly , temporary use of a catheter is required following surgery due to the combined depressive effects of anesthesia and pain medication on bladder function , as well as the inherent difficulties some people have trying to urinate while lying in bed . Critically ill patients who are unconscious or who require careful monitoring of their fluid intake and output generally require bladder catheters . Prostate Disorders The Prostate Gland . The prostate gland is found only in males , but many men become familiar with this part of their anatomy only later in life , when a disorder of the gland causes a problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It contributes part of the secretions that make up the male ejaculate , that is , the fluid that discharges during sexual relations . The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the urinary bladder and through it passes the urethra ? the conduit for passage of urine stored in the bladder . ( See illustration 7 . ) Because of its particular location , disturbances in the prostate gland can  | interfere with emptying of the bladder and the ability to urinate . In general , three main disorders can involve the prostate gland : infection and inflammation , enlargement ( or hypertrophy ) , and cancer . Inflammation of the Prostate Gland . Prostatitis or inflammation of the prostate gland may be caused by various infectious agents , including the bacteria that cause tuberculosis and gonorrhea ( a venereal infection ) , or it may not be associated with an identifiable agent ( nonspecific prostatitis ) . Prostatitis may temporarily follow sexual arousal or stimulation not accompanied by ejaculation , due to retained secretions and acute congestion of the gland . Symptoms of prostatitis include frequent and painful urination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the penis . The patient may experience aching in the groin or lower back or rectum . Fever and chills may develop . The disorder must be distinguished from a kidney or bladder infection or an infection of the urethra . On rectal examination of a man with  | acute prostatitis , the prostate gland is easily felt by the doctor to be lying adjacent to the front wall of the rectum and is noted to be enlarged , boggy , and extremely tender . The urine will contain pus cells and possibly bacteria . A culture obtained from urine , penile discharge , or following massage of the prostate gland itself , allows for identification of the offending bacteria and treatment with the appropriate antibiotic . Pain medications and hot baths also help to relieve discomfort . Prostatic enlargement . Benign prostatic hypertrophy refers to enlargement of the prostate gland that ultimately causes difficulties with normal urination . For unknown reasons , the gland enlarges , usually after the age of 50 , but perhaps not causing problems until the person is in his 60s or 70s . The symptoms @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prostate are called prostatism . The urge to urinate occurs more and more frequently during the day and can awaken the man during his sleep every couple of hours . The size and force of the urine stream diminish , and are often reduced to an intermittent dribble . There may be increasing difficulties initiating urination , with the patient having to wait and strain to produce urine , and following urination , a need to void again quite soon . In the extreme , complete obstruction to the outflow of urine from the bladder causes a build up of back pressure on the ureters and even the kidneys , which can lead to kidney damage or failure , by a process known as hydronephrosis . Despite urinating with great difficulty , the bladder may not be emptied completely , and may contain a large residual of urine . This pool of urine predisposes to infection , a common complication of prostatism . The diagnosis of prostate enlargement is easily suspected from the symptoms described above . Additional studies that confirm the diagnosis include an x-ray of the kidney , ureters @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ inability to empty the dye from the bladder because of an enlarged prostate . Cystoscopic examination allows for direct visualization of an enlarged gland , encroaching on the bladder floor and urethra , as well as seeing the thickened bladder muscle . After evaluation by the methods described above , treatment of symptomatic prostatism is surgical . Initially , in some men , temporary catheter drainage is necessary to correct reversible kidney damage . Treatment and control of any bladder infec-  | tion is also necessary . The surgical procedure chosen by the urologist depends mainly on the size of the enlarged gland . In the majority of cases the enlarged prostatic tissue can be successfully removed through the urethral opening in the penis by an operation called a transurethral resection . In some cases the prostate enlargement is too great to permit removal this way , and another surgical procedure called a suprapubic prostatectomy is done . This requires a surgical incision in the lower abdomen , opening of the bladder itself , and removing the prostate from above . Both procedures are well tolerated , and a catheter is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tissue has healed and normal urination is possible . Following prostate surgery , men are usually able to have normal sexual relations except that retrograde ejaculation may occur , that is , the usual fluid containing sperm that is produced at the climax of the male orgasm is ejected back into the bladder and does not flow out through the penis . Cancer of the prostate . Cancer of the prostate is one of the most common cancers of men . It rarely occurs in young men and seldom occurs below the age of 50 . Its incidence increases with each succeeding decade . Many clinically insignificant , small , and localized tumors are found on careful study of prostatic tissue during a postmortem ( autopsy ) . Fortunately , many of these occult , or hidden , cancers cause no symptoms and can only be detected during life by the pathologist who examines the prostatic tissue removed because of prostatism . Prostate cancer can first be detected by findings on routine rectal examination . Most cancers develop in the back portion of the gland which lies next to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , hard areas or nodules . Biopsy of any suspicious nodule can establish the diagnosis of prostatic cancer . Unfortunately , many cases of prostate cancer are detected when the disease is quite advanced , and the patient may have sought medical attention for bone pain due to metastasis , or spread , of the cancer through the blood to the bones ? especially to the spine and hip regions . The only known cure for prostate cancer is complete surgical removal of the gland . This procedure may not be used in some patients because evaluation has shown the disease too advanced and the tumor has spread into bones and adjacent tissues . Measurement of a certain prostatic enzyme in the  | blood , acid phosphatase , correlates with advanced stages of prostatic cancer . Even though many patients have extensive disease , palliation , or temporary control , often for years , can be achieved by giving small doses of estrogens ( female hormones ) . Previously , larger doses were used to control the disease , but these now have been associated with increased atherosclerosis and deaths from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ called an orchiectomy , also is effective . The male hormones , androgens , apparently promote growth of prostatic cancer . Good results have also been achieved by injecting radioactive materials into the tumor , causing it to shrink and thus allowing for surgery in an otherwise inoperable prostate . X-ray treatment of involved areas of bone can relieve pain , as can drugs . Chemotherapy , or the use of anticancer drugs , has not been very effective in this disease . Symptoms you should know about : Very frequent urination and burning on urination . These are the cardinal symptoms of a urinary bladder infection . Bloody urine . Blood in the urine can be caused by disease in the kidney , ureter , bladder , or urethra , and may be quite serious or only a minor problem . It always requires medical attention . Backache and flank pain may arise in the kidney . Renal colic , usually due to the presence of a stone in the ureter , is a severe , crampy pain in the side or abdomen which may be transmitted to the groin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ functioning of cellular processes and ultimately tissues and organs of the body requires the actions of various hormones produced by glands located throughout the body . Hormones are chemical substances formed in an organ ( gland ) and delivered into the bloodstream to other parts of the body where they influence basic cellular activities in many important ways . Endocrinology is a branch of medicine that deals with the actions of hormones formed by glands both during normal function ( physiological ) as well as during states of malfunction or disease ( pathological ) . Endocrine or gland disturbances may be due to excess production or underproduction of hormones . The healthy human body is a wonderful example of a coordinated , integrated machine , made up of complex components serving the various body processes . It has been compared with a symphony orchestra , in which the various sounds and effects ( body functions ) of the individual instruments and sections of the orchestra ( organs ) are organized by the conductor ( brain ) into a harmonious musical rendition ( good health ) .  | The Pituitary Gland The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is the master gland which controls the activities of many endocrine glands , including the thyroid , adrenal , and the sex glands ? ovaries and testes . ( See illustration 8 . ) Disorders of the pituitary develop rather infrequently . Because of its location , pituitary tumors can cause serious brain dysfunction by pressure on adjacent areas . The nerve pathways for vision cross in front of the pituitary and may be affected by pituitary tumors , causing partial blindness . Failure of the pituitary gland to produce its hormones , either partially or completely , leads to secondary failure of the affected target glands . The anterior pituitary gland produces several hormones . TSH , thyroid stimulating hormone , is necessary for the thyroid gland to function normally . ACTH ( adrenocorticotropic hormone ) is a hormone required for the adrenal gland to produce the crucial hormones known as steroids . FSH and LH , follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone respectively , are crucial for the maturation of the sex glands , the testes and especially the ovaries . Growth Hormone is necessary for normal human growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Too much , produced by pituitary tumors , causes excessive growth ? giantism , accounting for the giants who appear in circus sideshows . The posterior pituitary produces an important hormone called vasopressin , which regulates water excretion by the kidney . Failure to produce this hormone causes inability to reabsorb water appropriately by the kidneys , causing the loss of up to 20 liters of water per day . The affected person is constantly thirsty because of his body 's failure to conserve water ? a disease called diabetes insipidus . It is now felt that cells located within the hypothalamus serve to sense or detect the concentration of various circulating hormones produced by the thyroid , adrenal , and sex glands . When the level of a hormone decreases , chemical mediators produced by the hypothalamus reach the pituitary gland , where the appropriate pituitary hormones are released into the blood and carried to the target . As the target gland ( e.g. , thyroid gland ) responds and increases its production of hormones , the level bathing the hypothalamus increases , leading ultimately to a decrease in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , a reciprocal relation  | exists between the pituitary gland and its target glands . An increase in the production of the hormone(s) by the target gland causes a decreased secretion by the pituitary gland , probably mediated by the hypothalamus . The Thyroid Gland The thyroid gland is located in the neck , in front of the trachea or windpipe , below and on either side of the thyroid cartilage ( Adam 's apple ) . Normally it weighs around 15 to 25 grams . Its chief function is to produce thyroid hormone , which is manufactured from an amino acid called tyrosine and the mineral iodine . The active thyroid hormones , thyroxin and thyronine , play a major role in the intracellular energy production that is vital for all tissues . The hormone is important in protein , lipid , carbohydrate , and vitamin A metabolism as well as in normal human growth and maturation of tissues , including muscles , bone , and skin and sexual development . The thyroid gland performs normally only if the pituitary gland secretes a thyroid stimulating hormone ( TSH ) that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to occur . Under the influence of TSH , the thyroid traps and concentrates iodine in the form of organic iodide , synthesizes thyroid hormones in various steps , stores the hormone attached to a large protein within the thyroid gland , and releases the hormone into the bloodstream as needed . Thyroid disease is by far the commonest disorder of the endocrine glands . Several different disorders of the thyroid gland are possible . These include enlargement of the gland , called a goiter ; hyperthyroidism , excess production of thyroid hormone ; hypothyroidism , a deficiency of thyroid hormone ; tumors , both benign and malignant ; and inflammatory diseases . Goiters . A goiter , an enlargement of the thyroid gland , often quite visible in the neck , can occur with normal or reduced thyroid function ( hypothyroidism ) called a nontoxic goiter , or with hyperthyroidism , a toxic goiter . Nontoxic goiters usually develop because the diet is deficient in iodine . The disease tends to occur in families , especially those living in regions such as the Great Lakes in the United States and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ soil . Iodine normally is derived from water and seafood . When it is lacking , the gland enlarges , often  | massively , in an effort to secure more iodine . Other causes , less common , include congenital or birth defects , with absence of one of several enzymes needed in the manufacture or release of thyroid hormones . Chemicals ( propylthiouracil ) used in treating hyperthyroidism block thyroid hormone production and cause goiters . Other drugs , such as sulfonamides and an antituberculosis drug , paraaminosalicylate ( PAS ) , are weak goitrogens ( capable of causing goiter ) . Certain vegetables contain substances that are weak goitrogens when eaten in large quantities , including rutabaga , kale , cabbage , turnip , peanuts , radishes , and carrots . Prevention by ensuring adequate iodine in the diet has been achieved to a great extent by adding iodine to salt ? iodized salt . Treatment of an established nontoxic goiter with thyroid hormone can be effective in shrinking it . Only rarely is surgery indicated , usually for cosmetic reasons , in removing the goiter . Hyperthyroidism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The reasons for this are unknown , but there does appear a relationship to emotional or traumatic events . The disease occurs at any age , commonly at puberty as well as during pregnancy and at the menopause ; it seldom occurs in childhood and affects females much more commonly than males . The thyroid gland is usually diffusely enlarged , and often there is a bulging of the eyeballs called exophthalmos . At times , the condition is associated with a goiter without the accompanying eye changes . Usually the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism is made without too much difficulty . However , the disorder may be first seen in the elderly as congestive heart failure , and the diagnosis is not suspected because the symptoms and signs are more subtle . The patient usually has symptoms that include fatigue and weakness ( often noted when climbing stairs ) , increased nervousness , irritability , and insomnia , increased sweating and intolerance to warm weather , rapid and irregular heartbeats ( palpitations ) , weight loss despite a good appetite , and awareness of the protrusion or prominence of the eyeballs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ On examination , the findings suggesting hyperthyroidism include a rapid pulse , warm and moist skin , especially of the hands , fine hair , tremulousness of an outstretched hand ( shakes ) , a visibly enlarged thyroid gland , and a murmur  | caused by the increased flow of blood through the gland heard with the stethoscope applied over the thyroid gland . Laboratory confirmation of excess thyroid hormone is obtained by measuring the levels of the hormone in the blood . In pregnancy or in a woman using birth control pills or receiving estrogen hormones , the thyroxin levels may be erroneously elevated because of an increase in the protein that binds thyroxin . Other blood tests measuring the free thyroxin can circumvent this problem . A radioactive iodine compound can be injected into a person with a suspected overactive thyroid gland and a count made of the radioactivity over the thyroid gland in several hours to 24 hours later . In hyperthyroidism there is a considerably greater concentration and hence percentage of radioactivity in the thyroid gland than in normal persons . Hyperthyroidism is a very treatable disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the gland , radioactive iodine , and chemicals that block the formation of thyroid hormones . In general , the pendulum has swung away from surgery with subtotal removal of the thyroid gland to the use of radioactive iodine . Often the person with advanced thyroid disease is treated by several means . Antithyroid drugs that block the formation of new hormone are used and chemicals given to modify the effects in the body of the excess thyroid hormone already manufactured . A single dose of radioactive iodine is then given which , usually over several weeks , has the desired effect on the thyroid gland . Additional doses may be required in some cases . In young children , surgical removal of the gland is preferred to use of a radioactive substance , which although safe for an adult may expose the youngster to additional risks . In pregnancy , the antithyroid drugs , such as propylthiouracil , may be used so as not to subject the thyroid of the fetus to a potentially toxic dose of radioactivity . Most often , an endocrinologist , a physician who is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ assists in advising the best treatment for the particular patient . The risk of many years later developing an underactive thyroid with both radioactive iodine or surgery is significant . This can be easily monitored by periodic blood tests and corrected by administering thyroid hormone tablets when necessary . Hypothyroidism . Hypothyroidism develops when the  | thyroid gland fails to produce an adequate amount of thyroid hormone . The disease may develop as a consequence of pituitary disease , which causes a failure of thyroid stimulating hormone production . More commonly , hypothyroidism is simply a primary failure of the thyroid gland itself . The disease has a wide range of symptoms , depending on whether it is detected early , when symptoms are minimal and not specific , or later , when the patient may go into coma . Many obese persons diagnose themselves as suffering from an " underactive thyroid gland , " hoping their difficulty stems from a glandular problem , " sluggish thyroid , " and not from their dietary escapades and overindulgences . Tiredness , weakness , lack of energy and pep , symptoms that do @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ well as in psychoneurotic states . Hypothyroidism can be present at birth , producing the disease known as cretinism . In adults , a typical patient with hypothyroidism has a dull , expressionless face , with coarse features , including puffiness of the eyelids and face . The speech is slow and hoarse . The patient complains of weakness and lethargy , poor memory and difficulty in concentrating , intolerance to cold weather , weight gain and constipation , and possibly changes in the hair and skin , including hair loss and thickening and coarseness of the skin . On examining the patient , the tongue is thickened and enlarged ; the face and skin are pale ; characteristic changes in the tendon reflexes are present . Laboratory studies that confirm the diagnosis include a reduced blood thyroxin level and a slow radioactive thyroid uptake . In this case , the level of radioactivity concentrated by the thyroid gland in 24 hours is below normal . Other findings commonly seen in hypothyroidism include an elevated cholesterol level in the blood and the presence of a mild to moderate anemia . Treatment @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can be returned to normal by replacement of thyroid hormone . Many types of thyroid medication are available and have included crude thyroid hormone extracted from animal thyroids , improved animal thyroid extracts , synthetic thyroxin or thyronine , and combinations of the latter two . An adult requires two to three grains of thyroid extract or its equivalent to maintain a normal , or euthyroid state . Medication is required for the duration of the patient 's life once the diagno-  | sis of hypothyroidism is established . Thyroid Tumors . Tumors or masses may be either benign or malignant ( cancerous ) . Goiters , discussed above , are almost always benign . Although several different forms of malignancies can develop in the thyroid gland , most nodules will be benign growths called adenomas . In general , the common malignant tumors of the thyroid grow slowly . Nodules which are quite firm , are enlarging rapidly , and have associated enlargement of lymph glands are more likely to be malignant . Scans of the thyroid gland are made with radioactive iodine to aid in evaluating solitary thyroid nodules @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ thyroid gland and the nodule is made because the radioactive iodine concentrates in the thyroid gland . A cold nodule , one that fails to concentrate the radioactive iodine , is likely to be malignant , in contrast to a nodule that picks up the iodine . Useful information about the thyroid gland is also provided by the use of ultrasound . Surgical excision of a solitary , suspicious nodule is the treatment of choice . More advanced disease may require more extensive surgery . Certain thyroid cancers spread to distant sites , including lung and bone . Some of these retain their ability to concentrate iodine and can be treated with higher , therapeutic doses of radioactive iodine , which will kill the cancerous cells . Only 0.4 percent of all cancer deaths are due to thyroid cancer . Thyroiditis . The thyroid can be involved in an inflammatory disorder called thyroiditis . The condition may follow a mild respiratory infection . Viruses are felt to be responsible for many cases but this is not proved . Most often no cause is found . Women are affected much more often @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ complain of tenderness over the neck in the thyroid region , accompanied by chills , fever , and malaise . The patient may be relatively asymptomatic except for swelling of the gland . A chronic form , called Hashimoto 's thyroiditis , develops more insidiously as an enlarging goiter with pressure symptoms in the neck . Many persons with thyroiditis eventually develop hypothyroidism and require thyroid hormone . Adrenal Glands ' The two adrenal glands lie in the flank area , capping the  | upper poles of both kidneys . The name itself means " adjacent to the kidneys . " Anatomically , three separate regions can be distinguished in the gland , which weighs around 5 grams . Very important hormones , called steroids , are produced from cholesterol by the adrenal glands . The corticosteroids , the most widely known of the steroids , perform many functions that are vital for normal health . In fact , all organs of the body in some way require their presence . The energy necessary for all body reactions is produced in the cells ultimately by the combustion of sugars . Since @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ periods of fasting , protein stored in the liver is broken down and converted into useful energy forms under the influence of steroids . Steroids are important in fat metabolism , muscle performance , moderating inflammatory reactions and antibody production , and the response of connective tissue to injury and repair . The synthesis of many steroid derivatives has brought them into widespread use in clinical medicine , and steroids are sometimes heralded as miracle drugs . Probably every disease process of known or unknown origin has been treated by steroids of this class . Despite their overuse , there are many bonafide uses for corticosteroids . Steroids have proved quite helpful in treating contact dermatitis , including poison ivy , psoriasis , neurodermatitis , and many nonspecific skin rashes . Other areas of proved value include asthma , certain blood diseases , kidney , gastrointestinal , brain , and blood vessel disorders , which have in common inflammation , and at times , production of abnormal proteins called immune complexes , which can damage tissues , especially small blood vessels . Mineralocorticoids control the process of sodium ( salt ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of potassium . Androgens and estrogens , the respective sex hormones of men and women , although produced chiefly by the testes and ovaries , are also made in the adrenal glands . Approximately two-thirds of androgens are formed by the testes ( testosterone is the main product ) , and the rest are made in the adrenal gland and are known as weak androgens , in contrast to testosterone . In one sense , sex is an artificial separation if one uses hormone production , for every male manufactures some female hormone , and every female produces some weak male hormones . The growth of facial hair , a source of embarrassment and  | frustration to women , occurs in most women to some extent ; but women with dark complexions may have more noticeable facial hair , or hirsutism . This problem may be due to the presence of increased amounts of the normally present adrenal androgens in some women . Androgens account for the larger muscle mass , body and facial hair , and sperm maturation in males . Estrogens induce the characteristic body shape of females , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the various events of the female menstrual cycle . Disorders of the adrenal gland are quite uncommon . Just as in the case of the thyroid gland , adrenal problems can be due to excess production of steroid hormones , called hyperadrenalism or Cushing 's disease , or underproduction of steroid hormones , hypoadrenalism or Addison 's disease . Hyperadrenalism ( Cushing 's Disease ) . Harvey Cushing ( 1869-1939 ) , the great American neurosurgeon , described a disease due to excess production of steroid hormones by the adrenal gland . He believed the disturbance was caused by a pituitary tumor producing an excess of ACTH ( adrenocorticotropic hormone ) , the pituitary hormone that stimulates the activity of the adrenal gland . Most cases of Cushing 's syndrome are due to excess growth ? an increase in size called hyperplasia ? of both adrenal glands . Approximately a third of cases occur because of tumors of the adrenal gland , of which about half are malignant . Symptoms of Cushing 's disease are caused by the excess production of the various steroids ( cortisol ) , androgens , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of obesity that involves the trunk but spares the extremities . Fat deposition in the nape of the neck leads to the so-called buffalo-hump . The face is round or moon-shaped . There are striae or purplish stretch marks over the abdomen and extremities . The skin is thin and the complexion ruddy . There is marked muscle wasting and weakness . Excess cortisol also produces bruising and leads to diabetes mellitus and hypertension . Bone thinning or osteoporosis occurs , and fractures of the spine may develop . Androgen excess leads to the development of acne , in- , creased body and facial hair , baldness , and deepening of the voice . Electrolyte ( salt ) disturbances , that is , reduced potassium and retention of sodium , associated with hypertension , occur  | because of mineralocorticoid excess . The diagnosis of hyperadrenalism requires laboratory documentation of excess steroid production in the urine and blood . Attempts to suppress steroid production by using various drugs often permits differentiation between hyperplasia and tumor . Once a diagnosis is confirmed , surgical exploration and removal of both glands is curative in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ below , hypoadrenalism , unless replacement treatment with the essential hormones is given . This consists of cortisone or similar drugs as well as a mineralocorticoid drug . Recently , a drug , cyproheptadine , has been used successfully in treating Cushing 's disease . Hypoadrenalism ( Addison 's Disease ) . Hypoadrenalism can occur because of failure of the pituitary to produce adequate ACTH , so that the adrenal glands can not manufacture steroid hormones . Addison 's disease , named after the famous English physician ( 1793-1860 ) who described the disease , is a failure of the adrenal gland to produce its hormones despite a normal pituitary gland . The disease may be difficult to diagnose depending on the degree of adrenal failure . Symptoms may develop only during a stressful event such as surgery , acute infection , or trauma when normally the body requires increased levels of steroids . Addison described the disease as follows : " The leading and characteristic features of the morbid state to which I would direct attention are anemia , general languor and debility , remarkable feebleness of the heart 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change in the color of the skin . " Increased skin pigmentation all over the body , poor appetite , nausea and vomiting , weakness and dizziness , small heart-size , and a low blood pressure are features of hypoadrenalism . If the diagnosis is suspected , measurement of the steroids in blood and urine samples will reveal the characteristic reduced levels . Failure of the steroid values to improve after ACTH hormone is given establishes the inability of the adrenal glands to function properly . Treatment is by replacement therapy , which includes cortisone or its equivalent and a mineralocorticoid , 9-alpha fluorohydrocortisone ( Fluorinef ) . With such a regimen , patients are usually able to lead normal lives .  | Diabetes Mellitus Four million Americans have diabetes mellitus , and half of them do n't even suspect it . Of those who do know they have this disease , a large percentage are unaware of the importance of controlling it and of the proper treatment to prevent early death or disabling conditions . On the basis of numbers of people involved , potentially serious complications and practicality of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as one of the two most important health areas in which the public needs to be educated . The name of the disease tells us something about its nature . " Diabetes " means fountain and " mellitus " sweet , a natural name for a condition often characterized by passing large amounts of urine which contains sugar . Diabetes mellitus is a disease primarily of carbohydrate metabolism ; that is , the basic abnormality is in the way the diabetic 's body handles sugar . This leads to other metabolic changes which cause complications in many parts of the body and can result in serious symptoms and even death . To understand the fundamentals of diabetes mellitus , we must first learn about carbohydrate metabolism . About 50 percent of the carbohydrate in the average American 's diet is present in the grains and vegetables we eat ( starches ) , and another 25 percent is in our table sugar ( both cane and beet ) ; most of the rest is taken in as milk and milk products , fruits , honey , molasses , and maple and corn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ into the blood as simple sugars , and finally converted , for all practical purposes , almost entirely into glucose . Glucose is brought to the muscles and to the liver , where it is stored as glycogen . In the muscles it is used for the energy of muscle contraction and , therefore , work , while in the liver it is used to power the chemical work of the liver . Glucose is also converted into fat , and some enters into the metabolism of protein . The glucose in the liver is released back into the blood as needed in order to keep up a normal blood sugar level . This is necessary because glucose is continually entering all the cells of the body , where it is consumed as fuel for the chemical processes of life . As the glucose leaves the blood to enter cells , it must be replenished at the same rate . Normally , the blood glucose level ( in medical slang , the blood sugar ) is between 60 and 100 milligrams per 100 milliliters of blood , but it may rise @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ digested carbohydrates are absorbed into the blood . There are many avenues of control of the blood sugar , but the most important is through the hormone insulin , manufactured in certain cells of the pancreas . When the blood sugar begins to climb above ideal levels , these cells release insulin in amounts calculated to drop the blood sugar back to normal . On the other hand , when the blood sugar level begins to drop , insulin secretion is decreased or stopped , so that the blood sugar can climb back to normal as the liver releases glucose into the circulation . Actually , many other controls , especially including the hormones epinephrine and glucagon , are involved in this process , but here we are concerned with the effects of insulin . The major defect in persons who have diabetes mellitus is a lack of proper insulin activity . We do not know the cause of diabetes mellitus , although there is a vast amount of information accumulated about the metabolic defects that go with this disease . In most cases , it is not due simply to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ but in all cases , the patient 's body acts as though it had not enough insulin for his needs . Diabetes mellitus may occur at any age , although it is more common in middle-aged and older persons . When it develops in children , the onset is usually sudden , most often with an infection , such as pneumonia , or with diabetic acidosis , which is discussed below . In adults the disease may be present for a long time without the person involved ever knowing he has it . It is often first suspected by finding glucose ( sugar ) in the urine or an elevated blood sugar level on a routine examination . Frequently a person with diabetes will first consult a doctor because of excessive thirst , increased amounts of urine , weight loss despite a good appetite , visual disturbances , or repeated infections . Another way in which the diagnosis is suspected is in the diagnostic work up of a person who has had a heart attack or a stroke . Finding sugar in the urine does not automatically mean that diabetes is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in which their urine contains sugar even with the blood sugar within normal limits . An elevated fasting blood sugar level , that is , a blood sugar determination done when the patient has not had anything to eat overnight , usually means that diabetes is present , but even this is not definite , as some other conditions can raise the blood sugar level . Often a  | person with mild diabetes can have a normal fasting blood sugar level , but have an excessive elevation after taking food . Because of this , a better screening test for diabetes is the postprandial blood sugar , that is , a sample taken two hours after eating a meal containing large amounts of carbohydrates . This should be close to the fasting level in normal people , but persons with even mild diabetes may still have a significant elevation in the glucose level at this time . A more sensitive means of making the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus is the glucose tolerance test . This measures how the person 's body handles carbohydrates . A fasting blood sugar level is obtained @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of carbohydrate depending on his body weight , usually glucose in a flavored solution . Blood is then tested one half hour , one hour , two hours , and three hours later . Normally , the blood sugar will not rise above 170 milligrams at any time and will be back to normal by two hours and a little under the fasting level at three hours because the elevated blood level will stimulate insulin secretion . If the blood sugar level is above 170 milligrams or is not back to normal by the end of two hours , then the person on whom the test is being done is said to have diabetes mellitus . Treatment . The patient 's cooperation is extremely important in the treatment of diabetes mellitus . It is essential that he or she understand as much as possible about this disease . The goals of treatment are to keep the blood sugar as normal as possible , to attain and maintain normal body weight , and to prevent complications . Complications are potentially fatal or disabling and will be discussed below . Diet is by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with this disease are overweight , and it is imperative to bring them back to an ideal body weight . The initial dietary treatment has this as its goal . It is often discouraging at first , because it means existing on less than the usual amount of calories to carry out the day 's work . However , once the normal weight is reached , the calories in the diet are adjusted so that the patient maintains his weight at that level . This is usually a satisfying amount of food and with knowledge and experience can be a delicious and varied diet . The amount of carbohydrate is controlled and may approximate that of the average American diet , which consists of 40 to 50 percent of carbohydrate . Most doctors use the American Diabetic Association dietary  | plan . This divides all available foods into six types and lists amounts that can be interchanged within each type . This is a very practical form of dietetic treatment and can be understood by all persons of average intelligence . In many diabetics , especially older ones , the disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ it is sometimes necessary to prescribe medications . Insulin will be necessary for almost all younger diabetics and for many older diabetics whose disease can not be controlled by diet or other drugs . Since insulin is digested in the stomach , it can not be taken in pill form . It must be injected under the skin . There are other medications which are not insulin , but which act to drop the blood sugar level . Although the tablets are certainly much more convenient , they are not the same as the naturally produced insulin , and it is possible that there may be a higher incidence of cardiovascular disease in persons who have used the oral hypoglycemic agents ( anti-diabetic drugs ) for long periods of time . Some doctors feel these drugs lull the patient into a false sense of security and cause them to neglect their diets . If their use is necessary , however , they are considered sufficiently safe . Several kinds of insulin are available . Regular insulin acts rapidly and is used up fairly rapidly , so that although it is excellent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ everyday use , since it would involve several injections daily . Long-acting insulin of various sorts is available , usually with an action of approximately 24 hours , so that a single daily injection in the morning can suffice . Dosage must be worked out for each individual . Persons taking insulin can drop their blood sugar levels too low if they do not take in the usual amount of carbohydrate for that day or if they burn up excessive amounts with more exercise than they are accustomed to . When the blood sugar level drops too low , it can cause hypoglycemic reactions or insulin reactions , which can be quite unpleasant and may even be dangerous . Mild reactions may consist only in some nervousness and sweating , but a more severe reaction can lead to unconsciousness . Sometimes a person may act as though he were drunk during an insulin reaction , and people have even been jailed during such a reaction . Diabetics who use insulin should carry some sugar with them so that they can take it to avert reactions before they become serious . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ provides a prompt  | antidote for an insulin reaction . Complications . Almost all of the organs of the body can be affected by long-standing or poorly controlled diabetes mellitus . Diabetes is not just a disease of blood sugar , and the metabolic abnormalities take their main toll on the blood vessels . Patients with diabetes develop early atherosclerosis leading to an increased likelihood of other blood vessel diseases , including heart disease and myocardial infarction , cerebrovascular disease , such as stroke , and diseases of the blood vessels in the legs . Similar changes in the blood vessels of the kidneys cause altered kidney function , and scarring of the glomeruli , the basic filtering network of the kidneys , can cause kidney failure . Diabetes is a leading cause of blindness . Other tissues commonly involved include the peripheral nerves and the autonomic nervous system . Damage to the peripheral nerves causes impaired sensation in the hands and feet . Dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system can cause diarrhea and impaired absorption of nutrients from the gastrointestinal tract . A major problem in diabetes mellitus is the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unless vigorous measures are undertaken to reverse the metabolic abnormalities . Diabetic acidosis usually develops either in persons whose diabetes is not controlled because the diet is neglected or he or she does not take the prescribed insulin , or in someone whose diabetes is usually controlled , but who develops a complicating illness such as a viral gastroenteritis or an upper respiratory infection . Insulin deficiency , either relative or real , causes the blood sugar levels to rise , and inadequate glucose utilization leads the body to use fatty acids from its own fat stores as an alternative source of energy . Fatty acids are broken down to various acid substances by the liver ( ketone bodies ) and accumulate excessively in the blood , and this is called acidosis . The rising glucose levels in the blood cause increasing excretion by the kidneys with resulting losses of glucose , salts , and water , so that the person becomes dehydrated and eventually lapses into coma . Usually , the patient is seen in an emergency room at the hospital , where the diagnosis is established . Besides a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bodies in the blood , and abnormal body electrolytes , including a reduced  | bicarbonate level , a low sodium level and an increase in the serum potassium . Over the first few hours , several liters of dilute salt solutions are given intravenously to correct the dehydration and improve the circulation . Simultaneously , injections of regular insulin are given intravenously at frequent intervals to lower the blood sugar and to correct the acidosis . Frequent measures of the electrolytes , blood sugar , and acid level or pH of the , blood are carried out , and additional amounts of insulin are given as well as various fluid mixtures to correct any deficits . After several hours and usually within 24 hours most of the abnormalities have been partially to fully corrected , and the development of hypoglycemia or a low blood sugar level has to be prevented by adding sugar to the intravenous fluids . Once the patient has stabilized and is out of danger , any precipitating factor , such as an infection , is treated . Edema Edema is a term used to describe the accumulation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is usually detected by firmly pressing a thumb or fingertip on the skin , usually of the foot or leg , which leaves a visible indentation on the surface of the skin . Edema generally occurs in the dependent portions of the body because of the effect of gravity . In an ambulatory person , edema forms in the ankles or lower legs , and a bedridden patient may have edema of the tissues of the back . Edema may occur around the eyes or periorbital tissue because of the looseness of the skin in this area . The causes of edema are numerous . Patients with a low level of plasma proteins develop edema because these proteins , particularly albumin , serve to keep fluid in our blood vessels and out of body tissues . Patients who have certain types of kidney diseases lose large amounts of protein in their urine and may develop edema not only of the ankles and legs , but of much of the body . Persons with severe liver disease develop edema and abdominal swelling with fluid , called ascites , for several reasons , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failure is often first diagnosed in a patient with ankle swelling or edema which occurs because the weakened heart muscle is unable to pump blood adequately . The above conditions generally are associated with other symptoms . Medical attention is required to diagnose the underlying illnesses so that the appropriate  | treatment can be given . The most common form of edema occurs in females . It tends to be worse around the menstrual period , and some women gain several pounds because of fluid accumulation . In these cases , the cause is probably some hormonal influence on salt and water retention . Edema generally is not present in the morning but develops during the day . It may also occur in persons who do a lot of standing , especially if they are immobile for much of the time . Edema is primarily due to retention of salt , which leads to water retention . Thus edema formation may be largely prevented in some persons if they avoid a large salt intake and salt-containing foods such as pork products , cold cuts , peanuts , and potato chips . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ troublesome , for example , if shoes do not fit and the body feels too bloated or full , diuretics or fluid pills can be given . These act by increasing the kidney 's excretion of salt and water . Many women need to take diuretics only around their menstrual period . Others require them on a regular basis , but generally , a pill every second or third day will control edema formation and the side effects of the drug will be minimal . Excessive use of diuretics tends to cause increased loss of potassium from the tissues . This may cause weakness as well as disabling muscle cramps . Patients who are taking certain types of heart medications such as digitalis may develop serious complications if diuretics are used excessively or if proper potassium balance is not maintained with supplemental potassium medications . Symptoms you should know about : Endocrine disease may cause all sorts of symptoms , few of which indicate a specific hormonal disorder . The thirst , urinary frequency , urination during the night , and weight loss of diabetes are the commonest endocrine symptoms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rarely ) , sexual dysfunction , and increased body hair are complaints that often start a search for a disease of the endocrine system in adults .  | The Menstrual Cycle Much folklore exists in various cultures regarding the significance of menstruation . Many women are misinformed concerning some aspect of the monthly period or menses . Most women experience periods or menstruation at regular intervals during their approximately 30 reproductive or childbearing years . Periods represent the complex interplay of various hormones produced by the pituitary gland and ovaries on the uterus or womb . The object of these hormonal actions is to produce an egg from the ovary which , if fertilized by a sperm , can be satisfactorily imbedded and nourished in the lining of the uterus to form a healthy fetus . When no conception occurs , the hormonal balance achieved during this cycle wanes , and the inner lining of the uterus , called the endometrium , is shed , producing several days of bloody flow or discharge called a period . Periods usually begin around age 12 to 14 years , although in certain races @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is not unusual for periods to start as late as 17 years of age . The exact event that triggers the onset of sexual maturation and periods is unknown . The hypothalamus , an area of the brain located near the pituitary gland , somehow , perhaps chemically , instructs  | the pituitary gland to make hormones that affect the female reproductive organs , the ovaries . ( See illustration 9 . ) Follicles are located in the ovaries and begin to develop and mature under the influence of a pituitary hormone called FSH ( follicle stimulating hormone ) . The maturing follicle in turn produces the female hormone called estrogen . Estrogen production leads to breast development , but here the hormone is important for its effect on the endometrium or inner lining of the uterus . Another pituitary hormone called LH ( luteinizing hormone ) together with FSH stimulates ovulation , when one follicle ruptures and discharges its egg , or ovum . Generally , only one follicle matures and ovulates during a cycle ; the others degenerate . Ovulation usually occurs midway through the menstrual cycle , approximately @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ travels through the fallopian tubes toward the uterus . Successful fertilization or impregnation of the egg by sperm usually occurs during the passage through the fallopian tube to the uterus . Meanwhile the ruptured follicle cyst , now called a corpus luteum , manufactures another hormone called progesterone , which further affects the glandular structure of the lining of the uterus or endometrium . If after four to six days , fertilization of the egg has not occurred , the activity of the corpus luteum regresses , the levels of both estrogen and progesterone drop , new follicles begin to develop in the ovaries under the influence of FSH , and the period begins . During each cycle , the endometrium is prepared to receive a fertilized egg ; if this does not occur , the endometrium is shed , and another cycle is begun . The menstrual cycle culminating in the period may be quite regular , occurring at 26- to 30-day intervals in some women . Others have a wide variation in their cycles , with periods occurring at 3- to 6-week intervals , or they may even miss @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ period itself can be as short as one or two days or as long as seven or eight days . Some women report scant flow all during a period , and some have a heavy flow , usually for the first or second day of the period . Periods can be quite painful , especially for the first or second day , or only a minor discomfort . Any of these normal variations from woman to woman can cause concern . Painful periods ( dysmenorrhea ) , irregular periods , heavy flow during periods ( menorrhagia ) , scanty flow during periods , or absence of periods ( amenorrhea ) are problems often brought to the physician .  | Irregular Periods . There is nothing magical about a 28-day menstrual cycle , although the association with the lunar calendar is noted in some cultures . Certain women are quite " regular " and enjoy predictable periods . Others have menstrual cycles that occur sporadically and even stop for many months without the woman being pregnant or menopausal . It is quite common for a young woman to develop irregular periods during @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This typically occurs when a student leaves home to attend college or it may be associated with marked weight loss during dieting . Most women fall into an intermediate position , with periods occurring fairly regularly until approaching the menopause , when they become more and more irregular . Regular periods are important to women who practice a form of birth control called rhythm . The rhythm method attempts to prevent conception by abstinence from sexual relations during the optimal time for pregnancy to occur  | several days before ovulation and several days following ovulation . This form of birth control , abstinence during the time the egg can be fertilized , can be practiced with some success only when a woman 's menstrual cycle is regular . Absence of Periods . Amenorrhea or the absence of periods can be a primary problem , meaning periods have never occurred , or secondary , meaning periods have stopped after a series of them . Primary amenorrhea is a relatively rare disorder and requires a detailed evaluation of the normal functioning of the pituitary gland , ovaries , and the female organs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and as indicated above , can be a temporary event associated with a major stressful experience . Whenever a physician is asked to evaluate the cessation of periods in a sexually active woman of reproducing age , his first consideration is pregnancy ? the most common cause of skipped period(s) . This diagnosis can be substantiated by a pelvic examination which allows evaluation of the size of the uterus , which enlarges during pregnancy . A positive pregnancy test from a urine specimen allows corroboration of the physical findings of pregnancy . Early in pregnancy the urine test can still be negative , but this test often is positive when the diagnosis can not be made from the size of the uterus on pelvic examination . Periods also stop , although usually not abruptly , when the menopause is reached and the ovaries no longer ovulate and support the uterine changes described previously . A woman 's age at menopause varies considerably . Usually she is in her mid- to late forties , but it may occur in the thirties to the mid-fifties . Painful Periods . Most women experience some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Weight gain because of the retention of fluids is caused by the hormones involved , and lower abdominal cramps or pressure with low backache is quite common . A condition called endometriosis , in which endometrial tissue is outside of the usual location in the uterus and responds to the cyclical character of the period , is associated with painful periods . Most women readily admit to being more irritable and grouchy during their periods . Some do experience considerable discomfort , to the point where pain medications are necessary ; they may have to lie down for part of the day to get  | relief from the pain and cramps . A heating pad applied to the lower abdomen often decreases the distress . Particularly painful periods account for considerable absenteeism from work , especially during the first or second day of the menses . Women with emotional problems are prone to report a greater degree of disability and distress as well as accentuation of their emotional problems during their periods . Undoubtedly , many women with greater stoicism tend to play down any distress associated with their period and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Infertility is the inability to achieve pregnancy after regular sexual relations for a period of at least one year . Sterility , the inability to conceive , is the term applied when an individual has some factor preventing conception ( a woman who has had a hysterectomy ? removal of her uterus ? or a man who has had a vasectomy ) . It is estimated that between 10 and 15 percent of all married couples in this country have a problem with infertility . Some have no demonstrable cause for their problem , and many women eventually conceive . In cases where a cause for infertility is found , approximately half are due to disturbances in the female partner and half to abnormalities in the male . For most married couples wanting children , each barren and unfruitful month adds to the disappointment and frustration of their marriage . To the physician who works with an infertile couple , helping to solve their dilemma and enabling those with a correctable problem to conceive , is a most rewarding effort . Attempts to unravel the numerous possible causes of infertility require @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical examinations to rule out medical problems , such as thyroid disease . Most couples are encouraged to continue regular sexual relations , since their method of intercourse is seldom the cause of infertility . The male patient undergoes an analysis of his semen ( the liquid ejaculation from sexual relations ) collected after several days of refraining from sexual relations . Sperm counts below 20 million are associated with sterility ; counts between 20 million and 60 million can cause infertility . The female undergoes a physical examination and a careful history including her menstrual history . If her husband has  | had a normal sperm analysis and no abnormalities are detected on the physical and pelvic examinations of the woman , further tests are done to determine whether ovulation takes place . Ovulation does not occur in every menstrual cycle . Several means of assessing ovulation are available . Normally , a slight temperature elevation occurs at the time of ovulation . This can be noted by recording the daily temperature first thing in the morning on a chart . The cervical mucus from the uterus shows a characteristic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The most sensitive way to determine whether ovulation takes place is to have a D &; C ( dilatation and curettage ) or uterine scraping done right before an expected period . Analysis of the tissue obtained shows characteristic effects of progesterone produced by the corpus luteum of ovulation if it has occurred . If evidence for ovulation is obtained , the next area of evaluation is the fallopian tubes , or uterine tubes which transport the egg to the uterus for implantation if the egg has been fertilized . If the tubes are damaged or scarred from previous infection , passage of the egg may be prevented and no pregnancy can occur . Evaluation of the tubes by various techniques , including passage of air or by injection of dye during x-ray exam , helps determine their patency . Blocked fallopian tubes usually develop from chronic pelvic infection caused by previous infections from gonorrhea , streptococci , or , less commonly , tuberculosis . The recent birth of a " test tube baby " carried out by a British team of doctors offers great promise for infertility caused by damaged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ woman 's ovary , fertilized by sperm , nourished in appropriate fluids , and implanted directly into the uterus . Direct visualization of the ovaries by introducing a small instrument into the abdomen allows inspection of these glands . Sometimes , a surgical exploration and examination is done , especially when ovulation has not occurred . A specific condition exists where infertility is present and is associated with cystic ovaries , obesity , and increased body hair . Treatment at the time of surgery by partial resection of the ovaries usually leads to subsequent pregnancies . If all studies are negative , and all systems appear to be functioning normally in both the husband and the wife , they are encouraged to continue their efforts to conceive . Sexual relations are especially likely to be successful at the dine of  | ovulation . The woman is encouraged to keep a temperature chart and the husband to abstain from sexual relations for several days to have a maximal sperm level . If significant reasons exist for infertility or sterility , the unlikelihood of conception is discussed with the couple . The majority @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ adoption , contact an appropriate adoption agency , and patiently wait for a placement to be made . If the husband is infertile or sterile , pregnancy can be induced by artificial insemination , using donor sperm that can be introduced by the physician . The donor of the sperm should be in good physical health , emotionally stable , free of hereditary diseases , and intelligent . Birth Control Measures Birth control efforts have been practiced for thousands of years by mankind with various degrees of success . In ancient Egypt , the gum of the acacia plant , which contains lactic acid ? a common ingredient of many current spermicides , was used to prevent pregnancy . Today , family planning is a major goal of many underdeveloped nations with too many mouths to feed . It is also widely accepted among many young couples in Western countries . For the latter , birth control is essential to limit the size of their families in order to provide maximal education and economic security for their children . In addition , sometimes there are philosophical considerations which include a family @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ birth control is steeped with many religious , moral , and ethical considerations . The most reliable method for birth control is refraining from sexual relations or abstinence . This practice obviously will have few adherents and warrants no further attention . However , the rhythm technique , mentioned in the section on the menstrual cycle and irregular periods is really a form of abstinence during the time of the menstrual cycle when ovulation and fertilization are most likely to occur . Since ovulation occurs on the average of the 14th day of the ideal 28-day cycle , but may occur from the 8th to the 18th day , practicing rhythm requires a well disciplined couple . Success with this technique varies considerably . Another technique , premature withdrawal by the male before his ejaculation , also is successful , but requires interruption of intercourse and loss of part of the pleasurable  | sensation associated with sexual relations . Mechanical Devices . Mechanical devices were much used , and quite successfully , prior to the advent of birth control pills . Condoms , or rubberlike sheaths that are applied to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ This technique , with nontearing and nonleaking condoms , works well but does involve lessening of the sexual pleasure to both partners . The use of diaphragms , thin elastic discs , inserted into the vagina by the female , when used with various contraceptive jellies or foam which contain chemicals to interfere with sperm , is another highly safe technique . This requires a properly fitted and applied diaphragm . Coils of various plastic and metal design can be inserted into the uterus by a physician and prevent pregnancy by interfering with implantation of a fertilized egg . In some women , especially those who have had frequent pregnancies , the risk of the coil falling out is real . An additional risk is perforation of the uterus by the coil which leads to serious abdominal infection and which requires surgical intervention to remove it . Coils are highly effective and have been used successfully by hundreds of thousands of women . Because they are a foreign body in the uterus , they may be associated with a lot of vaginal discharge , which can be a nuisance to some @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hormones that simulate a condition of pregnancy in the user and prevent ovulation or egg formation . The pills contain small amounts of the two hormones of the menstrual cycle , estrogen and progesterone . Two types are available , combination or sequential types . Combination birth control pills contain the two hormones together taken for 21 days . Sequential birth control pills contain two types of pills . The first type taken for most of the cycle contains estrogen only . For the last several days , progesterone is added to the second type of pill . This routine attempts to reproduce the way the body normally makes female hormones . Birth control pills are generally taken for 21 days , then stopped , and the period takes place . The pills are resumed on the fifth day following the onset of the period . Birth control pills are virtually 100 percent effective if taken regularly . Many women have reservations about their use . Some of these stem from guilt feelings in using birth control pills  | against accepted religious doctrines . Others are rightly concerned about dangerous short- @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ changes since their first introduction . The dose of estrogen has been reduced . Despite this , many women experience nausea and morning sickness on initiating their use . This generally decreases with their continued use . Birth control pills work because they simulate pregnancy . Breast enlargement regularly occurs as well as weight gain , and fluid retention develops and occasionally skin changes are noted . Most women tolerate and adjust to these changes and feel the freedom from an undesired pregnancy outweighs these side effects . Women who have hypertension or a tendency to high blood pressure should not use birth control pills . If headaches develop or if the blood pressure increases , birth control pills should be stopped . Several other categories of women should also not use birth control pills . Women who have had breast cancer or have a strong family history of breast cancer should not use these drugs even though there is no definite evidence to show birth control pills adversely affect the breasts or cause breast cancer . Women who have had phlebitis should not use the pills . Birth control pills @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ does pregnancy itself . There is a definite statistical risk of developing blood clots or phlebitis and the possibility of a pulmonary embolus . Yet , the overall safety of birth control pills exceeds the risks a woman faces during actual pregnancy . A question as to the association of birth control pills and strokes in young women has been raised . Women over the age of 40 , especially if they have other risk factors for coronary artery disease , should avoid the pill . In general , birth control pills provide a safe , secure means of birth control . It is recommended that women go off them for one or two months every couple of years so that periods will occur when the pills are finally discontinued . Birth control pills or anovulatory agents are also used for other female problems including correcting irregular menstrual cycles and treating endometriosis . Another potential means of birth control is the so-called " morning after " pill . This involves using high doses of estrogen tablets for several days following intercourse and is reported to be successful . This form of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in only sporadic sexual relations .  | Tubal Ligation . Tubal ligation , or tying and removing part of the uterine tubes , is a surgical procedure performed in a hospital , which is effective as a permanent method for contraception and sterility . Tying off the tubes prevents the egg from reaching the uterus . The methods previously discussed prevent conception when used , but then allow for a planned pregnancy when discontinued . With a tubal ligation , future pregnancies are usually impossible . At times , women who require a Cesarean section and who are a poor risk for future pregnancy because of medical problems such as heart disease , undergo a tubal ligation as part of the operation . Vasectomy . A very popular method of effective birth control is a vasectomy . This can be done as an out-patient procedure and involves ligating and removing part of the vas deferens through which sperm must travel to reach the penis during an ejaculation ; the ejaculation still occurs after a vasectomy , but the secretion contains no sperm when the operation is properly performed . For the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the impact of an untimely death of a child , a vasectomy may be a good alternative to other forms of birth control . In a family with many children , and a mother with many childbearing years still ahead , this method may be the best one , if for various reasons she does not tolerate birth control pills . The possibility of reuniting the severed ends of the vas is sometimes held out as a means of restoring fertility to the male . This has become a reality in up to 90 percent of cases by means of reconstructive microsurgery , which permits successful reuniting of the severed ends of the vas deferens . Vaginal Discharge The cervix is the neck of the uterus ( womb ) , located in the deepest part of the vagina . There is an opening on its surface , called the os , through which menstrual flow passes . The tube-like passage through the cervix is called the cervical canal . Illustration 10 is a front view of a section cut through the uterus ; compare it with the side view in illustration @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which serves to plug the cervical canal and seal off the uterus to contamination from the vagina . Mucus secretion accompanies sexual stimulation and is necessary for the lubrication of the vagina during intercourse.  | The amount of mucus produced by these glands varies considerably from woman to woman , and from time to time in the same person . It may be great enough to cause its discharge from the vagina . Normal mucus is clear or white , and its consistency varies from watery to jelly-like . In some women , nervous tension seems to increase the volume of mucus production . When this normal discharge is annoying , as it sometimes can be , it can be controlled with douching . Plain water may be effective ; a commercial preparation available at all drugstores , or a mild acid douche may also be used . An acid douche is made up of one tablespoonful of clear ( " white " ) vinegar to one quart of water . A douche bag can be purchased at the drugstore , and is quite simple for almost all adult women to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ should I douche ? " Unless specifically prescribed by a doctor for certain conditions , there  | is no universal answer to this question . Many women go through their lifetime without ever having used a douche , and depend on their usual bath for cleanliness . It is really a matter of taste and comfort . The vinegar douche can be overdone ; daily use for long periods of time may be irritating . Most physicians feel there is no medical value to vaginal sprays , and their use may cause side effects . Inflammation of the vagina causes vaginal discharge . Specific infections of the vagina result in the production of pus , and therefore varying degrees of discharge , burning , and itching . This may be due to the gonococcus ( and the disease called gonorrhea ) ; a bacterium called Hemophilus vaginalis ; a yeastlike organism called Candida albicans ( or Monilia ) ; and a protozoan called Trichomonas vaginalis . The signs and symptoms of each of these infections may be different , and typically each causes a different appearance in the discharge . However @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ diagnosis can only be made by obtaining a fresh sample of discharge for examination and culture . This is extremely important , since treatment is different for each of these specific sorts of vaginitis . Penicillin or a related antibiotic is necessary for gonorrhea . Flagyl tablets by mouth or special mercurial or iodine preparations applied to the vagina are the treatments for Trichomoniasis . Several sorts of vaginal tablets and creams are effective against Candidiasis . Sulfa or an antibiotic preparation in the form of vaginal tablets or cream is the treatment for Hemophilus vaginitis . Recurrent cases of vaginitis or cases apparently resistant to treatment usually indicate that the cervix is involved . Minor surgical procedures are occasionally needed to correct this condition . The use of birth control pills may predispose a woman to vaginitis and make treatment difficult . Sometimes no specific cause can be found ; this is called " non-specific vaginitis . " In post-menopausal women the absence of estrogen , the female hormone , may cause atrophy of the lining of the vagina . The wall becomes thinner and dry . This makes it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which may become painful . It may also predispose to the infections mentioned above . Discharge or bleeding may occur . This condition , called atrophic vaginitis , requires the use of an estrogen cream in the vagina . The cream is preferable to estro-  | gen by oral tablets , because small doses are effective , and the side effects of estrogens are minimized . The Menopause The menopause or cessation of periods occurs in middle-aged women . As discussed in the section on menstrual disorders , periods do not always end abruptly but may occur sporadically for a year or so before they end . The menopause has two components : the physiological or body changes , and the psychological one ? how a woman reacts to this event in the setting of other changes taking place in her life . A definite change in the body accompanies the menopause . Normally , during the reproductive years , fluctuations in estrogen production by the ovaries cause changes in the secretion of the pituitary sex hormones . At the menopause , or even before the actual menopause , ovulation ceases @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ takes place . The drop in estrogen levels leads to an increased production of the pituitary sex hormones , giving rise to the characteristic symptoms of the menopause ? hot flashes and sweats . The hot flashes usually involve the head , neck , and chest and are often followed by profuse sweating . The frequency and severity of these symptoms are quite variable , being negligible in some women , moderate in others , and quite severe in only a minority of women . Despite the menopause , many women continue to produce estrogen hormone and do not require supplemental hormones . Over a period of years after the menopause , changes may occur in the skin , as well as in the genital area ? vulva and vagina ? due to decreased estrogen levels . The claims for the beneficial role of estrogen in preventing arteriosclerosis and decreasing vascular disease and in preventing degenerative arthritis are not based on solid evidence and are open to serious doubt . For women who do experience frequent and severe hot flashes and sweats , replacement therapy with an estrogen preparation is useful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that contain estrogen hormone . Usually the tablets are given 3 weeks or 25 days out of the month to prevent constant stimulation of the breasts . If the menopausal symptoms are very disabling , hormones may have to be used daily . At times , vaginal bleeding follows withdrawal of the  | estrogen hormone . This is a matter of some concern , since it is also a symptom of serious uterine diseases . Generally over a period of time , the dose of hormones may be reduced and then stopped . Contraindications to hormone treatment include previous breast or uterine cancer . Persons with hypertension who receive estrogen therapy require close supervision . There is recent evidence that estrogen treatment causes an increased incidence of uterine cancer when used in menopausal women . Many symptoms that develop coincidentally with the menopause are not caused by any hormonal adjustments or deficiency states , but in fact represent various psychological and environmental factors . To use the analogy of life as a book , the menopause represents the middle chapters of a woman 's experience with much useful and fulfilling experiences @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ represents the end of the book . To these women , the cessation of childbearing potential brings with it a loss of self-esteem and worth , and marks the beginning of the end . Often , their role as mothers has also been undercut by the maturing of their children , who function quite independently . A marital relationship built entirely on their role as mothers may widen the gap in their marriages now that their children " no longer need them . " These events together ? lack of meaningful relationship with their husband , poorly developed image and capabilities outside their childbearing activities ? brought closer to home by the onset of menopause , often produce a serious depression . On the other hand , for many women , the end of childbearing and the growing up of their families provide new opportunities and a renewed sense of life . The ability to enjoy sexual relations free of responsibility of pregnancy allows for a continued active sex life . At the same time , less time is required at home for household chores ; new vistas become possible as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ abandoned occupations , continued education , community activities , arts and crafts , and hobbies . A full and meaningful life lies ahead . Postmenopausal Bleeding Vaginal bleeding occurring in postmenopausal women requires investigation . As stated above , women on hormonal replacement treatment may experience bleeding when they  | are off the tablets for a few days . The bleeding may be due to uterine disease , which may be masked by attributing it to so-called withdrawal bleeding . Cancer of the uterus can not be detected consistently in the female by a cervical smear or Papanicolaou smear ( Pap smear ) . In fact , the majority of Pap smears are negative or normal when uterine cancer is present . A Pap smear detects cancer only on the cervix or tip of the uterus where many cancers do develop . Vaginal bleeding in a postmenopausal woman therefore requires a careful pelvic examination which enables the physician to detect any enlargement of the uterus or ovaries as well as any abnormal mass . Dilatation and curettage ( D &; C ) , a scraping of the inside of the uterus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , allows determination of the cause of vaginal bleeding and the exclusion of cancer of the uterus . Ovarian Cysts The two ovaries often have small cysts when examined incidentally after a hysterectomy or during surgery for other reasons . In rare cases , ovarian cysts may produce abnormal amounts of hormones that cause generalized body changes . Most often , an enlarged mass or tumor is found in the area of the ovary as part of the pelvic examination during a routine physical examination . The mass may be quite large , and surgery is done to remove it . A certain percentage of ovarian masses or tumors are malignant , and prompt surgery and removal is the best means of achieving good results . Dilatation and Curettage Several times in the discussion of various gynecological problems , the performance of a D &; C has been mentioned . This procedure is a scraping of the inner lining of the uterus and is performed with the patient under anesthesia , usually in the hospital . D &; C 's are performed for many different reasons , including the investigation of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or postmenopausal bleeding ) . The tissue obtained from a scraping is helpful in the evaluation of an infertility problem , as previously discussed . Often , following the delivery of a child , abnormal bleeding persists , requiring a D &; C. Removal of tissue that remains following a spontaneous abortion or miscarriage also requires a I ) &; C.  | The procedure is best performed by a gynecological surgeon , who first dilates the cervix to allow passage of a curette or scraper , which removes the tissue for evaluation by a pathologist . Hysterectomy A hysterectomy is an operation for removal of the uterus or womb . It is performed for various reasons . The most common one is excess vaginal bleeding and the finding of an enlarged uterus . Significant anemia may be caused by the heavy periods or frequent episodic . bleeding . A cancer of the uterus has to be considered as a cause of vaginal bleeding especially in a postmenopausal woman , and can be revealed by a D &; C. Most often the enlargement is due to a fibroid , or benign growth @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ often multiple and can grow to very large size . They are most often benign and will usually shrink after the menopause . If the bleeding is not too serious , fibroids may be observed at regular intervals to make sure their size is stable . A small number , less than one percent , become malignant and increase in size . If bleeding in an enlarged uterus is persistent , and does not respond to a D &; C , or efforts at hormonal manipulation , a hysterectomy is often done . At the time of the hysterectomy , the surgeon may remove both ovaries and tubes , especially in a woman who is approaching the menopause or is postmenopausal . In a younger woman , part or an entire ovary may be left so that female hormones will continue to be produced , and to avoid a premature menopause . Often the appendix is removed at the time of surgery in an otherwise uncomplicated case . The hysterectomy itself does not in any way prevent normal sexual relations following recovery from surgery . Subsequent pregnancies are of course impossible @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vagina may occur between monthly periods or may cause especially heavy but normally timed periods . Because of potentially serious causes , either sort of bleeding requires a medical opinion . Though most cases are not serious , the only way to be sure is to have a careful examination . Vaginal bleeding after the menopause should never he ignored .  | DISEASES OF BONES AND JOINTS AND MUSCLE It is estimated that more than 16 million Americans have some form of rheumatic disease . Arthritis is the most serious of the rheumatic diseases , and there are many different kinds of arthritis . By far the commonest kind is osteoarthritis , or degenerative joint disease , followed by rheumatoid arthritis , which is potentially the most crippling kind , and then gout . We will discuss these three diseases in some detail later in this chapter as well as some conditions that are categorized as rheumatic diseases although they are not a form of arthritis , including the conditions that cause backache , the painful shoulder and bursitis . The bones of our skeleton are joined to one another @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are called joints . For example , the knee joint is where the " thigh bone 's connected to the leg bone , " as the old song goes . Some joints are immobile ( as where the various bones of the skull meet ) ; some joints furnish a slight degree of motion ( as discs between two vertebrae in the spine ) , but most joints are freely movable ( as are the joints of our arms and legs ) . It is not surprising that many things can happen to these parts of our body , which do so much work , support our weight , are so often in motion , and are so exposed to injury . ( See illustration 11. )  | Many diseases affect the joints . All sorts of infections can involve the joints , and when we think about it , it 's a wonder that joint infections are so rare . Some intestinal diseases , like ulcerative colitis and regional enteritis , cause inflammation of the joints , as do many systemic diseases such as sarcoid , some blood conditions , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficiency , allergy , and a host of others . Whatever the cause , the word arthritis means an inflammation of one or more joints . Other skeletal diseases may involve the bones , the muscles , and other tissue around the joints , but unless the joint itself is involved they ca n't be called arthritis . Arthritis and other diseases of the skeletal system are included in the family name of rheumatic diseases , and in common use the unscientific name rheumatism is used to refer to any of these painful afflictions of our bones and muscles , etc . Rheumatic fever is the name of a specific disease found most usually in children and young adults that involves the joints and other parts of the body , especially the heart , following an infection with a certain group of streptococcus germs . Rheumatologists , doctors who specialize in rheumatic diseases , recognize over 100 conditions that fall within their field . Osteoarthritis or Degenerative Arthritis The moving parts of our body are like those of any precision tooled machine . In time , continued use causes " wear @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the joints , the hinges between bones , incur these changes of degeneration from the tremendous use that they undergo during our lifetime . Generally , persons involved in lots of hard physical work tend to develop more of this type of arthritis than those who are engaged in sedentary activities . Despite the best of care , our parts , or bones , inevitably show degenerative changes . Degenerative bone disease is commonly seen in the hands and especially in women , who develop knobby projections off the sides of their distal interphalangeal joints adjacent to the fingertips . Despite this rather prominent appearance , most women are relatively asymptomatic and have full use of their hands . Often the tendency is inherited and a history of similar changes in other members of the family is obtained . Degenerative changes occur not only in the hands but in the neck , shoulders , back , hips , and knees .  | The common types of degeneration occur at the articulations of joints where adjacent surfaces come into contact with one another . Irregular bony surfaces and projections develop . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of vertebral bones . The bones , which normally are rectangular in shape on x-ray film , become concave and may become compressed or wedge shaped . These changes account for the increased round shoulders of the elderly and the loss of height , often several inches , that accompanies aging . In addition to loss of volume of bone , degenerative changes occur in the composition and thickness of bone . The surfaces of bones are no longer glistening and smooth but become roughened , and bone density decreases . Many persons have little or no complaints , despite having advanced degenerative changes in bone , which would show up on x-rays . Others may have aching of shoulders , neck , hands , knees , hips , or back . The majority of persons with this type of discomfort achieve control of their symptoms with aspirin in its various forms . Cure of these changes is impossible , but control of discomfort usually is possible . Rheumatoid Arthritis A health survey by the United States government in the early 1960s found typical rheumatoid arthritis in one out of every @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of 100 . That means that perhaps 5 million Americans have some degree of rheumatoid arthritis . Most cases are chronic and not disabling , but these figures still represent a tremendous amount of suffering and time lost from work . Rheumatoid arthritis is basically a disease of the " connective tissue " of the body , that is , those tissues that provide the supporting framework of the body and its internal organs . The three types of connective tissue are bone , cartilage , and fibroelastic connective tissue . Cartilage is a hard tissue ( gristle to butchers and cooks ) that forms the linings of joints , the front ends of our ribs , and the rings that keep open the upper air passages to the lungs . The fibroelastic connective tissue may be organized into compact bundles making up tendons and ligaments , or it may consist of sheets and collections of dense tissue which perform several functions . This tissue , for example , covers over the meaty organs ( such as the capsule on the surface of the liver or spleen ) ,  | @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ vessels , lies under the skin to give it strength and elasticity , and performs similar scaffolding jobs throughout the body . The connective tissue in and around joints is mainly involved in rheumatoid arthritis , but sometimes tissue in other areas is affected , causing " extra-articular " ( outside the joints ) manifestations . In rare cases , these include inflammations of the heart or its lining , the lungs and pleura , not uncommonly the eye , fairly often the peripheral nerves , the skin , and so forth . When blood vessels are inflamed ( vasculitis ) , virtually any part of the ' body can be damaged . Anemia and fever are common , reflecting the widespread nature of this disease in the body . The cause of rheumatoid arthritis is unknown . Many clinical features suggest that an infectious agent is a possible cause , but intensive search for a single germ has been in vain . Several times , researchers have thought they have found the micro-organism that causes this disease , but never have they been able to prove it . Currently , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ organism called Mycoplasma as a cause . Current evidence points to a possible immune mechanism for rheumatoid arthritis . The immune system was previously discussed in the section on asthma and allergy , where it was shown that an antigen or substance recognized as foreign by the body 's lymphocytes stimulates production of antibodies or immunoglobulins . In asthma , the antigen was usually inhaled and the binding of it by antibody in the lung caused a release of various chemical mediators producing the clinical features of asthma . In rheumatoid arthritis many patients have in their blood as well as in joint fluid an antibody called rheumatoid factor , which belongs to the IgM class of immunoglobulins . This antibody is directed against another immunoglobulin which belongs to the class IgG . It has been postulated that slight alteration of the IgG molecules causes lymphocytes lining the joint surfaces to produce rheumatoid factor , which in combining with the IgG protein causes a release of enzymes within the joint , which then produces the inflammatory reaction leading to the changes seen in rheumatoid arthritis . Although the disease is probably @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1859 , it was n't until the early years of the twentieth century that it was clearly distinguished from  | the arthritis due to tuberculosis ( which , although rare now , used to be quite common ) and other causes . Rheumatoid arthritis can occur at any age and involve any joint . Between two and three women are affected for every man . Symptoms . Sometimes rheumatoid arthritis starts suddenly with the rapid onset of pain and swelling in the joints . In children , there is often a preceding period of unexplained fever and malaise or just plain sick feeling . Most cases of rheumatoid arthritis , however , begin insidiously , that is , so slowly that the patient does n't realize that something is wrong until he has n't been well for a while . He realizes that he has had aching and stiffness for some time . These symptoms are usually worse on arising in the morning and disappear once the patient limbers up . Adults with rheumatoid arthritis will then usually notice pain and swelling of the hands and feet , especially the middle @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tend to become involved , especially the wrists , elbows , and knees . Indeed any joint can be affected . Over a period of time , the disease is roughly symmetrical , with joints on the left and right sides being similarly inflamed . Most cases will improve by themselves , and from 15 to 20 percent will disappear completely . Unfortunately , however , some cases will progress relentlessly , and many of those who do improve at first will have exacerbations or flare-ups later . As the disease advances , the pain , swelling , or deformity of the joints limits the victims ' activities , and even permanent deformities can be produced . Although the crippling of faradvanced rheumatoid arthritis can result in a pain-racked , bedridden , deformed , chronic invalid with several destroyed joints , a well-motivated patient and modern therapy can prevent this gloomy eventuality in the overwhelming majority of cases . The diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is made by finding a certain number of criteria , plus the absence of certain other conditions that also involve the joints . In other words , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arthritis in that they cause arthritis , but which are basically different with different treatment and a different outlook . The most important positive findings are related to the arthritis itself : typical would be the presence of several large joints symmetrically inflamed . Other important points are the x-ray changes that may he present , blood tests for the rheumatoid  | factor , and examination of fluid which can be removed from an acutely inflamed joint through a needle . In early or mild cases of rheumatoid arthritis , the x-rays may be perfectly normal and the rheumatoid factor may not be present in the blood when the test is done . Treatment . When the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is made , the patient should be told that he has an unpredictable , chronic disease for which a good deal can be done . He should be instructed that treatment is not dramatic and that careful attention to homely details can often be the difference between being normally active and being disabled . Most of all the doctor should be encouraging , for it is only too easy to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and complications that seem to come from nowhere . This is the classic example of the disease that the patient must " learn to live with . " In mild and moderate cases , simple aspirin is the single most important treatment measure . Aspirin , or acetylsalicylic acid as it is technically known , has many effects . It is not used here primarily for its pain-killing effect , but rather for its anti-inflammatory effect . Therefore , it must be taken at regular intervals every day and not simply when the patient is uncomfortable or in pain . Ideally , the largest amount that is effective and can be tolerated without side-effects should be used , usually between 10 and 15 tablets daily . If ringing in the ears , dizziness , or upset stomach appear , then the dosage should be adjusted downward . In addition to aspirin , joint rest is a mainstay of treatment . This can mean temporary bed rest , as in someone with an acute process involving many joints . Often it means bandaging or splints to provide periods of immobilization and proper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the use of various forms of heat ( packs , diathermy , paraffin ) and exercises designed to promote joint mobility and increase the strength of the muscles that support and move the involved joints . Sometimes drugs other than aspirin are desirable . Chloroquine may be helpful , but it does n't work quickly , and too much of this medication can affect the vision . This sideeffect is usually only temporary but if ignored can in time result in irreversible loss of sight . Another drug that is sometimes helpful in producing a remission of rheumatoid arthritis is gold , which can be given in small amounts by  | injection over a long period of time . Other anti-inflammatory drugs are indomethacin ( Indocin ) and phenylbutazone ( Butazolidin ) . Although stronger than aspirin , they are more likely to cause side-effects if used for long periods of time . Ibuprofen ( Motrin ) is a mild anti-inflammatory agent . More severe cases may require the use of cortisone-type drugs , such as prednisone . These are often spectacularly successful . However , there are two drawbacks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ arthritis . When the steroid ( a name for the whole class of cortisone drugs ) is stopped or the dose reduced , the disease may flare up , and the long-term use of large amounts results in serious side-effects . These side-effects include some life-threatening conditions , such as bleeding ulcers and diabetes ; chronically disabling problems , such as thinness of bones with fractures ; insomnia or psychosis ; and obvious changes in the person 's appearance , such as weight gain , " moonface , " excess hair , and acne . If the dose can be kept low , then steroids can be used effectively for long periods . Recently other medications helpful in treating rheumatoid arthritis have included alkylating agents , such as the very strong drugs used in treating several types of cancer , and immunosuppressive drugs . These must still be considered experimental , although in many cases they do show some promise . Even when joints become permanently damaged by rheumatoid arthritis , operations may be available to correct or minimize the deformity and relieve inflammation and pain . Orthopedic surgery can now @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the hip and knee . It must be stressed that most cases of rheumatoid arthritis do not progress to this point and that patience and attention to detail make it possible for the patient to live quite fully with this disease . The natural course includes spontaneous improvement as well as flare-ups , and the overwhelming majority of cases are mild ones , which do not progress to cause serious problems . Much has been written for the many sufferers from rheumatoid arthritis , most of which is nonsense and some of which is downright harmful . The fad diets that have been popular from time to time have made fortunes for their protagonists but have not helped the patients , who are always struggling for a sure cure .  | Gout Thanks to a comic strip called the " Katzenjammer Kids , " most Americans over the age of 40 think that gout is a joke . The kids , Hans and Fritz , were irrepressibly mischievous and delighted in tormenting the patriarchal Captain , who was always portrayed with one foot swathed in bandages and elevated on a stool @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many cartoons were devoted to the Captain 's roaring at the Kids ' latest trick to get him to chase them . The young readers grew up thinking gout was a rare disease , caused by eating and drinking too much , that occurred in funny old men . About 275 out of every 100,000 Americans have found out that gout is no joke , and that they have it . The name gout comes from the Latin word gutta , for drop , and is derived from the fact that in the thirteenth century , when the term was coined , it was thought that gout was due to a poison entering the inflamed joint drop by drop . Hundreds of years later it has been shown that this idea really reflects the facts and that acute gouty arthritis is caused by the precipitation of uric acid in the joints . Most cases of gout begin suddenly in previously healthy persons , usually men , almost always over the age of 30 . The victim initially feels a severe pain in the base of the big toe ( the first @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ area becomes swollen , hot , and reddened , and the pain gets even worse , aggravated by movement , touching the toe , or standing up on that foot . The swelling and redness spread over the foot , and the person can walk only with much suffering . Attacks can be precipitated by acute or chronic injury to the foot , by dietary excesses or overindulgence in alcohol , and by surgical operations . Susceptible persons often have their first attack of gout while resting in bed recovering from a hernia , gallbladder or other operation . Most of the time the attack comes " out of the blue , " and no provocative factors can be ascribed . Fortunately , with treatment the acute arthritis of gout can disappear as rapidly as it comes on , and even without treatment the initial attack subsides over a period of several days to several weeks without any residual arthritis . The usual course is for later recurrences in the same or the other foot and then in other joints , especially the ankle , heel , and knee . Only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to rheumatoid  | arthritis , where several joints are often symmetrically affected . Without proper treatment , recurrent attacks can leave the joints chronically painful , stiff , and enlarged . Serious deformities can even result . Many times uric acid is deposited in the tissues of the ear , over knuckles and other joints , and under the skin ; these lumps , which are painless , are called tophi . They only occur when the blood uric acid has been high for many years . Much more seriously , uric acid is also laid down in the kidneys , and over long periods of time can slowly destroy the kidneys and even cause the death of the victim . Kidney stones of uric acid frequently occur . If treated early , an attack of acute gouty arthritis will usually respond dramatically to an ancient drug called colchicine ; the pain and swelling are often gone within 24 hours . It is said that Benjamin Franklin , a victim of gout , brought this remedy to America from Europe . Colchicine is less effective if the condition has existed for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either indomethacin ( Indocin ) or phenylbutazone ( Butazolidine ) is quite beneficial . Even after the painful , red , swollen joint has returned to normal , however , the patient still has his abnormally high blood level of uric acid . This must be corrected in order to prevent further attacks as well as to protect the kidneys from damage . Fortunately , this is easily done by means of medication . Two drugs are available that will maintain normal blood uric acid levels in persons with gout : probenecid ( Benemid ) , which increases the amount of uric acid removed from the body in urine , and allopurinol ( Zyloprim ) , which interferes with the chemical reaction whereby uric acid is produced . Backaches and Disorders of the Spine The subject of backache rings a familiar note to all of us . For most of us , a backache is usually self-limited and improves with rest . Persistence of back discomfort brings many persons to a physician or chiropractor seeking relief of pain . Backaches may follow a day of increased activity , such as spring @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ It may follow a long uncomfortable car ride or be present many mornings upon first awakening . What causes this particular vulnerability of our back ? The evolutionary ascent of our ancestors allowed man alone to assume an upright position and gait , thereby providing maximal utilization of our arms . Unfortunately , our back de-  | velopment has lagged behind and the shift of our center of gravity to the area of our lower back leaves us prone to back injury and backache . A brief review of anatomy is helpful to appreciate the origin of backaches and the complexity of our back . The back consists of the spine , composed of square bones with projections called processes , the vertebral bones . Within the vertebral bone is an opening or canal in which the spinal cord lies protected from injury by its bony shield . Nerve projections , called peripheral nerves , come off at regular intervals from the spinal cord and travel through small openings in the vertebra called foramina . The peripheral nerves travel to the various muscles in our body , bringing the impulses from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and stimulating coordinated movements of our limbs . These same nerves carry messages from our skin , muscles , and deep tissue , which relay to our brain centers the various sensations : pain , numbness , temperature , touch , position , and vibration . In between the vertebral bones are round pads or discs , which serve as cushions . Various muscles connect to the vertebral bones by insertions called tendons . Muscles , when stimulated by nerve impulses , serve as pulleys , providing movement of the limbs , ribs , and diaphragm . Ligaments , strong fibrous attachments , link bones and parts of our bones to one another , providing additional strength and support to our spinal column . If one looks at a skeleton , several details become obvious . The head rests on our neck formed by the cervical vertebrae , which project slightly forward . The neck rests on our shoulders and on the twelve thoracic vertebrae that form our backward-curved midback . The ribs arise from our thoracic vertebrae and form our thoracic cage , which serves to protect our vital organs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ formed by the five lumbar vertebrae , which again curve forward , producing a slight hollow in the area of the lower back . The sacrum forms the lowest part of the back and curves backward . The coccyx or " tail bone " is the terminal portion of the spine . These series of curves , forward in the neck , backward in the midback , and again forward in the lower back , produce a reverse S-shaped spine . ( See illustration 12 . ) Certain persons are born with or develop , by poor posture , accentuations of these curves . A kyphosis is a marked increase in the normal rounding or backward projection of the  | thoracic spine . An extreme example of this distortion of the spine is the famous Hunchback of Notre Dame . Lordosis , a pronounced curving forward of the lumbar spine , represents another type of back abnormality . In addition to the normal smooth curvatures of the spine forward or backward , the spine is usually straight or midline in its descent from the neck to the coccyx . Scoliosis is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but sideways . A mild scoliosis is quite common , whereas a marked scoliosis produces a serious distortion of the body posture . Backaches generally occur in the lower back where most of the stresses are felt . Disease , inflammation , or irritation of our muscles , nerves , discs , spinal cord , or ligaments may cause backaches . Similar inflammation or injury to the spine in the neck or upper back can cause pain and discomfort in these areas . Pain or discomfort is the final expression of various disorders of the lower back . The terms lumbago , low back syndrome , or strained back refer to poorly defined causes of back pain . Low Back Syndrome . The most common cause of low back pain is injury and inflammation of the muscles of the back . Sometimes , no extraordinary physical activity may have occurred , but usually some vigorous activity has been performed a few days before the pain develops . Muscles that are required to support unusual activity levels are prone to be injured or strained by the excess effort . Most of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ our regular pursuits . Several hours of gardening or snow shoveling or athletic exercise can cause a muscular strain . An irritated or strained muscle tends to contract or tighten and go into spasm . The pain gradually develops in the area of the inflamed muscles , the lower back , because of the contraction and shortening of the muscles and inability to relax and lengthen . If you flex your bicep muscle in your upper arm and maintain the contraction for several minutes , soreness and pain will develop . At times , back muscles tighten and contract on account of injury to deep lying structures in the back such as ligaments or a ruptured disc . The pain associated with these processes causes reflex spasm of back muscles , further increasing the amount of pain . Strained back muscles are common . Many people learn to live with them and reduce their activity level temporarily to avoid provoking discomfort .  | If the discomfort persists , a physician may be consulted . Generally , a history of heavy lifting or some activity unusual for that individual is elicited . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and the muscles are firm and contracted to the touch . The spine tends to list toward the injured side in an effort to relieve the contracted muscles . Efforts are made to exclude other disorders such as a herniated or ruptured disc . X-rays are seldom necessary . Treatment involves avoidance of strenuous activities , bed rest on a firm mattress , and application of moist or dry heat , either hot towels or baths , or a heating pad . Aspirin is effective in control of pain . At times , stronger pain medicines may be necessary . Muscle relaxants may be quite effective in reducing spasm . Most muscle relaxants are sedatives and probably work by helping to encourage bed rest . Often persons with chronic low back discomfort , especially present in the morning and disappearing during the day , incur back strain from sleeping on their stomach . The person who sleeps on his abdomen arches his back and causes irritation to his back muscles . This accounts for many morning backaches despite an otherwise comfortable sleep . Sleeping on the side or back corrects this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to strengthen their back muscles by exercises . Most physicians will describe exercises , called Williams ' exercises , to achieve this end . Discs . A disc is the cushion or pad that lies between adjacent vertebrae . The disc contains gelatinous material enclosed by a fibrous capsule . Rupture of the fibrous capsule allows for herniation or protrusion of the disc material , usually sideways , to impinge on nerve roots and cause symptoms . A ruptured disc may occur at any level of the spine . The majority of disc ruptures occur in the lumbar area , so that low back pain is present . Usually the involved disc is between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae or between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum . Disc problems also occur in the neck or cervical area and may impinge on the spinal cord itself , causing serious problems , including the possibility of paralysis . A herniated disc in the lumbar area is quite painful and causes marked limitation of motion because of pain . Since the disc usually presses on nerve roots , pain of a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ down the back of the leg to the knee or foot may be present . The pain is aggravated by coughing or sneezing . The person will move slowly when changing position to avoid pain . Often because of associated muscle spasm , the back muscles may be quite rigid . With involvement of the nerve roots , the usual ankle or knee jerk reflexes may be absent on the involved side . The physician looks for limitation of movement of the involved extremity , usually detected by an inability to elevate the leg to the same height as the other leg because of the onset of pain . Disc problems may be treated by bed rest and analgesics , just as for a severe muscle strain . Traction , sustained pulling by weights placed on the involved extremity to help overcome muscle spasm and relieve pain , may be helpful , especially if the protruding disc slips away from the nerve roots . A myelogram is usually performed in a hospital for diagnosis of a ruptured disc . A spinal puncture is done , a needle introduced into the space @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , which will show an indentation on the column of dye because of the herniated disc . Surgery is performed when symptoms of nerve compression do not respond to treatment . The irritation of nerve roots causes pain and numbness in the distribution of the peripheral nerve arising from the nerve roots . In addition , nerve injury leads to atrophy or shrinkage of the muscles supplied by the particular nerve . Cervical discs , because of the location and possible pressure on the spinal cord , may require emergency surgery and decompression of the spinal cord to avoid permanent paralysis of the lower extremities . " Whiplash " Injury of the Neck This injury usually occurs during automobile collisions . The victim is sitting in an automobile , which is either traveling at a low speed or stopped when it is struck in the rear by another automobile . The victim 's head is jarred forward or flexed and then pulled back or extended rapidly with sufficient force to injure muscles and other tissues of the neck . The neck muscles go into spasm , and pain in the back @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over several days . Treatments include the application of heat with hot water bottle or hot towels , pain killers such as aspirin , and muscle relaxants.  | The Painful Shoulder Of all the joints in the body , the shoulder is the most mobile . It is subject to a number of diseases which can cause pain , and this is a problem that frequently brings patients to the doctor . For reasons as yet unknown , the tendons around the shoulder joint tend to degenerate in middle-aged persons ; when this happens , calcium is deposited in and around these tendons . Acute inflammation is a common complication . The resulting condition is called calcific tendonitis . This usually begins suddenly with pain in the shoulder area , which may spread toward the neck or down the arm . The pain is severe and made worse by motion of the arm . The victim is unable to put his arm into his sleeve and indeed often unable to move the shoulder at all . The pain seems to be worse at night . A similar pain seems to occur @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a flat sac containing a tiny amount of fluid that overlies the tendons of the shoulder and normally serves to reduce the effect of friction when these tendons move . When the bursa becomes inflamed , it fills with more fluid . The resulting pain becomes extremely severe , and the victim will be afraid to move his arm . Putting the shoulder joint at rest and using anti-inflammatory medicines such as phenylbutazone and indomethacin frequently gives relief . When the condition is acute , injections of a local anesthetic ( often in conjunction with a cortisone-like drug ) may provide a rapid cure . Sometimes x-ray therapy is required for bursitis , and occasionally surgical removal of the calcium deposits is necessary for bursitis or tendonitis . There are other causes of acute shoulder pain . Arthritis can involve the joint ; the muscles and tendons can easily be torn ; the tissues around the shoulder may become inflamed after a heart attack or stroke . Examination and x-ray study are necessary to make the proper diagnosis of the cause of a painful shoulder , so that correct treatment can @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ painful . This injury occurs usually when a person is running , but it may occur even in walking when the foot slips and is twisted inward , stretching and injuring the muscles and tissue around the outer ankle . The pain is instantaneous and severe , and the person is unable to hear weight on the foot and has to hobble or be carried .  | If possible , an x-ray should be obtained to rule out a possible fracture . Treatment should consist of staying off the leg for 24 hours to 48 hours and , most importantly , application of cold compresses or ice to the area to minimize the painful soft tissue swelling that is caused by bleeding from injured blood vessels . The ankle and foot may be strapped in a day or so with an elastic bandage , and crutches may be required for five to ten days or longer until healing occurs . After the first day or two , soaking the foot in warm water helps to relieve discomfort and accelerate the reabsorption of blood and healing . Symptoms you should know about @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bones , or muscles , and frequently are responsible for swelling of involved joints . Other symptoms are stiffness and limitation of motion . Occasionally constitutional symptoms predominate , such as fever , or weakness due to anemia.  | SKIN Although beauty is " only skin deep , " our initial impression of people is certainly influenced by their overall appearance . How they look to us depends on their clothes , general body build , and facial features as well as the condition of their skin . The great concern people have for their skin and their efforts to alter , improve , or change it is reflected in the size of the cosmetics industry and the numbers of products and revenues generated . Even in ancient times and primitive cultures , dyes , paints , pigments , and various other preparations were applied to the skin for religious , cultural , and beautifying effects . In fact , many skin problems seen in any medical practice today are caused by the vast quantities of skin powders , lotions , detergents , deodorants , and cosmetics people apply to their @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the vital function of protecting our bodies from physical and chemical irritants in our environment . It is a tissue composed of cells , nerves , blood vessels , glands , and connective tissue . The epidermis , about as thick as this paper , contains cells that produce a skin protein called keratin , and a skin pigment called melanin . The epidermis lies on top of the cerium or dermis , approximately twenty times the  | thickness of the epidermis . The epidermis and dermis rest on subcutaneous tissue composed largely of connective tissue . Specialized forms of keratin form hair and nails . Sebaceous glands in the skin produce skin oils , and eccrine glands produce sweat . Skin varies from one part of the body to another in thickness , suppleness , and gland content . The skin of our eyelids obviously differs from that of our soles and palms . Sweat glands are found in our palms and soles , whereas sebaceous glands are not ; sebaceous glands are present in our earlobes but sweat glands are missing . Skin also prevents loss of internal body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and relays sensory information to the brain from nerve endings located in the skin . Skin diseases may involve disorders of the epidermis , hair and nails , sweat and sebaceous glands , or the dermis . The epidermis contains two types of cells , the squamous or epidermoid cell , which produces keratin , and the melanocyte , which forms melanin . The content of the skin pigment , melanin , accounts for the color differences between light and dark complexions and the various races . Tanning from sun exposure is due to increased melanin production , which serves to protect the skin from damage by the ultraviolet rays of the sun . Freckles are areas of the skin with a locally increased number of melanocytes . Skin moles , brown or black , are benign tumors or growths of melanocytes . Sebaceous glands , oil producing glands , are most numerous in the scalp and forehead areas and drain into hair follicles . Blockage of gland ducts causes cysts to form . If bacteria penetrate the cyst , an infected , painful abscess results which can require surgical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ body temperature ; evaporation of sweat cools the surface of the skin and aids in heat loss from the body . Modified sweat glands produce wax in the ear canals . Sweat is sterile and odorless but quickly becomes rancid , causing body odor because of bacterial contamination . Heat rash may occur by blockage of sweat glands due to injury or irritation to the skin such as a sunburn . The skin itself may be involved in disorders such as poison ivy or psoriasis , or it may reflect internal derangements and diseases . Various skin rashes are seen with common viral  | infections , such as measles or chickenpox . Abnormalities of skin are sometimes seen in psychoneurotic illnesses , internal cancers , endocrine and hormonal problems , blood vessel diseases , connective tissue disorders , parasitic and fungal infections , various allergic conditions , and nutritional deficiencies . The skin mirrors our internal health ; careful examination of it by physicians often suggests other disorders . Skin Changes with Aging Nowhere is the generalized aging that affects all body organs more apparent and distressing than in the skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ certainly applies to the great efforts many people expend in an attempt to preserve the beauty of their skin . Hours are spent in front of mirrors studying the skin appearance and applying cosmetics , skin lotions , and makeup to hide and cover the wrinkles , creases , and lines , moles , and other skin blemishes that develop with advancing age . The typical American bathroom cabinet contains numerous types of skin cosmetics used by women regularly in their homes . Visits to beauty salons for facial treatments are also common . The exploitation by the cosmetic industry of vanity applies to both sexes as more and more men have become concerned with their appearance . As we age , our skin becomes thinner , less elastic , and rougher , reflecting the stresses and strains and wear and tear as well as hormonal changes occurring in many body organs . Exposure to the sun , winds , and other environmental factors causes the skin to be rough and wrinkled , an extreme example being a sailor or farmer working outside , whose facial skin may have the texture @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ stretching of the skin tissues , and weight loss , with loose and flabby skin , may be apparent . Skin aging is more noticeable in some people than in others . " Crow 's feet " develop around the outer edges of the eyes , the skin of the lower eyelids becomes loose and flaccid , and the jowls sag . Elderly people , whose skin is very fragile , bruise easily with minor trauma , especially on the upper arms . Such bruises are called senile purpura . Older people also tend to develop dry , itching skin , especially in winter , caused by a combination of decreased skin oils and the dryness of winter temperature and indoor heat . Under these conditions , too frequent bathing or washing of the skin aggravates the symptoms by further depleting the skin oil .  | Hair , Baldness , and Hirsutism The hair follicle is a tiny sac in the skin out of which the hair grows . There are about 100,000 hair follicles on the human scalp , each of which grows one hair at a rate of roughly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a much longer growth period , scalp hairs generally grow for about two to six years . They enter a resting period for several months , and then the hair is shed . A new hair begins to grow from the same follicle . Between 20 and 100 scalp hairs are lost every day , but these come from areas randomly scattered over the head , so their loss is not noticeable . Hairs in areas of the body other than the scalp have different growth cycles , and in some areas ( beard , armpits , body ) are dependent on adrenal and testicular hormones for control of growth . Male pattern baldness ( common baldness ) usually begins in the late 20s or early 30s with a gradual loss of hair , especially from the top and the front of the head . Eventually the entire scalp may become bald , or the sides and back of the head may be spared in the process . Premature alopecia ( baldness ) may begin in men in their early 20s . The cause of common baldness in men is unknown @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of hair , primarily involving the scalp , may also occur in hormone abnormalities due to disease of the endocrine glands , but is quite unusual . Sometimes hair loss is seen after a high fever . Certain drugs , especially those used in cancer chemotherapy , may cause temporary baldness . Alopecia areata is the name of a condition in which the hair is lost in patches from the scalp . Its cause is unknown . If there are only a few patches of baldness , the outlook is good for regrowth and complete recovery . This occurs in about 80 percent of these cases in adults . Severe cases , especially in children , may involve most of the scalp , and the hair loss is frequently permanent . Certain curable fungal infections may cause patchy hair loss . Alopecia totalis refers to loss of all the body 's hair , including face , armpits , and pubic region . There is no good treatment that will cause hair to grow in bald areas . In some cases of alopecia areata , cortisone injections into the scalp , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hair , but results are unpredictable . Nothing will produce hair growth in male pattern baldness . Transplantation of many tiny areas of hair-bearing skin  | to the bald scalp can be done , and sometimes quite acceptable cosmetic results are obtained . Hirsutism means excessive amounts of hair , and this complaint is ordinarily confined to women who notice more hair than is acceptable in their culture . There are certain serious hormonal disorders that cause females to become virilized , that is , to develop a male appearance , with increased hair , lower voice , larger muscles , and other secondary characteristics of maleness . Occasionally other hormonal diseases can cause hirsutism without evidence of virilism . In women who are having regular menstrual periods and whose physical examination is normal other than the excessive hair , certain urinary tests may be done which will tell whether there is a hormonal disorder . Most women who come to the doctor complaining of hirsutism do not have any definable hormonal disturbance . Exhaustive testing fails to reveal any abnormalities . In these cases the only available treatment is permanent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Sometimes cosmetic techniques are useful in this problem . Skin Tumors In addition to changes in texture and wrinkling , which skin develops as part of the generalized process of aging , people develop various types of skin blemishes or lesions ? moles , warts , and age spots ? which cause concern . These growths are usually benign tumors , but malignant growths can also develop . The common benign growths are seborrheic keratoses , senile keratoses , and fibromas . Seborrheic keratosis usually develops in people with dark hair and brown eyes ? dark complexion ? who have oily skin . The growths are elevated , greasy , brown or black , and can fairly easily be scraped off the skin surface . They occur commonly on the face , back , and chest . They are not cancerous and are of little concern except for their appearance . Senile keratosis tends to be flat , brown or tan in color , and firmly attached to the skin . The growths develop in people with light complexions , usually in sun-exposed areas of the skin ? the face @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of becoming malignant and should be watched and removed if the growth increases rapidly . Fibromas are individual or multiple skin tags on the neck or  | armpit areas , usually in middle-aged , overweight people . They are always benign and generally offer no problem . Removal is recommended only for cosmetic reasons and to avoid irritation from shirt collars or undergarments . Malignant tumors develop in the epidermis . The most common malignant skin tumor is the basal cell tumor , which is 100 percent curable if treated early and adequately . These tumors do not metastasize or spread to other areas of the body and almost all develop on the face . Typically , basal cell tumors develop in fair-skinned people , in areas of sunlight exposure . The tumor begins as a small nodule , which gradually enlarges over a period of many months to form an area of central depression with a raised pearly border . There is a greater incidence in persons who have been exposed to facial x-ray or radium treatments . Surgical excision of the growth along with a margin of normal skin @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ pathologist to ensure that the margins of the removed growth contain no residual tumor ; otherwise , a more radical excision must be done to ensure removal of all the tumor tissue . When such tumors occur on the face , x-ray treatment is often used in order to avoid scarring . The squamous cell tumor is the other malignant growth arising from the epidermoid cell . This tumor may arise from any area of the skin but most commonly occurs on the lower lip , ears , tongue , and back of the hand . It can arise from a preexisting senile keratosis or begin de novo . Other possible causes include excessive sun exposure , radiation , chemicals , and mechanical trauma , such as pipe smoking . This tumor can spread to other areas of the body , commonly the lymph nodes . A high rate of cure can be achieved with early treatment by surgical excision , often combined with x-ray treatment to adjacent areas . Melanocytes , the color-producing cells , can also form malignant tumors called melanomas . They arise from moles . Any sudden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an increase in pigmentation , or an irregular pigmentation , or bleeding or ulceration requires prompt medical evaluation . In general , moles with stiff hairs growing from them do not undergo malignant change . To relieve anxiety and concern about possible cancer , one should mention and show skin growths to the doctor , who can either allay one 's fears or recommend excision of suspicious growths .  | Acne Vulgaris Acne vulgaris or acne is the common skin affliction of the adolescent . It is caused by excessive fatty acid secretion by oil-producing skin glands . Blockage of the oil gland duct leads to a blackhead , or comedone ; an inflammatory reaction occurs and infection may develop , producing red pimples and painful deep cysts which may discharge their waxy material or slowly resolve , leaving scars . Many teenagers develop mild acne , which is almost a stage of adolescence , producing little permanent damage or disfigurement , and which tends to disappear with age and perhaps improved skin care . Acne seems to run in families , especially those with oily , greasy skin . It @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ back , and chest . It is aggravated by poor skin hygiene and infrequent skin washing as well as the dietary disasters of the teenager . Nervous tension can aggravate the condition , and hormonal factors play a role . Acne generally begins at puberty and exacerbates in the female premenstrually . The usual mild case of acne generally does not require evaluation by a physician . More serious , advanced cases should be seen by a physician or a skin specialist , a dermatologist . Untreated , acne cysts form scar tissue and leave pits or disfiguring pock marks on the skin . The teenager has the already difficult challenge of making the transition from childhood to adulthood . Their bodies may be adult size , but emotionally they are still quite fragile and can not accept any loss of self esteem caused by peer rejection . To be plagued with " zits and zorts " may subject the teenager to cruel teasing , prevent normal companionship , dating experiences , etc. , and cause a sense of isolation and a feeling of inferiority . Treatment of acne involves efforts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ avoiding acne-provoking foods . Since acne is caused by excessive skin oils , greasy or oily face lotions and salves should be avoided , and since it is often associated with dandruff and oily hair , greasy or oily hair tonics should also not be used . Careful washing of the involved areas of the skin three or four times a day , using soap and water , removes excessive oil . Special creams and soaps are available to cleanse and dry the skin . An adequate diet is important , including fresh fruits , vegetables , and lean meat . Chocolate in any form ? cake , ice cream ,  | candy bars ? as well as nuts should not be eaten . Greasy and fried foods should not be eaten ( pizza , fried chicken , french fried potatoes , etc . ) . Whole milk , sharp cheeses , cream cheese , and whipped cream should be eliminated and replaced with skim milk and cottage cheese . Foods that contain iodine , such as iodized salt and ocean fish and shellfish , stimulate the oil-producing glands to increase @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ measures include adequate rest and avoidance of stressful situations . Sunlight in moderate exposure is good , for it helps dry the skin , but a sunburn should be avoided . Recently , low dose , broad spectrum antibiotics , such as tetracycline , have been found effective in improving acne . For severe acne , close supervision by a dermatologist is in order . He may resort to treatment with ultraviolet light . Fortunately , 90 percent of adolescents will suffer no serious complications from their acne and respond to the measures outlined above . Contact Dermatitis One of the most common skin eruptions is contact dermatitis ? an inflammatory skin reaction caused by an allergic response to an agent coming into contact with the skin . The range of offending agents is large and includes paints , varnishes , lacquers , plants ( including poison ivy , oak , and sumac ) , jewelry , foodstuffs , cleansers and detergents , insecticides , industrial chemicals , dyes , cosmetics , and clothing . Usually the rash does not occur upon first exposure but develops after many contacts with the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ contact with them , whereas others sensitize only a small percentage . Contact dermatitis involves all ages and races , and both sexes . Usually , in a mild case , redness and mild itching are the only symptoms . In a more serious case , swelling may develop with formation of blisters and crusts and weeping of fluid . Intense itching may lead to scratching and a secondary skin infection . A common contact dermatitis is the reaction to the nickel that is present in costume jewelry , including earrings , rings , and watchbands . Such a localized rash clears when the offending jewelry is no longer worn . By similar detective work , other skin rashes caused by a vast array of potential agents can be identified . Dermatitis involving the eyelids alone or sides  | of the neck may be due to nail polish and the contact of the skin in these areas by the hands . A rash under the armpits may be caused by deodorants , and in women a rash and irritation in the groin area may be due to a feminine hygiene spray @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the body . The backs of the hands are involved in most occupational exposures and in the reaction to detergents commonly experienced by the housewife . The treatment of this type of skin disorder involves identification of the cause and avoidance of the substance . Generally , a manufacturer removes a chemical or agent from the market if a significant percentage of those exposed develop such a skin reaction . In industry , protective garments , such as masks , gloves , or aprons , are provided to prevent contact with a potentially irritating substance . The housewife may wear rubber gloves in laundry work or dishwashing to avoid the reddened , rough , and itching skin that otherwise might result . Poison Ivy ( Oak or Sumac ) . Most of the patients with poison ivy dermatitis are children . As soon as contact with the plant is made , the skin on the exposed portions should be thoroughly washed with a bar of soap to remove as much of the plant oil as possible . Calamine lotion or other soothing anti-itching solutions should be applied to the skin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is quite effective but requires close physician supervision . Patients who have shown a high degree of vulnerability to poison ivy should be considered for allergy shots to desensitize their skin early in the spring . Learning to avoid contact with the plant by recognizing it as growing in clusters of three leaves is important . Psoriasis Psoriasis is a common skin disorder of unknown cause . The disease rarely affects infants or young children but develops during adolescence , reaching a peak incidence during midadulthood . A family history of psoriasis is often present . The areas of the skin commonly involved include the scalp , the lower part of the back , the rectal and groin areas , and the pressure points around the knees and elbows . Any or all of the skin of the body may be involved . An extreme example of generalized psoriasis was the alligator man of the carnival  | sideshow , who was covered from head to toe . The affected areas usually are oval red patches or plaques covered by layers of silvery scales which shed regularly . Psoriatic skin has an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being formed than in normal skin . The replacement of epidermis cells , which usually takes 28 days in normal skin , is reduced to 3 or 4 days in psoriasis because of this accelerated cell activity . The nails may be involved in psoriasis , producing pitting and deformity as well as thickening . Psoriasis of the nails must be distinguished from fungal infections . Psoriasis of the scalp can be confused with seborrheic dermatitis . At times , an arthritis , usually of the hands and feet , can be associated with psoriasis and be quite deforming and disabling . Psoriasis can develop in skin involved in minor trauma . Excess sunlight , scratches on the skin , or even adhesive tape can produce psoriatic patches . Innumerable remedies have been tried in an effort to control the disease . Although the word psoriasis is derived from the Greek " psora , " meaning itch , itching is usually not a serious problem . Treatments that are effective appear to be those that inhibit or decrease cell turnover in the epidermis . Ultraviolet light and sunlight , in moderate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , often combined with salicylic acid to improve penetration of the skin , have been effective in some cases . Anthralin combined with zinc oxide paste is a common type in use . Steroid creams or ointments applied to the involved areas are effective in removing the scales and improving the skin . Often occlusive dressings , such as plastic film ( Saran Wrap ) applied over the steroid ointment , improves the result . Striking improvement with a drug effective in cancer treatment , methotrexate , has recently been achieved . However , many potential side effects on other body tissues , including the blood and liver , can develop , so that use of this drug by experienced physicians should be limited to those with widespread disease . The course of psoriasis is chronic and unpredictable . Fortunately , the disease is generally confined to a few areas of the body . Spontaneous improvement as well as worsening of the condition may occur . The majority of patients can achieve satisfactory control with the measures discussed above .  | Seborrheic Dermatitis Seborrheic dermatitis includes dandruff of the scalp but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , as well as the skin around the sides of the nose , forehead , eyebrows , eyelids , and behind the ears . It is usually associated with excess oiliness of the skin , although no abnormality of the oil or sebum has been identified . Seborrhea can begin in childhood and persist throughout life . The yellow waxy , adherent scalp scales of the infant cradle cap is a form of seborrheic dermatitis . The typical involved skin shows reddish raised skin with yellowish greasy scales on the forehead , ears , neck , and face . The seborrheic disorders have a chronic course with exacerbations and remissions . Treatment involves medicated shampoos and soaps that contain combinations of sulfur , salicylic acid , and resorcinol . Selenium sulfide is also effective . The ideal agent , which would be free of any side effects , such as inducing allergy , requiring infrequent use to control the itching , scaling , and oiliness , and be cosmetically acceptable , has yet to be found . Herpes Simplex ( Cold Sores ) A virus called herpes simplex causes a very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Most people have been exposed to the virus at some time . For some unknown reason , certain individuals develop recurrent crops of blisters or cold sores in their mouth or on their lips , often associated with upper respiratory viral infections and fever , dental manipulation , exposure to sunlight , or emotional stress . Uncommonly , the virus can cause severe infection of the eye or the central nervous system . Two forms of this virus have been identified . Herpes simplex type I causes the painful cold sores of the mouth and lip area , usually infects above the waist , and is transmitted by oral contact . Herpes simplex type II usually occurs below the waist , commonly involves the genitalia , and is usually transmitted during sexual intercourse . There is an association between cancer of the cervix and infection with herpes simplex type II virus . Infection with genital herpes virus appears to be increasing in frequency . The many different measures used to treat herpes simplex infection indicate the ineffectiveness of therapy for this disease . Treatment in the past has involved using various @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , photoactive dyes have been shown to cause faster healing of the blisters and fewer recurrences . The virus can incorporate dyes , such as neutral red , and when the involved areas are exposed to fluorescent light for varying intervals the virus is inactivated . Enthusiasm for phototherapy must be tempered by experimental evidence which suggests that viruses inactivated in this manner are able to induce cells to undergo malignant transformation ; thus the photoactive dyes may subsequently increase the risk of cancer . Fungal Infections Fungi are microorganisms closely related to bacteria that can penetrate the skin and cause infection and inflammation . Commonly , the various species of fungus have a predilection for certain areas of the skin and cause specific clinical pictures . Involvement may be confined to the scalp , beard , the folds of the skin , the nails , hands , or feet ( in this case producing the common disorder of athlete 's foot ) . Monilia , caused by the fungus Candida albicans , can involve the skin folds under the armpit , in the groin , under the breasts , or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affected skin is red , itchy , and scaly . Treatment is generally effective with an antifungal agent , nystatin , or gentian violet solutions . Ringworm refers to the fungal infection of the smooth skin forming red , scaly , oval patches , which spread centrifugally leaving clear centers , often looking like concentric circles or bulls ' eyes . Tolnaftate ( Tinactin ) cream or ointment applied to the involved areas usually eradicates the fungus . Athlete 's foot ( needless to say , you do not have to be an athlete to develop this fungal disorder ) can involve anyone , but occurs most frequently in young males . The fungus occurs most commonly in association with warm conditions and excess sweating . Since the fungus thrives in conditions of warmth , moisture , and darkness , the athlete with sweating , moist feet is a natural candidate for fungus infection . Most gymnasiums and locker rooms are reservoirs of the fungus , so that improper drying of feet and contact with floors , rugs , and shower stalls allows for exposure to it . Once the fungus @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve as a source of reexposure and reinfection , which explains why  | certain people continue to have fungal infections despite temporarily successful efforts to eradicate them . Athlete 's foot usually starts in the skin webs between toes , producing redness , swelling , and blistering , and eventually splits or fissures in the skin , which are quite painful and itchy . The fungus spreads to the sides of the feet and involves the soles of the feet . The nails are often affected and show thickening , yellow discoloration , brittleness , and even a lifting from the nail bed . Nail involvement alone has to be distinguished from other disorders , including psoriasis . The treatment of athlete 's foot depends to some extent on the degree of skin and nail involvement . Fungal infection of webs and sides of toes usually responds to undecylenic acid preparations , which are available as powders , ointments , or sprays . For extensive foot involvement , soaking the feet in potassium permanganate solution regularly over a period of weeks can be quite beneficial . Treatment of nail bed disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new nail growth replaces the diseased portion of the nail . Griseofulvin , a drug effective against fungus infection of the nails , should be used only under a physician 's supervision . Symptoms you should know about : Skin disease is usually obvious to the patient . Any persistent rash , a sore that does n't heal , or a mole that is enlarging or changing color should be brought to the doctor 's attention because prompt treatment may be necessary .  | INFECTIOUS DISEASES The history of medicine goes back thousands of years . Efforts at healing are as old as man , and every society has had some priest , healer , or medicine man who tried to end human disease and suffering by means of sacrifices , prayers , incantations , or with various herbs , compounds , or drugs . Although the roots of medicine are long , the major concepts of modern medicine have emerged within the past 100 years or so , with striking developments within the past 25 to 30 years . The nineteenth century witnessed huge advances in the biological sciences . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for plants and animals respectively . Darwin shook the world with his description of the evolution of species . The concept of inheritance and the science of genetics were developed by Mendel . Koch and Pasteur established the germ theory as the cause of many diseases ? infectious diseases . The remarkable extension of human life of about 30 years which has occurred in the United States from the turn of this century to our current decade represents largely a reduction in deaths caused by various infectious diseases that particularly strike the young . The changes in the vital statistics for the leading causes of death in this country for the period of  | 1900 to the present are striking . The three leading causes of death currently , heart disease , strokes , and cancer , were not even among the top ten causes of death in 1900 , because childhood diseases led the list , and some that appeared in 1900 have been eliminated ( diphtheria ) , or have largely been controlled ( tuberculosis ) . ( See Appendix I ) The branch of medicine that tries to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ information is called preventive medicine . In the area of many infectious diseases , effective methods for prevention have been achieved . When certain infectious diseases do occur , effective treatment is available with a list of antibiotics and other drugs that has been increasing since the introduction of sulfonamide in 1937 . Once it was recognized that many diseases were caused by germs ( bacteria , viruses , rickettsiae , spirochetes , protozoa , fungi ) , often transmitted by vectors ( carriers of disease from one person to another , such as certain mosquitoes , which can transmit malaria or yellow fever from one individual to another , or lice , which can spread typhus from person to person ) or spread by using contaminated food and water , large-scale public health measures were instituted to protect the population . Yellow fever , malaria , cholera , and typhoid fever have been almost entirely eliminated by public health measures at local , state , and federal levels to improve waste disposal and sanitation , rigid safeguards over our water supplies , and widespread use of insecticides to destroy the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ living ? improved diets and home sanitation ? has reduced transmission of infectious diseases as well as improved resistance to certain infections . The widespread use of routine , mandatory vaccinations has prevented and eliminated many infectious diseases that formerly killed or debilitated thousands . Although smallpox vaccination was developed in 1798 , routine vaccination for diphtheria , tetanus , pertussis ( whooping cough ) , smallpox , measles , rubella ( German measles ) , and poliomyelitis has largely eliminated these diseases as causes of human suffering and death in this century . Despite major advances in eradicating many infectious diseases , new ones are being recognized , such as " Legionnaire 's Disease . "  | Immunization Immunization , the process of developing resistance or immunity to various infectious diseases by using vaccines , is begun in infancy and continued through childhood when many potentially serious illnesses occur . There are two sorts of immunization , active and passive . Active immunization consists of administering a biological product , usually by injection into the skin or , in the case of poliomyelitis immunization , taking it by mouth . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cowpox , the first substance used in immunization by Edward Jenner to prevent smallpox ) may be a live but weakened form of the germ such as is used for mumps , German measles , or poliomyelitis ; it comes close to simulating a naturally acquired infection , thereby offering the most durable protection . Other types of vaccines are derived from killed or inactivated preparations of infectious agents . These include influenza and typhoid vaccinations . Toxoids are preparations of chemically altered products of bacteria called toxins , for example , diphtheria and tetanus toxoid . Vaccines induce the formation of antibodies in the person receiving them , and therefore afford protection or immunity for a variable period of time against the infectious agent . Passive immunization is the giving of an antibody derived from a previously immunized animal or human , to a person who has not previously been immunized . This is done when the seriousness of the potential infection will not allow for the time it takes to form antibodies by active immunization . Examples include a rabies infection or tetanus infection . Antibody levels induced by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and may be undetectable . Booster injections are necessary for diphtheria and tetanus at ten-year intervals , but adults do not require immunization with measles , pertussis ( whooping cough ) , polio , or smallpox vaccines . Travelers to foreign countries should check with their local Board of Health regarding current recommendations for vaccination against typhoid , cholera , typhus , plague and viral hepatitis . The success in eliminating certain infectious diseases has permitted a relatively lax attitude toward continued immunization in the adult population , and many persons remain susceptible to two preventable diseases , diphtheria and  | tetanus . This neglect is unfortunate because immunization is safe , relatively inexpensive , easy to administer , and offers long-term , and in some cases permanent , protection against a variety of infectious agents . A schedule of immunization is provided in Appendix II at the end of the book . Temperature Controls The maintenance of a relatively constant body temperature is an example of our nearly perfect internal controls . Our body temperature is usually maintained within one or two degrees Fahrenheit , despite the season of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the external temperature . This nearly perfect thermostat-like control is maintained by a temperature center in the brain . Yet there is nothing sacred about an oral temperature of 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit or a rectal temperature that is one degree higher . Often persons are concerned about a body temperature that is less or slightly more than 98.6 . Very commonly , our temperature may be as low as 96 degrees or less , especially in the morning when we first awaken , and may be as high as 99.6 or even 100 in the latter part of the day . A woman 's basal body temperature , that is , the temperature taken first thing in the morning before getting out of bed , is lower during the first half of her menstrual cycle . When ovulation occurs , halfway through the cycle , the basal temperature goes up a small amount . Skin Temperature . In normal health , the body temperature remains fairly constant . Heat is a normal byproduct of our body machinery and must somehow be disposed of . Heat loss largely occurs by conduction , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one ( as in our home radiators ) . If the body needs to conserve heat and minimize heat loss through conduction , blood is directed away from the skin and shunted through deeper-lying blood vessels . If heat loss is necessary , blood vessels on the skin become dilated and blood flow is increased , promoting heat loss by conduction . Naturally , skin with a lot of blood flow through it feels warm and skin with minimal blood flow feels cool to the touch . When we exercise , our faces may become flushed and our bodies warm , facilitating heat loss . Our body temperature , as felt in warm or cool hands and feet , is largely due to the body 's attempt to conserve or lose heat . Young or middle-aged women often mention that their feet  | are so cold at night that their husbands complain about them . They are concerned that their " circulation " might be poor . Usually , however , the doctor finds the circulation , namely arterial pulses in the feet , to be quite good , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood away from the skin to control heat loss . Sweating . Sweating is another mechanism that allows heat loss . If the body temperature is similar to or less than that of the environment , heat loss can not occur by conduction . In warm weather and in tropical areas , the evaporation of sweat from the body surface causes heat loss . Sweat glands are scattered throughout the body , with large numbers located in the axillas ( armpits ) and on the forehead . Some persons have few or no sweat glands , and there are racial differences in the concentration of sweat glands in various areas of the body . When we are in a warm environment , within a few minutes beads of sweat start to form all over our skin , but they are most noticeable on the forehead , upper lip , neck , and chest . This is different from the pattern of sweating caused by anxiety and fear , when even in a cold atmosphere we break out in sweat , especially on the palms of the hands and in the armpits @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ those areas . Fever . Changes in body temperature often reflect associated disease processes . Very low temperatures may be seen in thyroid disease , when the thyroid is underactive . Elevated temperatures may be seen with certain malignant tumors , an overactive thyroid , or in many infectious illnesses . Indeed , fever is the hallmark of acute infections . The temperature elevation or fever in an infectious disease , such as a viral illness like flu , or a bacterial pneumonia may in fact represent the body 's attempt to overcome the offending organism . Fever in an adult is generally not harmful , if it is lower than 105 or 106 degrees Fahrenheit . In young children , a fever may be associated with seizures or convulsions and is , therefore , more serious . Vigorous efforts to restore the temperature to normal , usually by large amounts of aspirin , should be discouraged , except in young children . Sponge baths , especially with alcohol , are helpful . The Common Cold and Influenza Colds are upper respiratory infections caused by certain viruses that produce illnesses that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a cold varies according to the particular strain of virus as well as differences in the patient . Generally , the sinuses are congested and the nose alternately stuffy and running . A cough may be present , along with low grade fever , weakness , and headache , and there are often gastrointestinal complaints , such as diarrhea . Certain viruses produce flu-like symptoms with muscle aching and high temperatures . Upper respiratory infections usually last five to ten days . Despite the general impression that colds come from exposure to drafts or changes in temperature , there is little scientific evidence that this is true . Colds are caught by contact with people who are sneezing or coughing and thereby disseminating their viruses into the air and subsequently the nasal passages of others . Colds are , therefore , prevalent in school children , and they occur in adults who go into public places , such as markets , churches , or movie theaters . The average person has approximately three colds a year , although this may decrease in frequency in adult life . Viral infections stimulate antibodies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and strains exist and protection is not provided by antibodies to one strain against other strains of viruses . However , an upper respiratory infection often causes a relative resistance to another virus because of production of interferon , an antiviral factor , by the body following a recent upper respiratory infection . Antibiotics are ineffective in the treatment of colds and are contraindicated for several reasons . All drugs are potentially harmful , and if no benefit is to be derived from them , they should not be used . Penicillin has no effect against the cold or other upper respiratory infection . Furthermore , it is possible to develop an allergy to an antibiotic by frequent use of a drug , so that it can not be taken when it is needed , as for bacterial infection . Antibiotics often produce unpleasant side effects , such as diarrhea , and may allow for a superimposed infection by eliminating relatively harmless bacteria and allowing dangerous ones to flourish . There is no effective treatment for colds other than supportive treatment , which means treating the symptoms that occur as part @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ muscle pain , aching of joints , headaches , and fever . Stuffy nose and postnasal drip often respond to antihistamines . Cough syrups are effective in controlling cough . Cold symptoms improve with rest .  | Certain types of patients are more likely to develop complications of an upper respiratory infection . Smokers and persons who have chronic lung disease or bronchitis or emphysema are more likely to develop pneumonia ( viral or more commonly bacterial ) following a cold , or have an exacerbation of their chronic lung disease . Also in cigarette smokers colds often last longer than those of the nonsmoker . Elderly patients or patients with chronic illnesses are more likely to develop debilitating illnesses following a viral infection and should promptly receive medical attention . Despite our increasing knowledge in medicine , effective prevention or modification of colds or upper respiratory infections eludes us . There is no good scientific evidence that vitamin C in any way prevents viruses or upper respiratory infections . Flu vaccinations provide fairly good protection against a specific virus , influenza , and usually against several strains . Such vaccinations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by the flu shots do not protect against the many other viral agents that in fact cause the majority of upper respiratory infections . The newer preparations of the flu vaccine have been purified so they no longer produce unpleasant side effects , which in fact were a modified form of the flu . Generally , flu vaccination is indicated only in the elderly or in those with complicating illnesses , such as heart or lung disease . Tuberculosis Tuberculosis is caused by a bacterial organism called Mycobacterium tuberculosis , or the tubercle bacillus . At one time tuberculosis was the leading cause of death in America . The devastation caused by this infectious disease can be appreciated by its toll ? more people have died from tuberculosis than in all wars in the history of the United States . The decline in the yearly death rate from 200 per 100,000 population in 1906 to 2.1 per 100,000 in 1971 reflects the overall improvement in hygiene , diet , and standard of living in this country as well as earlier recognition of the disease and effective drug treatment programs . Although @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lungs are usually the main site . An infected person transmits infected droplets into the air when coughing or sneezing . The bacteria can survive for long periods in the air , and the organism has even been shown to be alive in the tombs of  | Egyptian mummies thousands of years later . Tuberculosis ( TB ) used to be acquired through drinking contaminated milk from infected cows , but bovine TB has now been eliminated in this country . In other countries , pasteurization of milk destroys any tubercle bacilli . The initial exposure to tuberculosis produces primary tuberculosis . The person ( often a child ) with no previous exposure to the germ inhales the bacteria , which go into his lung during breathing . The body has no resistance to this organism , since it has never experienced it . The bacteria multiply in the lung and travel to lymph glands draining that area of lung , where they proliferate and can even reach the blood stream and travel to various body organs . After several weeks , resistance to this foreign agent develops , mediated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A vigorous body defense leads to resolution of the infection , finally producing a healed focus of scar tissue , which often calcifies . Evidence to suggest previous exposure to tuberculosis can be obtained from a chest x-ray , which shows the scarring and calcification . Such changes , although most often due to TB , may also be the result of previous exposure to other infectious agents and are therefore not diagnostic of previous tuberculosis . Once a person has been exposed to tuberculosis ( the disease produces firm nodules or tubercles , hence its name ) , a positive skin reaction develops in response to an inoculation of a derivative of the killed tubercle bacillus . Several different tuberculin skin tests are available , including P.P.D. ( purified protein derivative ) and the tine test . An area of swelling or induration ( like a mosquito bite ) develops within 48 to 72 hours if a person has had previous exposure to the germ and is a positive reactor . Approximately 30 percent of the population over the age of 50 react positively to tuberculin skin test , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ positive reactions , indicating the decrease in exposure and subclinical infections . The majority of persons exposed to tuberculosis are able to mount a successful attack against this infectious disease and develop " healed " or dormant tuberculosis ? recognized by the positive skin test and changes on a chest x-ray . Many of them can not recall an episode during their lives when an illness that would account for their dormant TB occurred .  | However , it is this reservoir of dormant or latent disease that largely accounts for the majority of cases of adult tuberculosis . The defense mechanisms that have effectively prevented progression of the disease break down , usually in association with other debilitating processes , such as alcoholism , chronic disease , malignancy , diabetes mellitus , or use of various drugs including corticosteriods . Reactivation of previous foci of tuberculosis , and not re-exposure , accounts for most cases of adult or secondary tuberculosis . The symptoms of active tuberculosis include persistent fever , night sweats , chills , weight loss , and general malaise . Most symptoms are pulmonary and include cough , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of blood . The chest x-ray is abnormal . The disease can involve other organs of the body , including the brain , kidneys , liver , and bone . The diagnosis of active tuberculosis requires establishing the presence of the bacillus Mycobacterium tuberculosis . With special staining , phlegm from the person should show the presence of the bacteria . The sputum is submitted to a laboratory for culture , and after several weeks the organism grows , confirming the disease . Treatment . The treatment of tuberculosis has changed dramatically in the past 25 years . What was once a hopeless disease , with patients confined for years in sanitoriums , eventually to die , can now be cured , and the prospect for elimination of this disease from this country is a real one . Patients with active tuberculosis are initially confined to a hospital where treatment with two or three drugs is begun . Modern treatment reduces the infectiousness of the patient after several weeks , so prolonged hospitalization is no longer necessary . The drugs usually selected include isoniazid ( INH ) , combined with para-aminosalicylic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ available drug is streptomycin , which is given by injection . Treatment continues for 18 to 24 months . The patient is checked regularly , and sputum is examined to determine when organisms are no longer present . Once the cultures are negative on three consecutive tests , monitoring can be less frequent . Chest x-rays are obtained to document healing of the diseased areas of the lung , and follow-up x-rays are made for many years to ensure that treatment has been successful . Surgical intervention , once a very important factor in the  | management of tuberculosis before the availability of effective drugs , is now seldom necessary . Finally , a vaccine called BCG , made from a live but weakened strain of bovine tuberculosis , reduces susceptibility to infection by about 80 percent . Its use is advocated in countries where many cases of the disease develop . It is not used frequently in this country except for persons with high risk of exposure ( health workers ) or among certain ethnic groups where disease is quite prevalent and their resistance to it is low ( Eskimos @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ incidence of tuberculosis in this country and , since inoculation with the vaccine causes a positive skin test to tuberculin , the loss of this valuable sign as an indicator of recent exposure to tuberculosis . Viral Hepatitis Inflammation of the liver , or hepatitis , commonly occurs because of viral infections . Many different viral and presumed viral agents can cause liver injury or hepatitis , including yellow fever , cytomegalic inclusion disease , and infectious mononucleosis , to name a few . Hepatitis also can occur from noninfectious causes , including exposure to chemicals ( for example , carbon tetrachloride ) , unusual sensitivity to drugs ( isoniazid ) , or an anesthetic agent ( halothane ) , and from excessive use of alcohol . Two distinct types of the disease have been established on the basis of different incubation periods ( the time between exposure and the symptoms and signs of the illness developing ) as well as the way the disease is caught : infectious hepatitis and serum hepatitis . The former usually is transmitted from contamination of food via the oral route , with a period @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hepatitis generally is transmitted by an injection , such as a blood transfusion , or , in many cases , from needles used and shared by drug addicts . Hepatitis usually develops six weeks to six months later . In general , what has been called infectious hepatitis may occur sporadically or as an epidemic with a high attack rate in a susceptible population , especially children . Crowded conditions and poor sanitation account for the high rates observed in institutions , such as hospitals for retarded children . Contamination of shellfish by polluted coastal waters has accounted for recent epidemics in the United States and for  | closure of areas for collection of shellfish . Recently , an outbreak of infectious hepatitis affected an entire college football team due to contamination of drinking water . Although all the team had evidence on blood testing for hepatitis , some had minimal symptoms and were not jaundiced . Serum hepatitis , transmitted from blood derivatives , has been reported from tatoo instruments , inadequately sterilized syringes and needles , and in persons who require frequent transfusions with blood derivatives . Hemophiliacs , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ blood , as well as health workers who work in kidney dialysis units , have developed hepatitis . This kind of hepatitis has decreased considerably since techniques have become routine for detecting potential blood donors who harbor an antigen or marker identifying the presumed hepatitis virus . The Australian antigen , probably derived from a portion of the virus , first detected in the blood of an Australian aborigine , allows identification of blood donors who can transmit hepatitis . Recently , evidence has developed that the division of the disease into two clinical patterns may be artificial . Serum hepatitis may also be transmitted through ingestion of contaminated material , and the separation by incubation period may also not be as absolute as previously thought . In fact the presumed virus has never been successfully isolated in tissue culture and several different agents may be responsible for this illness . The symptoms and signs of hepatitis are generally divided into those that precede the onset of jaundice and those that accompany jaundice . However , many persons who develop hepatitis do not become jaundiced , and the disease may only @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mentioned above , during an epidemic , cases are discovered because of possible exposure , vague symptoms , and subsequently the indication by blood tests of liver cell injury . Symptoms prior to the onset of jaundice may be nonspecific and vague . A loss of appetite , fever , muscle and joint aching , weakness , malaise , headache , and nonspecific gastrointestinal complaints may be present from one to several weeks before the onset of jaundice . With the development of jaundice , that is , yellowing of the eyes and skin , fever usually subsides , and the liver is noted to be enlarged and tender . Generally the jaundice peaks within two weeks and goes away in several Weeks .  | For the vast majority of patients , hepatitis leaves no permanent injury to the liver and many cases are not even detected . Chemical evidence of the inflammation of the liver monitored from blood tests improves and returns to normal over several weeks or months . Fatigue and decreased stamina may remain for several months . A small number ( less than 1 percent of hospitalized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a more serious form of hepatitis with massive , progressive liver injury leading to death . In some , hepatitis may persist for long periods and progress to a chronic form eventually leading to fibrosis or scarring of the liver called cirrhosis ( described in Chapter 4 ) . There is no effective treatment for viral hepatitis . Vigorous efforts are made to prevent spreading of the illness from bed linens and utensils used by the hepatitis patient . Bedrest may be helpful , but has not been proved to be associated with speed of improvement in young military personnel . An adequate and nutritious diet is important . Screening of blood donors and eliminating blood containing Australian antigen have helped prevent serum hepatitis . Injections of gamma globulin are given to exposed persons to prevent the illness or make it less severe . Although jaundice does not develop , liver inflammation still occurs . More specific hyperimmune gamma globulin may significantly modify hepatitis transmitted by injection . Venereal Disease Venereal disease , which is infectious , is spread during sexual relations , and is a growing public health problem . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ gonorrhea , a temporary decline in the incidence of these diseases gave some hope that they would join the list of infectious diseases that would no longer be a public menace . However , these expectations were not realized and rather than decreasing , they have become more frequent and more widespread . In addition to these two diseases , there is increased recognition of herpes simplex type II virus as a cause of transmissible venereal disease . Scabies and Pediculosis pubis ( crab louse ) are two other infectious diseases commonly spread by sexual contact that cause intense itching and a rash . Effective treatment is readily available when diagnosed . Contributing to the overall increase in venereal infections has  | been the decline in the use of the condom as an effective birth-control device , which also cuts down on the transmission of infection between sexual partners . Syphilis and gonorrhea continue to be a major public health concern . Teenagers and adults less than 25 years of age account for more than 50 percent of all cases of syphilis . It is estimated conservatively that 1.5 million new @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ health officials to secure information from physicians and often the reluctance of persons with venereal disease to expose their contacts prevent proper identification of people who might have the disease . This latter group , most often unknowingly , serve as reservoirs of infection and continue to spread infection to unsuspecting contacts and perpetuate the disease in the community . Particularly in females with gonorrhea , symptoms and signs of venereal disease are often not present and no medical attention is sought . A survey of physicians indicated that 80 percent of all cases of syphilis were treated by private physicians , who reported only 12 percent of cases to public health authorities . Two other less well known venereal diseases are lymphogranuloma venereum and granuloma inguinale . It is not uncommon for a person to develop more than one venereal disease at a time . Syphilis . Sir William Osier said , " To know syphilis is to know medicine . " Smallpox , the dread disease of the middle ages , which has been eradicated in the Western countries , was given its name to distinguish it from the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have argued for centuries about the origin of syphilis . One view is that it is an ancient disease , which has existed among civilized people for thousands of years . The other view argues that a particularly severe form or virulent disease spread across Western Europe shortly after Columbus returned from the New World . It was then introduced by Spanish mercenaries fighting with the armies of Charles VIII and spread throughout Italy . For a long time , other venereal diseases including gonorrhea were not distinguished from syphilis . Syphilis is caused by an organism , Treponema pallidum , which requires the kind of warmth and moisture supplied by the body . It quickly dies outside of the body . The disease is transmitted through sexual relations . Despite general opinion  | to the contrary , one does not catch the disease from toilet seats , door handles , or drinking fountains . There are four stages of syphilis . After exposure , no symptoms or signs of the disease develop for about three weeks ( 10 to 60 days ) , the incubation period . The primary lesion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the genital area , although mouth to genital contact permits the chancre to develop on the tongue , mouth , or lip area , and the anal area may also be involved , especially among homosexuals . The typical chancre or sore appears as a small erosion or ulcer and is usually painless . There is nothing absolutely characteristic of the appearance of a chancre that allows for an accurate diagnosis of syphilis . Only identification of the organism from scrapings of the chancre under a special microscope ? one with a dark field mechanism ? establishes the sore as a syphilitic chancre . The chancre lasts several weeks and then disappears . The next phase of syphilis , secondary syphilis , is associated with mild symptoms , including general malaise and low grade fever , and a generalized body rash , which also affects the mucous membranes ( mouth and genital areas ) as well as the skin of the palms and soles . The rash usually lasts several weeks before it recedes , but it may recur for several months up to two years , until the body @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , arbitrarily divided into early , less than two years from the original infection , to late latent , more than two to four years after the chancre , has no symptoms or signs . Syphilis is very contagious or infectious during the primary and secondary stages . A small number of untreated persons with syphilis go on to develop late manifestations of syphilis , ( tertiary syphilis ) 15 to 20 years later , with involvement of the central nervous system ( brain or spinal cord ) or the cardiovascular system . Even if the disease is untreated , the body 's defense mechanism controls the organism quite well . Syphilis proved to be the cause of death in 15 percent of males and 8 percent of females who had the disease but were mot treated in a large study from Oslo , Norway . Syphilis can be diagnosed by finding antibodies to the syphilis organism in the blood . The Wasserman test for antibodies was developed in 1906 , followed by many others that were more specific and could be performed more rapidly . The VDRL test , an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two weeks after the primary lesion or chancre forms , is always positive during the secondary phase , and remains positive during the latent stage . At times , a positive serological test can occur because of other diseases and is called a biological false positive test . State laws require serology tests for syphilis for persons obtaining a marriage license . Tests are also performed routinely during pregnancy , since a mother with syphilis can introduce the infection to her fetus and cause either a stillbirth or syphilis in the newborn , which is called congenital syphilis . Penicillin is almost 100 percent effective in treating syphilis . Patients treated early often revert to a negative blood test . The longer the disease exists before treatment , and if it becomes latent , the less likely is it that the antibody detected by a blood test will disappear altogether , but the level of antibody , called the titer , should either remain stable or decline . Periodic blood tests to measure the titer are performed to make sure additional treatment with penicillin is not needed . Late syphilis with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Those allergic to penicillin can be treated with other antibiotics . The control of syphilis requires the identification of all contacts of the known case . Since up to three months may have elapsed between exposure and the onset of the disease , all persons at risk during this interval should be interviewed and a blood test performed to ensure proper therapy . Gonorrhea . Although gonorrhea may have been described in the Old Testament , it was not until the middle of the nineteenth century that the disease was clearly distinguished from syphilis . The misconception that gonorrhea was a symptom of syphilis was perpetuated by the famous physician John Hunter , who inoculated himself with pus from a person with gonorrhea who also had syphilis , and developed both diseases . Gonorrhea , also known as the " clap , " is caused by bacteria that infect the mucous membranes of the genital tract , and is transmitted during sexual relations . In the male , approximately five to eight days after exposure , pain on urination and a discharge from the urethra develop . Without treatment , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ result from repeated attacks .  | In the female , burning may occur upon urination , but the discharge often is small and not noticed . The infection can spread to the fallopian tubes and cause fever and pain in a condition called acute pelvic inflammatory disease . Blockage of the tubes may result in sterility . At times , acute gonorrhea can cause inflammation of joints producing an acute arthritis . The frequency of gonorrhea is quite high . The carrier state , where a person harbors the bacteria but is free of symptoms , has been recognized more and more , even among males . Identification of asymptomatic contacts of persons who have had gonorrhea has established a relatively high percentage of asymptomatic carriers . The organism can be isolated and grown on particular culture media . Not only may the organism be present in the genital areas , but positive cultures can be obtained from the anal and oral areas as well , especially among homosexuals . Gonorrhea is quite prevalent among servicemen who are stationed all over the world . Strains of gonorrhea , especially from Southeast @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and require larger doses of the drug . Since the asymptomatic carrier state is recognized more and more , frequent bacterial cultures from the vaginal , urethral , oral , and anal areas of persons with wide sexual contacts will be necessary to identify and treat the reservoirs of this infection in our community in order to eradicate this disease . Symptoms you should know about : Fever is the hallmark symptom of infectious diseases , and is discussed in this chapter . However , some infections , even serious ones , may not be associated with fever . Other symptoms of infectious disease depend on the location , type of organism causing the disease , extent of involvement , and suddenness or slowness of the process . In general , a temperature over 101 ? F in adults or over 102 ? F in children should prompt a call to the doctor .  | BLOOD Television commercials and newspaper ads commonly warn us of anemia or too few red cells , and promote various medications and vitamins to regain our lost vitality and youthful energy . The " tired blood @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a household expression . Patients are told by their physicians that they have low blood pressure and assume vitamins are needed . Tiredness and lack of energy , very common complaints , are often believed by the patients to result from anemia due to lack of vitamins and iron . This chapter will tell you about the components and some of the disorders of the blood , as well as the relation of iron and vitamins to normal blood . Blood is composed of a fluid layer , or plasma , and a cellular component containing three types of cells , which are manufactured in the marrow of bones : 1 . red blood cells , 2. white blood cells , 3. platelets . Red Blood Cells The red blood cells ( technically called erythrocytes ) bring oxygen to the tissues of the body , which is the source of energy for many of the body functions . The oxygen is carried by a special protein in the red cells called hemoglobin . Red                  @ @ @ 