@@773444

txt // foresee many of the social problems we now accept as the inevitable consequences of rapid technological development and uneven social change . Industrialization The last half of the nineteenth century was a period of considerable unrest as the nation experienced a civil war and its aftermath , as well as the transition from an agrarian society to a major force in the world 's rush to industrialization . The abrupt and far-reaching changes of this period helped bring about a new consolidation of power and influence . In his biography of Abraham Lincoln , Carl Sandburg suggested that the Civil War marked the time when Americans stopped saying " the United States are " and started saying " the United States is . " Certainly the war was a decisive step in settling part of the issue of states ' rights versus the rights of the nation as a whole . As the confederate states lost their bid for sovereignty , the federal government was significantly strengthened . However , the federal government was ill-equipped both politically and administratively to handle the problems of a rapidly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ want to grant the federal government additional powers . On the rural front , the Populist party , emerging in the midwestern United States , stressed the virtues of rural life , individualism , and self-determination that party adherents felt to be at the core of the American dream . In the nation 's growing urban areas , business leaders , industrialists , and local politicians merged their self-interests in demanding that the federal government remain true to the principles of laissez faire and stay clear of their " private " affairs . For awhile , it looked as if the federal government would lose the significant measure of authority it had managed to build during the war . However , the forces opposing a strong federal government contained many of the seeds of their own destruction . By the turn of the century , it had already become clear that the United States was no longer a land of unlimited resources . If there were virtues to be associated with the fierce independence of American farmers and ranchers , so were there mounting costs to the nation . A few @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ resources far more rapidly than they could be replaced . Yet no regulatory mechanism existed , either in the federal government or anywhere else , to develop effective land use policies and conservation measures , let alone to enforce them . On the second front , in the nation 's urban and industrial zones , the public 's faith in unbridled progress had also revealed an ignoble side . The press , in one of its early all-out attempts to influence public policy , revealed that America 's leading cities were rile with corruption and greed . New waves of immigrants were finding that most of the opportunities open // to their predecessors were closing fast , and many were forced to accept miserably low wages and uncertain futures for themselves and their children . At the same time , many of the earlier and now-well-established immigrants were beginning to question the country 's liberal immigration policy in the face of a large influx of Italian , Jewish , and Asian newcomers . The foundations of a new wave of ethnic prejudice and racism were being laid in a not very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ faire for American businesses and industries cut both ways . The railroads , for example , once credited with building the American West , were by the beginning of the twentieth century so hopelessly enmeshed in inefficient and outright cutthroat competitive practices that the nation 's entire transportation system seemed threatened . The Progressive Era The desperation of the decades surrounding the beginning of the twentieth century lent support to important new ideas about public policy and American government . In the absence or relaxation of other controls , the federal government rapidly came to assume unprecedented authority over national affairs . " The Search for Order " is how the historian Robert H. Wiebe ( 1967 ) chose to typify this period of our history , and the rise of the Progressive party under Theodore Roosevelt is generally seen as a cornerstone to these important new beginnings . If any word can summarize the Progressive movement and its many ramifications , the word is efficiency . Many of the ideas behind the movement were not new ; the genius of the Progressives was their ability to apply these ideas to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Roosevelt relied heavily on the business and scientific communities , setting a pattern that continues , albeit with important modifications , to the present . Business leaders were brought into the national government to help model a new administration based on the principles of sound business practice . They brought with them a keen sense of planning and a strong appreciation for the merits of a statistical basis for public decision-making , a practice : thready proven particularly effective in the insurance business ( Boorstin 1974 ) . Scientists and business leaders alike stressed the need for research and scientific management . The entire effort seems to have been undertaken with an extreme air of confidence and a sense of having come up with the perfect system of governmental administration . To the chaos of rapid social and economic transformations , the Progressives offered a new discipline which they fully expected would return the nation to an already idealized vision of American life before the Civil War . One of the first tests of the new " gospel of efficiency " ( Hays 1975 ) camein the : area of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States , the Progressives sought to develop // sound national policies in areas of land use , range and forest conservation , and water resources management . The policies were not nearly as widely accepted or vigorously enforced as Roosevelt and his cohorts would have liked . But even where they failed , as in the development of a national policy for multiple-purpose river basin development , they provided much of the basis for more successful subsequent efforts . Urban reform also became a major interest of the Progressives . The city as a system of patronage and political bossism began to yield to interesting new ideas of city planning which stressed , among other things , broadbased citizen participation in civic affairs . Similarly , urban poverty was attacked seriously for the first time in American history . Puritanical ideals associating poverty with sinfulness began to give way to a more scientific approach to understanding the social and economic conditions which lead to poverty . Asa consequence , the idea of aid to the poor as a form of charity began to be replaced by an entirely new , professional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progressive movement took hold wherever it could get a grip . Even the seemingly sacred ideology of laissez faire in American business and industry began to erode in the face of major reform efforts . In 1877 , with the establishment of the Interstate Commerce Commission , the federal government touched down on the nation 's powerful railroad magnates by creating the federal government 's first regulatory agency . Other " watchdog " agencies , such as the Federal Trade Commission and the Food and Drug Administration , soon followed . These are but some of the Progressive movement 's contributions . In the large view , the movement was both the beneficiary and stimulus to a new approach toward public policy . In its wake , the ideas of scientific management and long-range social planning became commonplace . The movement also profited from and helped create a new spirit of professionalism in American society ? particularly in areas of social service , such as medicine , law , education , social work , and the planning professions . Many of the policy-makers of the future would come from the ranks @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Progressive Era , many of which fell far short of expectations , are perhaps not as important as the ideas about policy which were developed at that time . Although significant , the change in the way government was administered was less noteworthy than the change in the kinds of social problems and policy issues with which the federal government , and consequently state and local governments , were concerned . Policy-makers began to use a partially scientific approach to decision making , placing great emphasis on discovering the causes of ' social problems . However , the essential optimism of the Progressives was to receive severe blows in future decades . Scientific management did not turn out to be as simple a process as had been expected . ' There were many policy // issues which the Progressives did not anticipate , and which would later emerge as serious social problems . And it would soon be discovered that the gospel of efficiency , while admirable on some counts , was not in itself a sufficient or practical basis on which to formulate public policy . In retrospect , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Progressive Era were not laudatory . During the last decades of the nineteenth century , for example , American minorities began to pose serious policy concerns in this country . The response of those in power was primarily one of containment and control rather than any serious attempt to promote the interests of minority groups . The brief period of reconstruction after the Civil War , in which the federal government had maintained strict political and economic control over the southern states , was mostly over by 1875 , and the cultural gaps between slavery and emancipation were quickly filled with wide-ranging discriminatory policies which most Americans would not even begin to question for another half century . Racism in America was not confined to the southern states . The nation as a whole had a strong ideological commitment to widely held beliefs in white Anglo-Saxon superiority , and in the social , mental , and hereditary inferiority of other " races " ( Hofstadter 1955 ) . At the turn of the century , the doctrine of Social Darwinism and an increasingly popular eugenics movement helped justify blatant policies of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ emancipated " from " savagery , " were to experience systematic attempts to destroy their heritage and to render them the helpless dependents of a supposedly superior national mentality . This was also a period in which ethnically discriminatory immigration policies came in vogue , with deliberate attempts on the part of the federal government to curb the growing numbers of immigrants of Asian , Jewish , and Mediterranean heritage . The notion of Social Darwinism was not limited to domestic policy . Closely linked with the concept of a " Manifest Destiny " for the United States , the ideology developed even more dramatically into a pronounced shift in American foreign policy . If the Progressives were mostly reformers at home , they were imperialists abroad . Emerging from a century-old policy of isolationism , the " Open Door " policy of the Progressives informed the world that Americans now proposed to play an active and proprietary role in world affairs . The Spanish-American War of 1898 left the United States with its first colonies ( Puerto Rico , Guam , and the Philippines ) . The annexation of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same year . Thus , the United States joined the other world powers in an era of expansionism that would soon leave most of the globe divided and claimed like slices of a huge pie . And , as did nearly all the other powers , America would , approch the task with the conviction and missionary zeal of a people who were certain that their way of ' life was vastly superior to that of the // peoples who fell under their new-found dominion ( Bodley 1975 ) . Many of the policies for administering native peoples which ensued were well intended , but all of them maintained a sense of the superiority of the Western way of life . World War I and the New Deal Although the Progressive Era continued into the 1920s , many of the domestic and foreign policy aims of the federal government were temporarily set aside during World War I. At the same time , in mobilizing for war , the federal government 's hand was again strengthened . During the presidency of Woodrow Wilson , successful business leaders were once more called into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they would have opposed bitterly in peacetime . The war enabled the federal government to build an administrative structure capable of responding to critical national issues , something which had been lacking during the Progressive Era . Further , the ever-present problems created by wartime shortages encouraged the government to develop means for maintaining an accurate inventory of national resources and for projecting future national needs , both essential ingredients to developing an effective policy process . Many of the controls and much of the federal government 's administrative structure were abandoned after the war . But they left a legacy of experience that would soon prove useful . The wartime build-up of the federal government was still fresh in the minds of Americans when , in 1932 , Franklin Delano Roosevelt assumed the presidency on a promise to put an end to the Great Depression . It is doubtful whether Roosevelt 's interventionist strategies would have met with the acceptance they did had not much of the foundation for a strong federal government with substantial executive powers already been laid over the previous half century . Major policy issues of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ poverty . Each of these problems was met with social and economic programs which anticipated and began to fulfill the policy goals of the " welfare state " that have become so apparent in our time . The earlier conservation movement of the Progressives provided a model for much of Roosevelt 's " New Deal " response to resource depletion . The Tennessee Valley Authority project , for example , brought many of the Progressives ' plans for multiple-purpose river development to fruition . Conservation principles and employment policies went hand in hand with depression era programs like the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Works Progress Administration . The problems of poverty were approached with a variety of new welfare programs , including the nation 's first comprehensive public housing program and the founding of the Social Security Administration . // Interestingly , there was a considerable rural bias to the New Deal . For the first time , the federal government exhibited concern for national population policy , and efforts were made to control the flow of rural migrants to the country 's crowded cities . Once again , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ only this time , rather than as a Populist cry from the back country , the virtues of the small rural community were being touted by the most powerful and influential ( and in many respects thoroughly urbanized ) federal administration in the nation 's history . Progressive Era ideals for social planning and scientific management were at the core of the New Deal administration ( Graham 1976 ) . The successful , efficient , and cost-effective private business operation was applauded by public administrators as a model worthy of emulation . The concerned scientist was viewed as a crucial participant in the decisionmaking process . Equally important were significant changes in the country 's economic policy . Never before had a federal government spent so much money in supporting its domestic policies . The growth of the welfare state went hand in hand with the development of accurate fiscal monitoring procedures and standardized mechanisms for determining how limited resources could be allocated most efficiently . Federal spending had begun to be viewed as a potentially creative tool for encouraging social and economic reform . The Planning Society From an administrative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the New Deal 's efforts to transform the federal government , and particularly the executive branch , into a powerful and effective force in public decision making . Once again , added government controls were accepted in the face of a threat to the nation 's well-being . But something else happened between the outbreak of war and its aftermath . Perhaps it was that , in the interim , many Americans came to realize that the United States was itself transformed . In any case , the two presidential administrations following the New Deal did not pursue the welfare state with anything like the same intensity as Roosevelt had . They did not really have to . The welfare state was there , and the problem was not so much how to build or even dismantle it , but simply how to mangage and keep up with it . And that was not all . When Dwight Eisenhower surprised much of the American public by denouncing the rise of the " military-industrial complex " toward the end of his administration , he was giving words to another modern phenomenon @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , it was not only the federal government which had grown powerful , ambitious , and deeply involved in a wide range of public policv concerns The entire scale of the nation had changed . During the late I940s and well into the 1950s , human rights became a // clear issue in American domestic policy as the New Deal became Harry Truman 's " Fair Deal . " In retrospect , it appears to have been a time for setting noble and well-intended goals , sometimes with only a modicum of understanding of how difficult it might be to reach those goals . It was also a time when the federal bureaucracy played a major role in broadening the dimensions of what the public could expect from their government . Federal aid to education and scientific research increased substantially during these years , setting a pattern that would not be questioned for decades to come . In the area of human rights , Truman repeatedly pressed Congress to establish a commission that would investigate racial discrimination in employment . With the federal Housing Act of 1954 , the government proclaimed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Still , many of ' the executive branch 's efforts to establish new human rights during the I950s were overshadowed , first by extremes of public resistance on some fronts , and finally by the monumental Supreme Court decision of 1954 ( Brown zv . Board of Education of Topeka ) . In one grand sweep , racial discrimination in American public schools became a major battleground for establishing minority rights . Equally important , the decision brought the courts squarely into the policy-making arena . In the decades to come , federal courts would continue to play a major role in establishing the limits of human rights and providing the bases for new policy decisions . The years following World War II were especially significant in areas of United States ' foreign policy . In the Pacific , Americans acquired major new colonial commitments . Elsewhere , economic and political ties between the United States and other nations were altered and strengthened . American foreign aid became a vehicle for encouraging redevelopment in wartorn Europe and , somewhat later , for promoting economic and social change in the lesser @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to doubt that most of the resulting overseas development programs sponsored by the United States government were sincere . Still , much of the altruism and seeming magnanimity of post-war foreign policy commitments were being called into question by the early 1950s . Accused of engaging in a " neo-colonialism " which in effect forced the lesser developed countries into a relationship of economic dependency and perpetual poverty , Americans were confronted with overwhelming evidence that their foreign policies were directed more toward a kind of economic imperialism than to promoting the interests of other peoples . In fact , much of the foreign " aid " of the United States , which served primarily to protect United States investments abroad and to ensure access to natural resources , actually seemed detrimental to the economic growth and political independence of the lesser developed countries . In both domestic and foreign policy , it was during the New Frontier " administration of John I. Kennedy that many Americans first began to // realize the far-reaching consequences of a new " fourth branch " of the federal government ? the bureaucratic maze of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grown up in response to the government 's expanding public responsibilities . Of particular interest and concern was the vast army of career service employees who , firmly placed in their jobs , sometimes seemed less receptive to the public will than many people felt was desirable . This " permanent government , " as Schlesinger ( 1968 ) described it , had in itself become a potent force in policy making by the 1960s . But it was not simply that the federal government had grown larger or , as some people felt , less receptive to the public weal . State and local governments were similarly affected . The practices of private business and industry had also become more complex , and the public began to take a close look at the influence of business on public affairs both at home and abroad . It was clear that the various policy levels operating in America were having difficulty communicating with each other , were often working at cross-purposes , and were sometimes actually engaged in outright sabotage of each others ' missions . What is more , new and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ being the rise to influence of multinational corporations . None of this , of course , was entirely new . But what seemed apparent by the time Kennedy took office was that the problem was getting out of hand . The need for greater coordination among government agencies and between the government and other policy levels , as well as the need for more careful planning of public programs , was clear . A Tightening Federal Spending Policy It was a businessman , Robert McNamara , who introduced the Kennedy and Johnson administrations to advanced systems analysis and operations research , and more specifically to the **37;0;TOOLONG ( PPBS ) , which was to dominate federal planning efforts throughout the 1960s . PPBS was developed primarily as a budgeting cons rol device ( Wildaysky 1974 ) , but its implications stretch much further and its life span extends far past the time that Richard Nixon decided to abandon it . By then , PPBS had spread to state and local governments ( it was already well established in business and industry ) , and its principle of operation , known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ planning agencies throughout the country . Associated with PPBS was the call for more accurate social reporting , which had its strongest expression in a social indicators movement originating in the United States Department of Health , Education and Welfare . I lie goal of the social indicators movement was to emulate the kinds of statistical documents produced by the President 's Council of Economic Advisors and the Bum eau of Statistics , ultimately to measure such // phenomena as public well-being and satisfaction as accurately as economists measure the country 's Gross National Product . Again , the movement soon found expression not only at the federal level of government , but also within state and local planning agencies . In many respects , PPBS and the social indicators movement represented a final big push in the efforts to quantify public decision making that had begun during the Progressive Era . To the consternation of some social scientists and a few professional planners , both movements seemed to represent the triumph of ' traditional economic analysis at the expense of other possible approaches to public decision making . What is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the policy process in this country became an extremely sophisticated activity . PPBS and social indicators research are complex procedures , requiring the participation of skilled practitioners . Business executives like Robert McNamara and social scientists like Daniel Patrick Moynihan rose to important advisory positions in the administrations of both Kennedy and Johnson . Accurate social accounting was now a recognized national need . Evaluation research , which was designed to assess the effectiveness of government programs , became , like PPBS and social indicators research , a byword of the federal bureaucracy . At the same time , government agencies , hard pressed to respond to the information needs they had helped foster , came to rely heavily on the cooperation of private research firms . During the next decades , right up to our time , these firms would come to play a major role not only in studying public policy , but in determining it . The Congresses of the 1960s also contributed substantially to changes in the American policy process , particularly as their members began to encourage the idea of ' " comprehensive planning " on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the realization that local governments often do not have the resources or inclination to view the planning process much beyond their jurisdictional boundaries . The results of ' their short-sightedness include the waste of natural resources and duplications of public services . When Congress began to call for the creation of areawide planning agencies , it was with the intention of ' encouraging greater coordination among local governments . Congressional concern was backed with fiscal muscle by requiring that local applications for federal grants in areas of housing , transportation , water and sewer projects , and dozens of other policy areas be approved by comprehensive , area-wide planning agencies before being submitted to the federal government . Lyndon Johnson 's push for the " Great Society " was , in many respects , the culmination of ' Kennedy 's short-lived New Frontier . Not only were substantial changes made in social reporting and in the ways public service programs were planned , but there was also a quantitative advance iii the building of ' the welfare state . Not since the New Deal had there been so minty new public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Johnson 's declared " War on Poverty . " Few previous presidents had ever shown the keen interest in urban problems that Johnson did . Many of his policies , such as those apparent in the Model Cities Program , have in retrospect been criticized as being too ambitious . But one thing seems certain ? the optimism of the Kennedy-Johnson years , backed on the local level by numerous federally sponsored aid programs for minorities and the poor , contributed substantially to these groups ' discovery of a new identity vis-avis the rest of the nation . The programs of the Great Society openly encouraged and to some extent institutionalized citizen and community involvement in public affairs . In a major attempt to reform welfare policies , they brought the inadequacies of past policies to the public 's attention . It was a point from which it has become difficult to retreat . The promises of the 1960s , culminating not only in the Great Society programs but also in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 , became in many respects the demands @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the United States during the 1960s is complicated and confused by such issues as the Vietnam War and a growing public awareness of clandestine involvement of the United States in the domestic affairs of other nations . Revelations of political intrigue and conspiracy which continued into the Watergate crisis of the 1970s demonstrated to many Americans how little they actually knew about the working of their government . The New Federalism In domestic policy , an interesting reversal to much of ' the philosophy of the Great Society occurred when , in 1969 , Richard Nixon proposed a " New Federalism . " Offered both as a curb on the awesome new powers of the federal bureaucracy and as a means of returning much of this " power to the people , " the key policy vehicles of the New Federalism emerged early in the 1970s . Through a revenue sharing plan , the federal government now provided large-scale funding for programs developed and administered at the local level . Unlike previous administrations , which had dispersed federal monies to local governments primarily in the forms of grants for programs initiated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ makers to exercise greater discretion in determining how the new funds were to be spent . A program of general revenue sharing , passed by Congress in 1972 , gave local governments considerable leeway in deciding how to spend the money . A second program , initiated two years later in the form of special revenue-sharing block grants in the areas of human resource training , education , community development , and law enforcement , imposed limitations on some of the spending , but still gave local governments a considerable amount of discretion in determining specifically how funds would be used . // Nixon 's revenue sharing plan was felt at all levels of government . Like many of the programs of the Great Society , the plan encouraged community and citizen involvement in local planning . Revenue-sharing grants required that the public be informed in advance of local plans for projects funded under the program , and that the public have an opportunity to help develop local policies . The 1969 passage of the National Environmental Protection Act ( NEPA ) has become a milestone in recent policy legislation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ powerful legal tool for safeguarding the environment , but it also gives firm footing to the idea of formulating specific public policies on the basis of attempts to forecast the probable results of any particular course of action ( an approach to policy which , interestingly , also rose to popularity in defense planning during the Vietnam War ) . Environmental impact assessment , mandated under NEPA regulations , has become the basis for a wide variety of forecasting research . The idea of ' impact assessment was both broadened and strengthened with the passage of the Clean Air Act of 1972 and the Water Quality Act of 1974 . Legislation requiring impact assessment in particular areas of ' policy development , such as transportation planning , community development , and land use regulation quickly followed . This new emphasis on forecasting research corresponded to a continuing interest in improved social accounting and evaluation procedures . The trend toward comprehensive planning and applied research received added emphasis in the area of public health with the 1974 passage of the National Health Planning Act . By the mid-1970s , the policy idea @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the minds of many Americans . While some would ( and will ) continue to ignore its implications , there probably has never been another time in our history when the expression of public policy has been so thorough or , in many respects , so public . In recent years , it has become increasingly apparent that fiscal control plays a major role in public decision making in the United States . Aaron Wildaysky ( 1974 ) has described this process clearly in his description of federal budgeting ( luring the early 1960s . At that time , under the impact of PPBS , policy priorities were ideally established according to strict budgetary and fiscal accounting procedures which presumably determined the relative costs and benefits of competing programs . With this system , the Federal Office of ' Management and Budget assumed a large measure of responsibility for determining the level at which most public programs would be funded and , hence , played a major role in federal policy making . During the Nixon administration , much of the policy role of the Office of ' Management and Budget @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a new procedure called Management by objectives ( MHO ) . Under this practice , the President and his newly established // Domestic Council assumed primary responsibility for determining policy priorities , although their decisions were still to be based largely on measures of cost effectiveness . MBO was in its turn replaced during the 1970s by President Jimmy Carter 's Zero-Based Budgeting ( ZBB ) system , which returned considerable policy influence to the Office of Management and Budget . ZBB is a controversial procedure which has yet to prove its utility for federal decision making . Unlike PPBS and MBO , which were designed to help establish program priorities , ZBB appears to be most useful in assessing the cost effectiveness of already established programs . While all three of these recent budgeting and decision-making procedures have received considerable attention at the federal level of public policy , it is important to realize that they are also widely used at other policy levels . Both PPBS and MOB actually originated in business and industry . ZBB was well established as a policy tool for many state and local governments @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Another highly significant characteristic of all these procedures is their reliance on cost effectiveness as a primary consideration in determining public policy priorities . The advantage of making policy on the basis of cost is that it sensitizes decision makers to resource limitations , and encourages them to think in terms of the relative costs of particular activities as compared to their anticipated benefits . On the other hand , reliance on measures of cost effectiveness is problematic because some policy goals are more easily measured than others . Economic costs and benefits are , for example , easily quantified and compared . Many social or human costs and benefits are not as easily measured , and there is a tendency for decision makers to discount these factors in their calculations of cost effectiveness . It should be clear by now that Americans have , over the past century , experienced profound changes in the ways they make and respond to public policy . These changes have affected each of the stages of the policy process . Policy formulation and planning have steadily become more systematic and , with the phenomenal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sought to become more scientific . The links between planning , program implementation , and review have grown stronger over the decades as more policy makers and citizens have come to realize that we can no longer afford to treat any single part of the policy process in isolation . We can see that , as the policy idea grows in importance , or at least in public recognition , the levels of policy making expand . The past century stands out as one in which the congressional and executive branches of the federal government have successfully assumed major authority and responsibility for much of public policy . Other major institutions , such as the courts and the press , have expanded their roles considerably . Social scienntists and private businessmen have contributed substantially in promoting policy research as well in helping determine the shape of public // policies . A new but precarious balance between national , private , and state and local governmental interests has been forged , along with considerable rethinking concerning the measure of basic rights for individuals , for special-interest groups , and for the determination @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , there has been a tendency to attempt at least to limit some of the broadly based decision-making powers that have accrued to the federal government . To an extent , the federal government has cooperated in these efforts , and in some cases actually initiated them . The administration of Ronald Reagan has given rise to deliberate attempts to curl ) government spending and to limit federal responsibility for the country 's social well-being . So far , the results of both goals are inconclusive . The cutback in federal social programs experienced during the early 1980s has given rise to a new need for research and policy that is directed toward determining the effects of ' reduced social benefits ( particularly for the poor and minority programs ) and of similarly changed priorities in government authority and responsibility . How the balance in spending and social benefit will be struck even a decade from now is difficult to predict ; but a few things seem certain . The American commitment to the policy idea is not about to fade away . The involvement of the social sciences in policy-related @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seems secure . In many respects , the development of the policy idea in the last century is closely tied to the increased complexity of modern American life . The great optimism of the Progressives has been tempered with a realization that the policy process involves much more than simple equations of operational efficiency . While the goals of efficiency and cost-effectiveness continue to be significant factors in policy development , they are joined in our time with even more dramatic issues of equity . Increased sensitivity toward the pluralistic character of United States society , the civil rights movement , and the growing influence of special-interest groups have all led to new challenges in determining the allocation of limited and often scarce national resources . At the same time , the measure of equity and public fairness has proven elusive . The ability to determine the costs and benefits of social reform has become even more crucial during the past decade as the nation moves from an imagery of abundance to one of scarcity . WHO REALLY MAKES PUBLIC POLICY ? In our society , the processes of ' public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ live in a complex social environment that has given rise to conflicting social values . There are few public policies which can realistically satisfy the interests of all Americans and , with the rise of numerous special-interest groups , it // is becoming increasingly difficult to determine even where the " greatest good " lies . 2 . Policy making is seldom a neutral process . Public policy must be enacted through numerous policy domains and levels which represent varying degrees of social and economic power . The relationships among these domains and levels , as well as the relative amount of authority and responsibility assumed by each , varies regionally and through time . The development of public policies has often provided a stage for skirmishes between participants in the process . 3 . The statics of the policy idea also varies regionally and historically . During the past century there have been far-reaching changes in the legal and legislative structures of policy making in the United States . Different parts of the country vary considerably ' in their receptivity and adaptation to these changes . 4 . Although scientific @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy process , the relationship between knowledge and public decision making is not always clear . Also , many of the techniques of applied research which are most useful to policy development , such as evaluation and forecasting research , are not well understood by the general public or by many social scientists . These observations should convince us that the policy process is not a static exercise , nor can it be approached from a single perspective , such as that of politics , program administration , or scientific research . The policy idea is manifest its nearly- everything Americans do , and the processes of public policy touch our lives in ways few of us understand . Naive ideas about public policy and public decision snaking persist in our society . Most Americans seem content to accept public policy as something that just happens , much like the weather . Unless they are immediately threatened by a particular decision , these people are unlikely to show much concern . Others , though perhaps interested and concerned , often despair of ' playing an active role in public decision making @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the game is " rigged " and there is no chance of their views being heard . Public policies are made by people , and although some people certainly have more influence than others , much of that influence is accrued by default rather than by virtue of any kind of absolute power to rule public affairs . Public policy decisions are frequently carried through in a climate of public disinterest and inaction . The question of who makes public policy can sometimes be answered by reference to one or more of the policy domains or levels we have discussed , but much of the answer also lies in what most people do not do . A century ago , before the development of any organized land-use policies in this country , Americans nonetheless supported an implicit policy governing land use . In a sense , it was a policy not to have a restrictive poll ( v ; but rather to permit open exploitation of our land resources . Until recently , Americans maintained similar " nonpolicy " policies in regard to such new-pupular issues its energy exploitation , equal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so many hidden and emergent poll ( issues is pet Imps an unavoidable consequence of rapid social change . // The opportunities for Americans to participate in public policy decision making have seldom been greater . They are complicated , however , by the increasingly complex legal , political , and scientific structures of policy making . The contributions applied anthropologists make to the social wellbeing of our society and other societies rest on their ability to understand , interpret , and participate in these structures . In this sense , the policy idea is both the beginning and the end of applied work . PERSPECTIVE This chapter is obviously slanted ? first to the idea of public policy in the United States , and second to the federal sector of government . Much more could have been said about any of the problems touched on here , and equally detailed accounts might have been written focusing on other policy levels or on the policy process in other countries , but I could hardly do them justice in so abbreviated a treatment . My choice has been one of economy . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ chapter which I believe apply to nearly all policy contexts . First , we can recognize that most policy issues have a long history of public involvement . Policy problems are not so much solved as they are responded to , with adaptations and cycles of interest more or less corresponding to changed social circumstances . Part of the frustration that sometimes accompanies applied work results from a failure to understand that there are no ultimate solutions to most human problems . A second lesson to be derived from this chapter has to do with the decision-making structures underlying policy activities . The shifting of policy domains from one level of responsibility to another , mandates for comprehensive and regional planning , increased demands for social accounting , evaluation and cost effectiveness ? each of these contributes to changes in the way policy activities are carried out . An understanding of these and similar structures of decision making is a vital component of successful applied work . In a sense , there is a " culture of policy . " Effective participation in policy activities requires an understanding of implicit cues @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and explicit rules of public administration . The culture of policy in the United States is all the more mysterious and exotic because we so often assume that we ought to be able to understand it with little or no effort . It is often more difficult to find a clear path through the forest iii which one was raised than it is to blaze a trail through someone else 's jungle . 3 Specialization in Applied Anthropology I I do n't think I was meant to overhear their remarks . Two men were standing in the hallway after class . This is pure nonsense , " one of the men said . " I ca n't believe they hired this jerk , " the other added . They were talking about my lecture . Several years ago I was invited to speak to a group of soil conservation officers employed by the United States government . I was to participate in an ambitious project in which the conservation officers would be pulled in from various parts of the country to hear a group of professors tell them how social science @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ give two of the lectures . When I walked in for the first lecture , I was pleased with myself . I had spent two days studing United States soil conservation policy and knew something about Current issues and problems facing the conservation officers . I had what I felt would be a coherent and useful lecture drawing on several examples of effective applied social research . But the lecture was a complete flop . Fortunately , I ran out Of material and acquired a dry throat before my time was up . When this happens , // a lecturer usually asks for feedback from the audience . As the conservation officers began to respond to my invitation for feedback , it became obvious to me that I had made two serious errors . First of all , my feeble attempts to impress the audience with my understanding of soil conservation were , however well-intended , lacking in humility . My listeners were seasoned professionals , most had been in their jobs for 10 years or more , and they knew more than I could ever hope to know about soil @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worked with social scientists before , and from some of their comments it was obvious that the relationship had not always been fruitful . They seemed to regard many of the social scientists they had worked with as impractical know-it-alls , and my lecture had done nothing but reinforce their feelings . I left the classroom hurt and embarrassed . Obviously , I had not done my homework and everyone had suffered as a result . I had done nothing to encourage these people to be more receptive to social science . If anything , I had done more harm than good . The prospect of going back into that classroom the next day was about as welcome as contracting a dread disease . As a matter of fact , I seriously considered calling in sick . I spent half the night being contrite and the other half trying to put myself in the soil officers ' place . " I want to start where we left off yesterday , " I announced the next morning . I invited the audience to continue discussing how they had worked with social scientists @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ encountered ? How had their efforts ended up ? Several stereotypical characteristics began to emerge : Social scientists do n't listen . They 're not practical . They do n't appreciate the constraints under which agencies operate . Their research is sometimes onesided . Other times they use a lot of money , words , and fancy methods to tell you nothing more than you already know . They treat you as though you do n't know anything . The last observation caused me to twinge . Stereotypes are generally based on half-truths . Several examples of useful cooperation between the soil officers and social scientists also emerged during our discussion . After about an hour , it seemed time to change direction . I told the soil officers that I felt the best thing we might do for the rest of the lecture would be to try to figure out two problems . First , if you 're a soil conservation officer , how do you determine when social research will help you make a decision ? And second , having worked that out , how do you find a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , I suggested , are closely related . The lecture turned out to be a modest success , and I had learned a valuable lesson in humility. , By the time it was over , the soil conservalion officers had at least begun to acknowledge that their suspicion of so ( ial // scientists was based as much on their ignorance of the potential uses of social inquiry as it was on the efforts of particular social scientists . Perhaps the lesson to be derived from this experience has to do with how hard it is for people with different backgrounds , and hence with different views of a problem , to communicate . Bridging the mental gaps between ourselves and those we work with is perhaps one of most formidable tasks facing applied anthropologists . This task is made all the more difficult by the fact that anthropologists work with so many different kinds of people . Applied anthropologists generally claim special skill and expertise in one or several areas of topical interest . Their specialization often corresponds to particular policy domains ? anthropologists have , for example , exhibited @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medicine and health , agriculture , education , and urban affairs . For the most part , these specializations demonstrate a convergence of disciplinary and policy-relevant concerns . Anthropological work in education , for example , has evolved from an early basic research interest in the importance of childhood socialization to include more directly applied research in bilingual education , the evaluation of educational programs , and similar activities . In this chapter and the next , we will consider the major areas of topical specialization for applied anthropologists , and we will see how each area combines the interests of basic and applied research , as well as providing opportunities for practice other than research . In Chapter 5 , we will consider the major strategies associated with applied research . It should be noted here that some applied anthropologists have tended to specialize in one of these techniques rather than in a topical area of interest . An anthropologist with special expertise in evaluat ion research might , for example , apply those skills to a wide variety of policy domains . MEDICAL ANTHROPOLOGY Because health is a major @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ long taken an interest in the health-related activities of ' the people with whom they have worked . The popularity of medical anthropology as a subfield can be attributed in part to the fact that the topic appeals both to biological and cultural anthropologists . While the focus of this book is on social and cultural examples of application , the close parallels between the interests of ' biological and cultural anthropology must be emphasized as we onside ) medical anthropology . Some of ' the earliest applied research condu ted by I'niled States anthropologists exhibited a combined concern ) ( tilt tht phvsic ; tl and ultural . Ftanz Boas ' Chang-vs in Bodily Form ofDeseendNNh of Iwnrigrant ( I ' . I Itlt , puhlishcd tinder the auspices ( ( rl ' the United // States Immigration Service , sought to demonstrate the influence of environment on human growth and changes in body form . The study corresponds to Boas ' early interest in race and culture , and to his open criticism of the eugenics movement in the United States . Early ethnographers , with their catholic interests @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ considerable information about indigenous health practices around the world . These investigators showed a special interest in what people ate , in folk beliefs related to the health properties of foods and food preparation , and in culturally diverse curing practices . For the most part , they were not concerned with the practical uses of such knowledge . Their contribution was to begin to catalog the varied ways in which the world 's peoples attended to their physical and mental well-being . Another reason for the popularity of medical anthropology as an area of specialization is the importance of health-related and medical problems to Western industrialized societies . In some nations , health care is considered a basic human right , and governments strive to ensure that all their citizens have equal access to modern medical technology and health services . Other societies , including the United States , have a strongly established tradition of private medical practice which , while officially opposed to " socialized " medicine , is augmented with government and private programs designed to ensure everyone some access to medical care . In any case , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ medical research , and research-oriented applied anthropologists have found it relatively easy to establish their worth in this domain . This has become even more apparent as other health-care practitioners and researchers have come to appreciate the important role played by social and cultural factors in both preventive and curative medicine . Nutrition and Culture The relationship between biological and cultural factors in applied medical anthropology is well demonstrated by nutritional studies , which generally subsume both physical and cultural relationships to nutritional studies under the rubric of ecological research . Thus , as explained in Jerome , Rancid , and Echo : The strength of the ecological approach is that it . makes it possible to relate biological and cultural factors on the same level of analysis . Thus , an ecological explanation of early childhood malnutrition in a Third World agricultural population might include patterns of family size and composition , infant weaning practices , cultural elaboration of high carbohydrate " superfoods , " methods of crop production , high levels of chronic parasitic infection , and low levels of education and income as explanatory factors of the same @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the developed counties might he visualized as embedded in a matrix which // includes high cholesterol diets and cocktail parties , high stress white collar jobs and sedentary lifestyles , and the advertising and distribution tactics of food-processing corporations. ( 1980:4 ) United States anthropologists began studying food habits in their own country relatively early ( compared to their virtually ignoring most other aspects of United States life until very recently ) . Nutritional studies in rural American began ( luring the 1930s and reached a temporary zenith during World War II . Much of this work was done under the auspices of a National Research Council Committee on hood Habits . Like most major applied and policy-oriented research , the work was broadly interdisciplinary , although anthropologist Margaret Mead served as the committee 's executive secretary and much of the research involved ethnographic and case study contributions . These early nutrition studies were clearly focused on policy problems , some of which were immediately relevant to life in a country at war . The researchers sought to identify regionally based dietary deficiencies in the United States , to explore ways @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the event of wartime shortages , and to assess public attitudes toward food relief to European countries ( Montgomery and Bennett 1979 ) . Many of the more contemporary nutritional studies in applied anthropology deal with the causes and effects of malnutrition , both in the United States and in other countries . T.J. Marchione ( 1977 ) has Found the existence of malnutrition in relatively developed countries especially puzzling . His research into the malnutrition of children in Jamaica indicates that the country 's recent policies favoring an agricultural development plan that is capital intensive and oriented to an export market contributes to malnutrition , particularly among the children of landless agricultural wage earners . In this case , it would seem that one development goal ( to realize profit from the export of agricultural resources ) is being sought at the expense of the country 's human resources . In some instances , applied anthropologists have responded to nutritional problems from an advocacy base . The Human Lactation Center , Jimmied by anthropologist Dana Raphael , has published a newsletter devoted to an understanding of breastfeeding practices and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Center 's early work , funded by the United States Agency for International Development , was ! omitted on extensive cross-cultural ethnographic study of breastfeedlug . I he ( ; enter has been embroiled in serious debate regarding the praclires of major food corporations which are accused of marketing infant food formulas around the world without regard for differing nutritional practices and of using deceptive mar=rketing techniques which actually conribute to the poor nutrition of infants in many lesser-developed countries . // The methods of anthropological fieldwork have repeatedly proven useful in nutritional studies , whether employed by anthropologists or others . Even the specific nutritive values of foods vary according to the local conditions in which they are prepared for consumption , thus necessitating a first-hand familiarity with varying social norms on the part of a nutritional researcher . Ann McElroy and Patricia Townsend cite a simple but telling example : ... foods may vary considerably nutritional value depending on the conditions under which they were grown , marketed , stored , and cooked . Unexpected factors may turn out to be important . Among the ! Kung , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the Bantu raises ! Kung hemoglobin levels much higher than would be predicted from the foods alone . ( 1979:251 ) Observation research methods are particularly helpful in many nutritional studies where the self-reports of research subjects may be found to be misleading due to forgetfulness or deliberate deception . The Impact of Western Society Many health-related practices are strained and threatened when an indigenous people are brought into contact with Western society , or even as the benefits ( and costs ) of medical services are differentially distributed among members of industrial societies . Some of the earliest contributions to medical anthropology were those which attempted to explain why relatively isolated peoples often rejected or misapplied opportunities to utilize " modern " medical services . Anthropologists have correctly suggested that plans to introduce Western health services to societies which are unfamiliar with the corresponding Western concepts of health and illness will often be delayed or will fail . Similarly , status and cultural differences between Western medical practitioners and their clients may lead to serious misunderstandings and ineffective health care . Anthropologists have also pointed out that nonWestern medical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mind " and " body " as the loci of particular ills ? a recognition which modern Western practitioners have also begun to acknowledge , at least in relation to certain " stress-related " diseases such as asthma . In truth , of course , modernization brings much more to the isolated peoples of the world than the " cures " of scientific medicine . It also brings many new and exacerbated ills . The rapid urbanization of the world 's rural population often results in crowded living conditions , poor sanitation , exposure to industrial pollution , and radical changes in nutrition . A classic example of the unexpected harms resulting from contact between Western and non-ly'estern peoples was the introduction of smallpox to the indige73 Specialization in Applied Anthropology I nous peoples of the Americas , who had not developed any immunity to the disease . The result was a drastic decline in the Indian population . But the relationships between culture contact , modernization , and health practices can be much more complex than this . One example is the alarming spread of schistosomiasis , a parasitic disease @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ relative isolation in Egypt for thousands of years , but which has spread to 72 countries and infected about 200 million individuals during the past few decades . McElroy and Townsend ( 1979 ) help unravel the mystery : Schistosomiasis is transmitted by snails that are commonly found in the quiet waters of irrigation projects , hence the disease 's early association with Egypt . During the last several decades , developing countries such as Egypt have introduced new large-scale irrigation projects . Egypt 's Aswan Dam , for example , " increased by one-third the amount of land available for cultivation " ( 1979:390 ) . Of course , it also increased the habitat of the schistosomiasis-bearing snails . The parasite is transmitted to humans during bathing and other activities performed near irrigation canals . After several years , its eggs are reintroduced into the stream through human excrement . Population density and poverty contribute to the cycle since contact with the parasite is most likely to occur where communities do not have plumbing and are dependent on open water . Islamic religious practices also contribute to the spread of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ expected to cleanse themselves several times a day before prayers . Religious practice also dictates washing with flowing water after urination and defecation . Finally , the large-scale migration of persons carrying the parasites into preiously uninfected areas accounts for much of the rapid spread of the disease , which McElroy and Townsend report was recently brought to California by Arab fin m workers . Understanding and responding to the complex relationships between modernization and disease is not solely the responsibility of the applied anthropologist . Effective responses can result only from an interdisciplinary perspective combining the efforts of such a diverse group of practitioners as , for example , biologists , economists , agricultural and industrial engineers , medical researchers , and social scientists . The Delivery of Health-Care Services Whether it is to a village in rural Africa or to a large metropolitan area of the United States , the delivery of health-care services has drawn the attention of a number of applied anthropologists . Many of the problems related to providing health care to culturally diverse peoples have already been alluded to . In the following examples we @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ are brought to bear on specific ( am .. of lo , tlth ( ate ( Iclist ? t ' . // Arthur Kleinman , a psychiatrist who has also trained as an anthropologist , studied the " languages of medicine , " which he described as : ... the divergent ... conflicting , lexical and semantic systems operating in the different health care sectors and subsectors . These medical languages constitute and express separate clinical realities , and conflicts between them .. . create substantial difficulties for clinical practice . ( 1980:144 ) Kleinman points out that differences in lay and tnedicial perspectives often result in tacit misunderstandings which are never fully understood by either patient or practitioner . The result can be poor care on the part of the practitioner , or failure to comply with prescribed procedures on the part of the patient . Cultural differences in describing illnesses can also result in misunderstandings . Kleinman 's study of medical practices in Taiwan yields several interesting examples . Western patients , he notes , usually refer to problems related to their brains in psychological terms , while Taiwanese @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " brain damage . " A number of anthropologists have devoted attention to the delivery of health-care services to ethnic minorities and low-income communities in the United States . Often their work is based on an ethnographic study of a single group . Margaret Clark ( 1959 ) , for example , based her research into health and health care among Californian Mexican-Americans on a detailed study of a single community . She was then able to relate problems in the delivery of health services to a wide range of characteristics of the people with whom she worked . " It is important to remember , " Clark noted , " that in the eyes of medical specialists the world revolves around health , but to the patient it is only one of many aspects of everyday life " ( 1959:223 ) . The everyday life of the Mexican-Americans of Clark 's study included economic , cultural , and language constraints to receiving adequate health care . She pointed out that there were not only important differences between the Mexican-Americans and the Anglo-American health practitioners of ' her study , but @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ local belief systems , for example , ran the gamut from faith in the curative powers of folk medicines , to the influence of Catholic religious practice , to participation in Protestant sects ( some of which opposed the practice of scientific medicine ) . Other anthropological studies in the delivery of health services to United States ethnic groups have focused on specific delivery systems and their response to a variety of patient populations . The Miami Health Ecology Project ( Weidman 1978 ) was based on a study of the health beliefs of five ethnic populations in this Florida city . The five groups were Bahamian , Haitian , Puerto Rican , Cuban , and southern black . This major study not only reported on the distinct health-related beliefs of these diverse popula75 Specialization in Applied Anthropology I tions , but also traced how members of existing groups utilized the healthcare facilities and treatments available to them , including folk as well as orthodox scientific medical systems . Among the study 's conclusions , the following recommendations were directed to health-care personnel : Gain knowledge of the health beliefs and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ these beliefs and therapies , although perhaps running counter to the scientific medical systems , have survived in these populations for generations and may indeed be measurably effective . To try to change a deeply rooted health belief either by ridicule or by treating it as unscientific may not only fail but may also alienate the patient . Use a treatment plan which shows understanding and respect for the patient 's beliefs and which builds on these in a positive way . ( Scott 1978:69 ) The role of the applied anthropologist defined for the Miami Health Ecology Project not only included providing basic social science information about ethnic health practices , but also serving as health professionals and " culture brokers . " Anthropologically trained workers in this setting were called upon to represent the interests of ethnic clients and to mediate those interests and the concerns of orthodox health-care practitioners ( Weidman 1978:870 ? 893 ) . Examples of mediation cited for the project ranged from dealing with the complex discrepancies between folk and scientific concepts of mental and physical illness to more simple , practical suggestions . For @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ many Puerto Ricans and Haitians adhere to a belief system based on a classification of food , illness , and medicine into categories of " hot " and " cold . " In this system , the opposite treatment ( say , a " cold " food or medicine ) is prescribed to deal with a " hot " illness . The principle of treatment is to restore a proper balance of " hot " and " cold " in the body . Unfortunately , scientific medicine does not alway correspond to These categories . Pregnancy , Scott notes , is believed to be a " hot " condition . Vitamins and iron supplements which might be prescribed to pregnant winner are also classified as " hot . " One solution to this dilemma might be to prescribe taking the vitamins with fruit juice , a " cold " food , in order to maintain the sought-after physical balance . The participation of applied anthropologists in work related to health e ate delivery and other aspects of health services has been encouraged in the united States through federal legislation which calls @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1979 ) , where the anthropological approach proves especially useful in identifying the clientele of health ser%R es , in clarifying their culture-specific health needs , and in evaluating the el le ( tive ? ness of health-care programs . In recent years , applied anthropologists have not only come to do research related to health care , but have begun to assume administrative and ineplementative roles within the syswins . Weidman ( 19781 has noted that the Miami Health Ecology Project // provided regular staff positions for anthropologically trained , advocacyoriented " culture brokers . " Boone ( 1981 ) has described her role in a large metropolitan hospital , which included research , teaching , and administrative responsibilities . Wolfe ( 1980a ) has outlined the ways in which anthropologists trained at the M.A. level at the University of South Florida have assumed significant administrative roles within the local health-planning system . Anthropologists have not only counseled that folk medical beliefs should be respected , but in many cases have indicated that they can be effective responses to illness . In recent years , international health organizations have begun @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wipe out traditional healing practices , have often attempted to cooperate with folk practitioners . In many lesser-developed countries , for example , public health personnel are working closely with midwives in order to share medical beliefs as well as to develop more effective means of distributing family planning information and devices . Similarly , in some countries , the World Health Organization has been working closely with national governments and folk healers in efforts to extend health services beyond the capacity of the region 's existing scientific medical resources . Anthropology and Health Practice The role of the applied anthropologist in the field of health services continues to expand . A good example of this is the relationship which has developed between anthropology and professional nursing . In the hospital setting , no professional has more prolonged contact with the patient than the nurse does . The nurse 's role as a sort of broker between other hospital staff , patients , and family shares much with the way anthropologists often describe the service components of their profession . Like anthropologists , nurses almost invariably come in contact with a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development of cultural sensitivity . These complementary aspects of nursing and anthropology have not been overlooked by the nursing profession , where they were noted as early as 1936 ( Van Willigen 1980:30 ) . More recently , a distinct subspecialty of " nursing and anthropology " has emerged . What is interesting about the development of this special interest is that it does not limit the role of the " nurse anthropologist " to a single activity , but rather provides an umbrella for a variety of positions . Most notably , these are 1 . The professionally certified nurse with training in anthropology who utilizes these additional skills and perspectives in practice . 2 . The anthropologist who directs sonic or all of his or her attention to teaching anthropology and the medical-nursing applications of anthropology to students or professionals in nursing . Quite often the anthropologist undertaking this role is // also a qualified nurse . The training may take place in departments of anthropology or , as is increasingly apparent , " nurse anthropologists " may be hired to teach full-or part-time in nursing schools . 3 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ nursing-related problems as the patient role in a clinical setting , nurse-patient relationships , and health service provision to culturally distinct peoples . These varied but complementary career interests are represented by the Council of Nursing and Anthropology , which provides a forum for individuals to profit from communication among themselves , as well as an organized link between the professions of anthropology and nursing . These organizational activities provide a valuable example of how fully effective applied work in any area should be based on a tripartition of practice , teaching , and research . These varied roles are not fulfilled by a single person , but by a number of individuals working in close communicat ion with each other . Parallels between medical service and anthropology have also been recognized for the physician and medical researcher , although they are not nearly so well established as they are in nursing . Some medical schools offer training in anthropology and employ anthropologists in their research departments , and a few universities offer joint degrees in medicine and anthropology . Anthropologists have also shown an interest in mental health practice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as those of nurse practitioners . In recent years , the terms " clinical anthropology " and " therapeutic anthropology " have emerged as an attempt to establish a subspecialty devoted to problems in mental health care . Peggy Golde ( 1981 ) links this relatively new interest to the " culture and personality " school which developed during the 1940s and 1950s . At that time , cooperation between anthropologists and mental health practitioners was not at all unusual , although most efforts were centered on research activities rather th:ut on the direct provision of mental health care . Moreover , as noted earlier , research-oriented medical anthropologists have for some time been equally interested in the " physical " and " mental " aspects of illness and health care , clue in part to their recognition that many peoples of the world do not make the same distinction between the mind and body that Western m ientific medicine normally has . More recent interests in clinical anthropology have , however , focused ( Hi the contributions anthropologists might make to actual therapeutic .0 rice , including the counseling of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ own work experience : Chili ( al practice is primarily conducted from a psychological and individual Ilame of reletenae , viewed simultaneously against a background of cultural ut ( AIM ( identity . F he therapist or counselor works with an individual client , // one couple , or one family , but always sees individual personality dynamics woven into the tapestry of culture , of origin , or of early training . ( 1981:12 ) The idea that some anthropologists ? with their particular experience in cross-cultural settings and small-group dynamics , and their sensitivity to ideational and symbolic spheres of human activities ? might become uniquely well-qualified therapists is an intriguing one . So far , most of the practical problems of such a possibility have not been worked out . Practice in some states would require training in psychology as well as anthropology , just as practicing nurse anthropologists must be medically certified to perform in their nursing roles . Anthropology and Aging With their special concern for the ways in which skills and customs are transmitted from generation to generation , anthropologists developed an early interest in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serve vital functions in non-Western , traditional societies has been the realization that one of the impacts of modernization has been to deprive the elderly of much of their sense of worth to society , and thus to relegate them to a special category of social isolation and neglect . At the same time , with advances in modern medicine contributing to an unprecedented rise in life expectancy , the numbers of aged persons in proportion to total populations has increased dramatically ( Foster and Anderson 1978:291 ) . Much of the work of anthropologists interested in aging has been descriptive , basic research aimed at challenging our assumptions about the old and their place in society , and about the aging process . Other anthropologists have devoted special attention to the relationship between ethnicity and aging . Some applied anthropologists have shown concern for the institutionalization of the aged . Maria Vesperi has , for example , suggested that the physical and mental deterioration of nursing home clients may be due as much to the expectations of nursing home staff as it is to actual physical causes : In many @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a home has recently attempted to come to grips with the discrepancy between his/her established sense of well-being and the effects of a debilitating injury or illness . The individual feels just a little too tired " to get out of bed ; others conclude that he or she is old , sick , and incapable of continuing full independent activity . Once the possibility of " old age " has been introduced , the individual may act upon its implications in an attempt to demonstrate a capacity for continued adult decision making . Thus , the resolution to enter a nursing home becomes the " sensible " thing to do .... Once inside the institution , however , these concepts take on a new meaning . The " sicknesses " associated with " age " are not regarded as curable or worthy of intensive treatment by nursing home personnel . ( 1980:74 ) // The problem of what to do with the aged is in many respects unique to modern industrial societies . United States public policy regarding the aged is often subject to a bewildering array of opinion and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wrong to isolate the elderly in " old-aged communities " is an example of one such problem . Some recent applied research has indicated that , at least for a portion of the aged population , living in such environments may be perceived as a desirable alternative ( cf. Holmes 1980:281-282 ) . Other studies have emphasized the negative aspects of isolating the elderly from the rest of society ( cf. Jacobs 1974 ) . As aging and its physical and cultural consequences continue to have an impact on modern societies , we can anticipate that greater numbers of anthropologists will be attracted to this specialty . The Association of Anthropology and Gerontology , established in 1979 , is a sign of this growing interest . We might also anticipate ( and hope ) that applied anthropologists will assume greater visibility as practitioners in providing direct services to aged populations , as well as in continuing to contribute to basic and applied research in the area . Substance Abuse and Its Treatment There are some areas of policy concern that decision makers , along with society in general , have a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ especially true regarding activities which are identified as illegal or deviant , where participants can not be expected to expose themselves to public scrutiny . In these cases , ethnographers have proven particularly valuable sources of information . They have also contributed to our understanding of clinical settings where the problems of deviant behaviors such as substance abuse are subjected to various " cures . " As with research in many other areas of application , one of the greatest contributions of ethnography has been to point to discrepancies in the ways which treatment specialists and their clients or patients perceive each other and their participation in a clinical program . Michael Agar has described how his study of heroin addicts assigned to a treatment center led to a series of recommendations for further research into the interaction between patients and staff . Agar 's work was based on taking the patient 's view of the institutional setting , which he gained in part from voluntarily playing the patient role for a period of time . On this basis , he was able to suggest that the effective treatment of addicts @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ staff therapist might , for example , connsider increased cooperation on the part of the addict a sign of therapeutic Itrogress , the patient might view the process in a strikingly different light : Patients sometimes , defined therapeutic interaction as a hustle , more specifically , a confudencegume . . The therapist is Ilse mark or target of the hustle . The // therapy game , as many patients call it , proceeds as follows : The patient acts uncooperative or withdrawn or hostile initially ; gradually he opens up ; just before he wants something from the therapist , he produces some kind of " insight " into his problem . This gratifies the professional ego and disposes the therapist to grant requests . ( 1973b:39 ) The effective treatment of the heroin addicts also seemed to be limited by the way in which patients typically perceived the staff , as Agar explains : Patients described staff as mostly young , inexperienced medical personnel who had moved from one sheltered , middle- or upper-class environment to another . Consequently , patients felt that treatment staff could not adequately understand @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they ( the patients ) were superior in the sense of being able to survive by their wits in the streets where the staff could not . ( 1973b:39 ) Anthropologists have also sought to explain the epidemiology and treatment of substance abuse in cross-cultural and ethnic terms . Aron , Alger and Gonzales ( 1974 ) , for example , have indicated how drug abuse treatment for Chicanos can be hampered when such programs are modeled after programs designed to serve Anglo patients . And in the past decade , cross-cultural studies of research on alcohol use and abuse have proliferated . Specialization in Medical Anthropology Medical anthropologists have specialized in a number of other areas , including population and birth control , the treatment of terminal illness , ethnopharmacology , and the relationship between stress and disease . In most cases , specialization has coincided with significant public interest in particular areas of health care . Since health and illness are matters of considerable concern to all of us , and since national governments around the world have come to assume a high level of responsibility for the health @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and popularity . It is interesting to note that equitable health care is a high priority of most developed nations . For lesser-developed countries , on the other hand , effective health-care programs are often seen as a primary indicator of progress . In either case , the applied anthropologist now plays a significant role in helping expand our understanding of the causes of illness , as well as in identifying many of ' the problems inherent in delivering effective health care . // APPLIED ANTHROPOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT Many of the specialty areas discussed elsewhere in this chapter and the next include a strong interest in problems associated with development . We have seen , for example , that a major focus in applied medical anthropology has been on improving health care in lesser-developed regions of the world . In this section , we will consider development and modernization from a somewhat narrowed perspective . I take the term development to mean deliberate attempts to alter human interaction with the natural and built environment ? through innovations in agriculture , new energy exploitation and conversion , the construction of modern transportation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ I use the term modernization in a somewhat larger sense , to refer to the ultimate stated objective of development projects , which is usually to improve the overall quality of human life in a region . Anthropology and Agriculture Anthropologists have come to an interest in agricultural development through their long experience in working closely with the horticultural and peasant communities of the Third World . This involvement coincides with a national interest in improving the agricultural productivity of " food poor " countries , although the objectives of agricultural assistance programs may vary from project to project . For example , some programs have as their goal the elimination of rural poverty through the introduction of farming technology and technique , new plant varieties , commercial fertilizers , and similar innovations . Other programs are developed around attempts to improve the nutritional status of a people . Still other programs might be directed to deal with problems related to capital improvement in lesser-developed countries ? such as encouraging agricultural self-sufficiency and reducing the need for food imports , or helping a country develop foods for cash export . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development and aiding rural populations are at odds , as we saw in the preceding section with Marchione 's study of subsistence farmers and agricultural wage earners iii Jamaica . When such a problem occurs , the question is whether this potential for conflict is actually based on differing development needs ten her national versus regional needs or different social class needs ) or is only ( ased on differing perceptions of those needs . In her evaluation of a Luge-scale agricultural program in the Chingleput district of ' India , Joan Menuhet ( 1977 ) argues that an attempt to increase food grains production in the region was hampered by too-close attention to a model of development which had evolved from principles of ' Western agricultural economic . As part of a " Green Revolution " ideology of ' agricultural development // in the " Third World which became popular during the 1950s and 1960s , the pilot project in the Chingleput district stressed aid to relatively well-established farmers , often at the expense of poorer , more marginal farmers . While some of the project 's goals for increased @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the conditions of poverty among marginal farmers was not satisfied . Importantly , Mencher found no evidence that improvements in agricultural production within the district were the result of the project planners having favored the wealthier , resource-rich farmers . Equal or higher yields might have been expected had the government focused attention on marginal farmers and cooperative marketing strategies . Mencher argues that the project planners did not anticipate such a possibility because their perception of the marginal farmer led them to assume that these people could not be expected to adapt to the agricultural innovations being introduced into the area . However , no clear evidence supported this view . Development strategies are often based on short-sighted or erroneous ideas about the populations they will affect . Anthropologists frequently challenge such ideas . Is it true that traditional , small-operation farmers can not be expected to embrace modern farming innovations ? Or is this simply a self-fulfilling prophecy resulting from the past systematic exclusion of these farmers from such opportunities ? By the same token , anthropologists have sometimes challenged their own cherished notions of the development process @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ communities tended to emphasize the conservative side of the peasantry , arguing that traditional farmers are likely to reject changes in subsistence practices on the basis of deep-seated value orientations ( see , for example , Foster 's 1967 and Van Zantwijk 's 1967 critique of a rural development project in Mexico ) . More recent studies , such as Frank Cancian 's Change and Uncertainty in a Peasant Economy ( 1972 ) and Billie R. Dewalt 's Modernization in a Mexican Lido ( 1979 ) have argued against this perspective . In some cases , lower-class and poorer farmers are found to be more receptive to innovative practices than middle-class farmers who are financially secure . The contributions of applied anthropologists to problems bearing directly on agricultural practice and innovation have been limited ( as have contributions by anthropologists in many other policy domains ) by the tendency for anthropologists to be utilized solely as " trouble-shooters " by change agents and government researchers . In this mode of practice , described more fully in Chapter 1 in terms of the " consultant " role , the anthropologist is called @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or to anticipate the potential for conflict and misapplication a newly planned agricultural development scheme . When anthropologists have had an opportunity to work closely with other agricultural specialists over a long period of time , their contributions have usually been // impressive . One such example involves the International Potato Center in Peru ( Rhoades and Rhoades 1980 ) . Two characteristics of the work of the Potato Center stand out . First , anthropologists engage in full-time research with the Center , working alongside a wide variety of other professionals . Second , the Center is devoted to mounting an intensive effort in research and technical assistance for a limited range of problems related to crop production ? most notably , to the agriculture of the potato , an important subsistence and export crop in much of the world . One study sponsored by the Center and conducted by the Mexican anthropologist Enrique Mayer ( 1979 ) illustrates these characteristics . Mayer sought to place his research within the social context and ecological niches in which potato farming occurred in Peru 's Mantaro Valley . He identified three ecological @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to social class differences in the area . Farming practices varied within each zone . As many such studies have suggested ( including l ) ewalt , discussed above ) , Mayer argued that a single approach to improving potato production would be inadvisable because it would ignore the social and ecological realities of the region . For example , large-scale commercial potato agriculture , practiced in the " low zone " of the valley , would not be appropriate to the ecological conditions of the " intermediate zone , " where peasant farming strategies prevail . Mayer pointed out that the labor-intensive agriculture practiced by peasant farmers in the intermediate zone not only supported a larger population of farmers , but also produced yields equal to those of the commercial zone . Much of the recent work of anthropologists interested in agricultural development has centered on problems of farm management . This work attempts to match formal models of economic development with a greater understanding of the ways in which farmers make crucial agricultural decisions ( Bartlett 1980 ) . In this light , John Bennett ( 1980 ) has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ way of describing differences between " active " and " inactive " farm managers . Bennett 's long-term , ethnographic study of ' family farmers in western Canada compared the different management styles of farmers with other characteristics of farm families and of the economy . The study demonstrates the importance of household variables iii farmers ' decision making . The management styles of farmers corresponded not only to changes in exterior variables ( such as the condition of the agricultural economy ) but also to changes in family composition ( such as the size and developmental stage of a household ) . While anthropologists have conducted much of their work among agrarian peoples , it is only recently that a clear potential for applied specialization has emerged in this area . Much of the earlier work , to the extent that it had applied implications , can be subsumed under the somewhat broader category of community development discussed later . Recently , // however , a number of anthropologists have called for concerted efforts in these areas . Robert and Vera Rhoades ( 1980 ) , for example , have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ scientists and to seek employment with government agencies and firms involved in agricultural development . The recently established bulletin Culture of Agriculture , published by the Anthropological Study Group on Agrarian Systems , serves as a vehicle of communication for anthropologists interested in such matters . Natural Resource Development Large-scale efforts to develop a region or a country are often linked to attempts to improve an area 's ability to capitalize on its natural resources ? whether through the construction of dams , the exploitation of forests and rangelands , the mining of precious minerals , or the development of fuel . Almost invariably , these projects affect prior uses of the land where the resources are found and have a significant impact on people who live in the area . In many cases , as in the construction of clams , human populations will have to be resettled before resources can be effectively exploited . In other cases , as in the development of fossil fuel resources , an area that was previously only sparsely settled may experience a radical influx of population . In still other instances , such @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ one population group might be replaced by another . Sometimes , the mere presence of a resource innovation , such as the construction of a nuclear power plant , might have a significant impact on nearby human settlements even though no great changes in population distribution are anticipated . In each of these cases , anthropologists often provide a variety of services , such as assessing future human impacts , anticipating resistance to resource development , or helping create resettlement projects . Involvements of this kind have increased in the last decade or so as a result of a number of closely related factors . First of all , both private and public decision makers have become increasingly sensitive to the human costs often associated with resource development . In many countries , government regulations and laws require that an assessment of project impacts on human populations be included in the process of deciding whether to proceed with a particular development scheme . The current vogue in policy and planning often favors multipurpose development , and requires that consideration be given to how a particular effort can best serve a variety @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The scarcity and high international market value of energy resources has resulted in increased exploitation of existing fuels and the sometimes problematic introduction of energy alternatives . In many countries , including the United States , indigenous peoples are establishing their claim to natural // resources and to the regulation of land use within areas under their jurisdiction , thus providing added incentive for cultural sensitivity on the part of major resource developers . As a result of long-term research in Zambia 's Gwembe Valley , Thayer Scudder and Elizabeth Colson ( 1979 ) have had several opportunities to note the often essential relationship between basic and applied research . With a background of early ethnographic research among the people of the Zambia Valley , Scudder and Colson returned to the area in the mid-1950s to study the people 's response to a forced relocation caused by the construction of a clam in the valley . This early experience led to the opportunity for Scudder to participate in policy-related studies in other regions of Africa where similar events were occurring . From these several applied projects , Scudder was able to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ " rural communities undergoing compulsory resettlement respond in the same general fashion irrespective of their sociocultural background and of the policy of resettlement authorities " ( Scudder and Colson 1979:246 ) . The response Scudder observed was one of " extreme stress . " Scudder and Colson argue : In coping with this stress , relocated communities behave as if they see sociocultural systems as closed systems , a response which greatly facilitates prediction by the anthropologist . They cling to familiar people and familiar institutions , changing during the initial years following removal no more than necessary to come to terms with the new habitat including its prior habitants . Presumably because the level of stress is close to a critical threshold , radical changes from within ( revitalization movements , for example ) and from without ( including attempts by planners to change social organization ) are rejected . ( 1979:247 ) Scudder and Colson suggest that resettlement schemes , no matter how culturally sensitive or imaginative , will probably not have much impact on the way people respond to forced removal from their homeland . This may seem @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ decision maker faced with implementing a resettlement program ; but we need to consider that a major objective of public decision making is to at t lye at accurate assessments of the relative benefits and costs of particular plans of action . Scudder and Colson 's conclusions respond to this level of poll ( v articulation . Decision makers must consider such evidence in their planning , and the human cost of any projects involving such resettlement should be calculated at a higher ratio to its assessed benefits . By the same token , eye can see how the promise of a rational and humane resettlement plan could erroncously be added to a calculation of benefit and used to millet estimate the actual human costs of forced relocation . In either case , the know ledge base on which such assessments are made has the potential dot tipping the scale as to whether darts are built , highways are con86 Specialization in Applied Anthropology I structed , or other resource innovations are attempted . Relocation is not the only way a community might be affected by natural resource development . And @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the identification and possible solution of problems related to development . As director of the Wyoming Human Services Project , anthropologist Julie Uhlman headed a multipurpose " action " approach to the problems faced by local communities experiencing heavy in-migration as a result of the development of fossil fuel resources . The project combined training , research , and direct community service goals . A multidisciplinary faculty and professional team from the University of Wyoming sought " to train students to view services delivery from an integrated perspective before they become locked into a single disciplinary perspective " ( U.S. Department of Health , Education and Welfare 1977:6 ) . Student and faculty teams not only provided aid for direct service to public agencies , but assisted two impacted communities in assessing their new service needs and planning appropriate responses to problems resulting from radical population shifts . A final goal of the project was to produce research results which could be generalized to similarly impacted communities . Community service teams were sent to two Wyoming " boomtowns , " both of which were experiencing the impact of extensive coal-mining @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that the human service needs of these communities not only increased as a result of rapid population growth , but that the types of services required changed as newcomers brought different lifestyles and long-time residents were faced with adapting to new stresses . While Uhlman presumably had hoped that her experience might provide the basis for offering procedural guidelines for dealing with the impacts of population increase in other regions , her analysis of the project emphasizes the differences between the two communities and underscores the need for flexibility . She argues that the method of implementation developed by the Wyoming Human Services Project teams should have wide applicability , but that it requires a keen appreciation for the unique characteristics and needs of individual communities . We can take advantage of these examples to observe how applied anthropologists can respond to different stages and levels of public policy , and to understand how important it is to recognize the level at which a particular effort ought to be scaled . Scudder and Colson 's work reaches its potential on the basis of their willingness to try to generalize ? a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ efforts are more clearly directed to program-level planning and implementaion , where the experience of how specific projects relate to particular settings is a vital component of ' success . Both approaches are equally tenable contributions to applied work . // Community and Regional Development Most of the projects discussed in the preceding two sections are problem-specific . They can be stated in terns of a single goal or a few closely related goals ? such as improving potato production in a region or advising the planners of resettlement schemes . Anthropologists may respond to such problems in a holistic manner , but the goals of the projects are strictly limited . Other projects are holistic from their inception . These approaches typically articulate problems of development in terms of how they relate to a community or region as a whole , and as they reflect the influence of larger political , social , and economic spheres of influence which impinge on a community 's development . The Vicos project , discussed briefly in Chapter 1 , provides an example of a large-scale and long-term community development project in which applied @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ project between the government of Peru and Cornell University . When Cornell , under the project directorship of anthropologist Allan Holmberg , assumed the lease for the Vicos hacienda , it was with the intention of combining research with social and technological change and political ; fiction goals designed to encourage the people living on the hacienda to seek autonomy and become a " free community " ( Mangin 1979 ) . Cornell l Iniversity was formally involved in the project for more than a decade ( 1951-1964 ) . One of the major objectives of the Vicos project was to establish community decision-making skills among the Indian population ( Holmberg I 965 ) . This could not be done , however , without addressing several related problems . The anthropologists had to establish their own roles carefully if ( hey were to avoid being treated by the Indians in the same manner of dependence and hostility as their previous " patrons , " who had leased the Hacienda primarily for their own economic advantage . Before decisionmaking skills could be effectively applied , the Indians at Vicos had to liieve @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the early %%ork of the project was devoted to introducing new agricultural techniques , searching for innovations in marketing strategies , and providing the incentive and training to encourage the Indians to diversify into other o upational trades and professions . Throughout the project , the experiment at Vicos met with varied responses from surrounding communities , the local non-Indian population , and the Peruvian national government . I lie Indians had to be supported in their brushes with the outside world and eu oivaged to develop effective strategies for building a power base of anal ( mil . Few projects in applied anthropology have been so carefully scrutinized over as long a period of time as the Vicos project , partly because of the large numbers of anthropologists and anthropology students involved . // From an action perspective , Vicos is often described as a qualified success . It did not prove to be a miracle cure to the problems of ' underdevelopment . The Indians of Vicos improved their lot in life considerably , although there is debate over the extent to which this was due to the careful @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indians themselves ( Mangin 1979:82 ) . Although Vicos became a " free community , " it has remained dependent on the vicissitudes of Peruvian national policy . Mangin indicates , for example , that the government 's new land reform law has threatened the basis on which land tenure in the community was founded . He also reports that the Indians ' attitudes toward change and the outside world continue to be based on feelings of ' suspicion and distrust . These qualifications do not mitigate the importance of Vicos , either as a focus for research into community development or as an action project . As in most social interventions , it is next to impossible to determine how the people of Vicos would have fared had there been no project . ( Comparable studies conducted in similar communities which did not benefit from the outside effort expended at Vicos would have helped in this regard , but they were not attempted . ) On the other hand , the project serves as an important demonstration of how the intentions of particular community development projects are woven into the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to complex structures of heritage and authority . Similar observations can be drawn from a later development project in Peru which closely followed the Vicos model . Directed by Peruvian anthropologist Oscar Nunez del Prado ( 1973 ) , the project at Kuyo Chico demonstrated that large-scale , holistic development programs can be effective responses to the problems of regional underdevelopment . What is more , events in Kuyo Chico influenced other Indian communities in the area , particularly in their dealings with non-Indians and in the successful development of public works projects . Like Vicos , the project at Kuyo Chico was also influenced by Peruvian national policy and , according to Nunez del Prado , threatened the established order of land tenure in the region to a degree that was sufficient to encourage the government to withdraw its support . Although the work undertaken at Vicos and Kuyo Chico serves to highlight the contributions anthropologists might make to community development while serving as principal change agents and as administrators of development projects , it must also be recognized that they are anomalies in the literature of community and regional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Kuyo Chico , Robert A. Manners ( 1974 ) complains that the study tends to overstate the contribution of anthropology and to distort the contributions that might be expected from other sectors of ' society . Acknowledging that Kuyo Chico was a success , Mariners commits the near heresy ( from the perspective of some zealous applied atitbro89 Specialization in Applied Anthropology pologists ) of asking , " Would the results have been any different if funding and official sanction were held constant but a couple of Peruvian social workers or a pair of civil libertarian lawyers , or two more carpenters , or an economist and an agronomist , had been substituted for the ... anthropologists ? " ( Manners 1974:700 ) . It is important to recognize that most community development projects are not managed by anthropologists , and that no clear evidence exists that they should be . If anything , applied anthropologists who do assume such positions will probably be most successful when they can add to their training in anthropology the ability to envision a development problem in terms that transcend the limits of any particular @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ anthropology and development deals extensively with the role of the applied anthropologist . According to classic texts in applied anthropology , this'role is primarily that of a researcher advising overseas change agents of the importance of a culturally sensitive approach to development . Such arguments are often based on examples of how a lack of cultural understanding can lead to ineffective or disastrous results , or of how an increased awareness of'cultural process might have salvaged a project in trouble . In this mode , Ward Goodenough ( 1963 ) discussed the " pitfalls of cultural ignorance . " Conrad Arensberg and Arthur Niehoff ( 1964 ) prepared a manual for development change agents working overseas , the purpose of which was not only to improve the agents ' sensitivity to the unique cultural puzzles they might encounter in foreign countries , but also to increase their awareness of the limits of understanding imposed by their own culture . A major chapter in Arensberg and Niehoff ' s book was devoted to " American Cultural Values . " In most of these contributions , the line is clearly drawn between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as an action specialist or decision maker . Homer Barnett ( 1956 ) went so far as to suggest that the two roles were incompatible , and that anthropologists would be best advised to maintain some distance from the processes of actual decision making . This type of material represents some of the most systematic attempts by anthropologists to describe the development process . Still , without fully disparaging the contributions , in retrospect the genre often seems to rely too heavily on carefully selected " just-so " stories . We are introduced to the well-intentioned but misinformed and ethnocentric change agent , usually in the form of a government representative . Then we meet the recalcitrant , suspicious native . After this , we are told how the anthropologist comes in to sage the day , setting the change agent straight and placating the native . I he formula semis simple enough , but how close is it to reality ? // One rather outspoken detractor has been Glyn Cochrane ( 1971 ) , a former development administrator turned anthropologist . Cochrane criticizes the " part-time " applied anthropology summarized @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ change agents have sometimes been culturally inept ( a conclusion Cochrane does not fully accept ) , applied anthropologists stand equally guilty of having been ignorant of the administrative aspects and bureaucratic niceties of development work . Cochrane calls for a new generation of development anthropologists with a keener knowledge of " organizational delivery systems . " He describes these as : ... general practitioners . . . who have obtained broad or specialized competence in anthropology but who do not wish to pursue a university career . It is necessary for these people to develop skills to function as members of what I term a development team in the field . Some may do staff work . Theirs is the task of supplying an anthropological dimension in the day to day activities of international agencies and governments . ( 1971 : 109-110 ) Much of what Cochrane envisioned has begun to take place , not only in development anthropology but in many of the special-interest areas described here . Still , to be fair to those he criticizes , we must realize that their contribution emerged at a rare time @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Many of these early assessments were based on experiences occurring immediately after World War II . Not only was the anthropology of that time largely either ambivalent or antagonistic toward application , but the United States had very little prior experience in overseas development . In many respects , both popular opinion and foreign policy in the United States were still clothed in the elusive veil of " manifest destiny . " As patronizing and high-minded as United States anthropologists have sometimes appeared in writing about overseas development work , much of their approach seems justified as an appropriate response to the collective inexperience of the United States populace . Cochrane , on the other hand , was writing from the perspective of his overseas development work for Britain , a country with a much longer history of colonial involvement . The Victims of Development An advocacy perspective shows through in most anthropological discussions of international development work . This is not surprising when we consider that those people most likely to have been the favored subjects of traditional ethnographic field research are also the most likely to suffer from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a tendency to advocate for the " underdog " has sometimes been a factor in limiting anthropologists ' ability to understand the " privileged " ( Chambers 1977 ) , but nonetheless we must recognize that anthropologists // have served important roles as witnesses for peoples who have been disadvantaged and endangered by the uneven processes of modernization . In development work , rarely does everyone share equally in the benefits accrued from a planned technological change or social innovation . In the case of large-scale development projects , the risks for some peoples may far outweigh any presumed benefits . One objective of humane planning is to ensure that decision makers fully recognize these potential costs in human suffering . Too often they do not . In other instances , the costs might be recognized but not heeded . One of the most pervasive problems in assessing the benefits and costs of development is arriving at a consensus of what these terms mean in any given instance . The calculation of benefits and costs is a value-laden enterprise . How does one measure the quality of human life ? More @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ different ideals in our assessment of any particular development scheme ? At what point is a particular human cost tolerable , and at which extreme is it simply too much to bear ? Who will make these decisions , and what information will they have at their disposal ? In discussing the impact of Western expansionism on the tribal peoples of the world , John Bodley ( 1975 ) argues that development has always been associated with massive exploitation of a region 's human and natural resources , accompanied by an attitude of ethnocentrism which permits developers and change agents to argue that their efforts are " for the native 's own good . " Bodley identifies several stages in the exploitation of tribal peoples . First , settlers and missionaries arrive as a part of a " frontier process . " Conflicts between settlers and tribal peoples often lead to armed conflict . Western governments then step in to establish order . In the classic sense of this tale , the recognition of disorder is based upon a judgment that the " natives are restless . " The relatively stable @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ they became a part of someone else 's frontier are rarely recognized . Government control of tribal areas leads to a colonial mentality . Western governments assume responsibility for the welfare of native peoples . Even as colonialism declines , accompanied by the rise of " Third World nationalism , the effects of expansionism are often not lessened . National governments assume responsibility for their tribal peoples , along with conover the resources of whatever territories these people have managed to retain . Struggling to modernize , these new nations continue the pattern of exploitation over the tribal peoples within their boundaries . Western nations . often assist with new development schemes . Seldom do the tribal peoples manage to return to the autonomy they once enjoyed . ' Hu . same observation can be applied to other groups of people who ale transported from one lifestyle to another on the vagaries of someone else 's ideal of progress  --  notably to refugees and immigrants . Efforts to // assist these people , however well intentioned , often result in what Gilbert Kushner ( 1973 ) has called the " administered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ personnel offered as temporary measures to help uprooted people adjust to a new settlement or way of life tend to remain in place long after they have fulfilled their purpose . The result can be a prolonged , if not permanent , denial of the community 's right to self-determination . The ideology of this pattern of expansionism has included the belief that the spread of Western influence represented both a technological and moral victory . Many anthropologists have been quick to point out that it was not a moral victory , and in the light of an increasing awareness of the social awkwardness and resource inefficiency of much of our " superior " industrialization , some have questioned whether , in the long run , it will be judged to be a technological victory . In either case , the anthropologists ' close association with traditional peoples has helped encourage and maintain an advocacy perspective . Established groups such as the Anthropology Resource Center and Cultural Survival , Inc. , maintain through their membership and publications a much-needed sense of vigilance . Both groups , for example , have supported @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the rapidly developing , resource-rich regions of South America . Similar patterns of exploitation exist in the United States . Jorgensen et al . ( 1978 ) have described the difficulties American Indians have encountered as the natural resources on their lands have become increasingly attractive to an energy-starved nation . Jorgensen argues that applied researchers , often employed to assess the impacts of large development projects , have a special obligation to " use their special information and skills for humanity . " In regard to energy development in the western United States , he writes : Today , neither reservation Indians nor local Whites in the West have been adequately informed about the potential effects of energy developments on their lands and lives . There is a considerable need for social scientists to analyze the potential personal , social , economic , and political effects of energy developments and to make this information freely available . ( 1978:14 ) While the principle of advocacy can be an important part of development work , we must keep in mind that its application always draws on value commitments . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a particular people may dull the advocate 's appreciation of the full implications of his or her intentions . ( Just as a social science researcher 's blind allegiance to a particular method of research might hinder his or her ability to arrive at alternative discoveries through the use of other methodological approaches . ) In a public lecture , Drench anthropologist Andre-Marcel d'Ann // ( 1979 ) argued that this might be true of the strong advocacy position some anthropologists have taken in supporting a proposal that a national park in Brazil be set aside for the use of the Yanomamo Indians . While sympathetic to the difficulties the Yanomamo face as their traditional territory is lost to the vagaries of " civilization , " d'Ans questioned why they had been selected for special treatment . Was it simply because , through the popular films and writings of anthropologists , most United States citizens were more keenly aware of the plight of the Yanomamo ? Would setting aside such a large area ( approximately one million acres ) be an appropriate response to the overall social and economic conditions of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Indian peoples undergoing similar stress in Brazil , and there was not enough land in the entire country to provide them all with equal allotments . Neither ( lid the park proposal address the needs of millions of non-Indian Brazilians living in poverty ; in fact , the park proposal might be seen as detrimental to their welfare . The point is that advocacy assumes the common obligation of all anthropologists to consider any interpretation of an event from multiple points of view and to constantly challenge their own perspective , maintaining a keen appreciation of the consequences of their own cultural and professional blindspots . Modest Proposals Development work has closely followed cycles of public opinion and intellectual fashion . The policy interests of any given time help determine what types of projects will be attempted , how much and what kind of resource will be committed to them , and where they will take place . Many current trends in development work appear to favor the participation of applied anthropologists . Even a decade ago , development work sponsored by the United States Agency for International Development was based @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ development almost entirely on the basis of economic criteria . Policy priorities at this time favored large-scale development projects which would stimulate national economies and presumably have a " trickle down " effect of reducing poverty and disadvantage among the least privileged of a country 's people . Significant changes in the way the Agency for International Development conducted its overseas development programs began to occur during be I970s . The " New Directions " of the Agency ( Jansen 1980 ) turned away ronl the assumptions implied by the " trickle clown " approach and began to Ion us on smaller-scale developmental projects directed where the need was the greatest . ' I he ; Agetu ' s new guidelines included more careful attention to the inip.0 Is of development projects and required that the people who were to // be most affected by the projects be consulted as to their perceived needs and preferences . Increased awareness of social and cultural obstacles to development led to a requirement that applied research ( called " social soundness analysis " by the Agency ) be included as a part of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular projects . By the early 1980s , United States foreign aid policy had begun to shift back to a policy emphasis on larger-scale economic development projects . The Congressionally mandated requirement for social soundness analysis has , however , remained in place ? ensuring , although perhaps on a smaller scale , the continued participation of anthropologists and other social scientists . Despite shifts in federal policy , the notion of small-scale development directed to areas of acute need has considerable popular appeal . This approach is consistent with the idea of " appropriate " and " relevant " technology inspired in part by British economist E.F . Schumacher ( 1973 ) . Schumacher 's emphasis on " economics as if people mattered " relates to a sense of resource scarcity , an alarming evidence of worldwide ecocide , and the disappointing results of prior attempts to solve the world 's problems through the application of large-scale technological solutions . For the time being , at least , many of us have begun to see the space we occupy in the universe as finite and in desperate need of conservation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world have taught us that modern civilization , with all its startling advances in communication and transportation , is not necessarily a " melting pot " and may be more like a stew of discontent . A growing recognition of the costs of rapid technological growth has become a part of our awareness . We can expect many of our responses to development problems to steer a course of modest proposals . It seems to be a course of respect , awareness , and tolerance which is not at all inconsistent with the anthropological perspective . At the same time , we need to recognize that modesty and " appropriate technologies " can become a shield for a lack of commitment to the problems of uneven world development . The anthropologist Charles Erasmus noted this more than two decades ago : I am opposed to the notion that large-scale contruction projects are quixotic and extravagant compared to the inexpensive , self-help projects through which people are supposedly taught to lift themselves by their own bootstraps . Nor can I take seriously the implication of The Ugly American that the hope @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States millionaires who invent irrigation pumps operated by bicycles ... We can not preserve free society through some modern loaves-and-fish miracle by sending professional do-gooders abroad to prod people into cheap , bootstrap development while we sit at home hypnotized by our television sets and by the flashing chrome on the neighbors ' new cars . We must all confilmic to the necessary costs of development . ( 1961:3211 ) // PERSPECTIVE While areas of special interest in applied anthropology presume an indepth knowledge of another field of inquiry ( such as medicine or international development ) , other distinctions exist between the interests of applied anthropologists . These distinctions form special interests or skills in their own right . We have noted some of these in this chapter . Applied anthropologists might , for example , be specialized in a particular style of research , such as social impact assessment or evaluation research . Several major approaches to applied research will be discussed in Chapter 5 of this book . We have also seen that applied anthropologists tend to be specialized in the types of activities in which they are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be teachers in highly specialized settings ( as when applied anthropologists teach in medical schools ) , or they may be actively involved in the delivery of one or another kind of service . As we review the ways in which anthropologists have contributed to other fields of knowledge , we night note another trend toward the development of special interests . While most anthropologists retain a major interest in problems related to culture process , this interest is realized in different ways . Regardless of his or her topical area of specialization , the anthropologist can express an interest in cultural activities in at least three ways : 1 . The Importance of Local or Indigenous Beliefs and Practices . One of ' the contributions of anthropology is to demonstrate that most human groups have developed practical and effective ways to meet the basic needs of human existence . These practices are in turn reinforced by a belief system which helps relate individual practices to a total way of being . An understanding of indigenous belief systems and the practices which accompany t hem is useful in a number of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Western agriculture may , for example , make more sense when viewed in their cultural context . Similarly , the persistence ol ' indigenous practices which have become maladaptive because of the radical changes in the conditions of a people 's existence may seem irrational , but can be better understood when associated with the cultural Context from which those practices are derived . 2 . The Cultural Belief System of Change Agents . Some applied anthropologists prefer to focus on the practices and belief systems of change agents , generally reflecting upon aspects of their own culture rather than upon the ( tilt tit al systems of another people . An anthropologist might , for example , ( onside ' : a modern United States hospital as a cultural setting , and thereby contribute to some of the practices and beliefs concerning health ( . u ( whit h arc unique to this institution . To what extent are the primary health-car goals of a modern hospital compatible with the status needs of // doctors and nurses , jeopardized by competition between hospitals . or shaped by a biomedical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effective patient care ? Anthropologists working in this vein have helped us understand our own institutions better . 3 . The Delivery of Services . Some applied anthropologists have focused on the processes involved in delivering one or another type of service . This interest assumes a sensitivity to the processes of cultural exchange . It may involve situations in which there is a considerable distance between the cultural beliefs of the deliverers and recipients of the services involved . But in other cases anthropologists might focus on situations in which people share much the same cultural beliefs but occupy different roles or statuses in relation to a particular service activity . A good example is the difference in contemporary attitudes toward childbirth in the United States . On the one hand , clear differences exist in cultural attitudes toward the techniques of giving birth . Some ethnic groups , for example , rely heavily on the use of midwives , and may employ different " charms " or home remedies to ease delivery . On the other hand , a fairly standard medical model for child delivery is shared by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can change on the basis of new medical insight as well as changing patterns of belief , it includes such practices as the routine use of drugs to induce labor , the administration of anesthetics during labor , the preference for a supine position for delivery , the mandatory presence of a physician during delivery , the use of instruments to hasten birth , and the prolonged hospitalization of the mother after delivery . The fact that confidence in these techniques may often be shared by the deliverer and the recipient of birthing services does not negate the importance of their cultural component . Each of these practices can be traced to beliefs concerning who is most responsible for the actual process of birth : the mother or the attending physician . Many of the practices are related to beliefs concerning the relative statuses of doctor and patient , and attitudes about whose convenience is most important ( luring the birthing process . Anthropologists tend to take a special interest not only in specific topical areas , methods , and roles , but also in particular manifestations of cultural process . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ seldom made explicit and are sometimes based more on how they learned to relate to their field than on a deliberate weighing of the advantages of one or another possibility . As applied anthropologists become more aware of the variety of choices involved , their ability to relate their choices to the solution of particular problems is improved . RECOMMENDED READINGS Medical Anthropology The areas of specialization in applied anthropology discussed in this chapter and the next are represented by a large and rapidly growing liter-                     