@@774092

txt // These divisions comprise what sociologists call the structure of society . The division oflabour is the product of human creativity and purpose as embodied in the idea of man as homo faber . We suggest that engineering plays a crucial role in this . Homo faber is an important idea because it helps to explain how man 's culture , his tools , habits , traditions , beliefs , skills and abilities have developed . Homo faber helps to highlight the fact that man is the only really self-made animal and the significance of man 's culturally transmitted characteristics which distinguish him from other animals , whose attributes are inherited to a much greater degree ( Lorenz , 1937 ; Tinbergen , 1951 , 1968 ) . Although people have always worked , and always been homo faber , the nature of work has changed greatly over the centuries . Economic development has made much work physically and often mentally less demanding , and often a lot less time-consuming . The division of labour has continually fragmented , reorganized and transformed work and working relationships . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and to raise expectations about work and employment . Yet in spite of very high living standards for the wealthy in a few parts ofthe world , the vast majority of people still have to work in order to live , with a large minority still extremely poor . For this and other reasons work looks likely to remain central to life in the foreseeable future . Berger ( 1964 ) argued that work could be experienced by people in three main ways . It could be life-enhancing , even all-absorbing , and the major source of a person 's identity ( as for many professionals , artists and craftsmen ) . At the other extreme it could be variously dirty , dangerous or menial and a source of suffering and a threat to one 's identity and self-esteem ( for example , coal mining , office cleaning , and refuse collection ) . Between these two poles there lay a grey area of jobs which produced neither fulfilment nor suffering in people : they were tolerable without offering much satisfaction ( for example , bank officials , semi-skilled factory operatives @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ argued that the last category has been expanding at the expense of the other two . Berger 's categories have been paralleled and developed by Parker ( 1972 , 1976 ) who was interested in relationships between work and other areas of life . For Parker leisure and other non-work activities typically associated with life-enhancing jobs tended to bean extension of work . Examples might include the electronics engineer whose hobbies were hi-fi and home computing , or the social worker who did voluntary work or belonged to pressure groups on behalf of clients . Particularly arduous , degrading or otherwise unpleasant jobs tended // to be in opposition to non-work activities . Frustrated and unfulfilled workers drew a firm line between work and the rest oflife . They either concentrated strongly on the private worlds offamily and hobbies , or indulged in such forms of explosive compensation as heavy drinking and using the services of prostitutes . Examples of the former include assembly-line workers in car manufacturing ( Goldthorpe et al. , 1968 , 1969 ) ; the latter include deep-sea fishermen ( Tunstall , 1962 ) . Finally the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ associated with a pattern of neutrality . Work and non-work were simply different parts of life , complementary and each with its own rewards and problems . Is there any general theory or set ofideas about human nature which can explain , among other things , why and how people work ? The short answer is yes , and we spell elements of it out below , but it suggests , almost paradoxically , that to understand the details of particular circumstances and cases is often much more useful than to think in general terms . We know that men , unlike animals , can develop languages and employ abstract thought , and that men have very superior abilities to evaluate alternative ways ofbehaving and to control and channel their bodily urges and emotions . As homo faber , men try progressively to conquer and organize the world , simultaneously tool-making and tool-using , searching for individual fulfilment and social welfare , aggressive and cooperative , and acting logically and rationalizing before , during , and after events . The social institutions which men create vary in terms of power , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ some form in virtually all societies . They tend to be unstable because all power tends to provoke resistance and because organized , goaldirected behaviour usually produces at least some unintended and often disruptive consequences . Thus homo faber 's fundamentally awkward experimental and playful nature always reasserts itself in the face of attempts to organize existence . Aggression is a normal , natural and fully human part of this : we are the cruellest and most ruthless species that has ever walked the earth ' ( Storr , 1968 ) . However , self-denying altruism is equally human . So too is cooperation . Homo faber is both selfish and selfless . Human societies which emerge out of homo faber 's activities involve conflict and cooperation . The division of labour expresses both domination and compliance , superordination and subordination . Our range of behaviour , the variety ofour social arrangements and the extent ofour physical and mental creativity appear to be virtually infinite . The main thesis of this book is that the division of labour as it exists in British society often seems to take self-destructive forms . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , wherein not only the divisions between development , design , production , marketing and so on are often unsuitably integrated , but the central role of the tool-maker writ large ? the engineer ? is often undervalued and under-powered. 3 Engineering and the British Economic Problem Introduction The division oflabour refers to social differentiation . There are many facets to social differentiation ; people are differentiated for example on the basis of age , gender , race , regional and national origin , occupation , colour of hair and physical stature . However there are two dimensions of social differentiation which require particularly close attention in respect ofengineers : status and class . The reasons for this are , first , that compared with some occupational groups like doctors and scientists , who might otherwise be thought of as in some way equivalent in terms ofqualifications held and the complexity and responsibility of their jobs , British engineers do not fare particularly well in terms of prestige , financial rewards and power ; and , second , compared with engineers in other countries British engineers do not do well either @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ class and status . Status and class are terms which are used in very precise ways by sociologists . Status refers to lifestyle and patterns of consumption , class refers to an economic relationship in the productive , particularly market , aspect of human life . Status is historically the older type of ranking , based on the ways in which different estates ' or status groups had access to the surplus produced in agriculture or hunting . It refers to a positive or negative estimation of honour or prestige given to individuals or groups ( estates ) . It is expressed in ways ofliving . It is intimately bound up with patterns of consumption and concomitant social and domestic habits . The idea ofstatus tries to capture a range of more or less tangible phenomena from mode of speech , dress and manners , through to patterns of behaviour , morals and beliefs . It may be subjectively felt , through the living out of some kind of life pattern and associated self-image , or it may be bestowed by others . Selfimages of status and status bestowed by others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A person 's age , occupation , achievements , racial origins , and place and type of residence can all be // relevant in such evaluations . It is convenient to distinguish between ascribed status and achieved status . Ascribed status refers to inherent qualities such as birth , age or skin colour . Achieved status is a consequence of personal effort or the appearance of it , resulting in the occupation of particular social roles , for example worker , farmer , businessman , husband , engineer , doctor and so on . Status is generally conferred in ways which legitimize existing differences in power and wealth . Many clerical and other non-manual workers for example feel that they ought to be paid more than skilled manual ones , simply because they themselves do not work with their hands ' . Depending partly on our backgrounds we might assume that poorer people are lazy spendthrifts , or saints , or simply people with no incentive to work . More fundamentally , the values of the powerful and successful tend to colour all our tendencies to honour or to despise others @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lack status relative to their wealth , and vice versa . Class is not the same thing as an occupation , and is not defined by income . Class is an economic phenomenon determined by market relationships and may therefore be related to occupation and pay , but class and occupation and pay are not coterminous . A class is defined as a group in a competitive market relationship for land , labour or capital ; the factors of production . A competitive market relationship in this context is one in which the factors of production , land , labour and capital are treated as commodities having value and price . Competition arises because the factors of production are more or less scarce . Classes are formed in the process of economic exchange of the commodities . Different groups of people ( classes ) enjoy differential access to and control over the various factors of production and therefore differential power in the process of exchange and competition . Consequently , different groups ( classes ) enjoy differential access to the wealth produced by the bringing together in these market relationships @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ society differentiated on the basis of class , can not exist without market relationships . Those with or without possession or control of particular factors of production form the particular class groupings . ( For further discussion of class and status see the introductory texts mentioned above and also Giddens , 1981 . ) We consider the class position of engineers in detail in Chapter 11 . Here we consider the question of status . Measured in status terms , British engineering does not , as an occupation , rank very highly , even though some individual engineers do . There is a considerable literature on this topic . Watson ( 1976 ) reviewed numerous studies of occupational prestige in most of the // industrial countries , and concluded that engineers were indeed less highly regarded in Britain than in any of the others . In the mid-1960s , British professional engineers ranked below doctors , solicitors , university lecturers , research physicists , company directors , dentists and chartered accountants , and only just above primary-school teachers . In the USA engineers were rated roughly equal to scientists and above @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ French , German , Russian and Scandinavian data all suggested that engineers are ranked higher in those countries than in Britain or the USA . Engineers in the developing countries are firmly and consistently placed towards the apex of their professional complex ' . Britain produced far more science graduates relative to engineers than was the case in other industrial countries where engineering courses also attracted more of the most able students . Natural and social science as well as medicine were all much more highly regarded than engineering in Britain . Since Watson wrote the prestige of social science has declined but other relevant changes seem to have had something ofa mutually self-cancelling quality . However , the sum of all changes in educational choices and content , in choices of careers , in occupation formation and occupational organization , is probably slightly beneficial for British engineering 's long-term future , on balance . Even so the problem remains both widespread and deeprooted . For example a survey conducted in 1978 for the Finniston Committee of Inquiry into the Engineering Profession asked a sample of Britain 's general public a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rated below doctors and accountants in terms of career prospects and in doing this the members of the sample seemed to equate engineers with draughtsmen/women . People from the lower social classes rated engineering careers more highly than people from the higher social classes . There was some evidence of prejudice against engineering as a career for women especially on the part of female respondents and those of lower social class . Respondents were asked to identify the kinds ofwork an " Engineer " ' might do , and 68 per cent referred to manual-level jobs with a mere 13 per cent associating the word engineer ' with a professional type of job . Nearly a fifth of the respondents seemed to have very little idea of what engineers do . However about half of the respondents did recognize that professional engineers either did work ofa professional kind or were people with higher-level qualifications than ordinary ' engineers or did work which involved some kind of managerial responsibility . After being given examples of professional engineering tasks , // respondents were then asked about the kinds ofqualifications needed by professional engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A quarter and a third thought , respectively , that electrical and mechanical engineers needed to have served an apprenticeship . At least 38 per cent thought that a lower than HNC/ HNI- ) level qualification was all that was needed . Clearly a lot of ignorance was present although it is likely that most people would have shown similar levels if not types of ignorance about qualifications needed by such people as doctors or accountants . On pay , people from the higher social classes felt that engineers were not very well paid given their qualifications and responsibility levels . People whose households included an engineer had less rosy than average perceptions on engineers ' pay . A small majority ( 53 per cent ) felt that it would be a good idea for their children to aim for a career as a professional engineer after they had been told the sort of jobs that professional engineers do : 37 per cent were negative on this score . Overall these findings clearly confirmed the view that British engineers lack status . It would for example be astounding if68 per cent @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( even ifthe latter is , and an unpleasant kind too ! ) , or if37 per cent felt that careers as accountants or dentists would not be ones that they would encourage their children to follow . Also in the late 1970s Swords-Isherwood ( 1979 ; cf. also Glover 1978a ) briefly but effectively reviewed a wide range of evidence on the backgrounds and careers of managers in Britain , the USA , West Germany , France and the USSR . British managers she characterized as coming from mixed/low social class backgrounds whereas her conclusions for the other countries were : USA ? mixed/high ; West Germany ? high/mixed ; France ? high , and the USSR ? high . On the percentages of graduates in management and in the general population her conclusions were : Britain ? low/low ; USA ? high/ high ; West Germany ? high/low ; France ? high/low ; and the USSR ? high/medium . On managers ' main undergraduate subjects of study the conclusions were , with the more important subjects first in each case ( except France and the USSR where only one @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ science , engineering ; USA ? liberal arts , engineering , science ; West Germany ? engineering , business economics , law ; France and the USSR ? both engineering . For all the countries , engineering was very significant in postgraduate courses studied by managers but in Britain and the USA the so-called management subjects like accounting were more prominent . In Britain , unlike all the other countries , part-time educational routes had been important as sources of qualifications and jobs . The likelihood of // being promoted from the shop floor was high in Britain , medium in the USA , low everywhere else . Swords-Isherwood 's conclusions fit well with the more general one that engineering in Britain and the USA lacks prestige compared with engineering in Europe , but that the situation is not so bad ' in the USA as it is in Britain . Another type of evidence on the status of an occupation is that on choices of occupations and of types of specialization within occupations . In Chapter 6 on engineering education we explore in detail the point made above about British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ school-leavers than natural science degree courses . But it is also worth noting that even within engineering , prejudice against manufacturing affects choices of types of work to be done after graduation . Studies of final-year British engineering students ' choices of functional types of work conducted in the late 1970s show this quite strongly ( Herriot , Ecob and Hutchinson , 1980 ; Herriot , Ecob and Glover , 1981 ) . Research and development and design were more often the students ' intended choices than dirty production or sordid sales ' . Many of the students appeared to feel that significant others ' like lecturers , close relatives and friends would prefer them not to work in the latter areas . Students ' choices of employers often depended on whether they felt employers would offer them opportunities to do research and development and they tended to prefer large privatesector organizations as potential employers for this reason . Their beliefs about the outcomes of particular types of work fitted the overall pattern as follows . Technical interest ' was thought most likely to come from work in research and development @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The order of preference for training and experience ' was design , followed by research and development , production and sales . For varied work ' it was design , research and development , sales and production . For dirty and dangerous work ' , a negative ' category , production came first , followed by research and development , design and with sales a long way behind the rest . Contact with people ' was felt to be most likely to be found in sales , then production , then design , with research and development last . Although a reading of these last sentences may suggest that the broad conclusions from the study described previously are dubious , a detailed reading of the statistical data shows that they are not . Research and development was the most favoured choice overall , design seemed to be attractive because of its links with it , and unfavourable attitudes to production were both common and strong . Interestingly , a study of mainly large engineering employers ' // perceptions ofengineering graduates ' qualities which formed an early part of this research mirrored @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1978 ) generally reported problems in recruiting enough graduate engineers of the right quality and type , especially for production and related areas , compared with research and development . They felt that students , especially full-time ones , lacked knowledge of industry . It was sometimes hard to get graduate engineers to move out of research and development or into sales and marketing . Engineering graduates tended to be less ambitious than others , notably accountants . Course content was criticized by most employers for being too academic in emphasis ; they did not want students to learn less science but they did want them to be less ignorant of processes and products and of commerce and finance ( Glover and Herriot , 1982 ) . The paper by Swords-Isherwood ( 1979 ) described above suggests that British engineers fare rather poorly in employment . This would indeed appear to be the case . They appear to be employed , not as potential senior managers , but as technical specialists whose assumed lack of wider knowledge and social skills makes them unsuitable for promotion to top posts in which knowledge @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ environment is needed ( cf. Lawrence , 1977 ) . Finance , marketing , and even personnel and research offer easier routes to the top than production and related functions ( Glover , 1978a ; Melrose-Woodman , 1978 ; SwordsIsherwood , 1979 ; Mansfield et al. , 1981 ; Child et al. , 1983 , 1986 ; Glover and Garbutt , 1986 ; Sorge and Warner , 1986 ; Whalley , 1986 ) . This is not the case in Europe , where engineers clearly do have the relevant attributes , and where engineering and other specialist functions tend to be more closely integrated than in Britain , with far weaker divisions between advisers ' in specialisms like finance and technical development on the one hand and doers ' in production and sales on the other , and with production much more broadly-defined and powerful compared with other functions than in Britain . To elaborate this point a useful list of six forms of managerial controls over employers , developed by Brewster ( 1986 ) can be applied to engineers . First , there is control over inclusion ' , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to lose out in Britain by virtue of the idea that most are ( only ) potential technical specialists , at best a breed of trusted supertechnicians , not potential top job holders . Because they are less likely to be promoted into senior posts than , say , accountants or Oxford history graduates turned marketing specialists , they are also generally more likely to be made redundant when their engineering organizaThe // tions are faring badly . They are also likely to suffer more from direct ( and close ) supervision and from the short and medium term performance measurements ( Brewster 's second , third and fourth types of control ) which are often built into production and financial information systems , for broadly similar reasons , even if they need to be trusted more than many other types of employee by virtue of their often very elaborate expertise . Long-term performance measurement ( Brewster 's fifth type of control ) in terms of formal ( and also in practice partly informal ) performance reviews concerned with promotion potential ' are also clearly likely to be influenced powerfully by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ofengineering functions . A strong element ofself-fulfilling prophecy will be present with senior managements who are generally nonengineers tending to promote people like themselves . Finally , Brewster 's last type of control is enculturation . Its purpose is to create an organization in which everyone shares the beliefs and aims ofthose with power , to turn everyone into ICI people ' for example . It can be formal ( apprenticeships , meetings , courses , etc. ) or informal ( socializing , forming groups and cliques , jokes , jargon , counselling ) but the underlying aim is to get employees to internalize key values and standards . Ifcommercial and financial language and values , rather than technical ones , pervade the culture of top managements as they seem to do in so many British companies then it may be easy enough for engineers to belong ' but far harder to become one of those who determine the nature of the culture which they and others are expected to belong to . Given Britain 's high population density and lack of many natural resources , the low status of engineering @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ power and commerce once secured for Britain now have to be obtained mainly by competence in manufacturing and other engineering sectors . British complacency towards the latter is not new ; it worried some people before 1850 ( Barnett , 1972 ) . This complacency has many facets , such as a poor average level of technical competence and a lack of trust between management and workers as well as rigid status distinctions at work . Education has often and with a great deal of justification been blamed for a lack of concern with industrial needs , although perhaps a society ultimately gets the education system it deserves , not vice versa . Politicians and civil servants are often accused of related prejudices including technical ignorance although they too are inheritors of the problem rather than its originators . Four related points help to account for the low status of British engineering : academic traditions peculiar to Anglo-Saxon education , // the engineering profession 's lack of unity , political indifference , and industry 's lack of concern for technical competence in senior management ( Glover , 1973 ) . Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its successes denigrated . In manufacturing there has been some evidence of conspicuous consumption of engineering and science graduates in misleadingly titled ( because they largely did development and design work ) research and development departments by employers who did not know how to use them properly ( Pym , 1969 ; see also Jewkes et al. , 1969 , and Langrish et al. , 1972 ) . On the relatively low status of engineers in manufacturing , some mechanical engineers in one study felt that they had been identified with dirty manual work , or as intellectual long-hairs ' , or as being narrower and less cultured than other managerial-level people ( Gerstl and Hutton , 1966 ) . About two decades later Beuret and Webb ( 1983 ) found that younger graduate engineers felt isolated from the policy makers of their units , and that the latter , especially those from finance and sales , did not understand technical issues . The relatively low status of engineering in education has been linked to its tendency to shelter under the wing of pure science , unduly theoretical curricula , inadequate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the inability and/or reluctance ofgraduates and others to cope with the often crucial non-technical aspects ofengineering . The lack of status of engineering and engineers in political life has also been noted : Leach ( 1965 ) for example criticized liberal Left and humanist intellectuals for technophobia ' , for being rampantly negative ' and wilfully irresponsible ' towards engineering . Yet engineers ' openness to the outputs of self-styled humanists often put the latter to shame . Both Hinton ( 1970 ) and the Finniston report 's authors ( 1980 ) wanted more national policy and decision makers to be engineers , and the Conservative Political Centre ( 1978 ) sought the appointment of a Cabinet Minister for engineering ' . The latter also wanted the name of the Science Research Council to include the word engineering ? as has now happened . As a sort of preliminary round-up of the types of status-related factor which differentiate most British engineers and foreign counterparts , it is instructive to look at a comparison made between the results ofa survey of British mechanical engineers ( Gerstl and Hutton , 1966 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lawrence , 1981 : see Chapter 9 for more details of this comparison ) . First , the Germans were much better paid than the British engineers , and , compared to other equivalent middle-class occupations in Germany , than the Britons were in Britain . The evidence on British engineers ' pay compared with counterparts abroad and with people // with similar-level qualifications tends to be rather weak but Hutton and Lawrence 's conclusions here are broadly supported by virtually all such evidence ( Glover , 1977b ; Wilby , 1985 ; Child et al. , 1986 ) . In Germany for example , senior engineers earn more than university professors and senior civil servants : the opposite of the British case . The same international difference applied in the late 1970s to comparisons between private sector engineers ( better paid in Germany ) and public sector ones ( better paid in Britain than private sector counterparts ) . Further , German engineering courses are longer and more practical and sector-specific in content than British ones . German engineers are much more likely to be sons of professional and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ hobbies , and somewhat more likely to have attended selective secondary schools ( grammar or public in Britain ) . Secondary education in Germany is broader , certainly after the age of 15 or 16 , than in England and Wales . British engineers area more likely to think of eventually moving into management ' ? but in Germany , engineering is , in manufacturing industry , most of what Britons call management ' . German engineers are more likely to regard design as central to an ideal engineering course ; Britons tend to prefer basic engineering science ' . Germans are more likely to hold doctorates , to have published books and articles and to have patented inventions . Germans are more likely to work in the private sector , and to work for smaller firms . More Germans had the use ofa secretary ( 72 per cent against 43 per cent ) . Germans expressed higher levels ofsatisfaction with their jobs , and were more likely to stay in them for lengthy periods . Finally , Germans worked longer hours . All these conclusions , it must be noted @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dates of the two surveys fully into account , partly with the help of other data . Differences in status and differences in power and in terms of wealth and class ( the last referring to control or lack of control over the process of production ) all tend to go together . Compared to equivalent groups British engineers appear to suffer in terms of all these factors . They are kept in their specialist ' place , not only by nonengineer-dominated managements , but also by such strategies of social closure ( which exclude them ) and social control ( which induce conformity ) as generalist ' management theory and education . If management ' is ? as it certainly is in the Anglo-Saxon countries ? seen largely as a matter of finance , marketing , industrial relations and of partly effete social skills , the practical , the technical and the specialist will be readily excluded . Selection for management courses has often been shown to have more to do with personal qualities ' than with // competent or superior technical performance ( Whitley et al. , 1981 ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ education compared with such subjects as marketing , finance and corporate strategy . The Diploma in Management Studies ( DMS ) , traditionally popular with engineers ( and much less so with accountants ) , often includes courses in operations management , but mainly emphasizes the above kinds of subject . So too do the usually much more prestigious Masters degrees in business administration or management : these attract a much higher proportion ofaccountants and marketing people aiming for top executive posts . They tend to place relatively little emphasis on operations , especially production management , and the ( minority of ) engineers who gain places on them often appear to see them as a vehicle for moving away from engineering and in particular from production . One final point concerning the low status of British engineers should be noted . There exists in British popular culture an idea in which an allegedly arcadian rural past is glorified to the detriment of industrial society with its supposed attendant evils . Engineering is implicated in this fall from grace as the perpetrator of the technical changes which led to industrialism . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lee , Hardy and others helped to sustain this myth . In point of fact in 1840 , when this industrial revolution had supposedly been taking place for decades , only about one in ten of the country 's male workforce was employed in a factory , and one which employed 500 people was regarded as huge . Fores ( 1981 ) has argued that the fact that the very misleading idea of a dramatic industrial revolution has been taken so seriously is of more significance than the events of the period themselves ( see also Kumar , 1978 ) . Distaste for Manufacturing : a Historical Overview In order to understand the British distaste for manufacturing the economic and social developments in British society during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries have to be considered since they provide background information to the issue . The standard studies of British economic development in the decades before 1800 show that much of it took place in farming , commerce , transport and in the growth and distribution of population , as well as in manufacturing . The more significant shifts in employment in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ industrial revolution , between 1760 and 1840 , were from the land to services , not from land to manufacturing . Much of // the growth that did take place in manufacturing was in the very untypical cotton sector which by 1811 produced about half of Britain 's manufacturing output . Cotton never employed more than 7 per cent of the national labour force , and always ( in the nineteenth century ) employed less than the proportion of the working population employed in domestic services . Farming always produced more income and employed more people than cotton between 1760 and 1840 . By 1840 most workers were craftsmen , labourers or domestic servants . The typical worker was not a machine-tender based in a factory . The domestic or putting-out ' system of manufacturing was widespread ; and so was water power , as opposed to steam . Most British ( and European and North American ) manufacturing took place in the countryside , near sources of water and coal . Many Victorian industrial ' cities and towns , like Manchester , Bradford and Hull , developed primarily as centres @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to 1840 general changes in wealth , in farming , commerce and population , and there certainly was an urban evolution ' from a rural England to an urban Britain , but even in mid-century , Britain was not an industrial country . The middle decades ? the 1850s , 1860s and 1870s ? of Queen Victoria 's reign are the key ones for understanding Britain 's present situation . Modern Britain is essentially a mid-Victorian creation , invented part-consciously to do a specific job which seemed , to certain groups of people , to be the right one at the time ' ( Fores and Glover , 1975 ; see also Horne , 1969 ) . That period of reform ' , equipoise ' or improvement ' , as historians called it , saw the firm establishment of middle-class political power ( Briggs , 1959 , Burn , 1964 , Woodward , 1962 ) . It saw the beginnings of a new central government bureaucracy , which would increasingly be staffed through a new system of competitive examinations . It saw middleclass political , economic and social liberalism come to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . It witnessed much of the creation of a new kind of English gentleman , more restrained and caring than his predecessors had been , and better able effortlessly to distance himselfaway from the unseemly demands of hard specialized work . Both the old landed elite and the new wealthy classes had feared the mob , and both had privileged positions to defend . Rather than fight each other , a process that occurred in some European societies , they built a classic , and for our time the most important , British compromise . The old interests offered a range of political and social concessions . The middle classes were given the vote and non34 Engineers in Britain Anglicans were allowed to enter Oxford and Cambridge universities . Private education was expanded and reformed to help the sons of provincial factory owners and merchants learn how to deport themselves as gentlemen . From the 1850s onwards Oxford and Cambridge were made more efficient . Established religion in England and Wales became much more serious than it'had been in the eighteenth century ( partly to help equip itself for debates with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ so as to help make society more efficient and to provide socially respected work for the talented . In a newly-urban society with a rapidly changing division of labour , a whole range of new leisure-time activities was put together and exported . The basic elements of the British national systems of education and training were established along with an odd habit , one practised much more in Britain than in other industrial countries , of believing that natural science is the ultimate source of wealth . The trade union movement and socialist political activity were largely products of the same period . Many of the laws which still affect modern Britons were passed then ( concerning divorce , elementary education , worship , postage and sanitation for example ) . Friendly societies , qualifying associations for professional men , co-operative societies , two-party adversary politics ' , building societies , democratic local government , popular monarchy , and a belief in the superior mechanical ingenuity and moral qualities of the British ( especially the English ) over anyone south or east ofCalais all owe all , or most of , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ celebrated through the development of new lifestyles , as in the suburbs ' where a cosily idealized rural past lived off the wealth produced in smoky mills and factories . It was a three-class society ? upper , middle and working ? divided horizontally , whereas in earlier times social divisions had more of a vertical shape , between administrators , the army , the Church , the country , the towns and so on , divisions recognized as different estates of the realm . The Victorian middle classes helped to develop , and then to exploit , religious revivalism to impose their traditional rectitude , even the puritanism of the middle ranks ' of society , on those above and below them . Middle-class morality and reforming zeal along with beliefs in hard work , self-help and selfdiscipline , were used to set an example to the working classes , and also to encourage the old upper classes to behave more responsibly than they had in the eighteenth century . Educated Victorians left their countrymen with two mental legacies which have since been millstones around their necks . One // @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and the other the idea that the processes of manu-facturing and technical change are somehow becoming more scientific . Both are best understood as products of a culture dis-oriented by too much success too easily gained , of a society too ready to believe in its own propaganda . The British Economic Problem : Symptoms and Explanations There are a number of commonplaces concerning the British economy : first that is in decline , second that it has declined , and third that Great Britain 's rate of economic growth has been and continues to be poor . Although these are ideas which are central to the concerns of this book along with exploring the place of the engineering dimension in this decline , the notion of general economic decline is one that can not pass without some comment . In the first place the ideas of decline or of slow growth rates imply change ofa relative kind . Thus the question is , change compared to what ? The conventional measures are ones of decline relative to other economies , particularly to those of other developed countries , and/or @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ past . Frequently the commonplace of decline assumes some kind of golden age in the historic past where Britain 's performance was better , an assumption which on closer examination needs extensive qualification . In the second place , talking in overall economic terms needs some qualification also . Different economic sectors grow or contract at different rates so notions of decline have to be measured against the performance of various key sectors in the economy . Indeed rates of growth and decline have neither been uniform across sectors nor through time . ( For a fuller treatment of these issues and the controversies surrounding them the reader is referred to Aldcroft , 1986 ; Pollard , 1982 , 1983 ; Kirby , 1981 , on which the following account is based ; and for an introduction to the theoretical background , Prest and Coppock , 1984 ) . Overall , the rate of growth of Britain 's economy as measured by the Gross Domestic Product ( GDP : a measure of the output of the whole economy ) increased through the twentieth century until the 1970s when it declined . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ covered by the statistics , rates of growth have been increasing continuously . However that is too simple a conclusion and more detailed considera36 Engineers in Britain tion reveals that through the twentieth century there have been many ups and downs . Before 1914 , total industrial production was growing and 1913 was the peak year . However while between 1900 and 1913 GDP at factor cost was advancing and output per head was rising at 0.7 per cent both were growing more slowly even then than in the USA and in Germany . British exports also rose during this period at a rate of 0.93 per cent , however , and ? this is a crucial point in terms of later economic development ? most of this was concentrated in the old staple industries like coal and cotton textiles , a factor that was to have dire consequences later in the century . In spite of this growth , under-lying trends were apparent in the British economy before the First World War which have had a profound effect on later development . In coal mining , production rose from 223 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , but the sector was already technically backward relative to Europe and America . British pig iron and steel production also showed considerable growth in the period . However , the increase in the rate of growth in the USA and Germany was faster . Simultaneously Britain 's record in newer and more technically advanced sectors like electrical engineering , chemicals , office equip ment , machine tools and agricultural machinery was poor , while in older sectors like steam engine construction , textile machinery and heavy machinery the record was good . The chemical and related industries were growing rapidly from a very small base but they were often technically and scientifically deficient compared with Germany and the United States . For the workforce , and in spite of the overall economic growth , real wages were generally static and widespread differentials between skilled and unskilled workers led to gross inequalities ( Pollard , 1983 : 1 ? 19 ) . Thus the structure of the British economy with its concentration on older industries , technical back wardness , and slow growth relative to some others , was established before @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ created special problems for the British economy , a fact which was only gradually realized by politicians as the war progressed . The diversion of huge amounts of resources into war production and to the armed forces played havoc with market forces , and as the war progressed the state took an increasingly interventionist stance in economic affairs . However , total output of British industry hardly declined at all , and some commentators believe that it even increased slightly . Some new industries emerged , and some , along with some older ones , grew rapidly , for example scientific instruments , ball bearings , specialized glassware and certain chemicals ; but Britain was left with a large surplus capacity in shipbuilding at the end of the war ( Pollard , 1982 : 26 ? 30 ) . In the decade after the First World War economic growth was slow and patchy and by 1929 Britain had high levels of unemployment , stagnating exports and a massive regional imbalance in terms of declining industries in the older ' industrial areas . At the end of the war , there had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ goods and services , but the supply ofsuch goods and services was unavailable . A result was price rises on a large scale . The accompanying boom and associated speculative frenzy lasted only to 1920 and in 1921 there followed what Aldcroft has called the worst depression in Britain 's history ? there were some 2.4 million people unemployed by May 1921 and on all major economic indices Britain 's economy was in decline . Sadly little use was made of the experience which had been gained in wartime in improved production techniques and working practices and the economic controls which had been imposed by Government had been quickly undone . The customs and practices of pre-war days returned to British industry and while productivity did not change , costs , particularly labour costs , rose considerably . There was a short recovery in the mid-1920s but its amplitude was small and it came to an abrupt end in 1926 following the General Strike ( Aldcroft , 1986 : 1 ? 41 ) . The later 1920s saw a reversal offortunes in Britain compared to the United States , because Britain @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Britain continued to sink down the economic league table . But the situation varied from sector to sector . Unemployment was concentrated in mining , mechanical engineering , shipbuilding and iron and steel and textiles and in mid-1929 these sectors accounted for half of the unemployed population who were part of the Government 's insurance scheme . These so-called staple industries suffered a particular collapse in this decade , not only because of their technical backwardness , but because of their reliance on exports . The demand for their products overseas was drying up // and the regions in which these industries were located , South Wales , West Scotland , North-East England and Lancashire , paid a heavy price . Meanwhile the newer industries , whose products were geared to the domestic market , were unable to fill the output gap . For the most part the newer industries , like motor manufacture , electrical engineering , precision instruments and chemicals were located away from the declining regions . In Aldcroft 's view the whole matter was exacerbated by the macro-economic policies pursued by governments which were predominantly concerned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with the needs of the domestic economy . During the 1920s British exports remained stagnant while the volume of world trade rose by 27 per cent . Britain 's export capacity located in its staple industries simply did not respond to the changing pattern of world trade . Consequently Britain 's share of world exports fell from 29.9 per cent to 23.6 per cent ( Aldcroft , 1986 ) . Etched on the British collective consciousness is the idea of a terrible depression during the 1930s . With for example an estimated 3,289,000 people unemployed by 1931 rising to 3,750,000 in September 1932 , and bearing in mind the fact that a much higher proportion of these were their families ' only breadwinners than is the case with today 's unemployment , there appears to be ample evidence to support the commonly held view . But once again it is a view that has to be qualified . For example , from 1914 to 1938 the standard of living for the total population did rise , but not for all the population , only for those in regular employment . In @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent of the working-class population was living below the poverty line . Yet the scale ofdeprivation nationally was not as bad as those ofBritain 's neighbours and competitors . Even though , in growth terms , through the 1930s Britain fared better than most , there were major problems , and trends evident in the 1920s and earlier continued . In 1929 ? 32 the volume of exports fell by 37.5 per cent . In 1931 there was a balance of payments deficit of ? 114 million . Decline in real terms was 5 per cent or less . Industrial productivity fell by 11.4 per cent ( 1929 ? 32 ) . There was an international financial crisis in 1931 . However , in Britain a recovery began relatively quickly ? but it was an economic recovery which was domestically based , that is to say it was based on domestic demand , not on Britain 's exporting capacity . The first full year of British recovery was in 1933 and even then the volume of exports remained stable . The real thrust for recovery came from the non-export sectors @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engineering and vehicles and consumer durables . In 1934 ? 5 exports ( except coal ) also picked up . There was something of a boom // through to 1937 followed by a recession in 1938 , but even then industrial production and domestic output declined only 1 or 2 per cent , while real incomes and consumption continued to rise . During the boom ' years from 1932 to 1937 real incomes and consumption continued to rise , real income by 19 per cent , GDP by 23 per cent , industrial production by 46 per cent , investment by 47 per cent . However , regional unemployment located in the declining older sectors continued to blight the country . Aldcroft argues , though , that during this period Britain 's performance was better than that of Germany , the United States , France , Belgium and Canada ? it is however the only period in the twentieth century when Britain did outpace her main competitors . And then Britain found herself embroiled in another war ( Aldcroft , 1986 : 44 ? 61 ) . The war decade , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ rationing were among the dominant themes , but it was a time nevertheless of full employment and of greater equality in income distribution and consumption , as well as of massive state intervention in the economy . During the war defence spending accounted for a very large chunk of resources . In 1939 defence spending was 21.4 per cent ofGross National Product ( GNP ) . By 1940 and for the rest of the war Britain 's defence spending accounted for over half of the national income . The structure of employment also changed ; there was a large shift of manpower into the metal trades and engineering , shipbuilding and chemicals , and by 1942 unemployment was down to 0.5 per cent . The state accumulated immense powers over production , consumption , investment , distribution , transport , building , foreign exchange , imports , manpower , prices , raw materials and the nature of many goods . Aircraft production , electrical and general engineering , metal working and chemicals experienced the greatest physical increase in activity , while overall output per worker rose by 10 per cent between @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dynamic sectors . Agricultural production rose by 35 per cent , while output per man year rose between 10 and 15 per cent , so that Britain came to have ( and still has ) the most efficient agricultural operation in the world . Through the war years coal was the least successful of Britain 's industries . However , the problem which was being stored up by the tremendous volume ofeconomic activity at home , by fighting activity overseas , as well as by American pressure in return for money to finance the war , was that British export markets abroad were neglected . The war had also massively drained the country 's financial reserves and its economic strength in general . At the end of the war , significant problems arose . Apart from three // acute financial crises with which the government had to contend , the home economic infrastructure was badly depleted . Most seriously Britain had been transformed from being the world 's largest creditor to the world 's largest debtor nation . Capital stock had deteriorated . But there were some bright spots which offered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for the better with the wholesale use of mass production techniques and manufacturing industry had not suffered any long-term damage to its efficiency . The war had boosted growth in the more technically advanced sectors and had pulled the country away from its dependence upon the older industries ( for fascinating and challenging accounts ofthese issues and of underlying problems of poor levels of skill and anti-industrial values , see Barnett , 1972 and 1986 ) . The Labour Government elected in 1945 continued with many of the economic controls which had come into force during the war and planned for full employment . Output per head continued to rise and between 1938 and 1950 manufacturing industry expanded faster than other sectors with the greatest increases to be found in metals , engineering , chemicals and related industries , and machine tools . In the years from 1945 to 1951 Britain 's economic performance was quite impressive , but.from the vantage point of 40 years afterwards it was also a time of massive missed opportunity . On all major economic indices there were percentage increases ( GDP rose by 12.1 per @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ per cent , exports 73.1 per cent , total consumer expenditure 7.5 per cent and per capita expenditure 5.8 per cent ) . The great post-war upsurge in production really gained momentum in 1947 . Those industries which had done well in the war continued to do so afterwards ? all of them engineering-based ? manufacturing , gas , electricity , water , transport and communications , and these industries in the main account for the growth in the United Kingdom 's global productivity in this period . In 1944 exports had been 38 per cent of their 1938 level , but by 1946 they had returned to their pre-war level and by 1951 they were up 75 per cent . Moreover the product mix in exports was now weighted towards the new and expanding industries rather than towards the old staple ones . So why then did this pattern of growth not continue ? Well , at one level growth did continue until relatively recently . GDP grew continuously from 1950 to 1979 and in the same period there was considerable change in the industrial structure as the old staples @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ showed economic growth but also because of changing techniques they shed labour and streamlined . The car industry grew // rapidly until the 1960s when import penetration began seriously to erode domestic producers ' market share . The chemicals sector grew rapidly although it did not capitalize on its wartime successes , and it was generally slow to innovate , particularly in plastics . Agricultural production and productivity expanded enormously . Into the 1970s oil was the fastest growing sector in energy and appeared to be at the forefront of technical and engineering knowhow . But the key to understanding the British situation here lies in understanding not that Britain has experienced growth , but rather that the rate of growth in postwar Britain has been much slower than most of her competitors for most of the time . Indeed Pollard argues that if Britain had experienced a rate of economic growth similar to that of the rest of the advanced world it would have almost doubled the standard ofliving on that obtained in the UK in the 1970s and would put Britain at the level of the richest countries in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The turnaround in Britain 's position is demonstrated broadly in Tables 3.2 , 3.3 and 3.4 . Because of the vagaries of such broad statistical comparisons as these ? categories vary between countries , exchange rates alter in figure figure // figure relation to each other all the time , and the composition of incomes varies ( for example it costs a lot less to keep warm in Italy than in Canada ) ? too much should not be read into the details of the above figures . However they can be taken as being broadly representative of the major international differences over the periods which they cover . One caveat is worth making , however . It is now ( in 1986 ) generally accepted that the Japanese and West Germans are as well off as the residents of the United States ( and the relative position of Britain has continued to worsen since 1982 ) . In general terms , then , Britain has experienced a process of relative economic decline . The question arises as to its cause . Sorge ( 1978a ) has argued that most explanations @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ effects of it . Most debates had been too superficial and unconcerned with what went on where wealth was created ' . Sorge referred to the following conventional explanations of British decline : underinvestment , the growth of the public sector , high taxation , over-regulation of industry and employment , industrial disputes , low productivity , the low status of work in manufacturing industry and the neglect of manufacturing and engineering . Taking each of these ideas in turn we find ( following Sorge ) all bar one to be at least partly inadequate . First , more has often been invested in manufacturing in Britain than elsewhere . The real problems are the low rate of return on existing capital , the high proportion of investment in military and glamour projects ( like Concorde ) and financial institutions ' readiness to allow capital to be exported . The notion of the manufacturing firm as a system for converting material and human inputs into saleable products entails a medium // term plan for the processing of resources , but finance in Britain has traditionally emphasized the balance sheet and short @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have made themselves liable to takeover , usually by larger more powerful firms , as their cash value rises with liabilities for the future being discarded as their prospects for lengthy survival increase . Comparisons with France , Germany , Japan and the United States have been used to highlight differences in ways in which industry is financed . The relationships of the banks with industry in all of the other countries have been closer than in Britain , although the British and American approaches have had more in common than the others . However relations between industry and finance have become much closer in Britain than they were in the first half of the 1970s and earlier , with large companies having become more reliant on bank borrowing and expanded medium-term loan facilities . The change has been brought about by the depth of recession , because financial institutions have been forced to play a more active role , helping companies in difficulties to restructure themselves . Also institutional investors like pension funds have been taking a closer interest in the affairs of the companies in which they have invested @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ grounds for thinking that finance and industry are working more closely in Britain , and for feeling more positive about the role of finance in Britain than has been possible for a long time . Even so there is little doubt that strategic thinking in much of British industry has long been hampered by neglect and even hostility towards its needs on the part of the financial sector and that such people as accountants , bankers and engineers still have a lot to learn from each other . Important as this is , however , it is only part of a more fundamental problem . Sorge , on the second conventional explanation ' noted that the growth of the public sector has been less pronounced in Britain than in several economically more successful countries . However the character of British public sector management may be a problem , being over-bureaucratic and with many job holders inadequately qualified . The data on high taxation are equivocal , Really high levels of taxation have only existed for short periods in Britain . In any case taxation has long been much higher in Sweden @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of some recent problems ) the Swedish economy is a strong candidate for the postwar success story of Europe . The overregulation of industry and employment in fact consists mainly of Labour legislation ( of the mid-1970s and earlier ) affecting hiring and firing procedures . The fact is that more successful and more genuinely capitalist countries like West Germany had long had much more in the // way oflegal controls over employment and training than exist even in the 1980s in Britain ( Sorge and Warner , 1986 ) . Next , there is the perennial question of Britain 's poor record in industrial relations . Britain has been too low in the international league table of worker days lost to suggest that this is a particularly British sickness ' . Strikes appear to be more of a symptom , part , or effect of the economic problem than anything else , even if the relatively large size of British organizations means that the knock-on ' effects of disputes can sometimes be considerable . Low productivity and the low status of work in manufacturing industry and poorly qualified management are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ problem itself . Finally , the neglect of manufacturing and engineering we define as the basic problem . And this we expand and elaborate on both in this chapter and the rest of the book . It is interesting to speculate a little about the party political and other directions from which have come the explanations which like Sorge we criticize . Those who argue about underinvestment tend to come from the political Left , from trade unionists , Labour and sometimes Alliance politicians , and from Left-minded academics . The argument sometimes regards British decline as a special case of the decline or contradictions ' of capitalism in general . The argument can appear valid in the British case since Britain 's economy remains a predominantly capitalist one . However it is undermined by the fact that several other major capitalist countries have not suffered in the same way as Britain . Nevertheless there does appear to be some truth in the related argument that Britain has tended , both traditionally and in recent years , to export capital rather than to invest it in domestic manufacturing industry and that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ particular and that of capitalism ' worldwide ( cf. Pollard , 1982 ; Frank , 1980 ; Ingham , 1984 ) . Thus although lack of investment in manufacturing is not a cause of Britain 's problem , both the use of existing capital and traditional British habits concerning the direction of investment are important symptoms and parts of it . The political Right has tended to favour arguments about the growth of the public sector , about high levels of taxation , and about state regulation of industry . In each case the details have been more complex than our rebuttals suggest . For example , and while its extent and significance have often been exaggerated , the growth of the public sector of employment occurred for many diverse reasons . These have included increased social security spending in the recession , technically more sophisticated health care , more civilian back-up for defence activities , and state takeovers of large parts of ailing private industries such as motor manufacture , shipbuilding , and steel . Since // 1979 and the election of governments which have slimmed down the civil service @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ public sector 's growth has become rather dated . It is true that very highly paid people in Britain have been more highly taxed than many counterparts elsewhere . It is hardly surprising that those who favour the high taxation thesis have been influential and relatively wealthy people ( c ? Edwardes , 1978 ) . The regulation of industry argument seems to have been particularly popular amongst spokesmen for industry and managers such as the Confederation of British Industry and the Institute of Directors . Similar pressure groups have focused on employment ( including health and safety at work ) legislation as well as the collection of Value Added Tax as a hindrance to dynamism and profitability in the British economy . As suggested previously such legislation had long been established in other capitalist countries without noticeable ill effects before they impinged on British employers . The broadly right-wing idea that strikes are the British sickness ' is probably not as popular as it was a decade or so ago . At one level more people have since had the experience of belonging to trade unions and of hearing other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ worsening underlying economic situation , which has meant fewer disputes while provoking more serious study ofthe roots ofeconomic decline , and highlighting the superficiality of immediate , sensational kinds of explanation . We do not however want to deny the fact that English culture 's emphasis on individual freedom has traditionally been lenient towards some of the narrowly self-serving behaviour of some British trade unions ( Mant , 1977 ; Macfarlane , 1978 ; Maitland , 1980 ; Marengo , 1979 ; Olson , 1982 ) . When the low status of manufacturing ' is associated with contempt for wealth creation ' speakers tend to come from the political Left . Yet given the scale of the Labour Party 's 1983 General Election defeat , Labour ( and SDP/Liberal thinking ) has increasingly begun to focus seriously on wealth creation , rather than on its distribution . It has been suggested that growth in government spending has preempted resources available for investment in manufacturing and jobs in it ( Bacon and Eltis , 1976 ) . Yet there was strong growth in manufacturing investment throughout the 1960s , and greater public @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foreign goods ( Cairncross , 1978 ) . Britain 's increasing failure to export and to prevent import penetration imply a vicious circle of declining competitiveness , markets , innovation and investment . Britain 's balance of trade in manufacturing has steadily deteriorated . // The base of potentially exportable services was too small to make up for this and productivity gains in services rarely equalled those in manufacturing . North Sea oil 's benefits to the balance of payments have only been helping to cover up the basic problems in manufacturing and elsewhere . Deindustrialization ' is not due to technical development as various economists , science ' journalists , sociologists , trade union leaders and politicians have sometimes argued . Technical development does generally raise output ( and incomes ) , and displace labour , in the short run . However its overall effect is to increase wealth which is then available for investment in new activities and jobs . The introduction of sophisticated processes ( so-called high technology ) normally involves the use ofa great deal of , mainly highly skilled , labour so the question of whether @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ on whether or not the new processes are imported . Thereafter the issue is simply one of building on success and both common sense and basic economics would suggest that a successful innovative organization is likely to encourage more employment , direct and indirect , than a struggling non-innovative one . The argument that sees technical development as a major threat to employment also fails to explain why countries at the forefront of technical development generally lose fewer ( or gain more ) manufacturing and other jobs than the laggard countries . Lawrence ( 1983 ) argued that it made more sense to link Britain 's gradual relegation to Europe 's technical and economic periphery ' , making Britain more comparable with Eire , Italy or Greece , than with France , Sweden or West Germany , to Britain 's growing relative technical backwardness , not to technical development as such . Contributions from Sociology Twentieth-century sociology 's tendency to neglect engineers probably owes a great deal to an important change in the European intellectual climate at the end of the nineteenth century ( Hughes , 1968 ) . During that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ had helped to popularize a rather mechanistic set of ideas about human nature and relationships . To many , change , desirable or otherwise , had an inevitable , almost automatic , quality . Late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century economic and political thinkers had optimistically sought rational solutions to social problems . By the late nineteenth century natural science seemed , to many intellectuals , to have won its battles with religious faith . All this // conspired to produce a fatalistic , mechanistic , even claustrophobic , belief in material progress . Many felt that such progress would come inevitably , either through the survival of the fittest under capitalism or through class conflict and revolution . Several of the founding fathers of social science opposed this extreme and pessimistic kind of outlook in the decades around 1900 . To replace the reigning cult of mechanistic positivism , Freud in psychology and Durkheim and Weber in sociology offered thoughts about human nature and social science which respectively stressed the importance of emotional aspects of motivation and of social bonds , and the desirability of free speculation and rational inquiry . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ affected by the unstable and to some extent decaying nature of the European societies in which they lived . This made their concerns rather general and often more to do with ways of looking at the socio-psychological world , than with the world itself . Like Marx , Durkheim and Weber were far more interested in relationships at work than with work as such . So although Weber , and especially Marx , depicted man as homo Faber , the maker and doer , for which the engineer provides the outstanding example , a great deal of twentieth-century social science has tended to play down the ways in which individuals continually act to confound its generalizations about social relationships . In spite of this general tendency to neglect the details of economic life , a number of sociologists have produced valuable studies of engineering and related matters since the Second World War . These include Cotgrove ( 1958 ) on higher technical education , Burns and Stalker ( 1961 ) on the organization of electronics firms , Gerstl and Hutton ( 1966 ) on the backgrounds , careers and social and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Hutton and Lawrence ( 1981 ) on West German ( contrasted with British ) management and engineering , Fidler ( 1981 ) on the company directors whose actions and attitudes often determine what engineering will consist of , Beuret and Webb ( 1983 ) on younger engineers ' experiences of work and their strengths and weaknesses as potential executives , Ingham ( 1984 ) on longstanding divisions between the worlds of industry and high finance , Sorge and Warner ( 1986 ) on factory organization and management in Britain and Germany , and Whalley ( 1986 ) on the use ofengineering knowledge and the position of British engineers in the class structure . All of these studies contain a great deal ofpotentially useful evidence and ideas , and all are largely jargon-free , intelligible and interesting to laymen . Several of the studies have influenced government policies for engineering education and training . More radical sociologists than these have also produced studies // and arguments critical of the roles of engineers and of those who manage them ( see , for example , Collingridge , 1981 , and Hales , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reading criticisms of what they or their colleagues do the material is usually both quite interesting from a technical standpoint and thoughtprovoking from a socio-political one . Notwithstanding this , however , sociology normally offers little in the way of solutions , at least directly . The critical issue which sociologists and indeed other commentators have failed to acknowledge is the importance of industry as a system ? a system in which engineers play a central and vital part . The system includes design , development , production and marketing . The links between these things are fundamental to the success of the system . British industry , British technical , business and management education and British social scientists have all tended to treat these aspects as discrete , partly separate functional elements , which in one sense of course they are . But , the division of labour , which these different activities manifest , is a holistic and a systemic idea . So not only has British industry , unlike say Japanese industry , failed to grasp the holistic nature of the enterprise with the market pulling through all @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ failed to appreciate the problem ( and most still do ) . The notion of the division of labour comes closest to articulating the idea of system in a sociological sense , because it emphasizes not just divisions ( separate functions ) but also the end product ? the purpose for which labour is divided . The status issue of the engineering role here is writ large . It is precisely because of the fragmented nature of understanding of the system , that common sense ' allows for one or more parts to be denigrated at the expense of others , when in fact all the parts need each other for the system to function at all . Underlying this problem is a complex of attitudes towards industry , education , occupations and the use of knowledge for practical ends , not to mention the content and organization of education and training , of occupations and professions , and the ways in which employment is typically organized . The attitudes both reflect and help to produce the problems with the division of labour with which we are concerned . The Searches @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as early as the 1830s , well before Britain had become a recognizably // industrial country ( Barnett , 1972 ) . But it was not until the 1870s that British governments began to be seriously worried about foreign competition and weaknesses in manufacturing at home . Since then there have been many public inquiries into engineering and scientific education and the status and roles of engineers and scientists , into industrial relations , management efficiency , management education and into the provision of finance for industry . Thus Finniston ( 1980 : Preface ) commented on how many previous inquiries into various aspects of engineering and engineering education there had been , and on how their recommendations had usually been ignored or otherwise ineffectual . Having read several of them , including some of the very earliest , we are inclined to agree with Finniston that many oftheir findings remain valid still , even .. . many years since their issue ' . Inquiries have been conducted by Baron Lyon Playfair ( 1852 , 1853 ) , the House of Commons Select Committee on Scientific Instruction under Samuelson ( 1867 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Duke of Devonshire ( 1871 ? 5 ) , the Institution of Civil Engineers in 1870 , another Royal Commission on technical education ( 1884 ) , the Civil Engineers again in 1906 , the Balfour Committee on Industry and Trade ( 1929 ) and numerous others , notably Fielden ( 1963 ) on engineering design , Jones ( 1967 ) on the brain drain ' or emigration ( mainly to the USA ) of engineers and scientists , Dainton ( 1968 ) on the flow of students into higher engineering education , and Swann ( 1968 ) on their subsequent passage into employment . There was aplethora ofreports in the late 1970s and early to mid-1980s from the Departments of Industry , of Education and Science , and of Employment , from the British Association for the Advancement of Science , the British Institute of Management , the National Economic Development Council , the Institute ofPersonnel Management , the Manpower Services Commission , the Central Policy Review Staff , the Schools Council , the Industrial Society , the Science Research Council , the Confederation of British Industry , the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sussex University , the Engineering Professors ' Conference , the Goals of Engineering Education Project at Leicester Polytechnic , Southampton and Loughborough Universities ( the work of S. P. Hutton and P. A. Lawrence ) , Bradford University ( S. H. Wearne and others ) , and The City University ( Herriot and others , Levy and others ) . These were variously concerned with the education , backgrounds and careers of British engineers and managers compared with foreign counterparts , the nature of higher engineering education , most other types and level of education and training for industry , the links between innovation , production and markets , // engineers ' needs for managerial ' elements in their education , employers ' perceptions of the qualities of engineering graduates , and the preference of many of the latter for jobs in research and development rather than in production . Politicians have shown a lot of concern , especially since the Second World War , with employment relationships . This however has been symptomatic of an arm 's length attitude to economic life . Thus , instead of concentrating on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to produce people to do them with suitable abilities , politicians have been much more interested in relationships between existing job holders . In the 1960s and 1970s governments first modified and then began to abandon a century-old tradition of governmental , administrative and legislative non-involvement in employment relationships . The factors responsible included the nation 's relatively poor economic performance , the end ofan imperial role whereby once-exported tensions came home to roost , inappropriate managerial attitudes and abilities , a rediscovery of overmanning and associated restrictive practices on the part of trade unionists , and growth of public sector employment in which the state was directly involved . Since the 1960s the law has been applied , if not often forcefully or effectively , to prices and incomes , the closed shop , redundancy , the rights to belong to trade unions and of trade unions to be recognized by employers , unfair dismissal , training , health and safety , sexual and racial discrimination in employment , the disclosure of information to employees and their representatives , and many other matters . By the mid-1970s a basic floor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ established ( Hawkins , 1978 ) , bringing Britain in line with several other Western European countries . One of the intentions behind this legislation was to curb inflation and abuses of trade union and managerial power , to help free the labour market and to produce more and more effective use of skills . Since 1979 government policy has had similar aims but it has been less sympathetic to organized labour and it has operated in a harsher economic and social climate . It has also sought to reduce the state 's direct involvement in employment matters by curbing some of the rights previously granted and by relying on a partial return to reliance on market forces to regulate employment . The employment legislation of the period from the early/mid1960s to the mid-1970s culminated largely in the Health and Safety at Work Act ( 1974 ) , and especially in the Trade Union and Labour Relations Act ( 1974 ) and the Employment Protection Act ( 1975 ) . It was perhaps best understood in retrospect as a kind of housekeeping exercise which might clear the decks for action on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ training , management quality , industrial democracy and attitudes to occupations and work . Unfortunately the important Royal ( Donovan ) Commission on Industrial Relations ( 1965-8 ) , which influenced a great deal of the legislation , tended to assume that private manufacturing industry should be the main focus in attempts to reform industrial relations . However the public and private service sectors were becoming more important not only as those in which far more people worked than in manufacturing but as sectors in which a higher proportion of conflict occurred . The nationalized industries ( and the health and social services ) , many established after the Second World War , were conceived as much as social services to atone for the hard times of employees over previous decades , as industries . In consequence , and particularly for example in coal and iron and steel , opportunities for increasing efficiency were not seized . Nor was there enough effort put into generating new industries to absorb those who were bound to be made redundant by the older ones ( Barnett , 1986 ) . In the 1950s and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ much emphasis on short-term profits and wage rises , and too much political manipulation of the nationalized ones and also of the important motor industry much of which eventually had to be nationalized ( Dunnett , 1980 ) . Private-sector engineering increasingly suffered from foreign competition and workers there became less and less militant in the 1970s . With decreasing justification the shop floor was thought of as the cockpit of conflict , whereas the varied employment problems of growing numbers of white-collar and so-called knowledge workers were neglected ( cf. Kelly , 1980 , 1983 ; Kelly , Martin and Pemble , 1984 ; Prandy , Stewart and Blackburn , 1983 ; Hyman and Price , 1983 ) . In the early/mid-1980s the increasingly restrictive character of employment law and of managerial control were helping to qualify severely the optimism which had surrounded the changes of the 1960s and 1970s ( Taylor , 1982 ; Wedderburn , Lewis and Clark , 1983 ; see also Nicholls , 1986 ) . The recession has weakened the hand of the trade unions and strengthened those of employers and of government : in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ through a'shake-out ' of underemployed people . However neither British nor foreign evidence suggests that aggressively militant trade unionism has ever been much more than an interesting and spectacular detail of Britain 's problems . Strong trade unions which co-operate with and are effectively co-opted by employers are a different matter , however , if // Swedish and West German experiences are to be believed . Unfortunately traditional British individualism does not seem to favour systematic long-term co-operation between unions and management . The Dunkirk Spirit ' of everyone pulling together in emergencies seems to be reserved for emergencies . Conclusion This chapter has been concerned both to contextualize the problem which was delimited in Chapter 2 and to develop the argument further . We argued in the previous chapter that engineering could be thought of as having a crucial role in social and economic development , ifa view of human nature , called homo faber , was adopted . In the present chapter the evidence concerning the status position of engineers in Britain was used to demonstrate the fact that in spite of Britain being an industrial society its engineers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there were powerful forces which tended to deny the centrality of the engineer 's position . We located the origins of the low status within the kinds of social institutions and traditions established during the period when Britain was becoming an industrial society and in particular the social structure and its associated values which were established in and around the years 1850 to 1870 . Moving the account forward we then considered data concerning Britain 's relative decline as an industrial country . Critically we argued that for the most part those authors and commentators who have written about the processes of decline had misconceived the problem and in general concentrated on symptoms rather than causes . In other words the importance of productive activity in an industrial economy did not tend to be the starting point for their analyses . We concluded that social scientific findings pertinent to the problem appeared to have been largely ignored by those in power . q- The British Economy in Context Introduction In the previous chapter the relationships between the low status of engineering , distaste for manufacturing industry and underperformance of the British @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a further question , that of underperformance relative to what ? Another issue is raised by the previous discussion . Major national economies do not exist in a vacuum . The British economy is part ofa world economic system : this introduction was originally written using a pen made in the USA , on paper manufactured in Scandinavia , on a table made in Britain from African timber , while the writer was drinking coffee containing Scottish milk , West Indian sugar , and coffee beans from Brazil imported by an American multinational , in a cup made in France , and in a room constructed from Scandinavian timber , English bricks and cement and Scottish sand . Although this point is a little glib it nevertheless illustrates the now very considerable interdependence of much of the world 's economy . Such interdependence means that the economic performance of nations can not be studied effectively without reference to world influences and trends . This chapter provides a brief review of some ofthe important influences on Britain arising out ofits economic interdependence . The decline of Britain relatively in economic terms within this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by many commentators . Here we summarize some of the facts and viewpoints . The Major Industrial Economies Table 4.1 shows selected economic indicators for several major industrial countries . Japan has been the star performer among the major industrial countries since 1945 and Britain has been the worst . The USA 's // supposedly mature industrial country . Japan , another offshore island economy like Britain , appears remarkably successful at making and building things , despite her dearth of natural resources . With a much larger land area , population and natural resources , the USA does not look particularly successful compared withJapan and West Germany . Current Concerns The last points are broadly reinforced by comparing the figures for growth of Gross Domestic Product in the period 1972-82 in the same countries . The figures are : France , 2.7% ; Italy , 2.6% ; Japan , 4.3% ; the UK , 1.4% ; the USA , 2.1 % ; and West Germany , 2.0% ( NIER , 1985 ) . These figures cover the periods of both the oil shocks ' or energy crises ' ofthe years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1950s , 1960s and early 1970s figures for growth of the same economies . Allen ( 1979 ) presented some statistics on mid-1970s trends for most of the same economies : figure These data suggest that the energy crisis of the mid-1970s had a particularly bad effect on Britain . But the energy crises of the mid1970s and the early 1980s only served to highlight Britain 's long-term problems . For example Gomulka ( 1979 ) showed how the average American worker produced twice as much in 1974 as in 1950 , the average West German three times , the average Japanese nearly eight times , the average Frenchman nearly four , the average Italian nearly three , the average Russian over four , the average East German between four and five , the average Pole or Czech nearly four , and the average Briton less than twice as much . Maddison ( 1979 ) described how the USA 's lead in productivity over other Western industrial countries plus Australia and Japan had been greatly reduced since it // first appeared in the 1890s , and how it was still a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Also , since 1945 the industrial economies had grown faster than ever before partly due to the elimination of international trade barriers and surpluses of underemployed agricultural labour . Technical innovations had generally seemed to follow rather than to lead growth . Some other countries had overtaken the first ones to industrialize in terms of ability to innovate . Even after recession began biting seriously in the mid-1970s rates of productivity growth were still very high by pre-1960s standards . The first energy crisis was only one reason for the recession . Indirectly it had made Western governments over-cautious about the idea of concerted and controlled action to stimulate demand so as to reduce unemployment . Economists do not agree upon the reasons and solutions for the relative decline of British manufacturing in particular and of Britain 's economy in general . What is clear is that many ofthe recent benefits of North Sea oil have been used to finance unemployment and that there has been a vicious circle of poor competitiveness , high prices and low sales , low rates of investment , low productivity growth , high labour costs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1983 the value of Britain 's imports of manufactured goods exceeded that of her exports of such goods for the first time in over a century . This has reduced the country 's ability to pay for foreign food , raw materials and fuel . The country continues to sell more services than it buys from abroad , but its share of the world market for services ( which include the skills of some engineers as well as financial services ) has also declined . Britain has long been a major centre for such financial services as insurance , banking , brokerage and commodity trading , albeit slowly declining compared with others . Yet although employment in manufacturing has been in decline for most of this century , with that in services tending to rise ( for much longer ) , the economic weight and significance of services has often been exaggerated by apologists for Britain . Productivity gains in services , especially those which are not closely related to manufacturing , are usually far smaller and slower than in manufacturing . British manufactured exports have usually been worth twice as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ value of the latter has long exceeded that of imported services , the resultant surplus offers only a very limited ability to finance a deficit in manufactures . Many service jobs rely on manufacturing . They support or are supported by it ; many jobs in education , distribution and health are in these categories . Indeed the majority of engineers ( even ) work outside manufacturing ( Engineering Council , 1983 ) , and the complexity of the issue of what // is a truly productive occupation can easily be illustrated when we think of medicine , electricity supply , education , law enforcement , accountancy , refuse disposal orpolitics . What we do know is that high standards of technical competence and ofliving generally go together , and that the wealthier the society , the greater the tendency for machines to replace human labour and vice versa . World Economic Development and the Implications for Britain The growing interdependence or internationalization of the world 's economy since World War Two can be seen in Table 4.4 : figure Although these data suggest that Europe , the Soviet Union and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were really more complex . When all the figures are adjusted for population growth , production per head in the developing countries can be seen to have grown much more slowly than the uncorrected figures suggest . In fact the developed countries actually built on their 1950 lead in production and in trade in volume terms . The developed Western ' countries of Europe and North America 's share of world trade grew from 61 per cent in 1950 to 65 per cent in 1976 . The socialist countries ' share rose from 8 to 10 per cent . The developing countries ' share fell from 31 to 24 per cent , and except for oil production it would have fallen a lot more . In fact some left-wing writers have suggested that world trade increasingly bypassed the underdeveloped countries after // 1945 ( cf. Sideri , 1972 ; Frank , 1980 ) . Thus it is argued that their trade with the developed countries and between themselves both declined quite sharply : the developed countries increasingly traded amongst themselves . However although there is some truth in this argument it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ events were the product of planning and concerted action by the developed countries . The argument also underplays the fact that the developed countries are simply much more technically sophisticated than the more underdeveloped ones , sometimes increasingly so , meaning that the benefits of contact and trade between them can be reduced . Finally , the argument often neglects the fact that a fair number of once developing countries are now developed , including several European and Middle Eastern ones after 1945 and more recently several around the Pacific Basin . The latter , the so-called Pacific Rim countries , include Japan and , in many accounts , the West Coast of the United States , as well as such new industrial countries ' as Hong Kong and Indonesia ( Smith et al. , 1985 ) . Their often rapid growth , along with that of industry in China and India , is of great importance , implying as it does a major shift of the world 's centre of economic gravity from the countries around or near the Atlantic to those around or near the Pacific . The socialist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( though more slowly since the mid-1970s ) in terms of output and foreign trade , albeit from a lower base than the West . Their increasing involvement in world trade was connected with the pursuit of detente between East and West , and this has often led Eastern bloc countries into politically inconsistent postures and actions . Since the late 1970s manufacturing output from the Communist countries , taken almost as a whole including China , Mongolia , North Korea , Vietnam and Albania as well as those of Eastern Europe , has not been growing much faster than manufacturing output from the market economies ( both industrial and less industrial ) ( NIER , 1985 ) . The impact of communist China 's economy on the world has generally been small because the country has tried to be self-sufficient . Even so policies have oscillated between modernization through peace , investment and foreign trade on the one hand , and socialist purity implying ideological conflict , support for foreign revolutionary movements , military spending and relative economic isolation on the other . In recent years , especially since President @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1972 China 's main trading partners have been Hong Kong , Japan , the USA and West Germany . Policy changes notwithstanding , China 's foreign trade has grown massively since the 1960s and most of it has been with capitalist countries . China 's exports of manufactured goods have long been // worth more than those of food , or of oil and other raw materials , and their importance continues to grow . Since the 1960s most of the industrial countries have been experiencing a relatively depressed phase , partly similar to ones experienced between the mid-1870s and the mid-1890s , and the mid1910s and the mid-1940s . The expansionary quarter-century after 1945 witnessed some neglect of primary extractive sectors and , in some countries such as the USA and Britain , tendencies to take for granted or neglect technical education and training . Initially , some have argued , there was overinvestment producing over-capacity in manufacturing ; later there was overspending on public services . Some of the developed countries may have grown too quickly for their own good , and sometimes too selfishly in relation to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unable to buy from them , so that both major parts of the world 's economy tended to stagnate . Recent investment in the developed countries has often sought to cut labour and costs , not to expand capacity . Politically the developed Western countries have tended to move to the right in a defensive reaction to recession , with left-wing parties or important parts of them moving to more extreme positions . Politicians have failed to persuade electorates to moderate inflationary pay demands , and are now so afraid of inflation that they are unwilling to reflate their economies to reduce unemployment . Advisers to governments , confused by the growing and unpredictable interdependence of national economies , only felt able to advocate prudence ' . Welfare cuts and increased military spending have resulted , along with the exporting of national balance of payments deficits to the poorer countries , some of whose debts have reached severe crisis proportions . Some of the costs and problems ofemploying people in the developed countries were also exported to the poorer ones , who offered tax reliefs , direct state subsidies , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Defensively irrational fears of the spread of democratic practices outside the Soviet bloc and also more understandable fears of the spread of communism due to the latter 's influence seem to be connected with these changes , although the economic deeds ? as opposed to the rhetoric ? ofthe Comecon countries seem designed to fit in with the West 's aims , not to subvert them . Also the Soviet military expansion since the mid-1960s is probably best interpreted as a catching-up exercise , which NATO could always surpass because its members have about one-and-a-half times the population and more than twice the productive capacity of the Warsaw Pact nations . It is also hard to justify all the fears about shortages of raw materials which have // worried the West . A wide range of views has been expressed on the availability of raw materials and energy , but at least one expert has expressed the view , a little optimistically perhaps but after extensive consideration of evidence , that given some recycling and reasonable caution towards expansion , non-fuel minerals will ... be available for the indefinite future @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ serious problem if we lose our so-far well proven ability to develop substitute and new resources ( Tanzer , 1980 ) . Some long-term interregional economic trends may not favour Britain and the rest of Europe . The recent economic strength of Europe , North America , Australasia and Japan seems to have originated in the opening up of the New World from the fifteenth century onwards . This involved intense naval and military competition between the European countries , later drawing in the USA and Japan , all of which overtook older civilizations in Africa and the Asian land mass in technical and military terms . Today sea power and communications are not quite as important in relative terms as they were two centuries and more ago because of the development of communications on land and in the air . Surface naval power is nowadays vulnerable to attack from land-based aircraft and missiles . Sea transport remains cheap and efficient compared with other forms but air and land transport have sometimes replaced or complemented it . This suggests that the maritime West , especially Western Europe with a very lengthy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the British ones ) , may be in decline relative to other more continental parts of the world ( Guha , 1981 ) . However while British power has declined greatly ( in relative terms ) since the nineteenth century and while the USSR has grown faster since 1945 than the USA or most of Western Europe , the case ofJapan and of other Pacific communities hardly fits Guha 's argument very well . Nor does that of the USA which is a maritime power in many important ways , albeit a continental one in others . In fact the importance of sea communications , power and transport has been and still is increasing in absolute terms . Moreover the values of Western countries tend to be activist , instrumental and growth-oriented , whereas more passive philosophies still tend to prevail in India , China and many parts ofAfrica and the Middle East . In these circumstances however , are Britain 's economic difficulties that serious ? Offshore oil and gas may act as major crutches , perhaps for another generation . It is also possible that Britain will become a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 50 per cent of Britain 's food had to be imported in the 1950s and 1960s . But manufactured goods are still being imported at an ever-growing rate . // Manufactures and semi-manufactures accounted for 4 and 14 per cent of British imports in 1950 : the equivalent figures for 1979 were 36 and 29 per cent . The earlier figures were unusually low in the aftermath of the Second World War , but a jump in import penetration from nearly 10 per cent in 1963 to 28 per cent in 1982 was exceptionally worrying , especially when we note that a surplus of exports over imports of 100 per cent evaporated in the same period . Many other kinds of statistic ? on declining rates of profit , rising burdens of taxation , on growth in the proportions of the labour force working in unproductive ' government , declining investment in important sectors , losses of manufacturing sectors ( in whole or part ) , and slow or abnormal productivity growth ? could be cited to paint a very pessimistic if not a hopeless picture . It would not be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which manufacturing and construction , in the front line , bear most of the hardest burdens , while those in the rear , governments , consumers and voters , look after themselves . Informed commentators appear to agree broadly that at least three major policies are needed for the tide to be turned for Britain . They should be : first , more vigorous and consistently helpful behaviour by governments towards manufacturing and construction ( in investment , regional policy and taxation , for example ) ; second , sweeping and careful educational changes designed to produce practical makers and doers who are broad in their abilities and sympathies , for all levels of employment ( not factory fodder in any shape or form ) ; and third , a highly participative climate in all sectors of employment ( perhaps abolishing much of what we know as management ' and industrial relations ' ) . According to at least one writer failure to achieve these things will mean that , for most Britons , post-industrial society will be a replay of the Hundred Years War ' in which they will be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a vast backwater economy ... where unemployment , menial work , crafts , moonlighting , barter and brigandry are the standard forms of everyday life ' ( Bellini , 1981 ) . 5 The Legal and Political Context of Engineering Introduction This chapter concludes the first part of the book and therefore brings to a close our arguments which highlight the problems of engineering . In the first section of the chapter we examine some of the legal constraints affecting employment in engineering in Britain . These are seen to have been influenced by broadly defined political forces . We next examine the varied roles which engineers can and do play in political life in different countries . Then we turn to the relationships between state power and engineering and in particular to the very different ways in which industrialization has occurred in different settings under the influence of different political arrangements . Finally we consider an issue which may increasingly concern engineers , politicians and social scientists in the affluent industrial countries . Do the high living standards which successful engineering produces necessarily undermine the standing and power of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ have defined as engineering 's lack of centrality in the British social system a consequence of Britain 's engineers ' earlier successes ? Engineering , Employment and the Law British engineers need to know a lot more about employment and other kinds of legislation than their counterparts did twenty years ago . There were five general Acts of Parliament regulating employment passed from 1950 to 1959 , and sixteen from 1960 to 1969 . There were thirty from 1970 to 1979 and a further eight from 1980 to 1982 ( Hepple , 1983 ) . There was also considerable growth in the number of more specialized statutes , and in case law concerned with new rights enforced through the industrial tribunals originally set up in 1964 , in connection with training . Governments have shown increasing // concern with training , with the organization of collective bargaining , and with inflation , often using the law in the cause of change . A major area of expansion has been in the legal employment rights of individuals . Most rights are enforceable , at least in theory , in the national network @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One of the most important is the right not to be unfairly dismissed . Most types of employee may only be dismissed fairly if they are unable or unqualified to do a job , if their conduct is unsatisfactory , iftheir jobs are genuinely redundant , or if there is some other valid legal or other reason which justifies dismissal . Someone who is pregnant or an active trade unionist , for example , can not be fairly dismissed for that reason . If an industrial tribunal decides that an individual has been unfairly dismissed it can order reinstatement or reengagement , or require a limited amount offinancial compensation to be paid . New employment laws and the codes of practice associated with them have given a substantial stimulus to the introduction of formal disciplinary and grievance procedures by employers , and to the development oflegal expertise in personnel management . The idea of an individual employment contract between theoretically equal parties has become central to the understanding of British industrial relations . This idea came late to Britain ; in fact many employment laws were in existence before its widespread @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in coverage . Some laws are enforceable through the criminal courts , others through the civil ones , and others by administrative bodies . However , and as we argue at more length a little later on , labour law in the United Kingdom has never , except in wartime and immediate post-war periods , played any regulatory role in industrial relations . Some employee rights are statutory ; others form part of individual contracts . Although formally defunct , the traditional definition of employers as masters and employees as servants effectively persists as a kind of legal precedent which , along with other things , tends to make judges favour employers over employees . The relatively new idea of free individual contract ignores the fact that the main terms and conditions of employment of most employees were originally and still are to a large degree determined by collective bargaining . In practice most terms and conditions are determined by a mixture of collective and individual arrangements . Individuals are not legally bound by agreements made by their unions ; also such agreements generally apply to union members and non-members alike @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two sides . Each side or party does or promises to do something in return for action or a // promise of action from the other . In a contract of employment , an employee agrees to work for an employer and the employer agrees to pay a salary or wage in return . Once someone agrees to work for a certain sum , a contract of employment exists . The contract does not have to be in writing or formal in some other way . Many employment contracts are not written ones . Each contract of employment is however underpinned by various factors . Thus employers ' rules and regulations such as disciplinary rules and various other items in company handbooks are deemed to form part of the implied terms ' of the contract . Collective agreements negotiated between employers and trade unions form the express terms ' of the contract : they detail current terms and conditions of employment . However custom and practice and unwritten rules of a workplace or economic sector often form part of the implied terms and they can even override the express terms ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law , nowadays fills in gaps left by statute law when judges interpret existing statutes in relation to particular cases . Common law places general obligations on both sides which are implied ' in every employment contract , often irrespective of whether or not something has been written down or stated explicitly . The common law duties ofeach side consist ofassumptions or rules based on what judges deem their mutual obligations to be . Typical common law duties ofemployers are to pay agreed wages in return for willingness to work , to obey the law including that concerning health and safety with regard to employees , to treat employees with proper courtesy and , in some cases , actually to provide work . Typical common law duties of employees include being ready and willing to work and to co-operate with employers in the performance of their legal duties , to take reasonable care in the exercise of services to employers , to obey all reasonable and lawful orders concerning times , places , nature and methods of working , not to disclose confidential information or to place themselves in positions in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The statute law affects contracts of employment when it determines general rules about terms and conditions ofemployment on such things as hours of work and pay , and health and safety . Contracts can be ended in various ways . One is by due notice ' , given under the terms of contract by either party , and subject to the employee 's right not to be unfairly dismissed . Another is by frustration ' , whenever something occurs to prevent the continuous performance of the contract or radically to alter its basis . Obviously death is one such instance ; so too may be imprisonment or lengthy // illness . There is also repudiation ' , when one of the parties breaks an important term in the contract . Examples of this on the part of the employer may include victimization or demotion of an employee , which can entitle him or her to claim constructive dismissal ' . Similarly if an employee breaks his contract through an act of gross misconduct , for example , the employer may dismiss him without notice under common law . Contracts can not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ i.e. unilaterally . This can be very important if managements want employees to do new kinds of work or to transfer them . If the existing contract does not allow for the necessary flexibility , either expressly or implied , unilateral action could mean a repudiation or other breach of contract . Like all types of law in Britain , employment law is produced and regulated by various legal agencies , terms and institutions . The three main sources of law are Parliament , which creates statute law ; judges , who create common law to fill the relevant gaps in statute law ( although much common law existed before statute law was extensively developed ) ; and the European Economic Community ( EEC ) . The EEC can make regulations which are legally binding on member states even though laws may not have been passed by individual national governments , and it can issue directives which are put into practice by national governments passing appropriate laws applicable to their own peoples . EEC laws override national laws when there are inconsistencies between both . Of the two types of law @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ regard to employment matters although 1980s employment legislation has changed the position somewhat , affecting such matters as picketing and some other types of industrial action , and health and safety . It is enforced by the police , and for more serious crimes by the Director of Public Prosecutions in England and Wales and the Procurators Fiscal in Scotland , along with the courts , and penalties consist of fines and/or imprisonment . Civil law , which relates to disputes between individuals , usually involves some breach , by either party , of its contractual obligations to the other . A party bringing a civil action must establish that a wrong has been suffered for which damages are payable . In legal terminology a civil offence for breach of contract is called a tort ' or delict ' in Scotland . Most cases involving employment law are civil ones of this type , being concerned with disputes between employers and employees about aspects of their mutual contractual obligations . The system of the courts which enforce both criminal and civil law and the details oftypes oflaw vary between England and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The legal system is served by three // main types of legal professional . Solicitors give legal advice and represent their clients in the lower ( e. g. county and magistrates ' or , in Scotland , sheriff 's ) courts and in industrial tribunals . In the higher courts however barristers take over the job of representing clients from solicitors , from whom they receive instructions . Barristers can not deal directly with the public . Judges apply statute and common law and develop case law ; they are drawn from the ranks of barristers . Industrial tribunals , part of the civil law system , form the most important part of the legal structure concerned with employment law . Typical concerns of industrial tribunals include unfair dismissal , redundancy payments , time off for trade union activities , and racial and sexual discrimination . They sit throughout the UK and they are often described as informal courts ofa kind . Each consists ofa panel with a legally qualified chairperson , and two lay members , one nominated by the Confederation of British Industries ( CBI ) and the other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ parties do not need to be legally represented , although it helps if they are or if someone else represents them , such as an expert volunteer from their local Citizens ' Advice Bureau ( CAB ) . If either party feels that an industrial tribunal decision is wrong because the law has been incorrectly applied or interpreted , it may seek a remedy from the Employment Appeals Tribunal . Appeals from it go through the more traditional channel of the appeals courts ( Court of Appeal , Civil Division , in England and Wales , Court of Session , Inner House , in Scotland ) . We have already noted how , in practice , British labour law has normally not played any regulatory role in industrial relations . Such legislation as existed up to the post-1945 period could best be regarded as supportive and/or enabling legislation , i.e. legislation that provided legal and institutional support for what was essentially a laissez-faire system of collective bargaining . However it was not that the legislation was unimportant . The Conciliation Act ( 1896 ) and the Industrial Court Act ( 1919 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ agencies and services in the fields of conciliation , arbitration , mediation and inquiry , and these services were valued by the practitioners of their day . Yet the essence of these services were that they were largely voluntary , except of course for Committees and Courts of Inquiry where a certain minimum amount of compulsion was available if necessary , and whether or not people used the services or not was entirely up to the parties themselves . The Wages Councils legislation was ofa different order . From 1909 the state accepted on purely social grounds the necessity of intervention in the basic terms and conditions ofemployment for approxi68 Engineers in Britain mately 4 million workers in situations where they could not sustain effective organization for bargaining purposes and , in the majority of cases , neither could the employer . So a form of state-sponsored , statesupported collective bargaining came into being as a temporary measure . At least that was the original idea . In fact the need for such provision was accepted as being essential until quite recently . The employment legislation of the 1980s arose for @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the trade unions , whose legal rights and powers have always been suspect . The method is not an open attack by the government on the unions in which the government passes legislation which creates crimes for which people can be charged , tried and , if found guilty , punished . Instead , what the legislation does is to create torts ( legal wrongs which are not crimes ) and then the action , if any , to be taken is left up to any of the parties who may wish to take it , employers , trade unions and their members being the main parties . In other words , if no one feels the need or the urge to take action , then the law as such does not exist . A second feature of the legislation has been a relative one-sidedness . To encourage the parties to act , the device of the injunction is freely available to the injured ' party . This often means that , in practice , an employer does not have to mount a full legal case against an offending ' union @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to apply to the courts for an injunction ( an interdict in Scotland ) restraining a union from doing X ( whatever X might be ) and the courts will ? it seems ? usually grant such an injunction . In this way , the unions have often lost the day whatever the legal or other rights or wrongs of the situation maybe . If the union fails to obey the injunction the employer can notify the courts and the union will be called before the courts to answer a charge of contempt . If the union does appear , then it is ( in effect ) back to square one . If it does n't it will be held to be in contempt of court and fined , often very heavily . If it pays the fine , it still has to obey the injunction . If it does n't , then the courts may proceed to seize some of the assets of the union . Since the legislation of the 1980s was passed the device of the injunction has been most freely used by employers , but it is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of past experiences of the legal system and their natural tendency to be somewhat anti-establishment the unions have been reluctant to use or co-operate with the courts . Even so unions and union members have recently used the injunction device in a few cases . The legislation which lays down rules of employment , restricting managerial power , is often called regulatory legislation . Examples of items covered include wages , hours , safety , training , dismissal and // redundancy . It is mainly used to determine things which usually lie within the scope of collective bargaining , such as wages and hours , and to protect unorganized workers . Otherwise it regulates such things as safety and training , which are not typically dealt with in collective bargaining . Auxiliary legislation ( on the other hand ) is concerned with the ways in which agreements are made , rather than with their content . It is used to promote negotiation , agreements and the observance of agreements . In the nineteenth century , regulatory legislation was mainly concerned with hours of work , safety , and the calculation and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ secured minimum wages for unorganized workers by setting up the Wages Councils . More recently there has been legislation on equal pay ( 1970 ) , sexual ( 1975 ) and racial ( 1976 ) discrimination , and on job and income security ( various Acts since 1963 ) . Conservative governments since 1979 have removed some ofthe aspects ofindividual rights in employment , although most remain . Some long-term trends may favour a further expansion of individual employment rights . For example multinationals press for unification of employment practices in their host countries in the cause ofequality ofcompetition ; the EEC with its often higher-than-British employment standards , and British pressure groups , may also press for changes on such matters as age discrimination , job sharing , study leave and hours of work . Collective labour law includes auxiliary legislation , determining the legal framework for collective industrial relations . In practice however it overlaps considerably with the law governing individual employer ? employee relationships . It covers collective bargaining relationships , inter- and intra-union relationships , and the forms that conflict can take , such as strikes , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ generally played a largely supportive second fiddle to a voluntary system of collective bargaining between employers and unions whereby agreements are informal . In the 1960s , as at various other times , poorindustrial relations were a major scapegoat for relative economic decline . Numerous attempts at reform and restriction followed . The important Donovan Commission ( 1965 ? 8 ) wanted more orderly and efficient employment relationships . It sought voluntary reforms of collective bargaining , to be underpinned by a legal framework concerned , among other things , with union recognition and unfair dismissal . Labour government proposals of the late 1960s and the Conservative Industrial Relations Act of 1971 embodied similar reformist aims , strengthened with legal teeth in some cases . They also embodied more restrictive aims , opposing unofficial strikes and the closed shop                     